Annual Report 2014 siemens.com Siemens at a glance Fiscal 2014 siemens.com Company Report 2014 We make real what matters by setting the benchmark in the way we electrify, automate and digitalize the world around us. To learn more, please read on. Contents: Company Report 2 Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid Our A capacity of 120 gigawatts and more than 100,000 kilometers of high-voltage trans­ mission lines – these are only two features of a power grid of true superlatives. Learn how path we’ve cooperated with local partners in Brazil to create one of the world’s most advanced, safest and most reliable power grids. Page 30 Vision 2020 describes our path to a successful future – a strong mission, a lived ownership ­culture shared by all our people and a consis­ tent strategy. Page 5 1 Power generation Flexible and small gas turbines will be an impor­ tant growth field in the years ahead. Find out how our SGT-750 in Lubmin, Germany, is helping secure Europe’s power supply. Page 20 2 Our strategy Our strategy defines the direction our Company is taking, sets the focus for our business activities and determines our entrepreneurial priorities. Page 85 Our ­culture At Siemens, we live and nurture an ownership ­culture – because, by giving his or her best, each ­individual makes a vital contribution to our ­Company’s overall success. Page 41 4 Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics 3 Energy application Rush University Medical Center in Chicago demonstrates how we’re helping hospital operators and clinicians worldwide offer the best possible healthcare at affordable prices. Our intelligent software solutions are setting new standards – for example, in Qatar, where Page 74 a new elevated conveyor system for the Hamad International Airport in Doha was planned com­ pletely digitally and commissioned well before the airport itself was opened. Page 64 3 For over 165 years, Siemens has stood for engineering excellence and innovation, for quality and reliability, for human creativity and drive, for stability and financial solidity and, last but not least, for good corporate citizenship. Our Vision 2020 fully embraces this legacy while moving us forward into a successful future. 4 Our path Making real what matters 6 Our path WHAT do we stand for? WHAT sets us apart? HOW can we achieve long-term success? Joe Kaeser President and CEO of Siemens AG Our path 7 Vision 2020 Dear Readers, If you want to gear a company to the future, you’ve got to provide answers to the following questions: What do you stand for? What sets you apart? How will you achieve long­ term success? And that’s what we’ve done. Vision 2020 is paving the way to a successful future. And to make it happen, we’re focusing on three topics: 1. A clear mission A mission expresses a company’s self­understanding and deﬁnes its aspirations. “We make real what matters.” That’s our aspiration. That’s what we stand for. That’s what sets us apart. A reflection of our strong brand, it’s the mission that inspires us to succeed. 2. A lived ownership culture One engine of sustainable business is our ownership culture, in which every employee takes personal responsibility for our Company’s success. “Always act as if it were your own Company” – this maxim applies to everyone at Siemens, from Managing Board member to trainee. 3. A consistent strategy With our positioning along the electriﬁcation value chain, we have knowhow that extends from power generation to power transmission, power distribution and smart grid to the efﬁcient application of electrical energy. And with our outstanding strengths in automation, we’re well equipped for the future and the age of digitalization. Vision 2020 8 Our path Our path 9 deﬁnes an entrepreneurial concept that will enable our Company to consistently occupy attractive growth ﬁelds, sustainably strengthen our core business and outpace our competitors in efficiency and performance. It’s our path to long­term success. And we’re measuring our progress: seven overarching goals support this aim. SEE PAGE 16 We’ll be working on the three areas outlined above. They describe the key factors that are enabling us to lead Siemens into a successful future. Throughout this process, we will gear all our actions to the requirements of our customers, our owners and our employees as well as to the values of society. I personally intend to ensure that the next generation will inherit a better Company. That’s my vision. That’s my responsibility. That’s my promise. Joe Kaeser President and CEO of Siemens AG Vision 2020 We make real what matters 10 Our path Mission We make real what matters by setting the benchmark in the way we electrify, automate and digitalize the world around us. Ingenuity drives us and what we create is yours. Together we deliver. Our path 11 Shaped by our history, culture and values, our mission defines how we understand ourselves. As an expression of a strong brand, it formulates our aspiration. We make real what matters Grounded in reality, we’re inspired by the desire to shape the future – in cooperation with our partners. Leveraging our passion for engineering, we make real what matters, working with our customers to help improve the lives of people today and in the generations to come. Customers all around the world trust us and count on our knowhow and our reliability to make them more competitive. By setting the benchmark We empower our customers to set benchmarks – with our power of innovation, our leading technologies, our global presence and, last but not least, our financial solidity. We generate value by transforming the value chain of electrification, reaching across both the digital and physical worlds. Our highly qualified and committed employees are the foundation for achieving this. Together we deliver Our knowledge is the basis of our performance. We partner with our customers, leveraging sustainable business practices. With determination and ingenuity, we deliver engineering excellence, taking personal ownership until we jointly succeed. This is the foundation on which we’ve been tackling the challenges of our time ever since Werner von Siemens and Johann Georg Halske founded our Company in Berlin more than 165 years ago. 12 Our path Positioning How can we achieve long­term success? And how are we positioning ourselves to make it happen? Our setup is aligned with framework conditions worldwide, with the long­term trends that define our markets, with our competitive environment and with the requirements of customers, partners and societies. Focused on the long term, it stands for what all our business activities have in common. Electrification We’re positioned along the value chain of electrification. Our products are designed to generate, transmit, distribute and utilize electrical energy with particularly high efficiency. Our roots are in electrification. We’ve been lead­ ers in this field until now, and it’s here that our future lies. Automation We’ve been successfully automating customer processes for years. In auto­ mation, too, we’ve already captured leading market positions worldwide. We intend to maintain and expand these positions. Digitalization We want to exploit the opportunities offered by digitalization even better. Because added value for our customers lies more and more in software solutions and intelligent data analysis. Across the areas of electrification, automation and digitalization, there are concrete growth fields – fields in which we see major potential. We’re rigorously aligning ourselves to exploit this potential in order to achieve long­term success. Our setup reflects this aspiration. SEE PAGE 88 Our path 13 Digitalization Power Energy generation application Automation Electrification Power transmission, Imaging and power distribution and in-vitro diagnostics smart grid 14 Our path Stages Our positioning and our strategic direction are closely linked to defined milestones – the stages in which we’ll lead our Company into a successful future. We’re not only focusing on the next one or two quarters or the next reporting season but on the years and, perhaps, even decades to come. With this future in view, we now have to take all the right steps to create value – for the short, medium and long term. Short term: Drive performance Our first task is to boost our performance. To achieve this aim, we’re retai­ loring our structures and responsibilities. We’re also focusing on business excellence, in other words, the reliable management of our businesses. We want to get even those businesses that aren’t reaching their full potential back on a successful track and make them competitive again. Medium term: Strengthen core To achieve long­term success, you have to focus on the things that make you strong and put other things aside. In line with this philosophy, we intend to strengthen our successful businesses along the value chain of electrification. Among other things, we want to allocate resources in a more rigorous way in order to expand in strategic growth fields. SEE PAGE 90 Long term: Scale up But we won’t stop there. With the same resolve, we’ll intensify our efforts to seize further growth opportunities and tap new fields. Our path 15 Value Scale up Strengthen core Drive performance 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Vision 2020 Stages 16 Our path Goals Only those who set demanding goals can be successful over the long term. That’s why we’ve linked the success of Vision 2020 to the attainment of seven overarching goals – goals that will provide us with a yardstick and a compass on the path to 2020. In particular, we aim to: Implement stringent corporate governance Goal: Cut costs by We’re simplifying and accelerating our processes while reducing complexity in our Company and strengthening our corporate governance functions. In this way, we plan ~ €1 billion to reduce our costs by roughly €1 billion. The savings are expected to be mainly effective in 2016. Create value sustainably We’re tapping attractive growth fields and getting Goal: those businesses that haven’t yet reached their full Tap growth fields and potential back on track. get underperforming businesses back on track Goal: ROCE of to 20% 15% Goal: Growth Execute ﬁnancial target system We’re rigorously implementing our financial target system in order to consistently achieve our capital efficiency target – an ROCE of 15% to 20%. Our aim is most relevant to grow faster than our most relevant competitors. competitors Our path 17 Expand global management We want more than 30% of our Division and Business Unit managers to be based outside Germany by 2020. Goal: We now have business activities in virtually every country of the world, generating some 85% of our revenue outside Germany. We want our management > 30% of Division and to reflect this global orientation more strongly in Business Unit management the future. outside Germany Goal: ≥ 20% improvement in Be a partner of choice for our customers Net Promoter Score We want to be our customers’ partner of choice – both now and in the future. To measure customer satisfaction, we use the Net Promoter Score – a comprehensive customer satisfaction survey that we conduct every year. Our goal is to improve our score in the survey by at least 20%. Be an employer of choice Goal: Highly committed and satisfied employees are the basis of our success. We are – and want to remain – an > 75% approval rating in the attractive employer. That’s why we conduct a global categories Leadership engagement survey to measure employee satisfaction. and Diversity in our global engagement survey In the categories Leadership and Diversity, we aim to achieve an approval rating of over 75% on a sustainable basis. Goal: Foster an ownership culture ≥50% In the future, our employees will have an even greater stake in their Company’s success. We want to increase increase in the number of employee the current number of employee shareholders by at shareholders least 50%. 18 Our path Strategic framework To be successful, a company needs more than concrete financial targets. It also requires a comprehensive strategic framework that closely aligns the central fields of company management. Vision 2020 defines this frame­ work for Siemens. Ownership culture The most important guarantee for the long­term success of our strategy is a strong culture. It’s the origin and foundation for all our consider­ ations. We want to reflect the basic values of responsible action within a strong ownership culture – throughout the entire Company. SEE PAGE 42 Customer and business focus We’re sharpening our customer and business focus through rigorous positioning and clear priorities for stringent resource allocation. For this reason, we’re concentrating our efforts on selected growth fields. SEE PAGE 88 Governance We’re also strengthening our internal setup by streamlining our Company structure and making our management even more effective – in a word, we’re ensuring strong governance. SEE PAGE 92 Management model Last but not least, we’re further expanding the original One Siemens financial concept to make it a comprehensive management model encompassing our financial targets, our operating system and our underlying approach to sustainability. SEE PAGE 94 Our path 19 Customer and business focus Ownership Siemens Gov ernance culture Management model Strategic framework Power generation Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid Energy application Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics More IQ per megawatt – Generating power more efficiently Efficient power generation requires intelligent solutions like those offered by our SGT-750 gas turbine. With a capacity of 37 megawatts, the SGT-750 is one of our smaller gas turbines – but its capabilities are enormous. On the Baltic Sea in Lubmin, Germany, exhaust heat from the ­turbine is used to heat natural gas arriving on site through the Nord Stream pipeline, thus keeping the gas transportable. In addition, the electricity generated by the turbine is fed into the public grid. This two-fold benefit is further enhanced by the turbine’s high efficiency and low emissions, which make the SGT-750 one of the most ecofriendly turbines in its class. + 60% Experts expect global ­demand for electricity to increase signi­ ficantly by 2030. 2× The demand for electricity is growing twice as fast as the global population. 20 21 Power generation “Already during the design phase, we placed great importance on the turbine’s future ease of service as well as its efficiency.” Anders Hellberg, Siemens sales manager, product manager and development engineer Less is more To boost efficiency, you have to eliminate neers leveraged the advantages of digitalization already unnecessary losses. Intelligent solutions can cut these to a during the design phase. Using multi-layered 3D models, minimum, enabling the Siemens SGT-750 gas turbine to they simulated and planned future maintenance work while achieve a mechanical efficiency of more than 40 %. This still working on first drafts of the new turbines. 22 requires farsighted planning early on. That’s why our engi24 bar High compressor pressure enhances efficiency and cuts emissions. 95% Fuel efficiency of up to 95 % can be achieved with combined heat and power (CHP) systems. True greatness lies in the details Efficiency, cost effecoptimizes fuel use and minimizes harmful NOx emissions. tiveness and reliability are the three main requirements for With its advanced materials and precision p ­ rocessing, our gas turbines. Improvements to details make it possible to SGT-750 is deployable worldwide under all possible climatic constantly push the limits of what is feasible. A prime conditions – in the desert as well as in the Arctic, on the high ­example is our Dry Low Emissions combustion system, which seas as well as on land. 23 Power generation Energy supply security according to plan Ensuring errors to be detected and resolved at an early stage. The the continued successful provision of energy in the future advantage: the turbine can operate at full load for nearly eight will require sophisticated energy management. To get a grip years, or 68,000 hours, before it has to be comprehensively on rising energy costs, power generation must become more overhauled. With rigorous monitoring, this service interval efficient. Our online monitoring system performs tasks such can be extended even further. That’s what we call energy as controlling the capacity utilization of systems and continu­ supply security according to plan. 24 ously monitoring sensitive components – enabling potential 17/17 Only 17 maintenance days are scheduled over a period of 17 years – a clear promise. 68,000 The gas turbine can operate at full load for 68,000 hours ­before it’s due for its first ­comprehensive overhaul. Maintenance with minimum downtimes Downtime m ­ aintenance days over a period of 17 years. That’s the stand­ is costly and impairs processes. To minimize it, we designed ard we’ve set – a benchmark made possible by a design that the SGT-750. Our aim was to ensure that the new turbine offers ease of service and ready access to all important parts. would have the least downtime in its class. And our engiIn addition, high-quality materials and components minimize neers have kept their word: the SGT-750 has just 17 scheduled the likelihood of failures. 25 Power generation How the SGT-750 is helping safeguard Europe’s gas for further transport, for which 100 bar is required. On the supplies Along its route from Siberia’s large natural gas other hand, the gas has already cooled down to such an extent reserves, the Nord Stream pipeline transports natural gas that a further reduction in pressure could cause the pipelines through the cold Baltic Sea. Not only does the temperature of to become iced. That’s where our SGT-750 gas turbine comes the gas drop during transport, but the pressure also falls – from in, helping ensure the smooth provision of gas to Europe with about 215 bar at the Russian city of Portovaya to a maximum its exhaust heat. The fact that the power generated by the of 120 bar in Lubmin, Germany – resulting in a challenging turbine is fed into the grid and can supply up to 50,000 house26 situation. On the one hand, the pressure is still not low enough holds with electricity rounds off this success story. Combating ice with 459 °C The Joule-Thomson effect more efficient and more ecofriendly: exhaust heat produced describes the phenomenon whereby natural gas in pipelines during power generation is ideal for heating the natural gas. cools when the pressure is reduced. At temperatures near the Reaching temperatures as high as 459 °C, the exhaust airflow freezing point, a great deal of energy is needed to heat the supplies enough energy to heat the gas at the pipeline’s gas in order to prevent icing. In the past, gas-fired boiler landfall facility in Lubmin, even during the cold winter plants with a heat output of 40 megawatts each were used months – thus enabling the gas to be further transported. for this purpose. The SGT-750 offers technology that is both 27 Power generation Experts are predicting that the demand for electricity will grow twice as fast as the global population, surging around 60% by the year 2030. Since resources are scarce, power generation will increasingly require highly efficient, customized solutions – just like the ones offered by our flexible and small gas turbines. These gas turbines help secure a stable energy supply since they ’re well suited for decentralized applications. Thanks to decades of experience in the manufacture of gas turbines, we’re ideally positioned in this dynamic growth market, drawing upon extensive expertise to support customers worldwide. Decentralized energy supply made reliable Striking features of the new SGT-750 Gas-fired power plants are considered an ideal supplement to renewable energy include its efficiency and ecofriendliness, sources because they’re available at short notice when the wind isn’t blowing or combined with high availability and ­reli­ability. The turbine has an electrical the sun isn’t shining. ­efficiency of 39.5 % and achieves an ­efficiency of 40.7 % when used as a Decentralized energy supplies play a key role in an intelligent power mix. An ­mecha­nical drive. When exhaust heat increasing number of companies maintain their own power plants that, using a is used in a combined heat and power ­system, fuel efficiency can be as high combined heat and power system, supply valuable process heat that can be used as 95 %. in manufacturing or for building services – all at competitive electricity prices. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SGT-750 Our portfolio of gas turbines is already ideally tailored to meet the needs of this market environment. Models with a capacity of 5 to 400 megawatts cover a broad spectrum of applications and ensure efficiency, reliability, flexibility and environmental compatibility. Low lifecycle costs and high profitability round off this positive picture. Our acquisition of Rolls-Royce’s aero-derivative gas turbines business will close an important gap in our portfolio. Originally developed for use in aviation, the gas turbines from Rolls-Royce feature an efficient, compact and weight-optimized design. This makes them particularly attractive for energy supplies in the oil and gas industry. They’re also used in decentralized power supplies because they can start up very quickly when needed and rapidly generate power. These advantages are particularly useful for managing energy peaks or power reserves for industry or for stabilizing power grids. As a result, we’re expanding our access to the attractive market of flexible and small gas turbines. We expect high growth potential in this market in the years to come. 28 SGT-750 | Fins pång, Sweden The SGT-750 sees the light were presente of day: in No d to the gene vember 2010 ral public for , the benefits the very first of our SGT-75 time in Finsp 0 gas turbines ång, Sweden . SGT-750 | Lu bmin, Germ any Doubly ef ficie nt: in Lubmin grid and safe , our SGT-750 guards Europe feeds electricit ’s gas supply y into the loca with its exha l power ust heat. SGT-750 | Al tamira, Mex ico Textile produc tion using on to the factor -site power ge ies of a textile neration: in manufacture Mexico, our r – one exam SGT-750 is su ple of a dece pplying pow ntralized pow er er supply. 29 Power generation Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid Energy application Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics Everything under ­control – Thanks to reliable power grids Brazil’s social and economic structure has been transformed in the past few years, strengthening the country’s domestic market and increasing the supply of and demand for goods and services. To prevent power blackouts, which can take a heavy toll on a nation’s infrastructure and hamper its economic development, Brazil’s booming market requires a robust power grid. By implementing a centrally managed smart grid solution, Siemens and its partners are helping make the country ’s power grid more reliable, flexible and efficient. The solution, which is enabling Brazil to close the gap to the leaders in infrastructure technology, has placed the nation in the vanguard of a development that is set to spread to many other countries around the world in the years ahead. 5 million km² Two-thirds of Brazil is covered by the power grid. 30 97 % The grid supplies nearly all the country’s electricity. > 120 gigawatts Total grid capacity 31 Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid Reliable power is a prerequisite for growth Brazil’s from hydropower plants. Monitoring this huge and complex power grid is a system of superlatives. Its more than 100,000 system is the role of ONS, Brazil’s national grid operator. As kilometers of high-voltage lines can transport over 120 gigapart of a strategic plan, ONS invested in a unique solution to watts of electricity – compared to around 65 gigawatts at the increase the reliability and flexibility of the power grid and turn of the century. In addition, around 80 % of the country ’s avoid the risk of blackouts and faults. electricity comes from renewable energy sources, mainly 32 “ The combined expertise of “Our new system places the CEPEL and Siemens, plus the country in the global van­ mutual trust and respect guard of energy management among all partners, were key ­tech­nology – thanks to to the project’s major success.” the close cooperation and ­outstanding competence Albert Melo, ­ General Director of CEPEL of Siemens, CEPEL and ONS.” Hermes Chipp, General Director of ONS A grid built on experience In 2009, a consortium com“smart grid.” Monitoring and controlling power transmission prising Siemens and CEPEL, the research branch of the in real time, the grid adapts more effectively to variations Eletrobras Group, was selected by ONS to develop a state-ofin demand and makes more intelligent use of available the-art energy management system. Known as REGER, the resources. REGER has been a major success, as represen­ system is now monitoring and controlling Brazil’s power tatives of ONS, CEPEL and Siemens can confirm: Carlos grid. Leveraging its wide-ranging experience in installing Adolfo de Souza Pereira of Siemens, Albert Melo of CEPEL, similar systems worldwide, Siemens cooperated with CEPEL Guilherme Vieira de Mendonça of Siemens and Hermes Chipp to develop an intelligent power transmission solution or of ONS (from left to right). 33 Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid Monitoring the Brazilian grid One of Brazil’s four And if one regional control center becomes very busy, another regional control centers is located in Rio de Janeiro. Responcan always back it up. The new energy management system sible for the southeast region, the center monitors data points utilizes available resources better than the heterogeneous from the country ’s most developed area – which accounts grid monitoring system that preceded it – thereby reducing for around 80 % of Brazil’s energy consumption. Monitoring operating costs and making Brazil’s energy system more and control systems support all the grid’s operating functions. reliable, more flexible and more efficient. 34 Adaptability is a matter of intelligence Brazil’s grid by 2020. Since rainfall volumes are not always constant, operators face a huge challenge: ensuring the reliable and however, the amount of electricity supplied by hydropower economical transport of energy over great distances from is subject to natural fluctuations. Declines must be compenmany different parts of the country. Roughly 80 % of Brazil’s sated for in real time. Grid operators also have to plan for electricity is currently generated by hydropower plants, of foreseeable demand peaks – at midday, for example, when which there are now more than 1,100 in the country. To meet large numbers of air conditioners are switched on – and the nation’s growing energy requirements, the government make additional power plant capacity available as quickly is planning to build up to 50 additional hydropower plants as ­possible. 35 Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid Always up-to-date Brazil’s power grid covers around five maintenance. To safeguard the grid’s long-term performance, million square kilometers or about two-thirds of the country Siemens and CEPEL have pledged to keep the hardware and and supplies 97 % of the nation’s electricity requirements. software up-to-date, which is made easier thanks to the use Developed by Siemens and CEPEL, the proven hardware and of evergreen technology. Their ongoing partnership ensures software that control and monitor the grid combine high that Brazil’s smart grid will always operate reliably through36 performance with outstanding reliability while minimizing out its entire lifecycle. Generating value with innovative solutions Brazil’s the causes can be identified, impacts minimized and power smart grid has already convincingly demonstrated its value: restored much faster than ever before. And smart grids hold the resources available to the grid are now being used more even more potential for the future. They ’re a prerequisite for flexibly and efficiently. REGER situational awareness tools making power grids more intelligent and thus simplifying are reducing the risk of blackouts – an important advantage the management and control of tomorrow’s energy flows. not only for car manufacturers. However, if outages do occur, 37 Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid 38 Smart grids are being implemented or planned worldwide as an energy-efficient, ecofriendly solution for the reliable supply of power. This complex undertaking requires new strategies and partnerships, innovative technologies and tailor-made solutions. As one of the world’s largest providers in the industry, Siemens offers a comprehensive portfolio of products, solutions and services that support energy producers, grid operators and power utilities. A smart grid for Brazil The transformation of Brazil’s power system into a smart grid has been driven The amount of power being consumed and primarily by a consortium comprising Brazil’s Electrical Energy Research Center generated worldwide is continually increas­ ing. The share of electricity in the energy mix (CEPEL) and Siemens. Our Company was selected as a partner for the project on is on the rise, as is the percentage of power the basis of its virtually unparalleled experience in designing and implementing being produced from renewable, decentral­ smart grid applications worldwide. ized sources. The greatly fluctuating feed-in from renewables is a further burden for grids that are already overloaded. Leveraging Initial planning for the new system in Brazil began in 2009. In 2013, the country’s its worldwide experience in designing and national grid operator, ONS, commissioned the project. Known as REGER, the operating grids, Siemens develops intelligent solutions that better integrate power grids system integrates five energy management systems as well as four regional operunder such conditions and make them smarter. ating centers into a nationwide power grid. REGER is one of the safest, most advanced and most reliable systems implemented to date. Brazil has thus closed the gap to the world’s leading industrialized nations and paved the way for the ongoing growth of its economy and infrastructure. Intelligent grids: the key to saving electricity The development of intelligent grids is one of the key challenges of the future An IT revolution has begun in the area of for the global energy industry. For the first time, the unilateral flow of energy is power grids: information and communica­ tion technologies are boosting security of being transformed into a multidimensional exchange of energy and information. supply and enhancing the efficiency of grid infrastructure operations. At the same time, Intelligent and networked energy systems are complex – not only in design, but grid control software and company software are becoming increasingly integrated, also in operation. But there’s also a payoff: the systems offer far more than just ­opening up new business models for utili­ a failsafe power supply. Advanced Smart Metering solutions make it possible, ties. Siemens offers the energy industry a for example, to balance generation and consumption more closely while managcomplete range of products, solutions and services from a ­single source – from grid ing – and not merely reacting to – the demand for power. They also enable grid protection, automation, planning, control, operators to provide pricing incentives to customers who save electricity during monitoring and ­diagnostics systems to periods of high demand or shift their consumption to off-peak periods. The advan­products and turnkey solutions. tages – flattened demand peaks and improved customer behavior – enhance energy efficiency, particularly for decentralized power plants and large-scale ­consumers, while ultimately making a further active contribution to environmental protection by increasing the share of renewables. 39 A culture can’t be dictated or imposed: a ­culture must be lived. All around the world, we want to ­foster a culture that appeals to the commitment, creative drive and ­entrepreneurial spirit of every individual – in short, an ownership culture. 40 Our culture Acting entrepreneurially 42 Our culture Culture makes the difference Even the best strategy can’t succeed unless it’s supported by a strong culture. That’s why we at Siemens live and foster an ownership culture – a culture that encourages every individual in our Company to give his or her best in his or her position in order to help build Siemens’ long-term success. We’ve asked employees to explain what they understand by an ownership culture. You’ll meet some of them on the pages that follow. Our culture 43 Always act as if it were your own Company. Joe Kaeser President and CEO of Siemens AG 44 Our culture 「企業にとってのベストは何かを常 に念頭に、自分のベストを尽くすこ とへの責任とコミットメントを、誠 実に表したい」 It is genuinely demonstrating commitment and responsibility to do my best and what is best for the Company. Lena Ikejiri de Medeiros Human Resources Manager Our culture 45 Mariel von Schumann Head of Governance & Markets 46 Our culture Together with my team, I work hard and with dedication to ease the workload for the colleagues who take over where we’ve left off. Rickard Olsson Workshop Test Manager Our culture 47 Janina Kugel Chief Diversity Officer Head of HR People & Leadership 48 Our culture Ownership culture is an asset as well as a prerequisite for our global success. Georgia Davari Apprentice Europeans@Siemens Our culture 49 For me, ownership culture is having both feet on the ground, knowing the local context like the back of my hand and creating a culture for the people around me that will motivate them to do their best. Hamad Al Khayyat General Manager Oil & Gas 50 Our culture Ownership culture It’s not just strategy that makes the difference; it’s also a company’s culture, its values and what it stands for. Leadership Equity Ownership culture Behaviors Values People orientation Our culture Our culture 51 Siemens is a company that was led for generations by owners who had a passionate interest in the firm’s long­term successful develop­ ment. They all knew that every individual makes a contribution every day to the Company’s enduring success. We’re following this conviction and want to foster an ownership culture worldwide that includes all of our people. We believe the following principles are especially important here: Owners ensure our business success Our managers should serve as role models for the Company’s strategic direction and ensure the sustainable and efficient use of available resources – thus inspiring and empowering their teams to give their best for the Company. Our behaviors bring the ownership culture to life Entrepreneurial behavior should be the standard and foundation for how we act at Siemens. This applies to each individual in the Company – since only then can behaviors constantly evolve and improve. Owners care for each individual We strive for a people­oriented approach that values and clearly fosters diversity of experience and expertise. If this is reflected in all that we do, we’ll improve the performance of our Company. Ownership culture is based on our Company values If everyone in the Company acts responsibly, achieves excellent results and is innovative, they will personally contribute to the sustainable success of Siemens. Responsible, excellent, innovative – these values are the foundation of our ownership culture. Owners identify themselves fully with Siemens We strongly believe that employee shareholders act responsibly and are oriented to the long term when they directly participate in their Company’s success. That’s why the equity culture is an integral part of our ownership culture. SEE PAGE 63 52 Our culture Be a role model and follow safe routines for a safer future. Jesper Rönnbäck Electrician Our culture 53 Ownership culture is being self­motivated by continuous improvement for sustainable success, whatever your position is. Juliana Furlanetto Odoni Sales Support Manager 54 Our culture Devina Pasta Corporate Strategies Our culture 55 Michael Cheng Senior Manager Engineering for Angiography 56 Our culture Creating a good working environment, trusting and respecting one another – that’s what ownership culture means to me. Elena Rubio López Apprentice Europeans@Siemens Our culture 57 Ownership culture is exercising a sense of belonging, taking the responsibility for doing your best, unconditionally, every day. Sergio Souza Program Manager Transformation Program Siemens Brazil 58 Our culture Lena Ikejiri de Medeiros São Paulo, Brazil I After graduating with a degree in business administration and specializing in HR, Lena Ikejiri de Medeiros joined Siemens in 1996 as an intern and has worked in human resources with passion ever since. Lena’s core competencies are employee and leadership develop­ ment, succession planning and learning – the areas for which she’s currently responsible at Siemens Brazil. Drawing on two cultural her­ itages, Brazilian and Japanese, Lena lives both cultures’ values with great enthusiasm. She’s further enhanced her intercultural capabilities by working in a variety of Latin American countries. Mariel von Schumann Munich, Germany I Mariel von Schumann joined Siemens in 1999. After serving the Company in various capacities, she was appointed head of Governance & Markets in November 2013. In her current func­ tion, she combines internal management of governance topics with the external view from the capital market. This includes, for instance, communicating with the shareholder community, coordinating remuneration of Siemens’ Managing Board and top executives, and managing the Company’s organizational structure and internal equity programs. In addition, she orches­ trates our initiative for fostering an ownership culture at Siemens, one of the main building blocks of our Vision 2020. She’s eager to be a role model in that respect – living this ownership culture drives her actions. Rickard Olsson Finspång, Sweden I Rickard Olsson is a workshop test manager at our Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery AB site in Finspång, a town in the Swedish province of Östergötland. Once famous for its cannon production, the locality now pursues peaceful activities, build­ ing the most modern and efficient gas turbine in its class. Rickard looks back on many years of experience in this field. He started his career as a trainee, followed by on­site assembly and commissioning work. Before assuming his current duties, he held various positions in a transfer project in the Middle East and worked as a warranty engineer in Europe. Our culture 59 Janina Kugel Munich, Germany I Janina Kugel is responsible for strategic personnel topics and executive development at Siemens. After studying at universities in Mainz and Verona, she began work as a management consultant in 1997. Since joining Siemens in 2001, she’s been involved in the Company’s develop­ ment in various capacities. From 2012 to 2013, Janina headed the global HR organization at OSRAM and prepared the business for the IPO that was completed in July 2013. Since 2014, she’s been Chief Diversity Officer at Siemens AG. Georgia Davari | Elena Rubio López Berlin, Germany I In many EU countries, one out of every two young people has neither a job nor a vocational trainee position. Through the Europeans@Siemens initiative, we’re helping improve this situation by giving young people the chance to com­ plete a dual education­and­training program in Germany. Since 2012, 90 young Europeans from 18 EU member countries have been selected by their respective Siemens Regional Companies and sent to Berlin. Among them are Georgia Davari and Elena López, who entered the program on August 1, 2014. Whereas 24­year­old Georgia had already earned a college degree in automation engineer­ ing in her home country of Greece, 18­year­old Elena left Spain after attaining the “Bachillerato,” which is a college entrance qualification. In the coming years, in alternating phases of theoretical instruction and hands­on practice, these two women will learn the occupation of electronics technician. After that, they intend to take the knowledge and skills acquired in the program back to their home coun­ tries. But first, they need to become proficient in German, the language in which the final examination is conducted. 60 Our culture Hamad Al Khayyat General Manager Oil & Gas, Qatar I Hamad Al Khayyat joined Siemens WLL Qatar in December 2010 as General Manager of the company’s oil and gas business in the Gulf state. As a highly respected expert in Qatar’s oil, gas and petrochemicals industry, Hamad boasts vast experience in strategic planning and in fostering business relationships with other organizations and the representatives of governmental and non­governmental institutions. As a large number of projects impressively attest, he’s helped strengthen Siemens’ successful, trust­based partnership with the nation of Qatar. Jesper Rönnbäck Finspång, Sweden I Jesper Rönnbäck plays a key role in keeping production running smoothly at our gas turbine plant in the Swedish town of Finspång. Starting out as a technical assistant and moving up to the position of foreman in 2010, Jesper is responsible for all the plant’s electrical installation work, including the connecting up of the SGT­750, one of our latest gas turbines. A smaller gas turbine in the Siemens portfolio, the SGT­750 is capable of generating 37 mega­ watts of power. Its outstanding features include versatility, high efficiency and low emissions – all of which make it one of the most environmentally friendly turbines in its class. Juliana Furlanetto Odoni São Paulo, Brazil I Juliana Furlanetto Odoni holds a bachelor’s degree in environmental engineering and a master’s degree in business management. The 28­year­old Brazilian first came to Siemens in 2008 as an intern in cor­ porate quality management before joining a trainee program in 2010. Since 2011, she’s been working as a sales support manager. Always motivated to improve processes, Juliana has participated in several projects and programs focused on making Siemens Brazil a benchmark in leadership, productivity and customer satisfaction. Very committed to sustainability issues, she’s also been serving as an environmental education volunteer and panelist. Our culture 61 Devina Pasta Munich, Germany I An electrical engineer, Devina Pasta joined Siemens India in 2006, where she held positions in the area of motion control – first in product management, later in business development. There, she launched a product for the Asian market and created new business models. After driving business in Asia, she now works at Corporate Strategies in Munich, managing aspects of digital transformation – such as a Siemens CEO commu­ nity – in order to address the key opportunities arising from digitalization. Devina has studied, worked and lived in Asia, America and Europe and thrives in interna­ tional environments. Michael Cheng Chicago, USA I Michael Cheng works at Siemens in the Chicago area. He holds a degree in actuarial mathematics from the University of Michigan. After working for 16 years as a pension con­ sultant, applications specialist, tester and quality assurance manager in the defined benefits industry, he joined Siemens in 2007. Michael successfully led a test center for six years before moving on to manage a team in systems engineering. Sergio Souza São Paulo, Brazil I Sergio Souza joined Siemens in 1990 as a field service technician in the area of telecommunications. Since then, he’s held a wide range of positions in Brazil and other countries. Since August 2013, Sergio has headed the Transformation Program, a Regional initiative aimed at making Siemens Brazil an agile organization with an excellent working environment and at enabling the com­ pany to better serve its customers, better fulfill its responsibilities to society and consistently outpace its competitors. 62 Our culture Owners identify themselves with their Company and thus give their best. Joe Kaeser President and CEO of Siemens AG Our culture 63 Strengthening our equity culture A company owes its existence to the fact that its employees identify with it, trust it and commit themselves to its positive development. We’re proud that around 140,000 of our employees are today expressing these feelings by owning Siemens shares. We intend to increase this figure by at least 50%. Therefore, we want employees below the management level to participate in their Company’s success on an annual basis. Because the more our people trust their own Company, the more personal commitment they will feel and the greater each individual’s sense of belonging and sense of responsibility will be. This is the culture we’re striving to create at Siemens – a culture that will be decisive for our Company’s long­ term success. Power generation Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid Energy application Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics Ready for take-off – Thanks to virtual ­planning In May 2014, the word was “ready for take-off ” at Hamad International Airport in Doha. Each year, some 30 million passengers arrive in or depart from Qatar by air – a logistical challenge that also encompasses catering services. Every day, around 82,000 meals are loaded onto specially prepared trolleys that convey them to the aircraft and have to be cleaned on return. The whole system runs smoothly, thanks to sophisticated technology and logistics based on German engineering. Eisenmann SE – a global supplier of industrial systems headquartered in Böblingen, Germany – was commissioned to provide a fully automated electrified monorail system that enables the trolleys to be transported within the airport’s huge logistics center. The engineers from southern Germany relied on industry software from Siemens that allowed them to plan, test and optimize the entire system in a virtual environment before it was actually installed. 130 carts 64 simultaneously coordinated and ­controlled 20,000 deliveries a day 1.6 km Total length of electrified ­monorail system 65 Energy application Intelligent planning is the key Machine and system Qatar for on-site testing of the system in order to spot and suppliers such as Eisenmann SE are now faced with enoreliminate weaknesses in the software,” says Dr. Monika mous complexities as well as growing time and cost presSchneider, simu­lation expert at Eisenmann. Today, everysures. The key to mastering these challenges is intelligent thing is simpler: “Thanks to Siemens’ Tecnomatix Plant planning and meticulous preparation from the very beginSimulation ­software, we were able to test the entire system ning – with the help of innovative software. “Just a few right here in Böblingen – even though the airport itself was 66 years ago, we would’ve had to send a team of engineers to still under construction.” It’s best to spot errors before they’re made ­Eisenmann of all the parameters for the electrified monorail system on opted for Siemens’ Tecnomatix software solution, which the computer before virtually simulating all its processes. enables engineers to fully visualize, simulate and analyze a And the processes are numerous: 130 carts move indepen­ system using a “digital twin” model. Potential faults or weakdently along the 1.6-kilometer electrified monorail system, nesses can be detected early on and corrected before the making around 20,000 deliveries every day. There’s no room system is actually installed. For the Hamad International here for error. Airport project, the engineers conducted a detailed ­analysis 67 Energy application Entering uncharted territory For the Hamad Inter­ “ The ­programmers had to foresee every scenario with the national Airport project, engineers working at computers potential to cause problems,” says Monika Schneider – for in Böblingen, Germany, pushed fully loaded flight-service example, when a trolley fails to reach its station or the storcarts onto waiting trolleys, transported them to the supply age area for empty trolleys is too small. “ When we used the station, unloaded them, cleaned them in the designated area real electrified monorail system for the first time, everything and then conveyed them to the appropriate terminals – worked just as we’d planned in the virtual world.” 68 all in a virtual environment and up to 20,000 times a day. Errors cost hard cash “How does an increase in flight no need for tedious, labor-intensive on-site work, and we operations affect catering? How can items of different sizes were able to quantify our business risks, because the possibil­ be transported? What can be done to ensure that system ity of project delays could be completely eliminated,” ex­plains processes don’t interfere with one other? ” By answering ­Monika Schneider. This approach will enable Eisenmann to questions like these before a system goes into actual operacontinue shortening its delivery times in the future – a key tion, Tecnomatix offers decisive advantages for mid-sized competitive edge. Eisenmann. “Development times were shortened. There was 69 Energy application “Our software solutions ­enable us to ­connect ­productivity and ­efficiency across the entire product and ­production lifecycle – from product design to services.” Magnus Edholm, Siemens software developer In a world full of questions, software provides the the case of large and complex systems. Scenarios and probanswers In a globalized world, the question is always the lems can be tested interactively: Does the system still run same: How can companies boost their productivity and flexsmoothly when operating at full capacity? Where do bottleibility while cutting costs? Tecnomatix software adds a new necks arise, and how can they be prevented? What’s more, dimension to planning. Thanks to 3D simulations, users can every euro invested in the Tecnomatix simulation solution obtain a networked overview of a nearly limitless abundance results in savings of up to 12 euros by the time the system is 70 of variables that are nevertheless clearly visualized – even in completed. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Product design – ­Digital Production planning – Production engineering – Production execution – Services – Customer service planning, designing and Digital planning, simulat­ Integrated plant manageScalable data process and support throughout validating of products ing and optimizing of ment throughout the entire ­information in real time all steps of the value chain ­production and factory lifecycle company-wide ­automation Integration as a success factor In the future, Eisenplatform and NX software (MCad), from which data can mann will standardize its various processes – everything be effortlessly transferred to Tecnomatix. Gerd Schneider, from sales to service – worldwide. For example, the cross-­ ­Corporate Vice President at Eisenmann, sums it all up: “ This border exchange of data within the company’s international integration is bringing our worldwide project teams even project teams will be significantly simplified. Product develcloser together. So its advantages extend far beyond the opers and system designers are now using Siemens software benefits of the individual software solutions.” solutions: Teamcenter (PLM) as a shared engineering data 71 Energy application 72 As the development and commissioning of the electrified monorail system for Hamad International Airport 1 2 in Doha impressively demonstrates, industrial production is now inconceivable without integrated software 3 4 solutions. Thanks to industry software, product development is now digitalized and production systems and 1 – Hamad International Airport is one of processes are networked – making efficient, flexibly the world’s newest aviation hubs. reacting production environments possible. With our 2, 3 – The design of the passenger ­terminal comprehensive offerings in the areas of automation complex is inspired by the waves of the technology, industrial switchgear, industrial drive sys­Arabian Gulf. Planned to handle some 30 million passengers a year, the building tems, industry software and services, we supply and includes over 40,000 square meters of support customers along the entire value chain – from shops, cafés and restaurants. product design, production planning and engineering 4 – At the end of 2015, 19 Siemens trams to actual production and service. will ­begin operation in Qatar’s Education City, linking 25 stations along 11.5 kilometers ­of track without any overhead contact lines – thanks to an innovative energy ­storage ­system. The future of industry – Linking the virtual and real worlds New competitors, global value chains and highly transparent markets are all Eisenmann is a leading international supplier increasing competitive pressures. Industrial companies have to boost their proof systems and services for surface finishing and paint technologies, material flow auto­ ductivity – using innovative technologies that make production more cost-effective mation, thermal process engineering and and flexible while cutting time-to-market. environmental technology. Located in south­ ern Germany, the company’s been building highly flexible, energyand resource-efficient On the way to the Fourth Industrial Revolution manufacturing, assembly and logistics ­facilities for over 60 years. Scenarios that sounded like science fiction just a few years ago are increasingly becoming a reality. Machines are largely organizing themselves, supply chains WWW.EISENMANN.COM are automatically coordinating themselves, and products are supplying all their production data to the machines on which they’ll be manufactured. A new kind of industrial production – sometimes referred to as the Fourth Industrial Revolution or Industry 4.0 – is now blazing its own trail. Whether revolution or evolution, one thing is certain: the growing demands being As the first company in the world to bundle placed on industrial production and the introduction of new technologies have all offerings for the digital factory under one roof, we’re ideally positioned to reinforce ushered in irreversible change. And we’ll play a key role in shaping this change – and expand our leading role in turning the because we’re better equipped for the job than virtually any of our competitors. digitalized company into reality. As a world-leading provider of automation technology and industry software, WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ we not only boast decades of experience in industrial production; we’re also one FUTURE-OF-MANUFACTURING of Europe’s biggest software companies, with some 17,500 software engineers. We offer a complete portfolio of industry software, encompassing everything from the automotive, shipping and aviation industries to the production of chemicals, pharmaceuticals and food. We’re shaping the future of industry – today. 73 Power generation Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid Energy application Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics Moving into the lead – In partnership with Siemens Hospital operators around the world are faced with the challenge of delivering the best possible healthcare, based on state-of-the-art technology, at affordable prices. And Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, Illinois, is no exception. That’s why the facility ’s management team decided ten years ago to embark on a major project that would make the medical center one of the leading hospitals in the U.S. The ambitious plan called for existing buildings to undergo extensive modernization, a new building to be constructed and the entire campus to be equipped with leading-edge healthcare technology – while the complex remained in operation. The hospital’s project team was looking for a partner with worldwide experience, outstanding technological competence and a proven track record of implementing complex projects – and chose Siemens. 74 75 Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics Partnering as equals To provide the best possible con­concurs with Peter Butler, President and Chief Operating sulting services in the area of healthcare, you must have a Officer of Rush, who says, “ I was very involved in the selecfundamental understanding of clinical workflow processes. tion of Siemens. We knew a lot about their culture and their That’s why Bernard F. Peculis, Administrative Director at Rush impact on healthcare worldwide, and the depth and breadth (pictured on the left), places his trust in Siemens. By consultof what they could bring to our partnership. We felt there was ing with Jim Gurney, project head for Siemens (pictured on really a lot more intellectual capital than other vendors could the right), Peculis was able not only to clarify product-specific bring to the table.” 76 questions but also to discuss the project as a whole. He A made-to-measure hospital The extensive modernwalked by staff and patients? How can the highest standards ization and expansion of a hospital complex is an opportuof hygiene be maintained? How can IT be embedded to nity that comes along at best once in a career – and the accelerate workflow? In the post-9 / 11 era, the list of quesopportunity was tackled with great determination at Rush tions also included how to ensure the provision of basic University Medical Center. Once the decision to implement medical services for millions of city residents in the wake of the project had been made, a team was formed to address an event like a terrorist attack or an epidemic. These are only fundamental questions relating to the planned changes. some of the topics the project team considered and disHow can a building be designed to minimize the distances cussed with Siemens. 77 Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics Saving time can save lives When discussing ideas analysis of the processes used at some of the world’s leading for enhancing clinical workflow, the project team always hospitals as well as the latest scientific insights into treating returned to the key priority: optimizing patient treatment and stroke victims. Based on this model, numerous suggestions outcomes. In the case of a medical emergency like a stroke, for improvements were developed and implemented that patients need to obtain medical treatment as quickly as possave time – and can thus save lives. As a result, clinicians at sible. Here, too, Siemens is a competent partner for Rush: many other hospitals in the U.S. now consider Rush Univerwe’ve designed a consulting model that builds upon an sity Medical Center a benchmark in stroke treatment. 78 Revealing what’s hidden Rush University Medical media, for example, to examine internal organs: Siemens ­Center is aiming to set standards in healthcare imaging as supplied the systems and adapted them to the facility ’s well. The intelligent networking of newly acquired imaging requirements. That’s one of the reasons why the medical systems was an important part of the hospital’s moderni­ center chose Siemens, as the facility ’s CEO Larry Goodman, zation. From computed tomography systems that generate MD, confirms: “ When we pick a technology, we also pick the images faster and minimize radiation doses to magnetic company and the people. They ’re the ones who are critical resonance imaging systems for neurological applications and to the smooth implementation of the new technology. Our fluoroscopy systems that are used in connection with contrast partnership with Siemens has been very successful.” 79 Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics Information is the key to success In healthcare, as in on. The challenge was not only to install new systems and many other areas, information technology now plays a vital get them up and running but also to integrate systems from role. That’s why IT experts from Siemens helped Rush Uniother manufacturers that were already in operation. And all versity Medical Center intelligently integrate its medical the systems had to be incorporated into the Medical Center’s systems and optimize the flow of information. Peter Butler IT system without a hitch. When the new hospital tower recalls, “ In 1982, the last time we renovated the facility, I still opened its doors in January 2012, everything worked persaw patients being rolled down the hall with X-rays on their fectly. And Siemens employees at the facility are ensuring knees.” Those days are long gone. Working closely with the that this will continue to be the case. 80 building planners, Siemens defined all requirements early Creating knowledge by sharing Comprehensive healthat the Siemens training center and on-site at Rush. Around care requires knowledge – or, in Dr. Goodman’s words, “ Train150 Rush employees have taken part in training sessions so ing is incredibly important.” That’s why it was essential to far, thus ensuring that all equipment is optimally utilized. familiarize hospital personnel with the systems’ capabilities Dr. Goodman is thrilled with his employees’ learning curve as quickly as possible. To accomplish this, a training plan was and commitment. “The key was that the entire team was developed for every work group and every function – from enthusiastic about the project and also willing to take the doctors and nursing staff to technicians. In addition, the trainextra time for training. I’m really proud of how the entire ing time for participants was significantly reduced by offering organization got on board. We had the spirit and everyone online training to supplement classroom-based courses held said, ‘We can do it!’” 81 Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics 82 With the demand for healthcare continually increasing worldwide, solutions that offer better treatment at lower cost are needed. At Siemens, we’ve been working for years to improve medical care around the globe with our imaging and laboratory diagnostics systems and related IT solutions. We partner with hospital operators throughout the world – providing everything from consulting for the construction of new facilities to innovative healthcare technologies, intelligent software solutions and staff training. A hospital at its best “Our goal was for Rush University Medical Center to rank among the top ten percent Rush is a not-for-profit healthcare, educa­ of the nation’s hospitals.” Formulated by CEO Larry Goodman, MD, this ambitious tion and research enterprise headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. Over 2,000 students are aim was the basis for all planning. Together with the project team, Goodman set enrolled at Rush University in preparation out to make his university hospital in the heart of Chicago one of the country’s for careers in the medical field. With around most advanced facilities – a hospital that sets standards for medical care as well 700 beds, Rush University Medical Center is one of the biggest hospitals in Chicago. as for university research and education. The project called for modernizing older With areas of specialization including neuro­ sections of the complex, building a new hospital tower shaped around patients’ science, orthopedics, oncology and cardiol­ needs and fully integrating the entire healthcare infrastructure, including an ogy, the hospital has received many awards in recent years. In particular, its outstanding intelligent IT system. The acquisition of new medical technologies – particularly nursing care and exceptional patient satis­ in the field of imaging – was also part of the plan, and Rush formed a special faction have made Rush one of the top-rated team for that task. hospitals in the United States. WWW.RUSH.EDU A trustworthy partner To achieve all this, the hospital team was looking for a partner who could not Together with customers and partners, we’re only deliver the technological solutions but also accompany the project with its working on improving healthcare throughout the world. We measure our progress in expertise and competence. And they chose Siemens. Company employees advised three key areas. During fiscal 2014, we sus­ the hospital management and the project team throughout all key phases of the tained the positive trend of the previous facility’s modernization. Siemens was also involved in the construction phase, years, achieving or even exceeding the tar­ gets we’d set for ourselves. supplying building technology systems, for instance. In addition, the Company equipped the hospital with numerous imaging systems, provided staff training WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ HEALTHCARE-­I NDICATORS and developed a solution for ongoing services. For example, the facility’s computed tomography (CT) systems, which are vitally important for emergency care, are constantly monitored. Networked with the Siemens Guardian Program, the systems are watched online by Siemens technicians around the clock. What’s the advantage? Potential system errors can be corrected proactively and maintenance can be planned at an early stage. And an analysis of the captured data can also 1 2 lead to suggestions for enhancing system-related processes – thus creating value for the hospital. 3 4 Dr. Goodman and Peter Butler still have lots of plans for Rush. They intend to continue developing the hospital on an ongoing basis: “Our foremost concern is 1 – Peter Butler, President and Chief Operating the patients and their optimal care. That’s why we want to become even better Officer, Rush University Medical Center and make Rush a leading healthcare center.” And in pursuing this vision, they’ll 2 – Exterior view of the new hospital tower continue to rely on Siemens. 3 – Interior view of the entry pavilion with ­circular skylights The statements described herein are based on results that were achieved in the customer’s unique setting. Since there is no “­typical” hospital and many variables exist (e.g., hospital size, case mix, level of IT adoption), there can be no guarantee that other customers 4 – Larry Goodman, MD, Chief Executive will achieve the same results. Officer, Rush University Medical Center 83 Successful company management demands more than financial targets – it requires a comprehensive strategic framework that integrates the key fields of corporate governance: a strategy that sets the course. 84 Our strategy Setting the course 86 Our strategy Strategy sets the course To leverage the diverse opportunities of our complex world, a company needs a clear direction, a strong internal setup, and people who follow the set course and turn plans and ideas into reality. And that’s exactly what our strategy does: it includes a sharper customer and business focus, streamlined governance and an integrated management model that defines the concrete targets and measures required to closely follow the course we’ve set. Our strategy 87 To leverage the diverse opportunities of our complex world, a company needs a strategy to point the way forward and set clear priorities. Joe Kaeser President and CEO of Siemens AG 88 Our strategy Customer and business focus We’re focusing on our positioning along the value chain of electrification. This is where our core business lies. From power generation to power transmission, power distribution and smart grid to the efficient application of electrical energy – in every one of these interrelated fields, electrification, automation and digitalization are the key business drivers. Our integrated setup not only enables us to leverage opportunities in individual markets; it also allows us to exploit the potential at their interfaces. A worldwide go­to­market setup and an organization geared toward shared customer markets are making this possible. Power generation The field of efficient power generation – encompassing conventional and renewable energy sources as well as comprehensive services – is addressed by our Power and Gas Division, Wind Power and Renewables Division and Power Generation Services Division. Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid Solutions and products for power transmission and distribution as well as technologies for smart grids are all bundled at our Energy Management Division. Energy application Our Building Technologies Division, Mobility Division, Digital Factory Division and Process Industries and Drives Division are delivering technologies for the efficient application of energy in building technol­ ogy, transportation and industry. Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics Siemens Healthcare is responsible for our medical imaging and in­vitro diagnostics businesses. Financial Services In all areas related to project financing, Financial Services is a reliable partner to our customers. Our strategy 89 Expected market growth 7–9% Digitalization Automation 4–6% Electrification 2–3% Power Power transmission, Energy Imaging generation power distribution and smart grid application and in-vitro diagnostics – Power and Gas – Energy – Building – Healthcare – Financial – Wind Power Management Technologies Services and Renewables – Mobility – Power Generation – Digital Factory Services – Process Industries and Drives Customer and business focus 90 Our strategy Customer and business focus also includes setting clear priorities for resource allocation in the future. We’ll utilize the power of our employees, our technological expertise and our capital in a more targeted manner in the areas where they’ll create maximum value for Siemens. Positioning our Company rigorously along the value chain of electrification and allocat­ ing resources in a targeted manner will enable us to access the fields that promise to provide us with long­term profitable growth. On this double page, we present selected growth fields. Flexible and small gas turbines In the area of power generation, the trend is increasingly toward decentralized energy supply. Customers worldwide are relying more and more on individualized energy supplies and demanding tailor-made solutions. As a result, we see major growth potential in the field of flexible and small gas turbines – potential that we intend to rigorously exploit. Offshore wind power Among renewable sources of energy, wind power will play a key role over the long term. Offshore wind turbines deliver high yields and are subject to less fluctuation than other renewables. We want to continue building on the leading position in offshore wind power that we’ve captured in recent years. We consider double-digit market growth realistic in this field in the medium term. Distribution grid automation and software Energy management is becoming increasingly vital – for distribution grids as well as industrial and private energy producers and consumers. Energy management systems make it possible to integrate increasingly decentralized power supplies into the energy cycle, while mitigating the negative impact of the fluctuations that occur when power is generated from renewable sources – thus improving the utilization of existing power grids. Our intelligent, integrated automation solutions offer customers decisive added value. Urban and interurban mobility In greater demand than ever before, intelligent mobility solutions are providing major impulses for growth – particularly in the areas of urban transportation and automated traffic-control solutions. We see stronger growth potential in this area as well. Our strategy 91 Digital-twin software The virtual and real worlds are merging more and more. Already today, our software solutions are helping customers develop products much faster, more flexibly and more efficiently. For example, they can now perform endurance tests even before a single bolt is tightened in the real world. Not only products but also the plants in which they’re produced have digital twins that can be used to coordinate and integrate product design and production planning. The digital models are always up-todate – as planned, as built, as maintained – while allowing improvements throughout entire lifecycles. Key sectors in process industries Some industry sectors – oil & gas and food & beverage, for example – are growing at above-average rates. We want to participate in this growth. That’s why we’re bundling our expertise in process industries and drive technologies and continuing to expand our related portfolio of products and software solutions. Image-guided therapy and molecular diagnostics The increasing use of molecular biological methods and progress in the life sciences are accelerating technological change in healthcare. To improve quality and efficiency, societies worldwide are also demanding new solutions for next-generation healthcare. Against this backdrop, fundamental changes are emerging – changes to which we’re optimally gearing our Healthcare business. Business analytics and data-driven services, software and IT solutions We have a comprehensive understanding of our customers’ business processes. In the future, we want to leverage this knowledge even better by analyzing the data generated in these processes, providing recommendations for improvement and action, and thus creating value. The resulting competitive advantages for our customers are increasingly derived from cloud-based solutions and services powered by data analytics software. A clear example is our cross-unit remote service, which we’re continuously expanding. 92 Our strategy Governance We want to lead Siemens in such a way that we focus on our customers at all times and further expand our market penetration while maintaining lean and flexible structures. That’s why we’ve selected a market­integrative setup that combines a common regional organization with a coordinated vertical approach. Against this backdrop, we’ve retailored the structures and responsibilities of our businesses, our Regions and our corporate governance functions. Concretely, this means: We’ve removed layers from our Company, thus bringing our businesses closer to customers and key markets. We replaced our 14 Regional Clusters with 30 Lead Countries. These Countries, which generate more than 85% of our business, now report directly to our Managing Board. We’ve also eliminated the Sector level and consolidated our business activities into nine Divisions and one separately managed unit, Healthcare. This change, too, is increasing our customer proximity and accelerating our decision­making. In addition, we’ve made governance even more stringent across all levels of our organization. Our Managing Board leads the Company and maintains the balance between our businesses and Regions. It’s supported by strong, efficient corporate governance functions, our Corporate Core. This Corporate Core ensures fast, unbureaucratic decision­making across key Company functions. Stringent governance also means making sure that our proven method­ ologies for continuously improving performance are rigorously applied Company­wide in our businesses and projects in the future. In this con­ nection, we’re relying on our well­established top+ program. We’re also managing our compliance system and Company­wide compliance organi­ zation directly from Company headquarters to ensure that our activities always fully comply with applicable laws and with our own internal principles and regulations. Our strategy 93 Customers and markets Regions Businesses Managing Board Governance 94 Our strategy Management model A strategy sets the course. In the end, however, it’s implementation and results that count. To enable us to manage our Company more effectively, we’ve expanded One Siemens into an integrated management model that combines under one roof the overarching targets and priorities with which we’re implementing our strategy throughout the Company. Financial framework To measure and compare our development vis­à­vis the market and in our competitive environment, we use a system of defined key indicators. We’ve now refined and expanded this financial target system. SEE PAGE 96 Operating system and Corporate Memory We manage our Company in accordance with specific, clearly defined prior­ ities. And we do it rigorously. In addition, the Corporate Memory – our knowledge management – ensures that we learn from mistakes and keep our work focused on success. SEE PAGE 98 Sustainability and citizenship We contribute to sustainable development by maintaining a responsible balance at the Company level between profit, planet and people. SEE PAGE 102 These factors are making a decisive contribution to our Company’s success – managed jointly and holistically, not individually or in isolation. That’s how One Siemens is helping us to reach our Vision 2020 goals. Our strategy 95 One Siemens Management model 1. Financial framework 2. Operating system and Corporate Memory 3. Sustainability and citizenship Management model 96 Our strategy 1. Financial framework We’ve set out to increase our Company’s value on a sustainable basis. To measure our progress, we use a balanced system of defined financial performance indicators. We’ve further refined the range of the One Siemens indicators we’ve reported to date: Growth Our aim is to outpace the average growth rate of our most relevant competitors. Capital efficiency We’ve set ourselves an ambitious target corridor of 15% to 20% for sustainable return on capital employed. Total cost productivity We want to continuously optimize our costs and achieve total cost productivity gains of 3% to 5% a year. Capital structure We’ve set ourselves a goal for our capital structure that will enable us to maintain our very solid and efficient financial basis. Dividend payout ratio We want to achieve an attractive payout ratio of 40% to 60% of net income. Profit margin ranges of businesses At the level of our businesses, we’ve defined individual margin ranges based on the profitability of the most relevant competitors of each business. Our strategy 97 One Siemens Management model 1. Financial framework Capital Capital efficiency structure Growth Total cost Dividend productivity payout ratio Profit margin ranges of businesses One Siemens Financial framework 98 Our strategy 2. Operating system and Corporate Memory Doing the right things right – that’s what a strategy’s implementation depends on. To manage a company effectively, efficiently and thus successfully, you’ve got to set clear priorities, have the right tools and base your work on clear goals and rules. Our One Siemens operating system delivers these prerequisites and sets the priorities for: Customer proximity Innovation Business excellence People excellence and care We’re bundling all the insights that help us improve our business operations into a new type of knowledge management. This Corporate Memory isn’t limited to databases and methodologies. It’s also an­ chored in our organization. Why? Because it’s the only way we can draw the right conclusions – from highly successful projects as well as from earlier failures. Our strategy 99 One Siemens Management model 2. Operating system and Corporate Memory Business People Customer Innovation excellence proximity excellence and care One Siemens Operating system and Corporate Memory 100 Our strategy To implement its strategy and ensure its continued development, a company needs an operating system that defines principles for the excellent manage­ ment of its businesses and determines appropriate action areas. Our operating system, One Siemens, sets the following four priorities: Customer proximity Profitable growth is based on proximity to our customers and on an understanding of their individual requirements. To meet and exceed our customers’ expectations, we invest in local sales presence and support for specific groups of market partners. Our key account management approach is just one successful example of this. We’re represented in virtually every country in the world by Regional Companies that operate as local partners to our customers. We also exploit our in-depth knowledge of customer processes and continually develop our offerings for key verticals in a targeted manner – across organizational boundaries. To regularly gauge the satisfaction of our customers around the world, we use a uniform measure, the Net Promoter Score (NPS). Innovation Innovation is essential for ensuring long-term competitiveness. This applies to our entire portfolio of products, solutions and services. Added value for our customers is based increasingly on software and IT solutions. As a result, we’ve made this field a particular focus of our attention – for example, through research and development activities in software architecture and platforms. Tools such as partner networks are enabling us to manage highly effective innovation processes and an open innovation culture. We’re concentrating on new technologydriven growth areas as well as innovative business models. Our strategy 101 Business excellence We want to do an excellent job of managing our businesses while pursuing our aim of continuous improvement. For this, we’ve developed outstanding tools as part of our Company-wide top+ movement – tools that we will apply with even greater rigor in the future. These tools enable us, for instance, to benchmark our performance against the best and to increase our productivity. Tightening our risk management approach is helping us identify project risks while still in the bidding phase and thus avoid costly project delays. Last but not least, we’re fostering our service business across organizational boundaries, for example, by developing service platforms. People excellence and care Excellent employees are the heart and soul of Siemens. That’s how it’s always been. And we want it to be even more so in the future. Therefore, we’re anchoring an ownership culture at our Company. For us, this is not an abstract idea but a concrete goal that we’re pursuing with measures we can track. After all, the behavior, motivation and values of the people who work for Siemens mold our culture. In an attractive working environment, we promote lifelong learning and personal development. Integ rity – supported by a well-established compliance system – remains the principle that guides our conduct. Our share programs are enabling us to increase employee participation in our Company’s success while bringing us closer every day to a lived ownership culture. 102 Our strategy 3. Sustainability and citizenship Together with our customers and partners, we want to shape the future by making real what matters and addressing the global issues and trends that are truly crucial. Driven by our passion for engineering excellence, we’re committed to the values of our Company’s founder. Guiding us for over 165 years, his maxim – “I won’t sell the future of my Company for a short­term profit” – demands that we maintain a healthy balance between profit, planet and people. Profit – by offering a range of products, solutions and services that makes a difference worldwide, because it provides our customers with decisive competitive advantages and strengthens our profitability over the long term. Planet – by utilizing our planet’s limited resources responsibly and by enabling our customers to improve their own environmental performance. People – by living a culture that strengthens our employees’ sense of responsibility worldwide, fosters their development and places integrity at the center of our Company’s activities. As good corporate citizens, we’re also contributing to the sustainable development of society through our portfolio, our local presence worldwide and our role as a thought leader. What we create is yours. For the benefit of our customers and for the societies in which we live and work. Yesterday, today and in the future. That’s what ensures our long­term entrepreneurial success. That’s what we understand by sustainability. And that’s what we mean when we say, “We make real what matters.” Our strategy 103 One Siemens Management model Planet 3. Sustainability and citizenship Profit People One Siemens Sustainability and citizenship Company Report 2014 Financial Report 2014 Key figures fiscal 2014 1 Volume % Change Further FY 2014 FY 2013 Actual Comparable 2 information Continuing operations Orders in millions of € 78,350 79,755 (2)% 1% Page 193 Revenue in millions of € 71,920 73,445 (2)% 1% Page 193 Profitability and Capital efficiency Further FY 2014 FY 2013 % Change information Total Sectors Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € 9,103 8,131 12% Page 202 Total Sectors profit in millions of € 7,335 5,842 26% Page 202 in % of revenue (Total Sectors) in % 10.0 7.9 Continuing operations Adjusted EBITDA in millions of € 9,139 8,097 13% Page 202 Income from continuing operations in millions of € 5,400 4,179 29% Page 201 Basic earnings per share 3 in € 6.24 4.81 30% Page 309 Return on capital employed (ROCE) in % 17.2 13.7 Page 188 Continuing and discontinued operations Net income in millions of € 5,507 4,409 25% Page 201 Basic earnings per share 3 in € 6.37 5.08 25% Page 202 Return on capital employed (ROCE) in % 17.3 13.5 Page 188 Capital structure and Liquidity Further September 30, 2014 September 30, 2013 information Cash and cash equivalents in millions of € 8,013 9,190 Page 210 Total equity (Shareholders of Siemens AG) in millions of € 30,954 28,111 Page 212 Industrial net debt in millions of € 1,390 2,805 Page 189 Industrial net debt / adjusted EBITDA (continuing operations) 0.15 0.35 Page 189 Further FY 2014 FY 2013 information Continuing operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,399 5,378 Page 207 Continuing and discontinued operations Free cash flow in millions of € 5,201 5,328 Page 207 1 October 1, 2013 – September 30, 2014. 3 Basic earnings per share – attributable to shareholders amounted to 843,449 and 843,819 shares, of Siemens AG. For fiscal 2014 and 2013 weighted respectively. 2 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. average shares outstanding (basic) (in thousands) 106 Customers and Innovation Further FY 2014 FY 2013 information Revenue generated by the Environmental Portfolio 1 in billions of € 33.0 31.9 Page 221 in % of revenue from continuing operations in % 46 43 Research and development expenses 1 in billions of € 4.1 4.0 Page 219 ­ in % of revenue from continuing operations in % 5.7 5.5 Research and development employees 1, 2 in thousands 28.8 28.1 Page 219 Inventions 1, 3 in thousands 8.6 8.3 Page 219 Patent first filings 1, 4 in thousands 4.3 4.0 Page 219 Environment Further FY 2014 FY 2013 information Accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions in millions of generated by elements from the Environmental Portfolio 1 metric tons 428 369 Page 221 Energy efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1 in % 11 5 Page 222 Waste efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1 in % 12 8 Page 222 Waste for disposal reduction compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1 in % 8 10 Page 222 Carbon dioxide emission efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1 in % 20 14 Page 222 Employees Sep. 30, Sep. 30, Further 2014 2013 information Total employees – continuing operations in thousands 343 348 Page 216 Europe, C.I.S., 5 Africa, Middle East in thousands 211 215 Page 173 therein Germany in thousands 115 117 Asia, Australia in thousands 62 61 Page 173 Americas in thousands 70 72 Page 173 Total employees – continuing and discontinued operations­ in thousands 357 367 Further FY 2014 FY 2013 information Employee turnover rate 6, 7 in % 9.1 10.8 Page 216 Female employees in management positions (percentage of all management positions) 6, 8 in % 15.6 15.6 Page 216 Expenses for continuing education 6, 9 in millions of € 276 265 Page 216 Expenses per employee for continuing education 6, 9 in € 769 670 Page 216 1 Continuing operations. 5 Commonwealth of Independent States. 8 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary responsibility, 2 Average number of employees in fiscal year. 6 Continuing and discontinued operations. plus project managers. 3 Number of inventions reported by the Business 7 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of 9 Without travel expenses. Units in an internal report. voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. 4 First filings as part of inventions submitted to patent offices. 107 A.1 Letter to our Shareholders Berlin and Munich, December 3, 2014 In fiscal 2014, we worked hard, we were highly focused, and we achieved a great deal. Despite a complex geopolitical situation, our overall results for the year were very good. We increased profit by 25 %, tackled a great many issues and improved our operations, even though in some areas we could have been even more success­ ful. Above all, we gave our Company a new setup based on our Vision 2020 and defined the direction we’ll be taking in the years ahead. We’re proud of what we’ve achieved so far, particularly because the circumstances have been anything but favorable: global economic development was very uneven in fiscal 2014, and with more than 40 critical hotspots around the world, political uncertainties were greater than they ’d been in decades. That’s why we were right when we decided not to pin our hopes on a global economic recovery but to exploit our own strengths. For fiscal 2014, we reported net income of € 5.5 billion, with revenue totaling € 71.9 billion and orders € 78.4 billion. We thus reached the targets we’d originally set for the year and exceeded our goal for profit development while making sub­ stantial progress in strengthening our portfolio. These achievements will enable us to propose a dividend of € 3.30 to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Siemens is and will remain a good investment. We stand for a long-term, reliable and attractive dividend policy and will remain a company with a rock-solid financial basis. Nevertheless, our performance could have been even better. The high charges on which we again focused considerable attention in fiscal 2014 are not what Siemens stands for. We’re working hard to improve our risk management, and we expect to see successes already in fiscal 2015. Fiscal 2014 was a year of upheaval for our Company. Our Company-wide Vision 2020 concept is paving the way to the future. Vision 2020 defines a clear strategic direc­ tion for the “new Siemens.” We’re positioning our Company in strategically attractive growth fields and demonstrating a clear focus as we gear our setup to these fields. 108 Joe Kaeser President and CEO of Siemens AG I’d like to extend my thanks to all 343,000 Siemens employees – and particularly to our many people in the world’s crisis regions – for their continuing dedication. Throughout fiscal 2014, the Managing Board team received tremendous employee support for the changes now necessary at our Company. Cooperation with the employee representatives was also characterized by a spirit of mutual trust. In addi­ tion, Dr. Gerhard Cromme and the members of the Supervisory Board diligently assisted the work of the Managing Board, providing outstanding support for all our activities and projects. I’m very grateful for the commitment of all these individu­ als. I’d also like to extend a special thanks to our customers, who gave us their trust and confidence in fiscal 2014. We’ll remain an expert and reliable partner for them in the future. Vision 2020 – Our Company-wide concept Vision 2020 is our concept for the future and, above all, for achieving sustainable growth. We proceeded calmly and carefully in drafting Vision 2020, taking all the time we needed, and then implemented the concept in record time. In keeping with Vision 2020, we’re positioning Siemens along the electrification value chain. Electrification, automation and digitalization, and the impact of these fields on all parts of our Company: that’s what the new Siemens is all about. Our new setup will help us close the gap to our competitors. We have some catching up to do – in terms of growth as well as margin development. Our goal must be to close that gap. And we’ll succeed, although not overnight. One thing, however, is clear: Vision 2020 has already made us stronger and brought us closer to our mar­ kets. We’ll also be investing more in innovation and market access than in the past ‒ with the aim of creating sustainable value for our employees, our customers and for you, our shareholders. For years now, we’ve been focusing on the megatrends of urbanization, demo­ graphic change, globalization and climate change. And now a further megatrend has emerged: digitalization, which consists in capturing and analyzing data and then using it to create customer value. We want to play a key role in shaping this digital transformation. Businesses related to software and data analytics are ­achieving dynamic annual growth of 7 % to 9 % and, in some fields of digitalization, even more. Highly attractive markets await us here, and we’re positioning our Company accordingly. Our stages on the path to 2020 Our Company-wide reorganization will be implemented in three phases. While the measures included in these phases will be reflected in our key financial figures at various times, we’re continually addressing all of them with the same intensity and the same rigor: >> For the short term, we’re improving our performance and efficiency. >> For the medium term, we’re strengthening our core business. >> For the long term, we’re driving sustainable growth. Let me start with the most important thing: our Company ’s long-term, sustainable development. Already today, Siemens is a leader in electrification and automation – just think of our urban mobility systems, our solutions for the process industry and our power plants as well as our outstanding position in power plant instrumentation 110 and control technology, power grids, and factory and rail automation. We aim to achieve an equally strong position in the field of digitalization, in which we’re already a key player: our worldwide installed customer base gives us not only access to an enormous volume of data but also an in-depth understanding of the related processes. And our customers appreciate these advantages. A company like Siemens never stands still. This was the case in the past, and it will remain so in the future. That’s why we intend to continue developing our port­ folio with determination and the utmost prudence in order to strengthen our core business in the medium term. We’ve taken the first steps with our acquisition of Rolls-Royce’s aero-derivative gas turbine business and our decision to acquire U.S. compressor and turbine manufacturer Dresser-Rand. These two acquisitions will close important gaps in our electrification portfolio for the oil and gas industry as well as for decentralized power generation. The announcement that we’re divesting our stake in BSH Bosch und Siemens ­Hausgeräte (BSH) was a further signal that we’re intent on implementing our Vision 2020. The Siemens brand will continue to be used for household appliances, so Siemens will still be found “in the kitchen and in the laundry room.” However, BSH will now be managed exclusively by Bosch. We can accept the fact that we didn’t win the bid for the French company Alstom, although, objectively speaking, our offer was the better one. In this connection, one thing is particularly important to me: we proved that Siemens is capable of taking action in any situation. What’s more, we had an impact on the transaction that was not negligible for our competitors. New setup at all levels and in all business fields Our focus on what is essential is also reflected in our Company’s organization. We’ve eliminated the Clusters and Sectors and reduced the number of Divisions from 16 to ten. In addition, we’ve substantially strengthened our international organization. We’re blazing new trails with our new setup. For instance, thanks to our Digital Factory Division, we’re the world’s first company to bundle all the requirements for the factory of the future under one roof. The Division will be our driving force for Industry 4.0, the much-discussed Fourth Industrial Revolution in which every aspect of production – from idea, development and manufacturing to services and recycling – will be totally integrated. At Siemens, we’re not just talking about Industry 4.0; we’re implementing it. In view of the growing strategic importance of the U.S. energy markets, we’ve ­relocated the management of our energy business as well as the responsibility for supporting our marketing activities throughout the Americas to Houston, Texas. To head our energy business, we’ve brought in Lisa Davis, who joined the Managing Board of Siemens AG on August 1, 2014, and has since been making valuable ­contributions to its work. For our customers and for our Company, the energy landscape has changed dramatically, not least because of political factors such as Germany’s “energy transition.” We’re responding to these shifts. 111 Our healthcare business achieved very good results overall in the past quarters, an accomplishment we’re proud of. However, over the long term, we anticipate fun­ damental changes and new business models in healthcare markets and technologies. With the aim of continuing the success story of Siemens’ medical engineering activities and of giving them greater freedom and better prospects for the future, we’ll manage our healthcare business independently within Siemens – as a ­company within the Company. Healthcare is not “still” at Siemens or “staying” at Siemens. Healthcare is part of Siemens. We’ve paved the way for the sale of our audiology business to the investment ­company EQT and Germany’s Strüngmann family of entrepreneurs. Siemens will remain invested in the hearing aid business with preferred equity and will thus benefit from the business’s future successes. Not only is the transaction an excellent move from a financial perspective; we’re also convinced that the new investors have a clear growth strategy for further developing the hearing aid business over the long term. This step is fully in line with our strategy of strengthening our core business and of divesting activities that yield few or no synergies for the Company. Looking at my description of our Vision 2020 targets, you’ll have noticed that we’ve set very ambitious goals. In pursuing these goals, we won’t be able to please ­everyone, because the pace in international competition is far too fast. That’s why we have to set priorities. But our actions will be well-focused, level-headed and responsible – as can be expected of Siemens. Culture makes the difference However, strategy isn’t the only thing that counts here – since a strategy can be implemented only if it’s based on a strong company culture. At Siemens, this means an ownership culture. I asked our employees and managers how they’d describe ownership culture in one word. “Responsibility” was far and away the most common answer. And that’s precisely the point: we must always bear in mind that we have a responsibility to pass on a better company to the next generation. Our foremost maxim must be: always act as if it were your own Company! I’m ­convinced that an ownership culture is not only a formula for success at strong, ­family-run enterprises but that it will also be the foundation for our success. It’s this culture that will shape Siemens. 112 Already today, 140,000 Siemens employees hold shares in our Company. I want to increase this figure substantially. Our aim is to have more than 200,000 employee shareholders by 2020. And I’m convinced we can do it. With greater employee participation, we’ll also ensure that Siemens remains an excellent company in the future. A company that >> more than any other, stands for innovation in the electrification of the world >> is a strong, global brand renowned for hard work, financial solidity, top quality, engineering excellence and a talent for innovation >> assumes responsibility and makes a difference. In 2014, we defined our strategic direction and aligned our organization accordingly. In 2015, we’ll consolidate our operations. We’re increasing expenditures for research and development and for our go-to-market activities in selected areas and regions. Operational improvements will already be visible in 2016. Starting in early 2017, all our efforts will bear fruit in the form of faster growth and enhanced cost efficiency. Vision 2020 sets the strategic course for Siemens. The direction is clear, team spirit is flourishing, and we have every reason to look to the future with confidence. Ever since Werner von Siemens founded his company in a rear building in Berlin in 1847, Siemens has stood for pioneering spirit. We continuously foster long-term success – day by day, quarter by quarter, year by year. Rigorously and responsibly. After a year at the helm of this great Company, I assure you that I still feel person­ ally responsible for passing on to the next generation an enterprise that’s even better and stronger than today ’s. “We make real what matters.” That’s my mission for Siemens. That’s my responsibility. That’s my promise. For the Managing Board Joe Kaeser President and Chief Executive Officer 113 A.2 Managing Board of Siemens AG Ralf P. Thomas Roland Busch Joe Kaeser Klaus Helmrich Controlling and Finance, Asia, Australia President and Europe, Africa Financial Services, Chief Executive Officer Energy Management, Digital Factory, Global Services ­Building Technologies, Corporate Development, Process ­Industries ­Mobility Governance & Markets, and Drives ­Communications and ­Government Affairs, Legal and Compliance From left to right Siegfried Russwurm Hermann Requardt Lisa Davis Labor Director Healthcare Americas Commonwealth of Independent States, Power and Gas, Middle East Wind Power and Renewables, Human Resources, Power Generation Services Corporate Technology 114 115 Contents: Financial Report A. To our Shareholders B. Corporate C. Combined ­Governance ­ anagement Report M 108 A.1 Letter to our Shareholders 132 B.1 Corporate 172 C.1 Business and Governance Report ­economic environment 114 A.2 Managing Board of Siemens AG 136 B.2 Corporate Governance 187 C.2 Financial performance statement pursuant system 118 A.3 Report of the to Section 289a of the ­Supervisory Board ­German Commercial Code 193 C.3 Results of operations (part of the Combined Management Report) 205 C.4 Financial position 126 A.4 The Siemens Share / ­Investor Relations 138 B.3 Compliance Report 210 C.5 Net assets position (part of the Combined Management Report) 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 144 B.4 Compensation Report (part of the Combined 214 C.7 Subsequent events ­Management Report) 215 C.8 Sustainability 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant and citizenship ­information (pursuant to ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the G ­ erman 225 C.9 Report on expected Commercial Code) and ­developments and explanatory report ­associated material (part of the Combined opportunities and risks Management Report) 242 C.10 Compensation Report and legal disclosures 242 C.11 Siemens AG (Discussion on basis of German ­Commercial Code) 116 D. Consolidated E. Additional ­ inancial Statements F ­Information Contents: Financial Report 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements 338 E.1 Responsibility Statement Key to references of Income REFERENCE WITHIN 339 E.2 Independent THE PUBLICATION 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements ­Auditorʼs Report REFERENCE TO AN of Comprehensive Income ­E XTERNAL PUBLICATION 341 E.3 Statement of the REFERENCE TO THE 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements ­Managing Board ­I NTERNET of Financial Position 342 E.4 Company structure 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 344 E.5 Five-year summary 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements 345 E.6 Notes and forward-­ of Changes in Equity looking statements 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated 346 E.7 Further information and Financial Statements information resources 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and 347 E.8 Financial calendar Managing Board 117 A.3 Report of the Supervisory Board Berlin and Munich, December 3, 2014 In fiscal 2014, the Managing Board cooperated with the Supervisory Board closely and regularly in the development of Vision 2020, which defines Siemens’ long-term perspective along the electrification value chain, with our strengths in automation and digitalization. The goal is to enhance Siemens’ performance in the short term, strengthen its core business in the medium term and return to profitable growth. In fiscal 2014, the Supervisory Board performed with great diligence the duties assigned to it by law, the Siemens Articles of Association and the Bylaws for the Supervisory Board. We regularly advised the Managing Board on the management of the Company and monitored the Managing Board’s activities. We were directly involved at an early stage in all major decisions regarding the Company. In written and oral reports, the Managing Board regularly provided us with timely and com­ prehensive information on Company planning and business operations as well as on the strategic development and current state of the Company. On the basis of reports submitted by the Managing Board, we considered in detail business devel­ opment and all decisions and transactions of major significance to the Company. Deviations from business plans were explained to us in detail and intensively ­discussed. The Managing Board coordinated the Company’s strategic orientation with us. The proposals made by the Managing Board were approved by the Super­ visory Board and / or the relevant Supervisory Board committees after in-depth examination and consultation. In my capacity as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, I was also in regular contact with the Managing Board and, in particular, with the President and CEO and was kept up-to-date on current developments in the Company’s business situation and on key business transactions. In addition, I engaged in separate discussions with members of the Managing Board regard­ ing the prospects for and the future orientation of individual Siemens businesses. Topics at the plenary meetings of the Supervisory Board We held a total of six regular meetings and three extraordinary meetings in fiscal 2014. I­ n addition, we made one decision outside meetings. Attendance at Supervisory ­Board meetings by members was around 91 %. Regular topics of discussion at our plenary meetings were revenue, profit and employ­ment development at Siemens AG, at the Company ’s operating units and at the Siemens Group as well as the Company’s financial situation, profitability and major investment and divestment projects. 118 Dr. Gerhard Cromme Chairman of the Supervisory Board At our meeting on November 6, 2013, we discussed the Company ’s key financial figures for fiscal 2013 and approved the budget for 2014. In addition, we adjusted the composition of the Supervisory Board committees and the assignment of responsibilities in the Managing Board. On the basis of reported target achievement, ­we also defined the compensation of the Managing Board members for fiscal 2013. The appropriateness of this compensation was confirmed by an internal review. On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, we amended the Managing Board contracts in order to bring them into line with the new recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code – in particular, with the Code’s recom­ mendation ­that compensation amounts be capped. At this meeting, the amount of Managing ­Board compensation was also reviewed and adjusted. On January 28, 2014, the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting approved by a majority of over 93 % the remuneration system for the Managing Board members for fiscal 2014. At our meeting on November 6, 2013, we also approved the sale of major businesses at the Water Technologies Business Unit and our share buyback program. The Manag­ ing Board reported to us on the current status of acquisitions and divestments and on sustainability at Siemens. At our meeting on November 27, 2013, we discussed the financial statements and the Combined Management Report for Siemens AG and the Siemens Group as of September 30, 2013, as well as the agenda for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 28, 2014, and the Annual Report for 2013, including the Report of the Super­ visory Board and the Corporate Governance Report. At this meeting, we approved the termination by mutual consent of Peter Y. Solmssen’s appointment as a full member of the Managing Board, effective December 31, 2013, as well as the termina­ tion agreement regarding his Managing Board employment contract. Responsibility for L ­ egal & Compliance was transferred to Joe Kaeser. On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, we approved the targets for Managing Board com­ pensation ­for fiscal 2014. The Infrastructure & Cities Sector provided us with a status report on its current business situation. The Managing Board also reported to us on Operational Excellence at Siemens. At our meeting on January 27, 2014, the Managing Board reported to us on the Com­ pany’s business and financial position following the conclusion of the first quarter. We also discussed the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting to be held on January 28, 2014. At extraordinary meetings on April 29, 2014, and June 15, 2014, we dealt with the submission of a bid to Alstom. Even though our offer was not accepted, it demon­ strated the Managing Board’s and Supervisory Board’s capacity to act and showed that our Company can respond quickly and decisively to changes in its competitive environment. At our meeting on May 6, 2014, we discussed Vision 2020 and the related reorien­ tation of the Company’s organization structure. In this connection, we approved a reassignment of responsibilities in the Managing Board. We approved the termination by mutual consent of Dr. Michael Süß’s appointment as a member of the Managing Board as well as the termination agreement regarding his Managing 120 Board employment contract. Lisa Davis was appointed a full member of the Managing ­Board, effective August 1, 2014. We also approved the exchange of Managing Board responsibilities between Klaus Helmrich and Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm, effective October 1, 2014 – in particular, the transfer of the function of Labor Director. In ­addi­tion, we discussed the Company ’s business and financial position following the conclusion of the second quarter. At this meeting, we approved the acquisition of Rolls-Royce’s aero-derivative gas turbine and compressor business and the ­contribution of key parts of our Metals Technologies Business Unit to a joint venture ­with the Japanese company Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery, Inc. At our meeting on July 30, 2014, the Managing Board reported on the Company’s business and financial position following the conclusion of the third quarter as well as on the status of the implementation of Vision 2020. On the recommendation of the Supervisory Board’s Compliance Committee, we approved the settlement agree­ ment with former Managing Board member Heinz-Joachim Neubürger and decided to submit the agreement to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting for approval. We also dealt with the planned sale of our Health Services Business Unit to Cerner Corpora­ tion o ­ f the U.S. Following the conclusion of negotiations with Cerner, we approved the transaction on August 6, 2014. Jim Hagemann Snabe did not take part in these discussions and, as a precaution, abstained from voting on the proposal in order to preclude any appearance of a conflict of interest. The Supervisory Board has reviewed the efficiency of its activities with the help of an external consultant. The results of this review were presented and discussed at our meeting on July 30, 2014. The review confirmed that the members of the Super­ visory Board were independent and highly competent. The wish was expressed that this situation continue to be ensured in the future. Cooperation within the Super­ visory Board was assessed as open and constructive. The Innovation and Finance Committee had been previously repositioned to better meet the Company ’s future technological challenges. This committee will, among other things, consider ­strategically important technological issues in order to further strengthen tech­no­l­ ogy and innovation. As suggested by the efficiency review, reporting to the full ­Super­visory Board on technology, innovation and risk management will also be intensified. At our extraordinary meeting on September 21, 2014, we approved the Managing Board’s decisions to acquire the Dresser-Rand Group, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and to sell our 50 % stake in BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH (BSH) to co-owner Robert Bosch GmbH. At our meeting on September 24, 2014, the Managing Board reported to us on the state of the Company shortly before the end of fiscal 2014. On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, we adjusted and simplified the Managing Board remuneration system, effective the beginning of fiscal 2015. We also reviewed and adjusted the amount of Managing Board compensation. A detailed explanation of the new remuneration system is available in chapter B.4 COMPENSATION REPORT B.4 SEE PAGES on pages 161 162 of this Annual Report. 161 162 121 Corporate Governance Code We’ve discussed the implementation of the German Corporate Governance Code. At our meeting on May 6, 2014, we approved an interim update to our Declaration of Conformity with the Code, in which a temporary deviation from one of the Code’s recommendations was explained. This deviation resulted from the fact that – contrary to Section 5.4.5, para. 1, sentence 2 of the German Corporate Gover­ nance Code – Jim Hagemann Snabe, in his capacity as a member of SAP’s Executive Board, briefly held supervisory board positions in four external, publicly listed companies. Jim Hagemann Snabe resigned his position on SAP’s Executive Board, effective May 21, 2014. At our meeting on September 24, 2014, we decided to issue an unqualified Declaration of Conformity in accordance with Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz), whereby the Company complies – and will continue to comply – with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. Information on corporate governance at Siemens is available in B.1 ­chapter B.1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT on pages 132 136 of this Annual Report. SEE PAGES 132 136 ­Our Declarations of Conformity have been made permanently available to our shareholders on our website. The current Declaration of Conformity is available in B.2 chapter B.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 289A OF THE GERMAN SEE PAGE COMMERCIAL CODE on page 136 of this Annual Report. 136 Work in the Supervisory Board committees To ensure the efficiency of its work, the Supervisory Board has established seven standing committees, which prepare proposals and issues to be dealt with at the Board’s plenary meetings. The Supervisory Board’s decision-making powers have also been delegated to these committees within the permissible legal framework. The committee chairpersons report to the Supervisory Board on their committees’ work at the subsequent Board meetings. The members of the individual Super­ visory Board committees, the number of committee meetings and the number of D .7 committee decisions are set out in chapter D.7 SUPERVISORY BOARD AND MANAGING SEE PAGES BOARD on pages 330 333 of this Annual Report. 330 333 The Chairman’s Committee met seven times in fiscal 2014. It also made one deci­ sion ­by written circulation. Between meetings, I discussed topics of major impor­ tance with the members of the Chairman’s Committee. The Committee concerned itself, in particular, with personnel topics and corporate governance issues – for example, the preparation of the efficiency review – as well as with the assumption by Managing ­Board members of positions at other companies and institutions. The Nominating Committee met once in fiscal 2014 and made one decision by ­written ­circulation. The members of the Committee concerned themselves with longer-­term succession planning for the Supervisory Board also outside Committee meetings. In addition, the Nominating Committee prepared recommendations regarding the candidates to be proposed to the Supervisory Board for a by-election of shareholder representatives at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 27, 2015, and was supported in this process by an external personnel consultant. In searching for and evaluating succession candidates, the Nominating Committee took into account ­the requirements of the German Stock Corporation Act, the ­German ­Corporate Governance Code and the Bylaws for the Supervisory Board 122 as well as the goals that the Supervisory Board had set for its own composition, giving ­particular consideration to the goal of increasing the number of women on the Super­visory Board if possible and ensuring broad industry and technology expertise as emphasized by the Supervisory Board in its efficiency review. The Compliance Committee met five times in fiscal 2014. It discussed the quarterly ­reports and the annual report submitted by the Chief Compliance Officer. ­The Committee also concerned itself with a review of the circumstances relating to a pay increase that had been granted to the former Chairman of the Central Works Council, Lothar Adler, at the beginning of 2009. As a precaution, Mr. Adler did not participate in the discussions of this matter in order to preclude any appearance ­of a conflict of interest. The Compliance Committee recommended that the ­Supervisory Board approve the settlement agreement with former Managing Board ­member Heinz-Joachim Neubürger and present the agreement to the Annual Share­holders’ Meeting for its approval. The Mediation Committee was not required to meet in fiscal 2014. The Compensation Committee met six times in fiscal 2014. The Committee prepared ­proposals for the Supervisory Board regarding the implementation of the new recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code as well as the simpli­ fication of the Managing Board remuneration system as of fiscal 2015. In addition, the Compensation Committee prepared, in particular, proposals for the full Super­ visory Board regarding the determination of targets for variable compensation, the determination and review of the appropriateness of Managing Board compensation and the approval of the Compensation Report. The Innovation and Finance Committee (formerly the Finance and Investment Com­mittee) met four times and made one decision by written circulation. The focuses of its meetings included the Committee’s recommendation regarding the budget for fiscal 2014 as well as the preparation and / or approval of investment and divestment projects. In addition, the Committee intensively addressed the Company’s ­innovation focuses. The Audit Committee met six times in fiscal 2014. In the presence of the indepen­ dent ­auditors as well as the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Committee discussed the financial statements and the Com­ bined ­Management Report for Siemens AG and the Siemens Group. In addition, the Audit Committee addressed the half-year and quarterly financial reports and, in the presence of the independent auditors, discussed their audit reviews. The Committee recommended that the Supervisory Board propose to the Annual Share­ holders’ Meeting the election of Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft ­as the independent auditors. The Committee appointed the independent auditors for fiscal 2014, defined the audit focal points and determined the auditors’ fee. The Committee monitored the independence and qualifications of the independent auditors. Furthermore, the Audit Committee dealt with the Company’s financial ­r eporting and risk management systems and with the effectiveness, resources and findings of the internal audit as well as with reports concerning potential and pending legal disputes. 123 Detailed discussion of the financial statements Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft audited the Annual Financial ­Statements of Siemens AG, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Group and the Combined Management Report for Siemens AG and the Siemens Group for fiscal 2014 and issued an unqualified opinion. The Annual Financial Statements of Siemens AG and the Combined Management Report for Siemens AG and the Siemens Group were prepared in accordance with the requirements of ­German law. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Group were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and with the additional requirements ­of ­German law set out in Section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (Handels­ gesetzbuch). The financial statements also comply with the IFRS as issued by the Inter­national Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The independent auditors con­ ducted their audit in accordance with Section 317 of the German Commercial Code and in compliance with the generally accepted German standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) and with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The above-mentioned docu­ ments as well as the Managing Board’s proposal for the appropriation of net income ­were submitted to us by the Managing Board in a timely manner. The Audit Com­ mittee discussed the dividend proposal in detail at its meeting on November 4, 2014. It discussed the Annual Financial Statements of Siemens AG, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Group and the Combined Management Report in detail at its meeting on December 2, 2014. The audit reports prepared by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft ­were distributed to all members of the Supervisory Board and comprehensively reviewed at the Supervisory Board’s meeting on December 3, 2014, in the presence of the independent auditors, who reported on the scope, focal points and main findings of their audit. No major weaknesses in the Company’s internal control or risk management systems were reported. At this meeting, the Managing Board explained the financial statements of Siemens AG and the Siemens Group as well as the Company’s risk management system. The Supervisory Board concurs with the results of the audit. Following the ­definitive findings of the Audit Committee’s examination and our own examination, ­we have no objections. The Managing Board prepared the Annual Financial State­ ments of Siemens AG and the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens ­Group. We approved the Annual Financial Statements and the Consolidated Finan­ cial Statements. In view of our approval, the financial statements are accepted as submitted. At our meeting on December 3, 2014, we endorsed the Managing Board’s proposal that the net income available for distribution be used to pay out a divi­ dend of € 3.30 per share entitled to a dividend and that the amount of net income attributable to shares of stock not entitled to receive a dividend for fiscal 2014 be carried forward. 124 Changes in the composition of the Supervisory and Managing Boards Prof. Dr. Rainer Sieg left the Supervisory Board on February 28, 2014, upon reaching retirement age. Lothar Adler left the Supervisory Board on May 31, 2014, upon reach­ ing retirement age. They were succeeded by Michael Sigmund and Olaf Bolduan, who were appointed to the Supervisory Board by court order. Berthold Huber, Gerd von Brandenstein ­and Prof. Dr. Peter Gruss have announced that they will resign from the Supervisory ­­Board, effective the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 27, 2015. Prof. Dr. Gruss will serve as the chairman of the Siemens Technology & Innovation Council that reports to the Managing Board, a move that – in line with the suggestions ­of the efficiency review – will further strengthen technology and innovation at Siemens. The Supervisory Board would like to express its appreciation to the members who have left or are leaving the Board for their many years of loyal support. ­On the recommendation of the Nominating Committee, the Supervisory Board decided at its meeting on December 3, 2014, to propose to the 2015 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting that Dr. Nathalie von Siemens and Dr. Norbert Reithofer be elected to succeed the two departing shareholder representatives, effective the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. A successor to Mr. Huber will be appointed by court order. Peter Y. Solmssen left the Managing Board, effective December 31, 2013. Dr. Michael Süß ­left the Managing Board, effective May 6, 2014. The Supervisory Board appointed ­Lisa Davis a full member of the Managing Board, effective August 1, 2014. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, I would like to thank the members of the Manag­ ing Board as well as the employees and employee representatives of Siemens AG and all Group companies for their outstanding commitment and constructive coop­ eration in fiscal 2014. For the Supervisory Board Dr. Gerhard Cromme Chairman 125 A.4 The Siemens Share / Investor Relations Change in the value of an investment in Siemens shares in fiscal 2014 (with dividends reinvested; indexed) in % September 30, 2013 September 30, 2014 125 120 115 110 105 100 95 90 Siemens DAX® MSCI World The Siemens share price developed positively during fiscal 2014 A.4.1 Development of the Siemens share in a market environment strongly impacted by economic and political factors. In the first four months, European stock marOver the entire fiscal year, Siemens stock performed well in kets and the Siemens share price rose substantially due to unthe market environment, closing at € 94.37 per share on expectedly positive economic data. After the Siemens share ­September 30, 2014. For shareholders who reinvested their achieved its high for the year of € 101.35 in January 2014, stock ­dividends, this amounted to a gain of 9.3 % (fiscal 2013: a gain markets initially began to decline in February and then moved of 22.8 %, including the proceeds from the OSRAM spinoff) sideways in the following months in a volatile stock market compared to the price on September 30, 2013. The developenviron­ ment. On September 30, 2014, the Siemens share ment of the Siemens share price was slightly below the perforclosed at € 94.37, a gain of 6 % compared to September 30, 2013. mance of the leading German stock exchange index, the DAX (which rose 10.2 %), and the leading international index, The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board will propose MSCI World (which advanced 12.2 %). a dividend payment of €3.30 per share for fiscal 2014. RepresentLong-term performance of Siemens shares compared ing a planned payout ratio of 49%, this proposal ensures – in with leading indices (average annual performance with dividends accordance with our One Siemens dividend policy – that our and the corresponding value of the OSRAM spinoff reinvested) shareholders participate adequately in the Company ’s profit FY 2005 – FY 2014 Ten-year period ­development. In May 2014, we launched a share buyback proSiemens 7.9% gram of up to € 4 billion. By the end of fiscal 2014, we’d acquired DAX® 9.3% shares with a total value corresponding to about € 1.1 billion. MSCI World 7.1% Siemens AG continues to have a very sound financial b ­ asis. In an environment in which the ratings of many countries have come under pressure, the Company continues to e ­ njoy good investment-grade credit ratings. The strength of the Siemens share is also illustrated by a longterm comparison: the assets of an investor who acquired Siemens stock worth € 1,000 at the beginning of fiscal 2005 and reinvested the dividends and the corresponding value of the OSRAM spinoff in additional Siemens shares would have increased to € 2,147 by the end of fiscal 2014. This annual ­return of 7.9 % is above the results for MSCI World (7.1 %) but below those for the DAX 30 (9.3 %). 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 126 108 A.1 Letter to our Shareholders 114 A.2 Managing Board of Siemens AG 118 A.3 Report of the ­Supervisory Board 126 A.4 The Siemens Share / ­Investor Relations Dividend Fiscal year FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Dividend per share in € 3.301 3.00 3.00 3.00 2.70 Dividend yield 2 in % 3.5 3.0 3.6 3.9 2.9 Ex-dividend date Jan. 28, 2015 Jan. 29, 2014 Jan. 24, 2013 Jan. 25, 2012 Jan. 26, 2011 Net income (as reported) in millions of € 5,507 4,409 4,590 6,321 4,068 Total dividend payout in millions of € 2,7063 2,533 2,528 2,629 2,356 Payout ratio 4 in % 49 57 48 42 46 1 To be proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. 3 Based on estimated number of shares entitled to 4 To calculate the payout ratio, net income was adjusted a ­dividend payment on day of Annual Shareholders’ for non-cash items in 2010 (DX impairment charges) 2 Dividend payout / Siemens share price on day of Meeting for fiscal 2014. and 2012 (impairment charges for Solar and NSN ­Annual Shareholders’ Meeting; for fiscal 2014: restructuring). ­dividend payout / Siemens share price at fiscal year-end. A.4.2 Dividend proposal The goal of the delisting and deregistration was to address the change in the behavior of investors. The trading of Siemens At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, the Managing Board and shares is now conducted predominantly in Germany and the Supervisory Board will propose a dividend payment of via electronic trading platforms (over-the-counter, OTC). The € 3.30, which represents a dividend yield of 3.5 % and a payout ­trading volume of Siemens shares in the U.S. was low, amountratio of 49 %. This proposal continues our tradition of paying ing to significantly less than 5 % of their global trading volume attractive dividends to our investors. over the last 12 months. The deregistration has enabled us to ­simplify our financial reporting processes and increase their efficiency. A.4.3 Share buyback program On October 8, 2014, the listing of the Siemens share on the In May 2014, Siemens began to improve its capital structure London Stock Exchange (LSE) was terminated. On the same and repurchase its shares. The share buyback program has a date, SIX Swiss Exchange AG in Zürich (SIX) approved the total value of up to € 4 billion for the repurchase of shares by ­request of Siemens AG to terminate the Siemens share’s listing the end of October 2015. By September 30, 2014, the Company on the SIX stock exchange as of January 8, 2015. had acquired about 11.3 million shares at an average price of € 95.25 per share, for a total value of around € 1.1 billion. Like the delisting in New York, these two delistings were the result of a change in investor behavior. In 2013, trading volume on both exchanges accounted for considerably less than 3 % of A.4.4 Delisting from stock exchanges our global trading volume. in New York, London and Zürich Independently of the delistings, high standards of transparency On May 15, 2014, the listing of Siemens’ American Depository in financial reporting and first-class corporate governance will Receipts (ADRs) on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) was continue to be a top priority at Siemens. The Company will, of terminated. On the same date, the Company applied for deregcourse, continue to foster open and direct dialogue with its istration at the U.S. stock exchange regulatory authority, the German and international investors. The termination of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The stock exchange listings will have no impact on Siemens’ stra­ deregistration became effective on August 15, 2014. tegic orientation or its presence. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 127 A.4.5 Shareholder structure A.4.6 Credit ratings With around 660,000 shareholders, Siemens AG is one of the Siemens AG has good, investment-grade credit ratings. world’s largest publicly owned companies. Siemens has a sta“Aa3/negative/P-1” from Moody’s Investors Service and “A+/stable/ ble shareholder structure that has changed only slightly over A-1+” from Standard & Poor’s are very p ­ ositive ratings – particutime. This applies, in particular, to our more than 650,000 prilarly when compared to those of our competitors in the indusvate Siemens shareholders, who have often maintained their try sector. Our solid financial position gives us unrestricted investments for many years. In July 2014, we mandated an ex­access to the international financial and capital markets. ternal institute to conduct an analysis of our shareholder structure. Based on an evaluation of publications from institutional At the end of fiscal 2014, the net debt of Siemens AG was investors and on statistical estimates, this analysis showed that € 12,008 million, with cash and cash equivalents of € 8,013 milshareholders in Germany hold the largest percentage of our lion. For further information on our credit ratings and financial outstanding shares, about 27 % of the total. Shareholders in the obligations, please see NOTE 26 ADDITIONAL CAPITAL DISCLOSURES U.S. hold roughly 21 % and shareholders in the U.K. around 11 %, ­in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on pages while investors in France hold 8 % and those in Switzerland 8 %. 290 292 of this Annual Report. Around 64 % of Siemens’ outstanding shares are currently held Credit ratings by institutional investors, about 19 % by private shareholders September 30, 2014 September 30, 2013 and around 6 % by members of the Siemens family. For furMoody ’s Standard & Moody ’s Standard & Investors Poor’s Ratings Investors Poor’s Ratings ther information on our shareholder structure, please see Service Services Service Services WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SHAREHOLDERSTRUCTURE . Long-term debt Aa3 A+ Aa3 A+ Short-term debt P -1 A -1+ P -1 A -1+ Investor type and regional distribution U.K.: 11% Private investors: 19% Germany: 27% U.S.: 21% Unidentified  Institutional investors: investors: 11% 64% Switzerland: 8% Unidentified: 11% Siemens family members: 6% France: 8% Rest of world: 9%  Rest of Europe: 5% 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 128 108 A.1 Letter to our Shareholders 114 A.2 Managing Board of Siemens AG 118 A.3 Report of the ­Supervisory Board 126 A.4 The Siemens Share / ­Investor Relations A.4.7 Siemens on the capital market A.4.8 Ownership culture / Stock-based programs We take our responsibility to maintain an intensive dialogue with the capital market very seriously. Cultivating close conFostering an ownership culture is a key pillar of Vision 2020, tacts with our shareholders, we keep them informed of all which is sustainably supported, among other things, by em­major developments throughout Siemens. As part of our invesployee share ownership. Siemens intends to increase the numtor relations work, we provide information on our Company ’s ber of employee shareholders from today ’s figure of about ­development in quarterly, semiannual and annual reports. Our 140,000 to over 200,000. To strengthen participation by emCEO and CFO also maintain close contact with investors ployees around the world in our Company ’s success, we’re through roadshows and conferences. In addition, Siemens launching a new profit-sharing scheme for fiscal 2015. Called holds Capital Market Days, at which Company management Siemens Profit Sharing, the scheme offers employees below ­informs investors and analysts about our business strategy senior management level worldwide an opportunity to benefit and market environment. from the Company ’s outstanding success by receiving shares from Siemens free of charge.1 Stock market information FY 2014 1 FY 2013 1 We already enable our workforce to participate in a variety of Siemens stock price share-based programs: the Siemens Stock Awards, the Share (Xetra closing price) Matching Program (with its underlying Share Matching Plan, High in � 101.35 90.33 Monthly Investment Plan and Base Share Program) and the Low in � 88.71 76.00 ­Jubilee Share Program. In fiscal 2014, 3,584,370 shares were Fiscal year-end in � 94.37 89.06 ­issued to service these programs. Non-vested grants under the Number of shares issued various programs will result in additional share issuances (September 30) in millions 881 881 to employees in the future. For more detailed information Market capitalization 2 in millions of � 78,823 75,078 on share-based payment, please see NOTE 32 SHARE-BASED Basic earnings per share3 in � 6.37 5.08 ­PAYMENT in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Diluted earnings per share3 in � 6.31 5.03 on pages 306 309 of this Annual Report. Dividend per share in � 3.30 4 3.00 In addition to our share programs, we’ve established Share 1 Fiscal year from October 1 to September 30. 2 On the basis of outstanding shares. Ownership Guidelines. Applicable Company-wide, these guide3 Continuing and discontinued operations. lines require members of the Managing Board of Siemens AG 4 To be proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. and other senior executives of the Siemens Group to hold an interest in Siemens equal in value to b ­ etween 50 % and 300 % We also provide extensive information online. Quarterly, semiof their base compensation for the ­period in which they hold annual and annual financial reports, analyst presentations and office. press releases as well as our financial calendar for the c­ urrent year – which includes all major publication dates and the date of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting (please see E.7 FINANCIAL 1 Like Siemens’ existing share programs, Siemens Profit Sharing is a voluntary and discretionary benefit for eligible employees. The issuance of a new tranche or the CALENDAR on page 347 of this Annual Report) – are available at distribution of the profit-sharing pool to employees in one or several fiscal years does not create a legal claim or right to issue a new tranche or to receive a distribu­ WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INVESTORS. For each quarter and each fiscal tion in subsequent years. If a distribution in shares is not feasible or economically year, we also publish the Siemens Shareholder Letter, which is appropriate, an equivalent cash payment will be made. addressed primarily to our private investors and provides a brief summary of key developments during the previous quarter or fiscal year. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 129 Good corporate governance comprises ­responsible, value-based management and monitoring focused on long-term success. In this chapter, we present Siemens’ Corporate Governance Report, ­discuss the Company ’s management and control structure, explain the remuneration of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board and provide detailed insights into the takeover-­ relevant information of the Company. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE 130 B. Corporate Governance B. Corporate Governance 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 132 B.1.1 Declaration of Conformity pursuant (part of the Combined to Section 161 of the German Stock ­Management Report) ­Corporation Act 144 B.4.1 Remuneration of members 132 B.1.2 Management and control structure of the Managing Board 135 B.1.3 Share ownership and share 163 B.4.2 Remuneration of members ­transactions by members of the of the Supervisory Board ­Managing and Supervisory Boards 164 B.4.3 Other 135 B.1.4 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and investor relations 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant information (pursuant to Sections 289 para. 4 136 B.2  orporate Governance statement C and 315 para. 4 of the German pursuant to Section 289 a of Commercial Code) and explanatory the ­German Commercial Code report (part of the Combined (part of the Combined ­Management Report) ­Management Report) 165 B.5.1 Composition of common stock 165 B.5.2 Restrictions on voting rights or transfer of shares 138 B.3 Compliance Report (part of the Combined ­Management Report) 165 B.5.3 Equity interests exceeding 10 % of voting rights 138 B.3.1 Compliance priorities for fiscal 2014 165 B.5.4 Shares with special rights conferring 139 B.3.2 Compliance risk management powers of control 139 B.3.3 Business partners and suppliers 165 B.5.5 System of control of any employee 140 B.3.4 Compliance training share scheme where the control rights 140 B.3.5 Compliance indicators are not exercised directly by the 141 B.3.6 Data privacy employees 141 B.3.7 Company-wide award for integrity 166 B.5.6 Legislation and provisions of the and compliance ­Articles of Association applicable to the appointment and removal of 141 B.3.8 Collective Action and ­members of the Managing Board Siemens Integrity Initiative and governing amendment to the 142 B.3.9 Our revised compliance priorities – ­Articles of Association Guidance until 2020 166 B.5.7 Powers of the Managing Board to 143 B.3.10 Further information and issue and repurchase shares legal proceedings 168 B.5.8 Significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company ­following a takeover bid 169 B.5.9 Compensation agreements with ­members of the Managing Board or employees in the event of a ­takeover bid 131 B.1 Corporate Governance Report B.1.1 Declaration of Conformity The regular term of office of the members of the Supervisory pursuant to Section 161 of the German Board will expire at the close of the Annual Shareholders’ ­Meeting in 2018. Jim Hagemann Snabe – who was appointed Stock Corporation Act by court order until the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Siemens AG complies with all the currently applicable recomMeeting 2014 as successor to Dr. Josef Ackermann, who remendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (Code) signed from the Supervisory Board effective September 30, without exception. 2013 – was elected a shareholder representative on the ­Supervisory Board at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG January 28, 2014. Michael Sigmund and Olaf Bolduan were have discussed compliance with the Code’s recommendations ­appointed to the Supervisory Board by court order to succeed in detail. Based on their deliberations, the boards have the employee representatives Prof. Dr. Rainer Sieg and Lothar ­approved the annual Declaration of Conformity as of October 1, ­Adler, who resigned from the Supervisory Board effective 2014. The Declaration of Conformity is posted on our website ­February 28, 2014 and May 31, 2014, respectively. and presented in chapter B.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 289A OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE The composition of the Supervisory Board is to be such that its on page 136 of this Annual Report. members as a group have the knowledge, skills and professional experience necessary to carry out its proper functions. Siemens voluntarily complies with the Code’s non-binding For this reason, the Supervisory Board approved ‒ taking into ­suggestions, with the following exceptions: account the Code’s recommendations ‒ concrete objectives for its composition in fiscal 2013: >> Pursuant to Section 3.7 para. 3 of the Code, in the case of a takeover offer, a management board should convene an ex>> The composition of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG traordinary general meeting at which shareholders discuss shall be such that qualified control and advising for the the takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions. The ­Managing Board is ensured. The candidates proposed for convening of a shareholders’ meeting – even taking into election to the Supervisory Board shall have the expertise, ­account the shortened time limits stipulated in the German skills and professional experience necessary to carry out the Securities Acquisition and Takeover Act (Wertpapiererwerbsfunctions of a Supervisory Board member in a multinational und Übernahmegesetz) – is an organizational challenge for company and safeguard the reputation of Siemens in public. large publicly listed companies. It appears doubtful whether In particular, care shall be taken in regard to the personality, the associated effort is justified in cases where no relevant integrity, commitment, professionalism and independence decisions by the shareholders’ meeting are intended. Thereof the individuals proposed for election. The goal is to ensure fore, extraordinary shareholders’ meetings shall be convened that, in the Supervisory Board, as a group, all know-how and only in appropriate cases. experience is available that is considered essential in view of >> Since the Managing Board appointments of 2011, the suggesSiemens’ activities. tion in Section 5.1.2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Code that the >> Taking the Company’s international orientation into account, maximum possible appointment period of five years should care shall also be taken to ensure that the Supervisory Board not be the rule for first-time appointments to a management has an adequate number of members with extensive internaboard has not been followed.  tional experience. Our goal is to make sure that the present considerable share of Supervisory Board members with ­extensive international experience is maintained. B.1.2 Management and control structure >> In its election proposals, the Supervisory Board shall also pay particular attention to the appropriate participation of Siemens AG is subject to German corporate law. Therefore, it women. Qualified women shall already be included in the has a two-tier board structure, consisting of a Managing Board initial process of selecting potential candidates for new elecand a Supervisory Board. tions or for the filling of Supervisory Board positions that have become vacant and shall be considered, as appropriate, B.1.2.1 SUPERVISORY BOARD in nominations. We have meanwhile been able to increase As required by the German Codetermination Act (Mitbestimthe number of women on our Supervisory Board to five. mungsgesetz), the Company’s shareholders and its employees Our goal is to maintain and, if possible, to increase this each select one-half of the Supervisory Board’s twenty members. ­number. It is also intended that – as is currently the case – at the ­minimum one woman should be a member of the Nominating Committee. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 132 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 C  ompliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) >> An adequate number of independent members shall belong for the ­appropriation of net income and the Report of the to the Supervisory Board. Material and not only temporary ­ upervisory Board to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. In S conflicts of interest, such as organizational functions or advi­addition, the Supervisory Board or the Compliance Committee, sory capacities with major competitors of the company, shall ­which is described in more detail below, concern themselves be avoided. Under the presumption that the mere exercise of with the Company’s adherence to statutory provisions, official Supervisory Board duties as an employee representative regulations and internal Company policies (compliance). The gives no cause to doubt the compliance with the indepenSupervisory Board also appoints the members of the Managing dence criteria pursuant to Section 5.4.2 of the Code, the Board and determines each member’s portfolios. Important ­Supervisory Board shall have a minimum of 16 members who Managing Board decisions – such as those regarding major are independent in the meaning of the Code. In any case, the ­acquisitions, divestments, fixed asset investments and finanSupervisory Board shall be composed in such a way that a cial meas­ures – require Supervisory Board approval, unless the number of at least six independent shareholder representaBylaws for the Supervisory Board specify that such authority be tives in the meaning of Section 5.4.2 of the Code is achieved. delegated to the Innovation and Finance Committee of the In addition, the Supervisory Board members shall have suffiSuper­visory Board. In the Bylaws for the Managing Board, the cient time to be able to devote the necessary regularity and Supervisory Board has established the rules that govern the diligence to their mandate. Managing Board’s work. >> The age limitation established in the Bylaws for the Super­ visory Board will be taken into consideration. In addition, no The Supervisory Board has seven committees, whose duties, more than two former members of the Managing Board of responsibilities and procedures fulfill the requirements of the Siemens AG shall belong to the Supervisory Board. German Stock Corporation Act and the Code. The chairmen of these committees provide the Supervisory Board with regular These objectives for the Supervisory Board’s composition have reports on their committees’ activities. been fully achieved: a considerable number of Supervisory Board members are currently engaged in international activiThe Chairman’s Committee, which comprises the Chairman ties and / or have many years of international experience. Since and Deputy Chairmen of the Supervisory Board as well as one the Supervisory Board election in 2013, the Supervisory Board further employee representative elected by the Supervisory has had five female members. Dr. Nicola Leibinger-­Kammüller Board, makes proposals, in particular, regarding the appointis a member of the Nominating Committee. The Supervisory ment and dismissal of Managing Board members and handles Board has an adequate number of independent members. In contracts with members of the Managing Board. In preparing the opinion of the Supervisory Board, a minimum of 16 Superrecommendations on the appointment of Managing Board visory Board members are independent in the meaning of Secmembers, the Chairman’s Committee takes into account the tion 5.4.2 of the Code. Some Supervisory Board members candidates’ professional qualifications, international experience hold – or have held in the past fiscal year – high-ranking posiand leadership qualities, the age limit specified for Managing tions at other companies with which Siemens does business. Board members, the Managing Board’s long-range plans for sucTransactions between Siemens and such companies are carried cession as well as its diversity and, in particular, the appropriate out on an arm’s length basis. We believe that these trans­ consideration of women. The Chairman’s Committee concerns actions do not compromise the independence of the Super­ itself with questions regarding the Company’s corporate govervisory Board members in question. nance and prepares the resolutions to be approved by the Supervisory Board regarding the Declaration of Conformity with the The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Managing Code ‒ including the explanation of deviations from the Code ‒ Board in its management of the Company’s business. At regular and regarding the approval of the Corporate Governance Report intervals, the Supervisory Board discusses business developas well as the Report of the Supervisory Board to the Annual ment, planning, strategy and the strategy ’s implementation. Shareholders’ Meeting. Furthermore, the Chairman’s Committee It reviews the Annual Financial Statements of Siemens AG and submits recommendations to the Supervisory Board regarding the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Group, the composition of the Supervisory Board committees and dethe Combined Management Report of Siemens AG and the cides whether to approve contracts and business transactions Siemens Group, and the proposal for the appropriation of net with Managing Board members and parties related to them. income. It approves the Annual Financial Statements of Siemens AG as well as the Consolidated Financial Statements The Compensation Committee, which comprises the memof the Siemens Group, based on the results of the preliminary bers of the Chairman’s Committee of the Supervisory Board as review conducted by the Audit Committee and taking into well as one of the Supervisory Board’s shareholder representaaccount the reports of the independent auditors. The ­ tives and one of the Supervisory Board’s employee representa­Supervisory Board decides on the Managing Board’s proposal tives, prepares, in particular, the proposals for decisions by the 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 247 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 133 Supervisory Board’s plenary meetings regarding the system of r­ epresentatives. The Compliance Committee concerns itself, in Managing Board compensation, including the implementation particular, with the Company ’s adherence to statutory proviof this system in the Managing Board contracts, the definition sions, official regulations and internal Company policies. of the targets for variable Managing Board compensation, the determination and review of the appropriateness of the total The Nominating Committee, which comprises the Chairman compensation of individual Managing Board members and the and the Second Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board as approval of the annual Compensation Report. well as two further members to be elected by the shareholder representatives of the Supervisory Board from among their own The Audit Committee comprises the Chairman of the Super­ number, is responsible for making recommendations to the visory Board, three of the Supervisory Board’s shareholder ­Supervisory Board on suitable candidates for election as share­representatives and four of the Supervisory Board’s employee holder representatives on the Supervisory Board by the Annual representatives. According to the German Stock Corporation Shareholders’ Meeting. In preparing these recommendations, Act, the Audit Committee must include at least one indepenthe objectives specified by the Supervisory Board regarding its dent Supervisory Board member with knowledge and expericomposition are to be taken into account as well as the required ence in the application of accounting principles or the auditknowledge, abilities and experience of the proposed candiing of financial statements. The Chairman of the Audit dates; attention shall also be paid to independence, diversity Committee, Dr. Hans Michael Gaul, fulfills these statutory reand, in particular, the appropriate participation of women. quirements. The Audit Committee oversees, in particular, the accounting process and conducts a preliminary review of the The Mediation Committee, which comprises the Chairman of Annual ­Financial Statements of Siemens AG, the Consolidated the Supervisory Board, the First Deputy Chairman (who is Financial ­Statements of the Siemens Group and the Combined elected in accordance with the German Codetermination Act), Management Report. On the basis of the independent audione of the Supervisory Board’s shareholder representatives and tors’ report on their audit of the annual financial statements, one of the Supervisory Board’s employee representatives, subthe Audit Committee makes, after its preliminary review, recmits proposals to the Supervisory Board in the event that the ommendations regarding Supervisory Board approval of the Supervisory Board cannot reach the two-thirds majority Annual ­Financial Statements of Siemens AG and the Consoli­required for the appointment or dismissal of a Managing Board dated F ­ inancial Statements of the Siemens Group. In addition member. to the work performed by the independent auditors, the Audit Committee discusses the Company ’s quarterly financial stateThe Innovation and Finance Committee comprises the Chairments and half-year financial reports, which are prepared by man of the Supervisory Board, three of the Supervisory Board’s the Managing Board, as well as the report on the auditors’ reshareholder representatives and four of the Supervisory Board’s view of the quarterly financial statements and the half-year fiemployee representatives. Based on the Company ’s overall nancial report (condensed financial statements and interim strategy, the Committee discusses, in particular, the Company’s management ­report). It concerns itself with the Company ’s focuses of innovation and prepares the Supervisory Board’s risk monitoring system and oversees the effectiveness of the ­discussions and resolutions regarding questions relating to the internal control system as this relates, in particular, to finanCompany’s financial situation and structure ‒ including annual cial reporting, the risk management system and the internal planning (budget) ‒ as well as the Company ’s fixed asset audit system. The Audit Committee receives regular reports invest­ments and its financial measures. In addition, the Innofrom the Internal ­Audit Department. It prepares the Supervivation and Finance Committee has been authorized by the sory Board’s recommendation to the Annual Shareholders’ ­Supervisory Board to decide on the approval of transactions Meeting concerning the election of the independent auditors and measures that require Supervisory Board approval and and submits the corresponding proposal to the Supervisory have a value of less than € 600 million. Board. It awards the audit contract to the independent auditors elected by the A ­ nnual Shareholders’ Meeting and monitors the The composition of the Supervisory Board and its committees independent audit of the financial statements – including, in is presented in chapter D.7 SUPERVISORY BOARD AND MANAGING particular, the auditors’ independence, professional expertise BOARD on pages 330 333 of this Annual Report. Information on and services. the work of the Supervisory Board is provided in the A.3 ­R EPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD on pages 118 125. The com­ The Compliance Committee comprises the Chairman of the pensation paid to the members of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board, three of the Supervisory Board’s shareholder is ­explained in chapter B.4 COMPENSATION REPORT on pages representatives and four of the Supervisory Board’s employee 163 164. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 134 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 C  ompliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) B.1.2.2 MANAGING BOARD B.1.3 Share ownership and share As the Company’s top management body, the Managing Board transactions by members of the is committed to serving the interests of the Company and achieving sustainable growth in Company value. The members Managing and Supervisory Boards of the Managing Board are jointly responsible for the entire As of September 30, 2014, the Managing Board’s current memmanagement of the Company and decide on the basic issues bers held a total of 181,009 (2013: 216,560) Siemens shares of business policy and corporate strategy as well as on the ­ representing 0.02 % (2013: 0.02 %) of the capital stock of Company’s annual and multi-year plans. Siemens AG, which totaled 881,000,000 shares. The Managing Board prepares the Company ’s quarterly finanAs of the same day, the Supervisory Board’s current members cial statements and the half-year financial reports, the Annual held Siemens shares representing less than 0.01 % (2013: less Financial Statements of Siemens AG, the Consolidated Finanthan 0.01 %) of the capital stock of Siemens AG, which totaled cial Statements of the Siemens Group and the Combined Man881,000,000 shares. These figures do not include the 9,386,535 agement Report of Siemens AG and the Siemens Group. In (2013: 9,313,438) shares or 1.07 % (2013: 1.06 %) of the capital ­addition, the Managing Board must ensure that the Company stock of Siemens AG, which totaled 881,000,000 shares, over adheres to statutory provisions, official regulations and internal which the von Siemens-Vermögensverwaltung GmbH (vSV), Company policies (compliance) and works to achieve complia German limited liability company, has voting control under ance with these provisions and policies within the Siemens powers of attorney based on an agreement between – among Group. Further comprehensive information on the compliance others – members of the Siemens family, including Gerd von program and related activities in fiscal 2014 is presented Brandenstein, and vSV. These shares are voted together by vSV in chapter B.3 COMPLIANCE REPORT on pages 138 143 of this based on proposals made by a family partnership established ­Annual Report. The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board by the Siemens family or by one of its committees. Gerd von cooperate closely for the benefit of the C ­ ompany. The ManagBrandenstein is the chairman of the executive committee and ing Board informs the Supervisory Board regularly, comprehenhas a deciding vote in cases of deadlock. sively and without delay on all issues of importance to the ­Company with regard to strategy, planning, business developPursuant to Section 15a of the German Securities Trading Act ment, financial position, earnings, compliance and risks. When (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz), members of the Managing Board filling managerial positions at the ­Company, the Managing and the Supervisory Board are legally required to disclose the Board takes diversity into consideration and, in particular, aims purchase or sale of shares of Siemens AG or of financial instrufor an appropriate consideration of women and internationality. ments based thereon if the total value of such transactions entered into by a board member or any closely associated person Currently, there is one Managing Board committee, the Equity reaches or exceeds € 5,000 in any calendar year. All transacand Employee Stock Committee. This committee comprises tions reported to Siemens AG in accordance with this requirethree members of the Managing Board and oversees, in particument have been duly published and are available on the lar, the utilization of authorized capital in connection with the ­Company’s website WWW.SIEMENS.COM/DIRECTORS-DEALINGS . issuance of employee stock and the implementation of certain capital measures. It also determines the scope and conditions of the share-based compensation components and / or proB.1.4 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting grams for employees and managers (with the exception of the and investor relations Managing Board). Shareholders exercise their rights in the Annual Shareholders’ The composition of the Managing Board and its committee is Meeting. An ordinary Annual Shareholders’ Meeting normally presented in chapter D.7 SUPERVISORY BOARD AND MANAGING takes place within the first four months of each fiscal year. The BOARD on pages 334 335 of this Annual Report. Information on Annual Shareholders’ Meeting decides, among other things, on the compensation paid to the members of the Managing Board the appropriation of unappropriated net income, the ratificais provided in the B.4 COMPENSATION REPORT on pages 144 162. tion of the acts of the Managing and Supervisory Boards, and the appointment of the independent auditors. Amendments to the Articles of Association and measures that change the Company ’s capital stock are approved at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and are implemented by the Managing Board. The Managing Board facilitates shareholder participation in this 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 247 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 135 meeting through electronic communications – in particular, via As part of our investor relations activities, we inform our investhe Internet – and enables shareholders who are unable to tors comprehensively about developments within the Company. ­attend the meeting to vote by proxy. Furthermore, shareholders ­For communication purposes, Siemens makes extensive use of may exercise their right to vote in writing or by means of electhe Internet. We publish quarterly, half-yearly and annual tronic communications (absentee voting). The Managing Board ­reports, earnings releases, ad hoc announcements, analyst premay enable shareholders to participate in the Annual Sharesentations, shareholder letters and press releases as well as the holders’ Meeting without the need to be present at the venue financial calendar for the current year, which contains the puband without a proxy and to exercise some or all of their rights lication dates of significant financial communications and the fully or partially by means of electronic communications. date of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, at WWW.SIEMENS. Shareholders may submit proposals regarding the proposals of COM/­I NVESTORS . Details of our investor relations activities are the Managing and Supervisory Boards and may contest deciprovided in chapter A.4 THE SIEMENS SHARE/INVESTOR REL ATIONS sions of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Shareholders on pages 126 129 of this Annual Report. ­owning Siemens stock with an aggregate notional value of € 100,000 or more may also demand the judicial appointment Our Articles of Association, the Bylaws for the Supervisory of special auditors to examine specific issues. The reports, docBoard, the Bylaws for the most important Supervisory Board uments and information required by law, including the Annual committees, the Bylaws for the Managing Board, all our DeclaReport, may be downloaded from our website. The same rations of Conformity with the Code and a variety of other ­applies to the agenda for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting ­corporate-governance-related documents are posted on our and to any counterproposals or shareholders’ nominations that website at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE. require disclosure. B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code The Corporate Governance statement pursuant to Section 289a Corporate Governance Code (“Code”), published by the of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch) is an ­Federal Ministry of Justice in the official section of the ­integral part of the Combined Management Report. In accord­ ­Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). ance with Section 317 para. 2 sentence 3 of the German ­Commercial Code, the disclosures made within the scope of Since making its last Declaration of Conformity dated May 7, ­Section 289a of the German Commercial Code are not subject 2014, Siemens AG has complied with the recommendations to the audit by the auditors. of the Code with the one exception noted therein (contrary to Section 5.4.5, paragraph 1, sentence 2 of the Code, Jim DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY WITH THE GERMAN Hagemann Snabe, who is a member of the Supervisory CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Board of Siemens AG and a former member of the Executive The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG Board of SAP AG, held four supervisory board positions at approved the following Declaration of Conformity pursuant to other publicly listed companies). This exception has been Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act as of Octoeliminated since Mr. Snabe resigned his position on the ber 1, 2014: ­Executive Board of SAP AG, effective May 21, 2014. “Declaration of Conformity by the Managing Board and the Berlin and Munich, October 1, 2014 Supervisory Board of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft with the Siemens Aktiengesellschaft German Corporate Governance Code The Managing Board The Supervisory Board“ Siemens AG complies and will continue to comply with the currently applicable recommendations of the German 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 136 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 C  ompliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) INFORMATION ON OPERATION OF THE MANAGING BOARD, THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES SUPERVISORY BOARD, AND COMPOSITION AND Suggestions of the Code OPERATION OF THEIR COMMITTEES Siemens voluntarily complies with the Code’s non-binding The composition of the committees of the Managing and Super­ ­suggestions, with the following exceptions: visory Boards is given under chapter D.7 SUPERVISORY BOARD AND MANAGING BOARD on pages 330 335, respectively of the Pursuant to Section 3.7 para. 3 of the Code, in the case of a ­Annual Report, as is a description of the composition of the ­takeover offer, a management board should convene an exManaging Board and the Supervisory Board. The compositions traordinary general meeting at which shareholders discuss the can be accessed via the Internet on: takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions. The conWWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . vening of a shareholders’ meeting – even taking into account the shortened time limits stipulated in the German Securities A general description of the functions and operation of the Acquisition and Takeover Act (Wertpapiererwerbsund ÜberManaging Board and the Supervisory Board can be found under nahmegesetz) – is an organizational challenge for large pubthe heading B.1.2 MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL STRUCTURE under licly listed companies. It appears doubtful whether the associchapter B.1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT on pages 132 135 ated effort is justified in cases where no relevant decisions by and via the Internet on: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . Further the shareholders’ meeting are intended. Therefore, extraordi­details regarding the operation of the Managing Board and nary shareholders’ meetings shall be convened only in appro­Supervisory Board can be derived from the description of the priate cases. committees as well as from the bylaws for the corporate bodies concerned. These documents can be found at: Since the Managing Board appointments of 2011, the suggesWWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . tion in Section 5.1.2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Code that the maximum possible appointment period of five years should not be the rule for first-time appointments to a management board has not been followed. The Code can be downloaded from the Internet at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . Further Corporate Governance Practices applied beyond legal requirements are contained in our Business Conduct Guidelines. Our Company’s values and Business Conduct Guidelines In the 167 years of its existence, our Company has built an ­excellent reputation around the world. Technical performance, innovation, quality reliability, and international engagement have made Siemens one of the leading companies in electronics and electrical engineering. It is top performance with the highest ethics that has made Siemens strong. This is what the Company should continue to stand for in the future. The Business Conduct Guidelines provide the ethical and legal framework within which we want to maintain successful activities. They contain the basic principles and rules for our conduct within our Company and in relation to our external partners and the general public. They set out how we meet our ethical and legal responsibility as a company and give expression to our corporate values of being “Responsible – Excellent – Innovative.” The Business Conduct Guidelines can be downloaded from the Internet on: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/289A . 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 247 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 137 B.3 Compliance Report For us at Siemens, integrity means acting in accordance with Our activities in the World Economic Forum include the Com­ our values – responsible, excellent and innovative – wherever pany ’s participation in the Pact Against Corruption Initiative we do business. A key element of integrity is compliance: and the Siemens General Counsel’s membership in the Global ­adherence to the law and to our own internal regulations. We Agenda Council on Transparency & Anti-­Corruption. have zero tolerance for corruption and violations of the principles of fair competition – and where these do occur, we rigorously respond. B.3.1 Compliance priorities for fiscal 2014 The Compliance Report is an integral part of the Combined Our compliance priorities provide the basis for the ongoing Management Report. development and further improvement of our Compliance ­ ­System. In this connection, we take into account and aim to Our Business Conduct Guidelines describe how we fulfill our fulfill continuously evolving requirements in the compliance compliance-related responsibilities. They are also an ­expression field, which reflect both our own work and the changing marof our values and lay the foundation for our own internal reguket conditions and compliance risks of our business activities. lations. Our Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all employees worldwide. For fiscal 2014, we defined the following compliance priorities: Our Compliance System aims to ensure that all our worldwide >> Stand for integrity: Our aim is to support business leadership business practices are in line with these guidelines and in comin its responsibility for compliance and to execute our Collecpliance with all applicable laws. To serve this purpose and protive Action strategy focused on tangible business benefits. vide the Company with reliable protection against compliance >> Committed to business: we want to foster trustful collaborarisks, our Compliance System has three pillars: Prevent, Detect tion between the Compliance Organization and our busiand Respond. We are continuously working to further strengthen nesses as well as strengthen the market and customer focus compliance in our Company and to combat corruption together of compliance. with other organizations (Collective ­Action). >> Manage risk & assurance: we want to continue to provide our businesses with the appropriate level of assurance within We actively support the enactment of the United Nations Conour Compliance System. vention against Corruption and the Anti-Bribery Convention of >> Responsibility for data privacy: we will assume new the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ­responsibilities in the area of data privacy. (OECD), which – like the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact – provide important guidance for our entire These priorities, which guided our activities in fiscal 2014, in­organization. We are also actively involved in the Global Comclude the conclusion of projectand market-specific Collective pact. At the end of 2013, our Chief Compliance Officer was Action agreements and the launch of the second funding elected Chairman of the Task Force on Anti-Bribery / Corruption round of the Siemens Integrity Initiative. We have also carried of the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD. out a project to reinforce our business-partner compliance due Siemens Compliance System Management responsibility Prevent Detect Respond > Compliance risk management > Whistleblowing channels “Tell us” > Consequences for misconduct > Policies and procedures and ombudsman > Remediation > Training and communication > Compliance controls > Global case tracking > Advice and support > Monitoring and compliance reviews > Integration in personnel processes > Compliance audits > Collective action > Compliance investigations 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 138 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 C  ompliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) diligence process. The company’s compliance risk assessment B.3.3 Business partners and suppliers process has been further developed: Besides other improvements Data Privacy has been included therein as part of our Cooperation with third parties such as sales agents, customs activities to integrate Data Privacy into the Compliance System. clearing agents, consultants, distributors and resellers is part of Company operations and often essential in order to reach certain areas of the market. At the same time, however, the B.3.2 Compliance risk management Company may be liable for the actions of these third parties. Our Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) process requires that Our mandatory process and tool for business-partner com­ CEOs and managers in the Company – together with the pliance due diligence is designed to help all Siemens entities ­relevant Compliance Officers – systematically determine and conduct risk-based integrity checks of business partners. ­ ­assess the compliance risks to their units on a regular basis. ­Transparent and risk-oriented decisions about a business partner relationship are based on high-quality compliance due A CRA was performed for all the Company’s operating units in ­diligence. fiscal 2013. Based on our experience to date and the analysis of these results, the CRA process has been further developed. The management of each Siemens unit is responsible for the Starting fiscal 2014, the CRA is performed in two different ways: unit’s utilization of business partners. This means that business partners must be carefully selected and appropriately >> In even-numbered years, the CRA process is performed for monitored and managed throughout the course of a business so-called top-risk countries in o ­ rder to complement the analrelationship. yses at Lead Country / Division level with in-depth risk assessments for selected countries. We will identify these countries In fiscal 2014, we carried out a project to reinforce the effectivein advance based on an analysis of external and internal ness of our business-partner compliance due diligence process compliance risks. and of management’s assessment of the related compliance >> In odd-numbered years (starting in fiscal 2015), the CRA risks. Key outcomes of the project include the regular review of ­process will be performed at Lead Country / Division level. business partner portfolios at the Lead Countries and Divisions and on-site compliance checks for selected types of business In fiscal 2014, the CRA was performed for a total of 14 top-risk partners as part of due diligence. Both measures are scheduled countries. The CRA results have been incorporated into the for implementation in fiscal 2015. Furthermore we have Group-level compliance risk analysis, which aims to determine ­introduced a web-based compliance training program, which is systematic and globally recurring compliance risks to the mandatory for certain business partners before they can enter ­Company as quickly as possible. As well as the CRA ­results, this into a business relationship with our Company. Other business analysis of the overall Group-level compliance risks takes into partners may also take part in the training program on a volunaccount, for example, the insights from compliance controls – tary basis. the ongoing assessment of the operation of our compliance processes to ensure their effectiveness – and the results of We require our suppliers to comply with our Code of Conduct case-related investigations. for Siemens Suppliers, which includes compliance with all ­applicable laws and, in particular, the prohibition of corrupt The Corporate compliance risks are derived from these consol­activities. We also require our suppliers to support the Code’s idated results, which are then shared with the Company’s busiimplementation in their own supply chains. The Code of nesses. As in the CRA process, relevant risks are reported to ­Conduct is based on the ten principles of the United Nations Siemens’ Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), and measures to Global C ­ ompact. Instruments such as sustainability self-assessreduce the risks are drawn up and implemented. ments by suppliers and sustainability audits by external auditors enable us to systematically identify potential risks in our The identification of compliance risks in individual Siemens supply chain and to monitor whether our suppliers are in com­entities worldwide (CRA) and the Group-level compliance risk pliance with the Code’s requirements. analysis are complemented by an interdisciplinary exchange during the quarterly Compliance Risk Radar meeting. 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 247 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 139 B.3.4 Compliance training The “Tell us” help desk and the Company’s ombudsman are two secure reporting channels that can be used by our employees One focus of our preventive measures under the Compliance and external stakeholders to report violations of external and System is to provide compliance training to all managers and internal rules. Reports to these channels are passed on to our employees who hold positions with a particular risk profile. In Compliance Organization. Possible misconduct may also be fiscal 2014, the definition of these “sensitive functions” was ex­reported directly via the Managing Board or via supervisors panded and specified more precisely. In accordance with this to the Compliance Organization and, in particular, to the definition, the Compliance Officers of the relevant Company ­ Compliance Officers in our individual company units. Our units identify the managers and employees whose participa­employees regularly make use of this reporting channel. In fistion is required and ensure that they attend the training cal 2014, the total number of compliance cases requiring ­sessions. They monitor and confirm the fulfillment of these ­further inquiries or ­investigations reported via all the above-­ require­ments at regular intervals. mentioned reporting channels was 653. We believe that the decrease from fiscal 2013 (908) is within the normal range of Our Company-wide compliance training portfolio consists of variation. in-person and web-based training programs. The in-person training programs also provide our employees with an opportuThe total number of disciplinary sanctions for compliance vionity to discuss correct behavior based on day-to-day work lations in fiscal 2014 was 195 (fiscal 2013: 305). The disciplinary ­examples. In fiscal 2013, we introduced an annual Integrity sanctions reported in a specific fiscal year do not all relate to ­Dialog to maintain a high awareness of integrity and complithe compliance cases reported in the same ­period: disciplinary ance topics at Siemens. The Dialog, which is conducted across sanctions are frequently not implemented in the year in which the entire Company, serves as a forum for managers to discuss a case was reported. This is due to the fact that a reported comrecent compliance matters with their employees. pliance case has to undergo the Company’s entire internal case handling process (see top right), from the mandating and perThe assessment and analysis of compliance risks for the operforming of an internal investigation to the documentation of its ating units and at Group level offers important indicators that results in an investigation report that will form the basis for help us develop and define the focus of our training activities, related disciplinary sanctions and remediation measures. including the selection of themed modules for the annual events held in conjunction with the Integrity Dialog. Our operFurthermore, a single reported compliance case may, for ating units address specific challenges by enhancing their ­instance, result in several disciplinary sanctions or in no discitraining activities with additional topics from their own busiplinary sanctions at all – for instance, because the employee nesses or by extending the mandatory target groups for speconcerned meanwhile has left the company for some other cific compliance training programs in their units. In this way, ­reason. Therefore, too, it is not possible to establish a ­direct our training activities reflect both Siemens-wide topics and the correlation between the numbers of reported compliance cases key topics specific to the operating units. and the numbers and types of disciplinary sanctions ­implemented in a given reporting period. B.3.5 Compliance indicators In our view, the detected compliance violations in our Company in the past fiscal year demonstrate once again that our Compliance indicators1 ­Compliance System was properly designed and is ­being impleYear ended September, 30 mented effectively. 2014 2013 Compliance cases reported 653 908 The “Ask us” help desk encourages our employees to ask comDisciplinary sanctions 195 305 pliance-related questions. Incoming questions are automatitherein warnings 114 188 cally forwarded without prior registration to the Compliance therein dismissals 50 75 Officers responsible for the employees’ entities. Furthermore, Therein other 2 31 42 all employees can pose questions directly to the Compliance Officers responsible for their respective units. Most employee 1 Continuing and discontinued operations. questions are now being handled and answered in this way. 2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and suspension. These questions are not registered either. In light of these develop­ments, we have decided to discontinue the reporting of inquiries submitted to the “Ask us” help desk. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 140 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 C  ompliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) Compliance investigation process Compliance case Allegation Assessment Mandating Research and Investigation Preparation Disciplinary received carried out planning of the investimeasures and by examining gation report remediation or evaluating the allegation Compliance investigation before mandating an investigation B.3.6 Data privacy i­ntegrity. This approach proved useful in the following period. It was subsequently replaced by a specific process for dealing In line with our compliance priorities for fiscal 2014, we’ve conwith weak compliance performance on the part of managers. tinued to integrate data privacy into our Company’s C ­ ompliance As part of this process, a corrective factor is applied to bonus System. Selected measures include the integration of data payments if remedial action is not taken following the issuance ­privacy into the Compliance Risk Assessments, data privacy of a ”yellow card.” ­reporting via our quarterly Compliance Performance Review and the inclusion of data privacy incidents in our global compliEffective fiscal 2015, the consideration of weak compliance perance case tracking tool. formance on the part of managers has been made a mandatory element of the Company ’s bonus regulations. In addition, reData protection laws in the European Economic Area (EEA) lated performance issues will also be addressed through the ­require a recipient of personal data located outside the EEA to Compliance Organization. In light of the above and to reinforce provide a level of data protection equivalent to the level of data the recognition of exemplary commitment to integrity and protection in the EEA. As a result, the instrument of Binding compliance within the Company, an annual award for integrity Corporate Rules (BCR) was developed at European Union level and compliance will be presented starting in fiscal 2015. The to allow multinational groups of companies, such as Siemens, award will honor outstanding examples of management to make transfers of personal data across borders and between ­responsibility for compliance and employee commitment to group companies that implement the BCR in compliance with compliance. In addition to recognition by Company managethe aforementioned requirement. In this context, Siemens ment, the competition will promote best practices within has issued, effective fiscal 2015, its BCR for the Protection of Siemens and encourage others to follow these examples. ­Personal Data within the Company. B.3.8 Collective Action B.3.7 Company-wide award and Siemens Integrity Initiative for ­integrity and compliance If substantial progress is to be made in combating corruption In 2008, we made compliance excellence a component of the and fostering fair competition, as many stakeholders as pos­ incentive system for our senior management. This system was sible must act collectively. That’s why we have joined forces not designed to honor basic compliance with the law and interwith other organizations to fight corruption and promote nal regulations, which is always expected. Instead, it focused ­ethical markets through collective action and the Siemens on rewarding managers for “going the extra mile” in imple­Integrity Initiative. menting our Compliance Program and driving a culture of 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 247 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 141 Achievements during fiscal 2014 include a collective action in B.3.9 Our revised compliance priorities – Colombia: in August 2014, a code of conduct was signed for the Guidance until 2020 first time by around 190 companies associated with the Colombian Chamber of Goods and Oil Services (­C AMPETROL) as well Since their introduction in fiscal 2011, our compliance priorities as several oil and gas operators. All of the signatories, of whom have provided the focus of our compliance-related activities Siemens is one, are committed to initiating corporate ethics and the basis for the ongoing development of our Compliance programs that abolish and prohibit activities such as bribery System. In light of our experience to date and – above all – in and the demand for and offering of undue ­favors. The signatoline with our entrepreneurial concept Vision 2020, we have ries have also agreed to disclose serious cases to CAMPETROL ­decided to develop this approach further in order to create a and the Regional Center of the United ­Nations Global Compact, reliable long-term p ­ erspective for the ongoing development of which will act as a neutral facilitator. compliance at Siemens. To support the enforcement of the code of conduct, a compliOwnership culture is a cornerstone of Vision 2020, and the inance pact has also been signed, involving a whistleblower tegrity of our employees’ decisions and actions is an essential channel – supported by the Secretary of Transparency in the part of it. Every employee is expected to act responsibly and President’s Office – and sanctions in cases of wrongdoing. to live up to this principle. Our Compliance System aims to ­support Siemens employees in making risk-based decisions The global Siemens Integrity Initiative was launched by Siemens with integrity – this is how compliance can ultimately provide on December 9, 2009. It earmarks more than US$100 million for ­reliable assurance to our Company and its employees and at supporting organizations and projects fighting corruption and the same time help strengthen an ownership culture at fraud through Collective Action, education and training. The Siemens. Therefore, ownership culture lies at the heart of our initiative focuses on supporting projects that have a clear imcompliance priorities. pact on the business environment, can demonstrate objective and measurable results and have the potential to be scaled up Compliance will also make further contributions to Vision and replicated. The Siemens Integrity Initiative constitutes one 2020. The following five compliance priorities define the levers element of the July 2009 settlement between Siemens and the for the future development of compliance at Siemens: World Bank and the March 2013 settlement between Siemens and the European Investment Bank (EIB). >> Foster integrity: a clear tone from the top, coupled with tangible ownership of compliance at all management levels, is The status of the 31 projects funded within the first funding essential. We will continue to help our managers meet this round – based upon the settlement with the World Bank –, with ­responsibility. Our new Company-wide award for integrity a total contractual funding volume of US$ 37.7 million, was and compliance will play an important role in this respect. ­presented to the World Bank in April 2014, together with the Beyond the boundaries of our organization, we will continue Siemens Integrity Initiative Annual Report 2013. to cooperate with our stakeholders in order to combat corruption and promote fair markets. The second funding round was announced on June 27, 2013, >> Committed to business: our Compliance Organization and and the deadline for applications was August 29, 2013. We our businesses must work hand-in-hand to effectively miti­received more than 180 applications from about 60 countries. gate compliance risks. Without compromising our integrity In a two-stage review and due diligence process, we selected standards, we’ll also intensify support for our businesses in projects which are to receive approximately US$ 30.0 million of order to allow them to seize business opportunities even in total funding over a period of three to five years. We began conchallenging environments. cluding the funding contracts in October 2014. >> Manage risk & assurance: we want to continue providing our businesses with the appropriate level of assurance within our Compliance System. We constantly monitor external and internal developments and, where necessary, update the compliance safeguards for our Company. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 142 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 C  ompliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) >> Excellent compliance team: we expect our Compliance C ­ ompliance Officers around the world and our Company units. ­Officers to combine compliance expertise with business The other pillar of our Compliance System – with its three understanding, and we offer them attractive career paths. ­action levels Prevent, Detect and Respond – is the requirement That’s why we will continue working to develop a first-class that all Siemens managers assume personal responsibility for learning and development landscape for our Compliance ­compliance at their respective units. Organization. We will also reinforce close collaboration across the Company ’s global Compliance Organization to We will continue to further develop our compliance system in ensure that we provide the best possible support for our ­ order to adapt it to evolving requirements in the field of businesses. ­compliance. Our overall aim remains unchanged: we want to >> Effective processes: utilizing our compliance portfolio mananchor integrity permanently throughout our company in agement system, we will continue to improve our compliance ­order to e­ nsure sound business decisions based on clear principrocesses in order to optimize efficiency and keep operaples of ­integrity. tional burdens as low as possible while further strengthening the assurance against compliance risks that those processes provide.  B.3.10 Further information and legal ­proceedings Our compliance priorities as of fiscal 2015 are illustrated and briefly described in the figures below. These priorities, which For further information, please see: will also guide our activities for fiscal 2015, will be suppleC.9 REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND ASSOCIATED MATERIAL mented by focus areas and activities for each fiscal year. OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS on pages 225 241 and NOTE 28 ­L EGAL PROCEEDINGS in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEThe effectiveness of compliance at Siemens is based on MENTS on pages 293 295 of this Annual Report. the global governance of our Compliance Organization and clear-cut reporting lines and close cooperation between our WWW.SIEMENS.COM/COMPLIANCE Compliance priorities for fiscal 2015 Foster Integrity Support business management to meet its responsibilities for compliance and further strengthen the culture of integrity in our ­Company and beyond. Committed to Business iance Priorit Manage Risk & Assurance mpl ies Co Further intensify cooperation between the Foster Continue providing our businesses with Compliance Organization and our b ­ usinesses Integrity the appropriate level of assurance within and reinforce our Compliance System’s our Compliance System. ­market and customer focus. Committ R isk & e age nce Busine d to an a M ssur ss Ownership A Culture Excellent Compliance Team Effective Processes Ex c m elle Co e tiv Provide an excellent compliance team through p n ec e Continue to further optimize and streamline Te lian t s Eff ess a first-class learning and development land­ am ce Pro c our compliance processes. scape and close collaboration. Vision 2020 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 247 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 143 B.4 Compensation Report The Compensation Report outlines the principles underlying for their remuneration to be commensurate with the Company’s the determination of the total compensation of the members of size and economic position. Exceptional achievements are to be the Managing Board of Siemens AG, and sets out the structure rewarded adequately, while falling short of goals is intended to and level of the remuneration of the Managing Board memresult in an appreciable reduction in remuneration. The bers. It also describes the policies governing, and levels of, the Managing Board’s compensation is also structured so as to be compensation paid to Supervisory Board members. attractive in comparison to that of competitors, with a view to attracting outstanding managers to our Company and keeping This section is based on the recommendations of the German them with us for the long term. Corporate Governance Code (Code) and the requirements of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch), German The system and levels for the remuneration of the Managing Accounting Standards (Deutsche Rechnungslegungs Standards), Board are determined and reviewed regularly by the full Superand International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The visory Board, based on proposals from the Compensation ComCompensation Report is an integral part of the Combined mittee. The Supervisory Board reviews remuneration levels Management Report. annually to ensure that they are appropriate. In that process, the Company ’s economic situation, performance and outlook, as well as the tasks and performance of the individual ManagB.4.1 Remuneration of members ing Board members, are taken into account. In addition, the of the Managing Board Supervisory Board considers the common level of remuneration in comparison with peer companies and with the compenB.4.1.1 REMUNERATION SYSTEM sation structure in place in other areas of the Company. Here it The remuneration system for the Managing Board at Siemens is also takes due account of the relationship between the Managintended to provide an incentive for successful corporate maning Board’s remuneration and that of senior management and agement with an emphasis on sustainability. Members of the staff, both overall and with regard to its development over Managing Board are expected to make a long-term commitment time, and for this purpose the Supervisory Board has also to and on behalf of the Company, and may benefit from any susdetermined how senior management and the relevant staff tained increase in the Company’s value. In the interest of that are to be differentiated. The remuneration system that was in aim, a substantial portion of their total remuneration is linked to place for the Managing Board members for fiscal 2014 was the long-term performance of Siemens stock. A further aim is approved by 93.98% at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on Remuneration system for Managing Board members for fiscal 2014 Target compensation Maximum amounts of compensation Share Ownership Guidelines Stock­based components (Bonus Awards and Stock Awards): max. 300% of Long­term stock­based compensation the respective target amount President > target parameter: stock price and CEO: compared to 5 competitors Compensation 3­times Stock­ > target parameter: Ø earnings per share overall of Base based > variability: 0 – 200% respectively max. 1.7­times compen­ compen­ Variable compensation (bonus) of target sation Bonus (cash): compensation sation > target parameter: Return on 0 – 200% capital employed, Free cash flow, add. + 20% individual targets adjustment Managing > variability: 0 – 200% Board Cash add. ± 20% adjustment member: > 75% granted in cash and 2­times compen­ 25% in Bonus Awards of Base sation Base Base Base compen­ compen­ compen­ compen­ sation sation sation sation Performance­based components with deferred payout Performance­based component Non­performance­based component Obligation to hold shares during term of office on the Managing Board 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 144 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover­relevant information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 Compliance Report German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) January 28, 2014. The new remuneration system that takes the adjusted amount of the bonus paid can be as much as 240 % effect in fiscal 2015 is explained in section B.4.1.4 REMUNERof the target amount. In choosing the factors to be considered ATION SYSTEM FOR THE MANAGING BOARD FROM FISCAL 2015 ONWARD . in deciding on possible revisions of the bonus payouts (± 20 %), The new remuneration system will be submitted to the Annual the Supervisory Board takes account of incentives for sustainShareholders’ Meeting for its approval on January 27, 2015. able corporate management. The revision option may also be exercised in recognition of Managing Board members’ indiIn fiscal 2014, the remuneration system for the Managing Board vidual achievements. had the following components: The bonus is paid 75 % in cash and 25 % in the form of generNon-performance-based components ally non-forfeitable Siemens stock commitments (Bonus Base compensation Awards). After a four-year waiting period, the beneficiary will Base compensation is paid as a monthly salary. It is reviewed receive one share of Siemens stock for each Bonus Award. The annually, and revised if appropriate. The base compensation of value of Siemens stock to be transferred for Bonus Awards the President and CEO Joe Kaeser has been €1,845,000 per year after the waiting period is subject to a ceiling of 300 % of the since the time of his appointment on August 1, 2013. The base target amount of the Bonus Awards. If this maximum amount compensation of the CFO, of those members of the Managing is exceeded, the corresponding entitlement to share commitBoard who have responsibilities for Sector portfolios and of Klaus ments will be forfeited without replacement. Instead of the Helmrich because of his additional services as Labor Director transfer of Siemens stock, an equivalent cash settlement may (“Arbeitsdirektor”) has been €998,400 per year since October 1, be effected. 2013. The base compensation of the other members of the Managing Board has been €928,800 per year since October 1, 2013. Long-term stock-based compensation Long-term stock-based compensation consists of a grant of forFringe benefits feitable stock commitments (Stock Awards). The beneficiaries Fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equivalent, of will receive one free share of Siemens stock for each Stock non-monetary benefits and other perquisites, such as the proAward after a restriction period. Beginning with the award for vision of a Company car, contributions toward the cost of insurfiscal 2011, the restriction period for Stock Awards ends at the ance, reimbursement of fees for legal advice, tax advice and close of the second day after publication of the preliminary accommodation and moving expenses, including a gross-up for operating results for the fourth calendar year after the date of any taxes that have to be borne in this regard, as well as costs the award. relating to preventive medical examinations. In the event of extraordinary unforeseen developments that Performance-based components have an impact on the stock price, the Supervisory Board may Variable compensation (bonus) decide to reduce the number of promised Stock Awards retroVariable compensation (bonus) is based on the Company ’s actively, or it may decide that in lieu of a transfer of Siemens business performance in the past fiscal year. The targets for Stock only a cash settlement in a defined and limited amount variable compensation are derived from the financial framewill be paid, or it may decide to postpone transfers of Siemens work of our integrative management model One Siemens. On stock for payable Stock Awards until the developments have this basis, the Supervisory Board at the beginning of each ceased to have an impact on the stock price. fiscal year defines specific targets. Corresponding targets – in addition to other factors – also apply to senior managers, with In the event of a 100 % target attainment, the annual target a view to establishing a consistent target system throughout amount for the monetary value of the Stock Awards comthe Company. mitment is € 1.9 million for the President and CEO (effective August 1, 2013) and € 1 million for each of the other members of For a 100 % target attainment (target amount), the amount of the Managing Board. Beginning with fiscal 2011, the Superthe bonus equals the amount of base compensation. The bonus visory Board has the option of increasing, on an individual is subject to a ceiling (cap) of 200 %. If targets are substantially basis, the target amount for a member of the Managing Board missed, variable compensation may not be paid at all. who has been reappointed by as much as 75 % above the amount of € 1 million, for one fiscal year at a time. This option The Supervisory Board is entitled to revise the amount resulting enables the Supervisory Board to take account of the Managing from attaining targets by as much as 20 % downward or upBoard member’s individual accomplishments and experience as ward, at its duty-bound discretion (pflichtgemäßes Ermessen); well as the scope and demands of his or her function. 171 C. Combined Management Report 247 D. Consolidated Financial Statements 337 E. Additional Information 145 The performance-based component of long-term stock-based Maximum amount for compensation overall compensation is likewise founded on One Siemens. The alloIn addition to the forfeiture rules to maintain the maximum cation rules for long-term stock-based compensation take this amounts of compensation for variable compensation (bonus) focus into account as follows: and long-term stock-based compensation, a maximum amount for the compensation overall has also been agreed upon. > On the one hand, half of the annual target amount for the Beginning with fiscal 2014, this amount cannot be more than annual Stock Awards is linked to the average basic earnings 1.7 times greater than target compensation. Target compensaper share (EPS) from continuing and discontinued operations tion comprises base compensation, the target amount for varifor the last three completed fiscal years. In principle, the tarable compensation (bonus), and the target amount for longget value is the average basic EPS from the past three fiscal term stock-based compensation, excluding fringe benefits and years completed prior to the year of compensation. At the pension benefit commitments. Including fringe benefits and end of each fiscal year, the Supervisory Board decides on a pension benefit commitments of the relevant fiscal year, the figure that represents that year’s target attainment, which maximum amount of compensation for the overall compensamay lie between 0 % and 200 % (cap). This target attainment tion increases by corresponding amounts. will then determine the actual monetary value of the award and the resulting number of Stock Awards. Share Ownership Guidelines > On the other hand, the development of the performance of The Siemens Share Ownership Guidelines are an integral part Siemens’ stock relative to competitors is to have a direct efof the remuneration system for the Managing Board and senior fect on compensation. For this purpose, with respect to the executives. These guidelines require the members of the other half of the annual target amount for the Stock Awards, Managing Board – after a certain buildup phase – to hold the Supervisory Board will first grant a number of Stock Siemens stock worth a multiple of their base compensation – Awards equivalent to the monetary value of half the target 300 % for the President and CEO, 200 % for the other members amount on the date of the award. The Supervisory Board will of the Managing Board – during their term of office on the also decide on a target system (target value for 100 % and tarManaging Board. The determining figure in this context is the get curve) for the performance of Siemens stock relative to average base compensation that each member of the Managing the stock of competitors (for fiscal 2014, these are ABB, Board has drawn over the four years before the applicable date Alstom, General Electric, Rockwell and Schneider). The referof proof of compliance. Accordingly, changes that have been ence period for measuring the target will be the same as the made to base compensation in the meantime are included. four-year restriction period for the Stock Awards. After this Non-forfeitable stock commitments (Bonus Awards) are taken restriction period expires, the Supervisory Board will deterinto account in determining compliance with the Share Ownermine how much better or worse Siemens stock has pership Guidelines. formed relative to the stock of its competitors. This determination will yield a target attainment of between 0 % and Evidence that this obligation has been met must first be pro200 % (cap). If target attainment is above 100 %, an additional vided after a four-year buildup phase, and updated annually cash payment corresponding to the outperformance is thereafter. If the value of the accrued holdings declines below effected. If target attainment is less than 100 %, a number of the minimum to be evidenced from time to time because the Stock Awards equivalent to the shortfall from the target will market price of Siemens stock has fluctuated, the member of expire without replacement. the Managing Board must acquire additional shares. The value of Siemens stock to be transferred for Stock Awards Pension benefit commitments after the end of the restriction period is subject to a ceiling of The members of the Managing Board, like all Siemens AG 300 % of the respective target amount. If this maximum amount employees, are included in the Siemens Defined Contribution of compensation is exceeded, the corresponding entitlement to Benefit Plan (BSAV). Under the BSAV, members of the Managing stock commitments will be forfeited without replacement. Board receive contributions that are credited to their personal pension account. The amount of the annual contributions is With regard to the further terms of the Stock Awards, the same based on a predetermined percentage which refers to the base principles apply in general for the Managing Board and for compensation and the target amount for the bonus. This persenior managers; these principles are discussed in more detail centage is decided upon annually by the Supervisory Board; in NOTE 32 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLImost recently it was set at 28 %. In making its decision, the DATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . That note also includes further Super visory Board takes account of the intended level of proviinformation about the stock-based employee investment plans. sion for each individual, also considering the length of time for 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 146 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover­relevant information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 Compliance Report German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) which the individual has been a Managing Board member, as Commitments in connection with termination well as the annual and long-term expense to the Company as a of Managing Board membership result of that provision. The non-forfeitability of pension beneManaging Board contracts provide for a compensatory payment fit commitments is in compliance with the provisions of the if membership on the Managing Board is terminated preGerman Company Pensions Act (Betriebsrentengesetz). Special maturely by mutual agreement, without serious cause. The contributions may be granted to Managing Board members on amount of this payment must not exceed the value of two the basis of individual decisions of the Supervisory Board. In years’ compensation and compensate no more than the rethe case of new appointments of members of the Managing maining term of the contract (cap). The amount of the compenBoard from outside the Company, these contributions may satory payment is calculated on the basis of base compensabe defined as non-forfeitable from their inception. If a member tion, together with the variable compensation (bonus) and the of the Managing Board earned a pension benefit entitlement long-term stock-based compensation (Stock Awards) actually from the Company before the BSAV was introduced, a portion received during the last fiscal year before termination. The of his or her contributions went toward financing this prior compensatory payment is payable in the month when the commitment. member leaves the Managing Board. In addition, a one-time special contribution is made to the BSAV. The amount of this Members of the Managing Board are entitled to benefits under contribution is based on the BSAV contribution that the Board the BSAV on reaching age 60, at the earliest, or age 62 for benmember received in the previous year, and on the remaining efit commitments made on or after January 1, 2012. As a rule, term of the appointment, but is limited to not more than two the accrued pension benefit balance is paid out to the years’ contributions (cap). The above benefits are not paid if an Managing Board member in twelve annual installments. At the amicable termination of the member’s activity on the Managing request of the Managing Board member or of his or her survivBoard is agreed upon at the member’s request, or if there is ing dependents, the pension benefit balance may also be paid serious cause for the Company to terminate the employment out in fewer installments or as a lump sum, subject to the relationship. Company’s consent. The accrued pension benefit balance may also be paid out as a pension. As a further alternative, the In the event of a change of control that results in a substantial Managing Board member may choose a combination of paychange in the position of the Managing Board member – for ment in one to twelve installments and payment of a pension. example, due to a change in corporate strategy or a change in If the pension option is chosen, a decision must be made as to the Managing Board member’s duties and responsibilities – whether it should include pensions for surviving dependents. the member of the Managing Board has the right to terminate If a member of the Managing Board dies while receiving a penhis or her contract with the Company for good cause. A change sion, benefits will be paid to the member’s surviving depenof control exists if one or more shareholders acting jointly or in dents if the member chose such benefits. The Company will concert acquire a majority of the voting rights in Siemens AG then provide a limited-term pension to surviving children until and exercise a controlling influence, or if Siemens AG becomes they reach age 27, or age 25 in the case of benefit commitments a dependent enterprise as a result of entering into an intermade on or after January 1, 2007. company agreement within the meaning of Section 291 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz), or if Siemens AG Benefits from the retirement benefit system that was in place is to be merged into an existing corporation or other entity. If before the BSAV are normally granted as pension benefits with this right of termination is exercised, the Managing Board a surviving dependent’s pension. In this case as well, a payout member is entitled to a severance payment in the amount of in installments or a lump sum may be chosen instead of pennot more than two years’ compensation. The calculation of the sion payments. annual compensation includes not only the base compensation and the target amount for the bonus, but also the target Members of the Managing Board who were employed by the amount for the Stock Awards, in each case based on the most Company on or before September 30, 1983, are entitled to tranrecent completed fiscal year prior to termination of the consition payments for the first six months after retirement, equal tract. The stock-based components for which a firm committo the difference between their final base compensation and the ment already exists will remain unaffected. There is no entitleretirement benefits payable under the corporate pension plan. ment to a severance payment if the Managing Board member receives benefits from third parties in connection with a change of control. Moreover, there is no right to terminate if the change of control occurs within a period of twelve months prior to a Managing Board member’s retirement. 171 C. Combined Management Report 247 D. Consolidated Financial Statements 337 E. Additional Information 147 Additionally, compensatory or severance payments cover nonB.4.1.2 REMUNERATION OF THE MEMBERS monetary benefits by including an amount of 5 % of the total OF THE MANAGING BOARD FOR FISCAL 2014 compensation or severance amount. Compensatory or severOn the basis of the financial framework in the context of One ance payments will be reduced by 15 % as a lump-sum allowSiemens, at the beginning of the fiscal year the Supervisory ance for discounted values and for income earned elsewhere. Board set the targets and weighting for the parameters of return However, this reduction will apply only to the portion of the on capital employed (ROCE) and Free cash flow, together with compensatory or severance payment that was calculated withearnings per share (EPS), in each case on the basis of continuout taking account of the first six months of the remaining ing and discontinued operations. The definition of these paramterm of the Managing Board member’s contract. eters and their weighting acknowledges a sustainable enhancement of corporate value. Additionally, in setting the target for If a member leaves the Managing Board, the variable compenthe variable compensation (bonus) for those Managing Board sation (bonus) is determined pro rata temporis after the end of members with responsibilities for Sector portfolios, the Superthe fiscal year in which the appointment was terminated and is visory Board set economic value added (EVA) as a Sector-specific settled in cash at the usual payout or transfer date, as the case target, as well as additional individual targets for all members of may be. If the employment contract is terminated in the course the Managing Board so as to take fuller account of the individof an appointment period, the non-forfeitable stock commitual Board members’ performance. For this purpose, up to five ments (Bonus Awards) for which the waiting period is still in individual targets were generally defined; these take account of progress remain in effect without restriction. If the employsuch aspects as business performance in the Regions, implement agreement is terminated because of retirement, disability mentation of portfolio measures, and customer satisfaction. An or death, a Managing Board member’s Bonus Awards will be external review of the appropriateness of the Managing Board’s settled in cash as of the date of departure from the Board. compensation for fiscal 2014 confirmed that the remuneration of the Managing Board resulting from target attainment for fisStock commitments that were made as long-term stock-based cal 2014 is to be considered appropriate. In light of this expert compensation (Stock Awards) and for which the restriction review, and following a review of the achievement of the targets period is still in progress will be forfeited without replacement set at the beginning of the fiscal year, the Supervisory Board if the employment agreement is not extended after the end of decided at its meeting on November 5, 2014, to set the variable an appointment period, either at the Board member’s request compensation (bonus), the Bonus Awards and Stock Awards to or because there is serious cause that would have entitled the be granted, and the pension benefit contributions as follows: Company to revoke the appointment or terminate the contract. However, once granted, Stock Awards are not forfeited if the Variable compensation (bonus) employment agreement is terminated by mutual agreement at In setting the targets for the variable compensation (bonus) at the Company ’s request, or because of retirement, disability or the beginning of fiscal 2014, the Supervisory Board took into death, or in connection with a spinoff, the transfer of an operaccount that the Company continues to focus on a sustainable ation, or a change of activity within the corporate group. In this appreciation of value. This focus is intended to enable the Comcase, the Stock Awards will remain in effect upon termination pany to maintain its financial flexibility and hold its own of the employment agreement and will be honored on expiraagainst competitors even in periods of high market volatility: tion of the restriction period. The emphasis in terms of the sustainable enhancement of value was on capital efficiency and capital structure. Target values slightly higher than the prior-year figures were set in the case of return on capital employed and substantially higher than the prior-year figures in the case of Free cash flow. These were agreed upon uniformly with all members of the Managing Board. Moreover, the target values for the target parameters were set on the basis of continuing and discontinued operations, so as to take full account of the Managing Board’s overall responsibility for the Company ’s economic situation, performance and outlook. Additionally, targets were set taking account of business expectations for fiscal 2014. Here capital efficiency improved because of the absence of the expenses for the Siemens 2014 program in comparison to the prior year, as well as because of effects outside the Sectors. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 148 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover­relevant information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 Compliance Report German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) The following targets were set and attained with respect to compensation (Stock Awards) for fiscal 2014 will be calculated Total compensation these two target parameters for variable compensation (bonus): once the actual target attainment is available, and will be On the basis of the decisions by the Supervisory Board degranted at the usual date. The Stock Awards already granted scribed above, Managing Board compensation for fiscal 2014 in the past and those for fiscal 2014, for which the restriction totaled € 28.57 million, a decrease of 17.4 % (2013: € 34.58 milTarget parameter 100% of target Actual FY 2014 figure Target attainment period is still running, will be absolutely maintained, in accorlion). Of this total amount, €17.89 million (2013: €16.98 million) Return on capital employed (ROCE) 1 15.4% 17.3% 163.67% dance with the terms of his contract with the Company, and was attributable to cash compensation and € 10.68 million Free cash flow 1 € 5,250 million € 5,201million 97.55% will be settled in cash in September 2015 at the closing price (2013: € 17.60 million) to stock-based compensation. of Siemens stock in Xetra trading on May 6, 2014 (€ 93.91). 1 Continuing and discontinued operations. The values measured for target attainment were not adjusted. Dr. Süß agreed not to take up activities for any significant The following disclosure of the compensation granted for fiscompetitor of Siemens for a period of one year after the end cal 2014 takes account not only of the applicable reporting of his employment contract ‒ that is, until September 30, standards, but also of the recommendations of the Code. ConIn addition, in determining target attainment, the attainment beneficiaries are not entitled to receive dividends. This figure 2015. For this post-contractual non-compete commitment, he sequently, the model table recommended by the Code for disof Sector-specific targets for economic value added (EVA) and for determining the number of commitments amounted to will be paid a monthly total of gross € 65,000. In determining closing the value of benefits granted for the year under review of the respective individual targets was taken into account. In €72.30 (2013: €80.88). the amount of the compensatory payment for Dr. Süß, in acwas used. The figures presented also include the attainable measuring attainment of the individual targets, the Supercordance with the terms of his contract with the Company, minimums or maximums, as applicable. The fair values shown visory Board took account of the Compensation Committee’s Benefits associated with termination the base compensation for fiscal 2014 and the variable comfor granted stock-based compensation were calculated on the recommendation. of Managing Board membership pensation and long-term stock-based compensation actually basis of the applicable reporting standards. The transfer of As Barbara Kux’s appointment to the Managing Board expired received for fiscal 2013 were applied and limited, as applicaone share per award will not take place until the expiration of In an overall assessment of all aspects, taking individual regularly on November 16, 2013, no compensatory payments ble, to either two annual payments in total or the compensathe four-year waiting or restriction period – that is, not until achievements into account and exercising its duty-bound were agreed upon in that connection. The Stock Awards already tion for the remaining term of his appointment. The portion November 2018. The number of Stock Awards linked to the discretion (pflichtgemäßes Ermessen), the Supervisory Board granted in the past for fiscal 2011, 2012 and 2013, for which the of the compensatory payment that was calculated excluding performance of the price of Siemens stock will be adjusted decided to adjust the bonus payout amounts resulting from restriction period is still running, will be absolutely maintained, the first six months of the remaining contract term was reafter the end of the restriction period, on the basis of the target attainment downward for one Managing Board member. in accordance with the terms of her contract with the Company. duced by 15 % as a lump-sum allowance for discounted values actual target attainment. Accordingly, the value of the acTaking this adjustment by the Supervisory Board into account, and for income earned elsewhere. In addition, non-monetary tual shares transferred may be higher or lower than shown target attainment grades of the bonus for members of the In connection with the mutually agreed termination of Peter Y. benefits were covered by a payment in the amount of 5 % of here, also depending on the stock price in effect at the time Managing Board came to between 78.81 % and 161.57 %. Solmssen’s activity on the Managing Board as of December 31, the compensatory payment. of transfer. 2013, it was agreed that his contract with the Company would Long-term stock-based compensation remain in effect until March 31, 2015. The entitlements agreed The compensation presented on the following pages was For half of the annual target amount for the Stock Awards, an upon under the contract will remain in effect until that date. granted to the members of the Managing Board for fiscal 2014 average basic EPS of €5.40 was determined for fiscal years 2012 These will not include the fringe benefits under the contract, (individualized disclosure). through 2014, yielding a target attainment of 96 %. particularly the Company car and contributions toward the cost of insurance, which will be covered until the contract ends by For the other half of the annual target amount for the Stock a monthly lump-sum payment of € 11,500. The Stock Awards Awards, the Supervisory Board approved a number of Stock already granted in the past for fiscal 2011, 2012 and 2013, for Awards equivalent to the monetary value of half the target which the restriction period is still in progress, will be absoamount on the award date. The amount by which these stock lutely maintained. Mr. Solmssen was also reimbursed for relocommitments must be adjusted – or an additional cash paycation costs, in accordance with the commitment he received ment must be made – after the end of the restriction period when he took office. The Company furthermore reimbursed will depend on the performance of Siemens stock compared to Mr. Solmssen for out-of-pocket expenses of € 100,000 plus the stock of five competitors – ABB, Alstom, General Electric, value added-tax. Rockwell and Schneider – over the coming four years, and will therefore not be determined until after the end of fiscal 2018. If In connection with the mutually agreed termination of significant changes occur among the relevant competitors Dr. Michael Süß’s activity on the Managing Board as of May 6, during the period under consideration, the Supervisory Board 2014, it was agreed that his current contract with the Company may appropriately take these changes into account in deterwould terminate as of September 30, 2014. The entitlements mining the values for comparison and / or calculating the releagreed upon under the contract remained in effect until that vant stock prices of those competitors. date. Dr. Süß receives a compensatory payment in the gross amount of € 4,286,092 in connection with the mutually agreed The number of stock commitments (Bonus Awards and Stock premature termination of his activity as a member of the ManAwards) granted was based on the closing price of Siemens aging Board, together with a one-time special contribution of stock in Xetra trading on the date of award less the present € 812,700 to the BSAV, to be credited in January 2015. It was value of dividends expected during the holding period, because also agreed with Dr. Süß that the long-term stock-based 171 C. Combined Management Report 247 D. Consolidated Financial Statements 337 E. Additional Information 149 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2014 Joe Kaeser Dr. Roland Busch Lisa Davis 10 President and CEO Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio since August 1, 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2014 (Amounts in €) (min) (max) (min) (max) (min) (max) Non­performance­ Fixed compensation (base compensation) 1,113,750 1,845,000 1,845,000 1,845,000 967,500 998,400 998,400 998,400 – 166,400 166,400 166,400 based components Fringe benefits 1 71,843 95,184 95,184 95,184 48,591 51,089 51,089 51,089 – 14,542 14,542 14,542 Total 1,185,593 1,940,184 1,940,184 1,940,184 1,016,091 1,049,489 1,049,489 1,049,489 – 180,942 180,942 180,942 Performance­based without long­term incentive One­year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non­stock­based Cash component (GCGC) 2 556,875 1,383,750 0 3,321,000 483,750 748,800 0 1,797,120 – 124,800 0 299,520 with long­term incentive Multi­year variable compensation 3, 4 2,542,970 2,220,668 0 7,083,750 1,551,574 1,218,300 0 3,748,800 – 1,520,154 0 5,566,905 effect, stock­based Variable compensation (bonus) – Bonus Awards 2, 5 558,881 672,101 0 1,383,750 433,840 403,289 0 748,800 – 41,645 0 124,800 Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 4 years) Target attainment depending on EPS for past three fiscal years 5 1,047,315 912,065 0 2,850,000 590,020 480,000 0 1,500,000 – 870,781 0 2,721,053 Target attainment depending on future stock performance 6 936,774 636,502 0 2,850,000 527,714 335,011 0 1,500,000 – 607,728 0 2,721,052 Total 7 4,285,438 5,544,602 1,940,184 9,503,000 3,051,415 3,016,589 1,049,489 5,094,560 – 1,825,896 180,942 849,093 Service cost 504,323 1,058,566 1,058,566 1,058,566 520,736 561,000 561,000 561,000 – 2,818,722 2,818,722 2,818,722 Total (GCGC) 8 4,789,761 6,603,168 2,998,750 10,561,566 3,572,151 3,577,589 1,610,489 5,655,560 – 4,644,618 2,999,664 3,667,815 Total compensation of all Managing Board members for fiscal 2014, according to the applicable reporting standards, amounted to €28.57 (2013: €34.58 9) million. The granted payout amount presented below is to be used instead of the target value according to the GCGC for the one­year variable compensation (bonus), and service costs for pension benefits are not included. In addition, the cash component of the compensatory payment of Lisa Davis in the amount of €1,098,246 is included. Performance­based without long­term incentive One­year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non­stock­based Cash component 2 558,849 2,016,262 433,819 1,209,836 – 124,800 Total compensation 4,287,412 6,177,114 3,001,484 3,477,625 – 1,825,896 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2014 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm Dr. Ralf P. Thomas Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio CFO FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2014 (Amounts in €) (min) (max) (min) (max) Non­performance­ Fixed compensation (base compensation) 967,500 998,400 998,400 998,400 34,938 998,400 998,400 998,400 based components Fringe benefits 1 42,134 43,731 43,731 43,731 2,465 61,222 61,222 61,222 Total 1,009,634 1,042,131 1,042,131 1,042,131 37,403 1,059,622 1,059,622 1,059,622 Performance­based without long­term incentive One­year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non­stock­based Cash component (GCGC) 2 483,750 748,800 0 1,797,120 17,469 748,800 0 1,797,120 with long­term incentive Multi­year variable compensation 3, 4 1,856,952 1,171,739 0 3,748,800 57,134 1,163,786 0 3,748,800 effect, stock­based Variable compensation (bonus) – Bonus Awards 2, 5 459,722 356,728 0 748,800 16,661 348,775 0 748,800 Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 4 years) Target attainment depending on EPS for past three fiscal years 5 737,545 480,000 0 1,500,000 21,352 480,000 0 1,500,000 Target attainment depending on future stock performance 6 659,685 335,011 0 1,500,000 19,121 335,011 0 1,500,000 Total 7 3,350,336 2,962,670 1,042,131 5,094,560 112,006 2,972,208 1,059,622 5,094,560 Service cost 519,915 560,147 560,147 560,147 208,034 230,055 230,055 230,055 Total (GCGC) 8 3,870,251 3,522,817 1,602,278 5,654,707 320,040 3,202,263 1,289,677 5,324,615 Total compensation of all Managing Board members for fiscal 2014, according to the applicable reporting standards, amounted to €28.57 (2013: €34.58 9) million. The granted payout amount presented below is to be used instead of the target value according to the GCGC for the one­year variable compensation (bonus), and service costs for pension benefits are not included. In addition, the cash component of the compensatory payment of Lisa Davis in the amount of €1,098,246 is included. Performance­based without long­term incentive One­year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non­stock­based Cash component 2 459,642 1,070,035 16,598 1,046,148 Total compensation 3,326,228 3,283,905 111,135 3,269,556 1 Fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equiva­ 3 The figures for individual maximums for multi­ (2013: € 1,058,299), Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 6 The monetary values referred to a 100 % target attainment excluding fringe benefits and pension benefit commitments. 10 In compensation for the forfeiture of stock, pension bene­ lent, of non­monetary benefits and other perqui­ year variable compensation reflect the possible € 1,254,756 (2013: € 1,686,929), Prof. Dr. Siegfried amounted to € 4,970,916 (2013: € 6,197,430). The following The maximum amount, at 1.7 times target compensation fits, health benefits and transitional remuneration from her sites, such as provision of Company cars in the maximum value in accordance with the maximum Russwurm € 1,118,839 (2013: € 1,653,844), and amounts pertained to the members of the Managing Board: (base compensation, target amount for bonus and target former employer, the Supervisory Board granted Ms. Davis amount of €181,638 (2013: €239,301), contributions amount agreed for fiscal 2014, that is 300 % of Dr. Ralf P. Thomas € 446,570 (2013: € 19,572). The Joe Kaeser € 950,022 (2013: € 887,577), Dr. Roland Busch amount for stock­based compensation) is less than the total a one­time amount of € 5,491,229. This amount will be toward the cost of insurance in the amount of the applicable target amount. corresponding expense, determined in the same € 500,027 (2013: € 500,000), Lisa Davis € 907,076 (2013: € 0), of the individual contractual caps for performance­based provided 20 % in cash, 30 % in the form of Siemens Stock € 71,776 (2013: € 88,827), reimbursement of fees way, for former Managing Board members was as Klaus Helmrich € 500,027 (2013: € 500,000), Prof. Dr. components. Awards, and the remaining 50 % as a special contribution 4 The expenses recognized for stock­based compen­ for legal advice, tax advice and accommodation follows: Brigitte Ederer € 35,373 (2013: € 3,062,678), Hermann Requardt € 625,034 (2013: € 625,041), Prof. Dr. to the pension plan. sation (Bonus Awards and Stock Awards) and for 8 The total compensation reflects the current fair value of and moving expenses, including any taxes that Barbara Kux € 1,971,611 (2013: € 1,566,960), Peter Siegfried Russwurm € 500,027 (2013: € 625,041), and Dr. the Share Matching Plan for members of the Man­ stock­based compensation components on the award date. 11 The Supervisory Board increased the annual target amount for have been assumed in this regard as well as costs Löscher € 107,733 (2013: € 8,261,949), Peter Y. Ralf P. Thomas € 500,027 (2013: € 18,117). The corresponding aging Board in accordance with IFRS in fiscal 2014 On the basis of the current monetary values of stock­based the monetary value of the Stock Awards commitment for fiscal connected with preventive medical examinations, Solmssen € 3,430,484 (2013: € 1,566,874), and monetary values for former Managing Board members were and 2013 amounted to €16,141,235 and €23,160,536, compensation components, total compensation amounted 2014 by 25 % to € 1,250,000 for Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt. in the amount of € 194,498 (2013: € 176,221). Dr. Michael Süß € 2,742,885 (2013: € 1,091,934). as follows: Brigitte Ederer € 0 (2013: € 500,000), Barbara Kux respectively. The following amounts pertained to to € 29,109,709 (2013: € 34,236,151). € 63,913 (2013: € 500,000), Peter Y. Solmssen € 125,007 (2013: 12 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board effective 2 The Supervisory Board adjusted the bonus payout the members of the Managing Board in fiscal 2014: 5 For Stock Awards for which the target attainment € 500,000), and Dr. Michael Süß € 299,756 (2013: € 500,000). 9 The total compensation of € 34.58 million for the prior year at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. According amount resulting from target attainment individu­ Joe Kaeser € 1,822,932 (2013: € 2,099,925), Dr. Ro­ depends on the EPS for the past three fiscal years, also includes the fiscal 2013 compensation of € 5,604,567 for to the provisions of her contract, the variable compensation ally downward by 10 % for Dr. Süß. land Busch € 922,535 (2013: € 1,091,572), Lisa Davis and for Bonus Awards, the fair value at the date of 7 The total maximum compensation for fiscal 2014 represents former Managing Board member Peter Löscher. (bonus) for fiscal 2013 was granted entirely in cash, and the € 1,337,996 (2013: € 0), Klaus Helmrich € 949,521 award is equivalent to the respective monetary value. the contractual maximum amount for overall compensation, Siemens Stock Awards for fiscal 2013 were settled in cash. Klaus Helmrich Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 11 Member of the Managing Board Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2014 (min) (max) (min) (max) 900,000 998,400 998,400 998,400 967,500 998,400 998,400 998,400 68,329 62,457 62,457 62,457 65,544 83,589 83,589 83,589 968,329 1,060,857 1,060,857 1,060,857 1,033,044 1,081,989 1,081,989 1,081,989 450,000 748,800 0 1,797,120 483,750 748,800 0 1,797,120 1,545,347 1,163,786 0 3,748,800 1,934,354 1,359,243 0 4,498,800 427,613 348,775 0 748,800 537,124 340,461 0 748,800 590,020 480,000 0 1,500,000 737,545 600,018 0 1,875,000 527,714 335,011 0 1,500,000 659,685 418,764 0 1,875,000 2,963,676 2,973,443 1,060,857 5,094,560 3,451,148 3,190,032 1,081,989 5,519,560 520,698 520,994 520,994 520,994 499,761 539,849 539,849 539,849 3,484,374 3,494,437 1,581,851 5,615,554 3,950,909 3,729,881 1,621,838 6,059,409 427,574 1,046,148 537,110 1,021,363 2,941,250 3,270,791 3,504,508 3,462,595 Brigitte Ederer 12 Barbara Kux 13 Peter Y. Solmssen 14 Dr. Michael Süß 15 Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Managing Board until Managing Board until Managing Board until Managing Board until September 30, 2013 November 16, 2013 December 31, 2013 May 6, 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 900,000 0 900,000 118,680 900,000 232,200 967,500 598,503 42,571 0 68,048 4,909 32,977 8,130 36,158 23,060 942,571 0 968,048 123,589 932,977 240,330 1,003,658 621,563 900,000 0 450,000 118,680 450,000 174,150 483,750 598,503 1,117,734 0 1,545,347 104,204 1,545,347 272,167 1,577,456 488,586 0 0 427,613 0 427,613 68,396 459,722 0 590,020 0 590,020 61,383 590,020 120,018 590,020 287,754 527,714 0 527,714 42,821 527,714 83,753 527,714 200,832 2,960,305 0 2,963,395 346,473 2,928,324 686,647 3,064,864 1,708,652 525,886 0 525,734 526,669 526,160 526,771 530,392 570,428 3,486,191 0 3,489,129 873,142 3,454,484 1,213,418 3,595,256 2,279,080 855,148 0 427,574 174,626 427,574 204,992 459,642 471,698 2,915,453 0 2,940,969 402,419 2,905,898 717,489 3,040,756 1,581,847 13 Barbara Kux resigned from the Managing Board effective at 15 Dr. Michael Süß resigned from the Managing Board effective the end of the day on November 16, 2013. at the end of the day on May 6, 2014; his contract ended effective as of September 30, 2014. In addition to his total 14 Peter Y. Solmssen resigned from the Managing Board effective compensation shown above as a member of the Managing at the end of the day on December 31, 2013; his contract with Board, Dr. Süß received the following compensation for the the Company ends effective as of March 31, 2015. In addition remaining term of his contract from May 7 to September 30, to his total compensation as a member of the Managing 2014: fixed compensation of € 399,897, fringe benefits of Board, as shown above, Mr. Solmssen received the following € 12,470, variable compensation (bonus) of € 315,171, and compensation in the months of January through Septem­ Siemens Stock Awards in the amount of € 326,425. According ber 2014: fixed compensation of € 696,600, fringe benefits of to the provisions of the contract, the variable compensation € 160,717, variable compensation (bonus) of € 719,465, and (bonus) for fiscal 2014 will be granted entirely in cash and the Siemens Stock Awards in the amount of € 611,240. He was Siemens Stock Awards will be settled in cash in Septem­ 153 also reimbursed for relocation expenses of € 270,211 plus the ber 2015 at the closing price of Siemens stock in Xetra trading associated tax of € 241,373, in accordance with the commit­ on May 6, 2014. ment he received when he took office. Allocations The following table shows allocations during or for fiscal 2014, In deviation from the multi-year variable compensation granted as the case may be, for fixed compensation, fringe benefits, for fiscal 2014 and shown above, this table includes the actual one-year variable compensation, and multi-year variable comfigure for multi-year variable compensation granted in previous pensation – broken down by the relevant years for which they years and allocated in fiscal 2014. were subscribed, as well as the expense of pension benefits. Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2014 Joe Kaeser President and CEO (Amounts in €) FY 2013 FY 2014 Non­performance­ Fixed compensation (base compensation) 1,113,750 1,845,000 based components Fringe benefits 1 71,843 95,184 Total 1,185,593 1,940,184 Performance­based without long­term incentive One­year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non­stock­based Cash component 2 558,849 2,016,262 with long­term incentive Multi­year variable compensation 1,426,193 1,594,910 effect, stock­based Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 2010 – 2013) 0 1,392,062 Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 2009 – 2012) 1,299,629 0 Share Matching Plan (vesting period: 2011 – 2013) 0 202,848 Share Matching Plan (vesting period: 2010 – 2012) 126,564 0 Other 3 0 65,704 Total 3,170,635 5,617,060 Service cost 504,323 1,058,566 Total (GCGC) 3,674,958 6,675,626 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2014 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas CFO (Amounts in €) FY 2013 FY 2014 Non­performance­ Fixed compensation (base compensation) 34,938 998,400 based components Fringe benefits 1 2,465 61,222 Total 37,403 1,059,622 Performance­based without long­term incentive One­year variable compensation (bonus) – components effect, non­stock­based Cash component 2 16,598 1,046,148 with long­term incentive Multi­year variable compensation 0 534,592 effect, stock­based Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 2010 – 2013) 0 519,851 Siemens Stock Awards (restriction period: 2009 – 2012) 0 0 Share Matching Plan (vesting period: 2011 – 2013) 0 14,741 Share Matching Plan (vesting period: 2010 – 2012) 0 0 Other 3 0 21,619 Total 54,001 2,661,981 Service cost 208,034 230,055 Total (GCGC) 262,035 2,892,036 1 Fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equivalent, of downward by 10 % for Dr. Süß. The cash component 4 In compensation for the forfeiture of stock, pension non­monetary benefits and other perquisites, such as of one­year variable compensation (bonus) presented benefits, health benefits and transitional remuneration provision of Company cars in the amount of € 181,638 above therefore represents the amount awarded for from her former employer, the Supervisory Board (2013: € 239,301), contributions toward the cost of fiscal 2014; which will be paid out in January 2015. granted Ms. Davis a one­time amount of € 5,491,229. insurance in the amount of € 71,776 (2013: € 88,827), This amount will be provided 20 % in cash, 30 % in the 3 The “Other” item includes the adjustment of the 2010 reimbursement of fees for legal advice, tax advice and form of Siemens Stock Awards and the remaining 50 % Siemens Stock Awards in accordance with Section 23 accommodation and moving expenses, including any as a special contribution to the pension plan. The cash and Section 125 of the German Transformation Act taxes that have been assumed in this regard as well as component will be paid in December 2014. (Umwandlungsgesetz) because of the spin­off of costs connected with preventive medical examinations, OSRAM. For Ms. Davis, “Other” represents the cash 5 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board effec­ in the amount of € 194,498 (2013: € 176,221). component of the compensatory payment that will tive at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. Accord­ 2 The Supervisory Board adjusted the bonus payout be paid in December 2014. ing to the provisions of her contract, her variable compen­ amount resulting from target attainment individually sation (bonus) for fiscal 2013 was granted entirely in cash. 154 Dr. Roland Busch Lisa Davis 4 Klaus Helmrich Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm Member with responsibilities Member with responsibilities Member of the Managing Board Member with responsibilities Member with responsibilities for Sector portfolio for Sector portfolio for Sector portfolio for Sector portfolio since August 1, 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 967,500 998,400 – 166,400 900,000 998,400 967,500 998,400 967,500 998,400 48,591 51,089 – 14,542 68,329 62,457 65,544 83,589 42,134 43,731 1,016,091 1,049,489 – 180,942 968,329 1,060,857 1,033,044 1,081,989 1,009,634 1,042,131 433,819 1,209,836 – 124,800 427,574 1,046,148 537,110 1,021,363 459,642 1,070,035 183,382 268,614 – 0 292,379 366,548 1,381,376 1,518,929 1,342,022 1,392,062 0 268,614 – 0 0 366,317 0 1,392,062 0 1,392,062 178,145 0 – 0 292,379 0 1,299,629 0 1,299,629 0 0 0 – 0 0 231 0 126,867 0 0 5,237 0 – 0 0 0 81,747 0 42,393 0 0 10,807 – 1,098,246 0 14,749 0 62,071 0 56,005 1,633,292 2,538,746 – 1,403,988 1,688,282 2,488,302 2,951,530 3,684,352 2,811,298 3,560,233 520,736 561,000 – 2,818,722 520,698 520,994 499,761 539,849 519,915 560,147 2,154,028 3,099,746 – 4,222,710 2,208,980 3,009,296 3,451,291 4,224,201 3,331,213 4,120,380 Brigitte Ederer 5 Barbara Kux 6 Peter Y. Solmssen 7 Dr. Michael Süß 8 Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board until September 30, 2013 until November 16, 2013 until December 31, 2013 until May 6, 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 900,000 0 900,000 118,680 900,000 232,200 967,500 598,503 42,571 0 68,048 4,909 32,977 8,130 36,158 23,060 942,571 0 968,048 123,589 932,977 240,330 1,003,658 621,563 855,148 0 427,574 174,626 427,574 204,992 459,642 471,698 227,441 509,312 1,192,671 1,392,062 1,299,629 1,392,062 477,239 523,175 0 509,312 0 1,392,062 0 1,392,062 0 523,175 227,441 0 1,137,126 0 1,299,629 0 477,239 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 55,545 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 56,005 0 56,005 0 21,048 2,025,160 509,312 2,588,293 1,746,282 2,660,180 1,893,389 1,940,539 1,637,484 525,886 0 525,734 526,669 526,160 526,771 530,392 570,428 2,551,046 509,312 3,114,027 2,272,951 3,186,340 2,420,160 2,470,931 2,207,912 6 Barbara Kux resigned from the Managing Board effective at the end of 8 Dr. Michael Süß resigned from the Managing Board effective at the end the day on November 16, 2013. of the day on May 6, 2014; his contract ended effective as of Septem­ ber 30, 2014. According to his provisions of the contract, his variable 7 Peter Y. Solmssen resigned from the Managing Board effective at the end compensation (bonus) for fiscal 2014 will be granted entirely in cash. of the day on December 31, 2013; his contract with the Company ends In addition to the compensation for fiscal 2014 for his activity as member effective as of March 31, 2015. In addition to the compensation for his of the Managing Board presented above, Dr. Süß received the following activity as a member of the Managing Board in fiscal 2014, as shown above, compensation for the remaining term of his employment agreement Mr. Solmssen received the following compensation for the months of from May 7 to September 30, 2014: fixed compensation of € 399,897, January through September 2014: fixed compensation of €696,600, fringe fringe benefits of €12,470 and variable compensation (bonus) of €315,171. benefits of € 160,717, variable compensation (bonus) of € 719,465 and Siemens Stock Awards in the amount of €611,240. He was also reimbursed for relocation expenses of €270,211 plus the associated tax of €241,373, in accordance with the commitment he received when he took office. 155 Pension benefit commitments The contributions under the BSAV are added to the personal For fiscal 2014, the members of the Managing Board were pension accounts each January following the close of the fiscal granted contributions under the BSAV totaling € 5.1 million year, with value date on January 1. Until the beneficiary’s time (2013: € 6.4 million), based on a resolution of the Supervisory of retirement, the pension account is credited with an annual Board dated November 5, 2014. Of this amount, € 5.0 million interest payment (guaranteed interest), currently 1.75 %, on Jan(2013: € 6.3 million), related to contributions to their personal uary 1 of each year. pension accounts and the remaining € 0.1 million (2013: € 0.1 million) to funding of pension commitments earned prior The following table shows individualized details of the contrito transfer to the BSAV. butions (additions) under the BSAV for fiscal 2014 as well as the defined benefit obligations for the pension commitments. Total contributions 1 for Defined benefit obligation 2 for all pension commitments excluding deferred compensation 3 (Amounts in €) FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2013 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2014 Joe Kaeser 1,033,200 1,033,200 7,174,641 5,580,345 Dr. Roland Busch 559,104 541,800 2,769,337 2,008,718 Lisa Davis 4 93,184 – 2,818,7222 – Klaus Helmrich 559,104 504,000 3,047,911 2,248,901 Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 559,104 541,800 6,273,529 5,094,071 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 559,104 541,800 4,390,368 3,490,629 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 559,104 19,565 2,742,051 1,970,651 Former members of the Managing Board Brigitte Ederer 5 – 504,000 – 2,446,9512 Barbara Kux 6 66,461 504,000 1,499,0342 2,740,4792 Peter Y. Solmssen 7 520,128 504,000 18,343,7882 15,750,8832 Dr. Michael Süß 8 559,104 541,800 3,903,372 2,353,756 Total 5,067,597 5,235,965 52,962,753 43,685,384 1 The expenses (service cost) recognized in accordance for Peter Y. Solmssen, of € 812,700 (2013: € 0) for Dr. Mi­ 5 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board with IFRS in fiscal 2014 for Managing Board members’ chael Süß, and of € 2,745,615 (2013: € 0) for Lisa Davis. effective at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. entitlements under the BSAV in fiscal 2014 amounted to 3 Deferred compensation totals € 10,057,923 (2013: 6 Barbara Kux resigned from the Managing Board effective € 7,913,201 (2013: € 6,053,355). €8,595,135), including €3,171,486 for Joe Kaeser (2013: at the end of the day on November 16, 2013. 2 The defined benefit obligations reflect one­time special €2,914,462), €302,595 for Klaus Helmrich (2013: 7 Peter Y. Solmssen resigned from the Managing Board contributions to the BSAV of € 3,558,315 (2013: €276,893), €1,381,365 for Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt at the end of the day on December 31, 2013; his employ­ € 22,480,000) for new appointments from outside the (2013: €1,275,259), and €49,732 for Dr. Ralf P. Thomas ment agreement ends effective March 31, 2015. Company, as well as special contributions in connection (2013: €46,155) as well as for former Managing Board with departures from the Managing Board: in the members: €4,697,955 for Barbara Kux (2013: €4,082,366), 8 Dr. Michael Süß resigned from the Managing Board amount of €0 (2013: €10,740,000) for Peter Löscher, of and €454,790 for Peter Y. Solmssen (2013: €0). at the end of the day on May 6, 2014; his employment € 0 (2013: € 882,000) for Brigitte Ederer, of € 0 (2013: agreement ended effective September 30, 2014. 4 Lisa Davis was elected a full member of the Managing € 340,000) for Barbara Kux, of € 0 (2013: € 10,518,000) Board effective August 1, 2014. Former members of the Managing Board and their surviving employment contract – that is, from May 7 to September 30, dependents received emoluments within the meaning of Sec2014 – as well as a special contribution to the BSAV. Dr. Süß tion 314 para. 1 No. 6 b of the German Commercial Code totaling received 5,429 Stock Awards for the period from May 7 through € 24.2 million (2013: € 33.1 million) in fiscal 2014. This figure inSeptember 30, 2014, which will be settled in cash in Septemcludes the compensation for former Managing Board member ber 2015 according to the provisions of his contract and in Peter Y. Solmssen for the period from January through Septemconnection with the mutually agreed-upon termination of his ber 2014, together with reimbursement of relocation costs and Managing Board membership. Mr. Solmssen received 10,166 the associated tax. Furthermore, it includes the compensatory Stock Awards and 3,317 Bonus Awards for the period from Janpayment connected with the mutually agreed-upon terminauary through September 2014. Other than this, former Managtion of the Managing Board membership of Dr. Michael Süß as ing Board members and their surviving dependents received no of May 6, 2014, the compensation for the remaining term of his (2013: 5,615) Stock Awards. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 156 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover­relevant information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 Compliance Report German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) The defined benefit obligation (DBO) of all pension commitB.4.1.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ments to former members of the Managing Board and their ON STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION INSTRUMENTS surviving dependents as of September 30, 2014, amounted IN FISCAL 2014 to €234.4 (2013: € 192.5) million. This figure is included in This section provides information concerning the stock commitNOTE 22 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIments held by members of the Managing Board that were comDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . ponents of stock-based compensation in fiscal 2014 and prior years, and about the Managing Board members’ entitlements to Other matching shares under the Siemens Share Matching Plan. No loans or advances from the Company are provided to members of the Managing Board. Stock commitments The following table shows the changes in the stock commitments (Bonus Awards and Stock Awards) held by Managing Board members in fiscal 2014: Balance at beginning of Granted during fiscal year 1 Vested and Forfeited Balance at end of fiscal 2014 transferred during fiscal 2014 2 during fiscal year fiscal year Forfeitable commitments of Stock Awards Non­ Non­ (Target (Target Commit­ Non­ forfeitable Forfeitable forfeitable attainment attainment ments of forfeitable Forfeitable commit­ commit­ commit­ depending depending Bonus Commit­ commit­ commit­ ments of ments of ments of on EPS for on future Awards and ments of ments of ments of Bonus Stock Bonus past three stock per­ Stock Stock Bonus Stock (Amounts in number of units) Awards Awards Awards fiscal years) formance) Awards Awards Awards Awards 3 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2014 Joe Kaeser 24,819 67,437 6,910 12,949 10,974 14,661 – 31,729 76,699 Dr. Roland Busch 16,180 33,795 5,364 7,295 6,182 2,829 – 21,544 44,443 Lisa Davis 4 – – – – – – – – – Klaus Helmrich 17,122 35,695 5,287 7,295 6,182 3,858 – 22,409 45,314 Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 25,762 52,766 6,641 9,119 7,728 14,661 – 32,403 54,952 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 24,819 52,766 5,684 9,119 7,728 14,661 – 30,503 54,952 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas – 22,241 206 3,474 2,944 5,475 – 206 23,184 Former members of the Managing Board Brigitte Ederer 5 24,819 43,469 – – – 5,364 – 24,819 38,105 Barbara Kux 6 24,819 52,766 5,287 7,295 6,182 14,661 – 30,106 51,582 Peter Y. Solmssen 7 24,819 52,766 5,287 7,295 6,182 14,661 – 30,106 51,582 Dr. Michael Süß 8 17,122 38,432 5,684 7,295 6,182 5,510 – 22,806 46,399 Total 200,281 452,133 46,350 71,136 60,284 96,341 – 246,631 487,212 1 The weighted average fair value as of the grant date for 2014 remains in effect in full on the basis of the agree­ 6 Barbara Kux resigned from the Managing Board effective fiscal 2014 was €82.49 per granted share. ment in connection with her departure from the Manag­ at the end of the day on November 16, 2013. ing Board; the number of Stock Awards linked to future 2 Amounts do not include stock commitments (Bonus 7 Peter Y. Solmssen resigned from the Managing Board stock performance will be revised on the basis of actual Awards and Stock Awards) granted in November 2014 effective at the end of the day on December 31, 2013; target attainment after the end of the restriction period. for fiscal 2014; for details, see the next page. However, his employment contract ends effective March 31, 2015. these amounts may include Stock Awards received as 4 Lisa Davis was elected a full member of the Managing 8 Dr. Michael Süß resigned from the Managing Board compensation by the Managing Board member before Board effective August 1, 2014. effective at the end of the day on May 6, 2014; his joining the Managing Board. 5 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board employment agreement ended effective September 30, 3 The number of forfeitable commitments of Stock Awards effective at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. 2014. shown here for Brigitte Ederer as of the end of fiscal 171 C. Combined Management Report 247 D. Consolidated Financial Statements 337 E. Additional Information 157 The following table shows the stock (Bonus Awards and Stock Awards) awarded in November 2014 for fiscal 2014: Awarded for fiscal 1 Non­forfeitable commitments Forfeitable commitments of Stock Awards of Bonus Awards (Target attainment depending (Target attainment depending (Amounts in number of units) on EPS for past three fiscal years) on future stock performance) Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2014 Joe Kaeser 9,296 12,615 13,140 Dr. Roland Busch 5,578 6,639 6,916 Lisa Davis 2 576 12,044 12,546 Klaus Helmrich 4,824 6,639 6,916 Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 4,709 8,299 8,645 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 4,934 6,639 6,916 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 4,824 6,639 6,916 Former members of the Managing Board Brigitte Ederer 3 0 0 0 Barbara Kux 4 0 849 884 Peter Y. Solmssen 5 946 1,660 1,729 Dr. Michael Süß 6 0 3,980 4,146 Total 35,687 66,003 68,754 1 See the information on PAGES 151 153 for the 4 Barbara Kux resigned from the Managing Board effective 6 Dr. Michael Süß resigned from the Managing Board corresponding fair values. at the end of the day on November 16, 2013. effective at the end of the day on May 6, 2014; his em­ ployment agreement ended effective September 30, 2 Lisa Davis was elected a full member of the Managing 5 Peter Y. Solmssen resigned from the Managing Board 2014. See the information on PAGE 153 for the Stock Board effective August 1, 2014. effective at the end of the day on December 31, 2013; Awards granted for the remaining term of his contract his employment contract ends effective March 31, 2015. 3 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board for the period from May 7 through September 30, 2014. See the information on PAGE 153 for the Stock effective at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. Awards committed for the months of January through September 2014. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 158 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover­relevant information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 Compliance Report German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) Shares from the Share Matching Plan In fiscal 2011, the members of the Managing Board were share of Siemens stock for every three Siemens shares acquired entitled for the last time to participate in the Siemens Share and continuously held under the plan, provided the particiMatching Plan, and under the plan were entitled to invest up to pants were employed without interruption at Siemens AG or a 50 % of the annual gross amount of their variable cash compenSiemens company until the end of the vesting period. The folsation (bonus) determined for fiscal 2010 in Siemens shares. lowing table shows the development of the matching share After expiration of a vesting period of approximately three entitlements of the individual members of the Managing Board years, the plan participants will receive one free matching in fiscal 2014. Balance at beginning Due during Forfeited during Balance at end of fiscal 2014 1 fiscal year fiscal year of fiscal 2014 1, 2 Entitlement to Entitlement to Entitlement to Entitlement to (Amounts in number of units) matching shares matching shares matching shares matching shares Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2014 Joe Kaeser 2,216 2,216 – Dr. Roland Busch – – – – Lisa Davis 3 – – – – Klaus Helmrich 3 3 – – Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 1,386 1,386 – – Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm – – – – Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 2,846 161 – 2,685 Former members of the Managing Board Brigitte Ederer 4 – – – – Barbara Kux 5 – – – – Peter Y. Solmssen 6 – – – – Dr. Michael Süß 7 – – – – Total 6,451 3,766 0 2,685 1 Amounts may include entitlements acquired before the € 0), and Dr. Michael Süß € 0 (2013: € 0). The above fair 5 Barbara Kux resigned from the Managing Board effective member joined the Managing Board. values also take into account that the shares acquired at the end of the day on November 16, 2013. under the Base Share Program as part of the Share 2 The entitlements of the Managing Board members 6 Peter Y. Solmssen resigned from the Managing Board Matching Plan were provided with a Company subsidy serving as of September 30, 2014, had the following fair effective at the end of the day on December 31, 2013; (for additional information on the Base Share Program values: Joe Kaeser € 0 (2013: € 146,901), Dr. Roland Busch his employment contract ends effective March 31, 2015. see NOTE 32 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT in D.6 NOTES € 0 (2013: € 0), Lisa Davis € 0 (2013: € 0), Klaus Helmrich TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ). 7 Dr. Michael Süß resigned from the Managing Board € 0 (2013: € 527), Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt € 0 (2013: effective at the end of the day on May 6, 2014; his € 92,011), Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm € 0 (2013: € 0) and 3 Lisa Davis was elected a full member of the Managing employment agreement ended effective September 30, Dr. Ralf P. Thomas € 133,392 (2013: € 152,696). The enti­ Board effective August 1, 2014. 2014. tlements of former Managing Board members have the 4 Brigitte Ederer resigned from the Managing Board following fair values: Brigitte Ederer € 0 (2013: € 0), effective at the end of the day on September 30, 2013. Barbara Kux € 0 (2013: € 0), Peter Y. Solmssen € 0 (2013: 171 C. Combined Management Report 247 D. Consolidated Financial Statements 337 E. Additional Information 159 Share Ownership Guidelines The deadlines by which the individual members of the Manof Siemens shares that were held by Managing Board memaging Board must provide first-time proof of compliance with bers in office at September 30, 2014, as of the deadline in the Siemens Share Ownership Guidelines vary from member March 2014 for showing compliance with the Share Ownerto member, depending on when the member was appointed ship Guidelines, and that are to be held permanently with a to the Managing Board. The following table shows the number view to future deadlines. Obligations under Share Ownership Guidelines Required Proven Percentage of base Percentage of base (Amounts in number of units or €) compensation 1 Value 1 Number of shares 2 compensation 1 Value 2 Number of shares 3 Managing Board members serving as of September 30, 2014, and required to show proof as of March 14, 2014 Joe Kaeser 300% 3,103,125 32,998 856% 8,858,756 94,202 Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt 200% 1,819,250 19,345 680% 6,184,635 65,766 Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm 200% 1,819,250 19,345 825% 7,504,674 79,803 Total 6,741,625 71,688 22,548,065 239,771 1 The amount of the obligation is based on a member’s 2 Based on the average Xetra opening price of €94.04 3 As per March 14, 2014 (date of proof), including Bonus average base compensation for the four years prior to for the fourth quarter of 2013 (October – December). Awards. the respective date of proof. The following table shows the proof-of-compliance obligations of the other Managing Board members in view of the Share Ownership Guidelines: Obligations under Share Ownership Guidelines Required Due date for initial Percentage of base measurement (Amounts in number of units or €) compensation 1 Value 1 Number of shares 2 of adherence Managing Board members required to show proof in subsequent years Dr. Roland Busch 200% 1,874,400 19,932 March 2016 Lisa Davis 200% 1,996,800 21,234 March 2019 Klaus Helmrich 200% 1,828,114 19,440 March 2016 Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 200% 1,996,800 21,234 March 2018 Total 7,696,114 81,840 1 The amount of the obligation is based on a member’s based on average base compensation since the mem­ 2 Based on the average Xetra opening price of €94.04 for average base compensation for the four years prior to ber’s initial appointment. the fourth quarter of 2013 (October – December). the respective date of proof. The amount shown here is 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 160 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover­relevant information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 Compliance Report German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) B.4.1.4 REMUNERATION SYSTEM FOR THE offered in the market. The Supervisory Board has maintained MANAGING BOARD FROM FISCAL 2015 ONWARD the time-tested division of compensation into non-perforAt its meeting on September 24, 2014, the Supervisory Board mance-based and performance-based components, but in the decided to introduce a new, simplified remuneration system for future the individual components of compensation – base comthe Managing Board as of October 1, 2014. In past years, the pensation, variable compensation (bonus) and long-term, remuneration system for the Managing Board was modified a stock-based compensation – will be weighted equally. This number of times on the basis of new regulatory and statutory equal weighting will also be applied in setting the target caterequirements. The system grew more complex as a result. gories for variable compensation (bonus). Establishing transparency about the remuneration of the Managing Board is an important element of good corporate goverThe complexity of the former system also resulted from the nance. For that reason, in its revision of the remuneration way in which variable compensation (bonus) was granted system, the Supervisory Board has reduced the system’s compartly in Stock commitments, Bonus Awards, and from the diplexity to the necessary minimum. At the same time, the Supervided measurement of performance for long-term stock-based visory Board retained incentives for successful corporate mancompensation (Stock Awards). Beginning with fiscal 2015, the agement with an emphasis on sustainability and ensured that bonus will be paid in cash only. The Stock Awards will now be the system would remain consistent with other remuneration measured only on the basis of one performance component. Principal features of the new remuneration system for the Managing Board Sustainability Transparency Performance orientation The multi­year bases of measurement and long­ Dividing compensation into three equally Variable compensation is linked term goals for variable components ensure and weighted components, and the equal weighting to the Company’s success and encourage sustainable Company development. of three bases of measurement for the bonus, to comparisons with competitors. permit transparent, understandable communica­ tion of Managing Board remuneration. Individual performance Ownership culture Appropriateness Individual performance is rewarded by agreeing Granting a substantial portion of compensation Annual remuneration reviews – together with on individual targets and by the possibility for as stock, together with the share ownership contractually defined maximum amounts for the Supervisory Board to adjust the bonus as well obligation, puts an emphasis on the ownership variable compensation and for stock­based as by individualizable target amounts for stock­ culture within the Company. components of compensation and compensation based compensation. overall – ensure that compensation is appropriate. Specifically, the following changes were adopted effective performance as well as targets like customer and employee October 1, 2014: satisfaction, innovation and sustainability. For fiscal 2015, the target values for the earnings component will be set on a multiCompensation structure. Base compensation, variable comyear basis. Target attainment for the bonus can still vary pensation (bonus) and long-term stock-based compensation between 0 % and a ceiling (cap) of 200 %. will each constitute approximately one-third of the target compensation for all Managing Board members. The maximum After the end of the fiscal year, the Supervisory Board can still amounts for stock commitments (Stock Awards), for bonus and decide, exercising its duty-bound discretion (pflichtgemäßes for compensation overall that were introduced in fiscal 2014 Ermessen), to adjust bonus payout amounts by ± 20 % for all or will remain fully in effect. some of the members of the Managing Board. Thus the maximum amount of 240 % of the target amount applies for the Variable compensation (bonus). In the future, the bonus bonus. In deciding on a discretionary adjustment, the Superwill depend on an equal one-third weighting of target attainvisory Board will take account not only of the Company ’s ecoment in the target categories of capital efficiency, earnings and nomic situation and the individual performance of the various individual targets. This weighting will give greater importance Managing Board members, but also of such factors as the to the Managing Board members’ individual performance. results of an employee survey (Global Engagement Survey) and In deciding the individual targets, account will be taken of both a customer satisfaction survey (Net Promoter Score). Variable business-related targets like market coverage and business compensation (bonus) will be granted entirely in cash. 171 C. Combined Management Report 247 D. Consolidated Financial Statements 337 E. Additional Information 161 Long-term stock-based compensation. Long-term stockShare Ownership Guidelines. The share ownership oblibased compensation will continue to be granted in the form of gation for members of the Managing Board will remain unforfeitable Stock Awards for Siemens stock. To reflect a Managchanged: 300 % of base compensation for the President and ing Board member’s individual experience as well as the scope CEO, 200 % of base compensation for the other members of the and demands of his or her function, the annual target amount Managing Board during the four years prior to the relevant date for all Managing Board members, including the President and of proof. CEO, can now be increased, on an individual basis, by as much as 75 % of the contractually agreed-upon target amount for one Compensatory payments in connection with termination fiscal year at a time. Starting with fiscal 2015, this long-term of Managing Board membership. The terms for compensastock-based compensation will be linked solely to the perfortory payments will remain essentially unchanged. In particular, mance of Siemens stock in comparison to competitors. The the compensatory payment still cannot exceed the value of two Supervisory Board will also decide on a target system (target years’ compensation. In the future, the compensatory and sevvalue for 100 % and target curve) for the performance of erance payments will be reduced by 10 % as a lump-sum allowSiemens stock relative to the stock of – at present – five competance for discounted values and for income earned elsewhere; itors: ABB, General Electric, Rockwell, Schneider and Toshiba. this reduction will apply only to the portion of the compensaThe change in stock price will be measured on the basis of a tory or severance payment that was calculated without taking twelve-month reference period (compensation year) over three account of the first six months of the remaining term of the years (performance period), while the four-year restriction peManaging Board member’s contract. riod for Stock Awards will still apply unchanged. After this restriction period expires, the Supervisory Board will determine Even after the adjustment of the remuneration system for the how much better or worse Siemens stock has performed relaManaging Board, regulatory requirements will be met in full. tive to the stock of its competitors. This determination will yield More than half of the variable compensation has a multi-year a target attainment of between 0 % and 200 % (cap). If target atbasis. The new system continues to reward long-term committainment is above 100 %, the members of the Managing Board ment to and on behalf of the Company as well as Managing will receive an additional cash payment, the amount of which Board members’ participation in a sustained increase in the will be based on the outperformance. If target attainment is Company’s value. less than 100 %, a number of Stock Awards equivalent to the shortfall from the target will expire without replacement. All in all, the allocation by way of the Stock Awards will be limited to 300 % of the target amount (maximum amount). Remuneration system for Managing Board members as of fiscal 2015 Target compensation Maximum amounts of compensation Share Ownership Guidelines Stock­based components (Stock Awards): max. 300% of target amount President Long­term stock­based compensation and CEO: Stock­ > target parameter: stock price Compensation 3­times compared to 5 competitors overall of Base based > variability: 0 – 200% Bonus (cash): max. 1.7­times compen­ compen­ 0 – 200% of target sation sation add. + 20% compensation Variable compensation (bonus) adjustment > 3 targets – one third each: capital efficiency, profit, individual Managing Board Cash > variability: 0 – 200% member: add. ± 20% adjustment compen­ 2­times sation of Base Base Base Base compen­ compen­ compen­ compen­ sation sation sation sation Performance­based component with deferred payout Performance­based component Non­performance­based component Obligation to hold shares during term of office on the Managing Board 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 162 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover­relevant information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 Compliance Report German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) B.4.2 Remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board FY 2014 FY 2013 Additional Additional compensation Meeting compensation Meeting Base com­ for committee attendance Base com­ for committee attendance (Amounts in €) pensation work fee Total pensation work fee Total Supervisory Board members serving as of September 30, 2014 Dr. Gerhard Cromme 280,000 280,000 55,500 615,500 280,000 280,000 57,000 617,000 Berthold Huber 1 211,852 77,037 25,500 314,389 211,852 77,037 27,000 315,889 Werner Wenning 211,852 134,815 39,000 385,667 98,000 28,000 7,500 133,500 Olaf Bolduan 1, 2 35,000 – 4,500 39,500 – – – – Gerd von Brandenstein 140,000 80,000 30,000 250,000 140,000 40,000 18,000 198,000 Michael Diekmann 134,815 52,963 18,000 205,778 140,000 – 13,500 153,500 Dr. Hans Michael Gaul 140,000 160,000 30,000 330,000 140,000 160,000 39,000 339,000 Prof. Dr. Peter Gruss 134,815 35,309 15,000 185,123 140,000 – 15,000 155,000 Bettina Haller 1 140,000 80,000 28,500 248,500 129,630 74,074 25,500 229,204 Hans­Jürgen Hartung 1 140,000 – 13,500 153,500 129,630 – 10,500 140,130 Robert Kensbock 1 140,000 106,667 27,000 273,667 105,000 – 7,500 112,500 Harald Kern 1 140,000 76,667 25,500 242,167 140,000 30,000 16,500 186,500 Jürgen Kerner 1 140,000 120,000 28,500 288,500 140,000 120,000 27,000 287,000 Dr. Nicola Leibinger­Kammüller 124,444 – 10,500 134,944 134,815 – 15,000 149,815 Gérard Mestrallet 119,259 5,679 7,500 132,438 98,000 28,000 7,500 133,500 Güler Sabancı 129,630 – 10,500 140,130 98,000 – 6,000 104,000 Michael Sigmund 3 81,667 – 9,000 90,667 – – – – Jim Hagemann Snabe 124,444 97,778 19,500 241,722 – – – – Birgit Steinborn 1 140,000 186,667 43,500 370,167 140,000 120,000 28,500 288,500 Sibylle Wankel 1 140,000 40,000 21,000 201,000 140,000 40,000 22,500 202,500 Former Supervisory Board members Dr. Josef Ackermann 4 – – – – 211,852 134,815 34,500 381,167 Lothar Adler 1, 2 93,333 106,667 27,000 227,000 140,000 160,000 40,500 340,500 Prof. Dr. Rainer Sieg 3 58,333 – 4,500 62,833 140,000 – 15,000 155,000 Total 2,999,444 1,640,247 493,500 5,133,191 2,896,779 1,291,926 433,500 4,622,2055 1 Both the employee representatives on the Supervisory 2 Olaf Bolduan was appointed to the Supervisory Board by 4 Dr. Josef Ackermann resigned from the Supervisory Board who represent the employees pursuant to Section court order as of July 11, 2014, succeeding Lothar Adler, Board as of the end of the day on September 30, 2013. 3 para. 1 No. 1 of the German Codetermination Act who resigned from the Supervisory Board as of the end 5 The total figure, compared to the amount of € 4,420,926 (Mitbestimmungsgesetz) and the representatives of the of the day on May 31, 2014. presented in the 2013 Compensation Report, includes trade unions on the Supervisory Board declared their 3 Michael Sigmund was appointed to the Supervisory additional meeting attendance fees of € 433,500, but not readiness to transfer their compensation to the Hans Board by court order as of March 1, 2014, succeeding the total compensation of €232,222 for former Supervisory Boeckler Foundation, in accordance with the guidelines Prof. Dr. Rainer Sieg, who resigned from the Supervisory Board members Jean­Louis Beffa, Werner Mönius, of the Confederation of German Trade Unions (DGB). Board as of the end of the day on February 28, 2014. Håkan Samuelsson and Lord Iain Vallance of Tummel. 171 C. Combined Management Report 247 D. Consolidated Financial Statements 337 E. Additional Information 163 The compensation shown on the previous page was deterIf a Supervisory Board member does not attend a meeting of mined for each of the members of the Supervisory Board for the Supervisory Board, one-third of the aggregate compensafiscal 2014 (individualized disclosure). tion due to that member is reduced by the percentage of Supervisory Board meetings not attended by the member in relation The current remuneration policies for the Supervisory Board to the total number of Supervisory Board meetings held during were authorized at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on the fiscal year. In the event of changes in the composition of January 28, 2014, and are effective as of fiscal 2014. Details the Supervisory Board and / or its committees, compensation is are set out in Section 17 of the Articles of Association of paid pro rata temporis, rounding up to the next full month. Siemens AG. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board consists entirely of fixed compensation; it reflects the responsibiliIn addition, the members of the Supervisory Board are entitled ties and scope of the work of the Supervisory Board members. to receive a meeting attendance fee of € 1,500 for each meeting The Chairman and Deputy Chairmen of the Supervisory Board of the Supervisory Board and its committees that they attend. as well as the Chairmen and members of the Audit Committee, the Chairman’s Committee, the Compensation Committee, the The members of the Supervisory Board are reimbursed for outCompliance Committee and the Innovation and Finance Comof-pocket expenses incurred in connection with their duties mittee receive additional compensation. and for any value-added taxes to be paid on their remuneration. For the performance of his duties, the Chairman of the SuperAccording to current rules, members of the Supervisory Board visory Board is also entitled to an office with secretarial support receive an annual base compensation of € 140,000; the Chairand the use of a carpool service. man of the Supervisory Board receives a base compensation of € 280,000, and each of the Deputy Chairmen receives € 220,000. No loans or advances from the Company are provided to members of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board committees receive the following additional fixed compensation for their work on these committees: the Chairman of the Audit Committee receives B.4.3 Other € 160,000, and each of the other members of that Committee receives € 80,000; the Chairman of the Chairman’s Committee The Company provides a group insurance policy for Board and receives € 120,000, and each of the other members of that ComCommittee members and certain employees of the Siemens mittee receives € 80,000; the Chairman of the Compensation organization that is taken out for one year and renewed annuCommittee receives € 100,000, and each of the other members ally. The insurance covers the personal liability of the insured of that Committee receives € 60,000 (compensation for any in the case of a financial loss associated with employment funcwork on the Chairman’s Committee counts toward compensations. The insurance policy for fiscal 2014 includes a deductible tion for work on the Compensation Committee); the Chairman for the members of the Managing Board and the Super visory of the Innovation and Finance Committee receives € 80,000, Board in compliance with the requirements of the German and each of the other members of that Committee receives Stock Corporation Act and the Code. € 40,000; the Chairman of the Compliance Committee receives € 80,000, and each of the other members of that Committee receives € 40,000. However, no additional compensation is paid for work on the Compliance Committee if a member of that Committee is already entitled to compensation for work on the Audit Committee. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 164 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 Corporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover­relevant information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 Compliance Report German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) B.5 Takeover-relevant information (pursuant to Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the German Commercial Code) and explanatory report The takeover-relevant information pursuant to Sections 289 The von Siemens-Vermögensverwaltung GmbH (vSV) has, on a para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the German Commercial Code (Hansustained basis, powers of attorney allowing it to exercise the delsgesetzbuch) and the explanatory report are an integral part voting rights for 9,386,535 shares (as of September 30, 2014) on of the Combined Management Report. behalf of members of the Siemens family, whereby aforementioned shares constitute a part of the overall number of shares held by members of the Siemens family. The vSV is a German B.5.1 Composition of common stock limited liability company and party to an agreement with, among others, members of the Siemens family (family agreeAs of September 30, 2014, the Company ’s common stock ment). In order to bundle and represent their interests, the ­totaled € 2.643 billion (2013: € 2.643 billion) divided into 881 milmembers of the Siemens family established a family partnerlion (2013: 881 million) registered shares with no par value and ship. This family partnership makes proposals to the vSV with a notional value of € 3.00 per share. The shares are fully paid in. respect to the exercise of the voting rights at Shareholders’ In accordance with Section 4 para. 3 of the Company’s Articles Meetings of the Company, which are taken into account by of Association, the right of shareholders to have their ownerthe vSV when acting within the bounds of its professional disship interests evidenced by document is excluded, unless such cretion. Pursuant to the family agreement, the shares under evidence is required under the regulations of a stock exchange ­powers of attorney are voted by the vSV collectively. on which the shares are listed. Collective share certificates may be issued. Pursuant to Section 67 para. 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz), only those persons recorded B.5.3 Equity interests exceeding 10 % in the Company ’s stock register will be recognized as share­ of voting rights holders of the Company. We are not aware of, nor have we during the fiscal year 2014 All shares confer the same rights and obligations. The sharebeen notified of, any shareholder directly or indirectly holding holders’ rights and obligations are governed by the provisions 10 % or more of the voting rights. of the German Stock Corporation Act, in particular by Sections 12, 53a et seq., 118 et seq. and 186 of the German Stock Corporation Act. B.5.4 Shares with special rights ­conferring powers of control B.5.2 Restrictions on voting rights or There are no shares with special rights conferring powers of transfer of shares control. At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, each share of stock has one vote and accounts for the shareholders’ proportionate B.5.5 System of control of any share in the Company’s net income. Excepted from this rule are employee share scheme where treasury shares held by the Company, which do not entitle the Company to any rights. Under Section 136 of the German Stock the ­control rights are not exercised Corporation Act the voting right of the affected shares is exdirectly by the employees cluded by law. Shares of stock issued by Siemens AG to employees under its Shares issued to employees worldwide under the employee employee share program and / or as stock-based compensation share program implemented since the beginning of fiscal 2009, are transferred directly to the employees. The beneficiary in particular the Share Matching Plan, are freely transferable un­employees who hold shares of employee stock may exercise less applicable local laws provide otherwise. However, in order their control rights in the same way as any other shareholder to receive one matching share free of charge for each three ­directly in accordance with applicable laws and the Articles of shares purchased, participants are required to hold the shares Association. purchased by them under the rules of the program for a vesting period of about three years, during which the participants have to be continuously employed by Siemens AG or another Siemens company. The right to receive matching shares is f­ orfeited if the purchased shares are sold, transferred, hedged on, pledged or hypothecated in any way during the vesting period. 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 247 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 165 B.5.6 Legislation and provisions of the i­ssued in such a manner that the contribution to be paid on Articles of Association applicable to the such shares is covered by that part of the annual net income which the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board may appointment and removal of members ­allocate to other retained earnings under Section 58 para. 2 of of the Managing Board and governing the German Stock Corporation Act. amendment to the Articles of Association Furthermore, the Managing Board is authorized to increase, The appointment and removal of members of the Managing with the approval of the Supervisory Board, the capital stock Board is subject to the provisions of Sections 84 and 85 of the until January 27, 2019 by up to € 528.6 million through the issuGerman Stock Corporation Act and Section 31 of the German ance of up to 176.2 million registered shares of no par value Codetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz). According to against cash contributions and / or contributions in kind (Author­ Section 8 para. 1 of the Articles of Association, the Managing ized Capital 2014). Board is comprised of several members, the number of which is determined by the Supervisory Board. Pursuant to Section 84 As of September 30, 2014, the total unissued authorized capital of the German Stock Corporation Act and Section 9 of the of Siemens AG therefore consisted of € 618.6 million nominal ­Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board may appoint a that may be issued in installments with varying terms by issuPresident of the Managing Board as well as a Vice President. ance of up to 206.2 million registered shares of no par value. According to Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act, By resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Januany amendment to the Articles of Association requires a resoluary 26, 2010, the Managing Board is authorized until Janution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. The authority to ary 25, 2015 to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of adopt purely formal amendments to the Articles of Association up to € 15 billion with conversion rights or with warrants atwas transferred to the Supervisory Board under Section 13 tached, or a combination of these instruments, entitling the para. 2 of the Articles of Association. In addition, by resolution holders to subscribe to up to 200 million registered shares of of the Annual Shareholders’ Meetings on January 25, 2011 and Siemens AG of no par value, representing a pro rata amount of January 28, 2014, the Supervisory Board has been authorized to up to € 600 million of the capital stock. Additionally, by resoluamend Section 4 of the Articles of Association in accordance tion of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of January 28, 2014, with the utilization of the Authorized Capital 2011 and the the Managing Board is authorized until January 27, 2019 to ­Authorized Capital 2014, and after expiration of the then-appliissue bearer or registered bonds in an aggregate principal ­ cable authorization period. amount of up to € 15 billion with conversion rights or with bearer or registered warrants attached or a combination of Resolutions of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting require a simthese instruments, entitling the holders to subscribe to up to ple majority vote, unless a greater majority is required by law. 80 million registered shares of Siemens AG of no par value, repPursuant to Section 179 para. 2 of the German Stock Corporaresenting a pro rata amount of up to € 240 million of the capital tion Act, amendments to the Articles of Association require stock. In order to grant shares of stock to holders / creditors of a majority of at least three-quarters of the capital stock repreconvertible bonds or warrant bonds issued by the Company sented at the time of the casting of the votes, unless another or by consolidated subsidiaries of the Company under these capital majority is prescribed by the Articles of Association. ­authorizations the capital stock was conditionally increased by up to € 600 million through the issuance of up to 200 million shares of no par value registered in the names of the holders B.5.7 Powers of the Managing Board (Conditional Capital 2010) and by up to € 240 million, respecto issue and repurchase shares tively, through the issuance of up to 80 million shares of no par value registered in the names of the of the holders (Conditional The Managing Board is authorized to increase, with the apCapital 2014). proval of the Supervisory Board, the capital stock until January 24, 2016 by up to € 90 million through the issuance of up to The new shares under the Authorized Capital 2014 and the 30 million registered shares of no par value against contribubonds under these authorizations are to be issued against tions in cash (Authorized Capital 2011). Preemptive rights of cash or non-cash contributions. The bonds are, as a matter of existing shareholders are excluded. The new shares shall be principle, to be offered to shareholders for subscription. The issued under the condition that they are offered exclusively Managing Board is authorized to exclude, with the approval of to employees of Siemens AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. the Supervisory Board, subscription rights of shareholders in To the extent permitted by law, employee shares may also be the event of capital increases against contributions in kind. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 166 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 C  ompliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) In the event of capital increases against contributions in cash, C ­ ompany to acquire until January 24, 2016 up to 10 % of its the Managing Board is authorized to exclude shareholders’ capital stock existing at the date of adopting the resolution subscription rights with the approval of the Supervisory Board or – if this value is lower – as of the date on which the authoin the following cases: rization is exercised. The aggregate of shares of stock of Siemens AG repurchased under this authorization and any >> where the issue price of the new shares / bonds is not signi­f­ other Siemens shares previously acquired and still held in icantly lower than the stock market price of the Siemens treasury by the Company or attributable to the Company purshares already listed or the theoretical market price of the suant to Sections 71d and 71e of the German Stock Corporabonds computed in accordance with generally accepted actution Act may at no time exceed 10 % of the then existing capiarial methods (exclusion of preemptive rights, limited to 10 % tal stock. Any repurchase of Siemens shares shall be of the capital stock, in accordance with or by mutatis mutanaccomplished at the discretion of the Managing Board either dis application of Section 186 para. 3 sentence 4 German (1) by acquisition over the stock exchange or (2) through a Stock Corporation Act) public share repurchase offer. The Managing Board is addi>> where the exclusion is necessary with regard to fractional tionally authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory amounts resulting from the subscription ratio Board, to complete the repurchase of Siemens shares in >> where the exclusion is necessary in order to grant holders of ­accordance with the authorization described above by using conversion or option rights or conversion or option obligacertain equity derivatives (such as put and call options, fortions on Siemens shares a compensation for the effects of ward purchases and any combination of these derivatives). In dilution. exercising this authorization, all stock repurchases based on the equity derivatives are limited to a maximum volume of The total amount of new shares issued or to be issued under 5 % of Siemens’ capital stock existing at the date of adopting the Authorized Capital 2014 or in accordance with the bonds the resolution at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. An ­equity mentioned above, in exchange for contributions in cash and in derivative’s term of maturity may not, in any case, exceed kind and with shareholders’ subscription rights excluded, may 18 months and must be chosen in such a way that the repurin certain cases be subject to further restrictions, such as the chase of Siemens shares upon exercise of the equity derivarestriction that they may not exceed 20 % of the capital stock. tive will take place no later than January 24, 2016. The details of those restrictions are described in the relevant authorization. Besides selling them over the stock exchange or through a public sales offer to all shareholders, the Managing Board is author­ In February 2012, Siemens issued bonds with warrant units ized by resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on with a volume of US$ 3 billion. The bonds with warrant units ­January 25, 2011 to also use Siemens shares repurchased on the with a minimum per-unit denomination of US$ 250,000 were basis of this or any previously given authorization as follows: offered exclusively to institutional investors outside the U.S. Subscription rights of Siemens shareholders were excluded. Such Siemens shares may be The bonds issued by Siemens Financieringsmaatschappij N.V. >> retired are guaranteed by Siemens AG and complemented with war>> offered for purchase to individuals currently or formerly emrants issued by Siemens AG. The warrants entitle their holders ployed by the Company or any of its affiliated companies as to receive Siemens shares against payment of the exercise well as to board members of any of the Company’s affiliated price in euros. At issuance, the warrants resulted in option companies, or awarded and / or transferred to such individurights relating to a total of about 21.7 million Siemens shares. als with a vesting period of at least two years The terms and conditions of the warrants enable Siemens to >> offered and transferred, with the approval of the Supervisory service exercised option rights also by delivering treasury stock Board, to third parties against non-cash contributions as well as to buy back the warrants. The bonds with warrant >> sold, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to third parunits were issued in two tranches with maturities of 5.5 years ties against payment in cash if the price at which such and 7.5 years, respectively. The maturities refer to both the Siemens shares are sold is not significantly lower than bonds and the related warrants. the market price of Siemens stock at the time of selling (ex­ clusion of subscription rights, limited to 10 % of the capital The Company may not repurchase its own shares unless so stock, by mutatis mutandis application of Section 186 para. 3 ­authorized by a resolution duly adopted by the shareholders sentence 4 German Stock Corporation Act) or at a general meeting or in other very limited circumstances >> used to meet obligations or rights to acquire Siemens shares set forth in the German Stock Corporation Act. On January 25, arising from, or in connection with, convertible bonds or war­ 2011, the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting authorized the rant bonds issued by the Company or any of its c­ onsolidated 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 247 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 167 subsidiaries (exclusion of subscription rights, limited to 10% credit line at its disposal in the amount of € 450 million which of the capital stock, by mutatis mutandis application of Secmay be terminated by the lender if major changes in tion 186 para. 3 sentence 4 German Stock Corporation Act). Siemens AG’s corporate legal situation occur that jeopardize the orderly repayment of the credit. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board is authorized to use shares acquired on the basis of this or any previously given authorizaIn March 2013, a consolidated subsidiary as borrower and tion to meet obligations or rights to acquire Siemens shares Siemens AG as guarantor entered into two bilateral loan agreethat were or will be agreed with members of the Managing ments, each of which has been drawn in the full amount of Board within the framework of rules governing Managing US$ 500 million. Both agreements provide their respective Board compensation. lenders with a right of termination in the event that (1) Siemens AG becomes a subsidiary of another company or (2) In November 2013, the Company announced that it would carry a person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires effecout a share buyback of up to € 4 billion in volume within the tive control over Siemens AG by being able to exercise decisive next up to 24 months using the authorization given by the Aninfluence over its activities (Art. 3(2) of Council Regulation nual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 25, 2011. The buyback (EC) 139 / 2004). commenced on May 12, 2014. Under this share buyback Siemens repurchased 11,331,922 shares by September 30, 2014. Framework agreements concluded by Siemens AG under InterThe total consideration paid for these shares amounted to national Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. documentaabout € 1.079 billion (excluding incidental transaction charges). tion (ISDA Agreements) grant the counterparty a right of termiThe buyback may serve only to cancel and reduce the capital nation when Siemens AG consolidates with, merges into, or stock, issue shares to employees, board members of affiliated transfers substantially all its assets to a third party. However, companies and members of the Managing Board of Siemens AG, this right of termination only exists, if (1) the resulting entity ’s or service convertible bonds and warrant bonds. creditworthiness is materially weaker than Siemens AG’s immediately prior to such event or (2) the resulting entity fails to As of September 30, 2014, the Company held 45,745,147 (2013: simultaneously assume Siemens AG’s obligations under the 37,997,595) shares of stock in treasury. ISDA Agreement. Additionally, some ISDA Agreements grant the counterparty a right of termination if a third party acquires For details on the authorizations, especially with respect to the the beneficial ownership of equity securities that enable it to restrictions to exclude subscription rights and the terms to inelect a majority of Siemens AG’s Supervisory Board or otherclude shares when calculating such restrictions, please refer to wise acquire the power to control Siemens AG’s material policy-­ the relevant resolution and to Section 4 of the Articles of Associmaking decisions and if the creditworthiness of Siemens AG is ation. For further information on the authorized and conditional materially weaker than it was immediately prior to such an capitals and on the treasury stock of the Company as of Sep­ event. In either situation, ISDA Agreements are designed such tember 30, 2014, see NOTE 25 EQUIT Y in D.6 NOTES TO that upon termination all outstanding payment claims docu­C ON­S OLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on pages 289 290 of this mented under them are to be netted. ­Annual ­Report. In February 2012, Siemens issued bonds with warrant units with a volume of US$ 3 billion. In case of a change of control, B.5.8 Significant agreements which take the terms and conditions of these warrants enable their holdeffect, alter or terminate upon a change ers to receive a higher number of Siemens shares in accordance with an adjusted strike price if they exercise their option rights of control of the Company following a within a certain period of time after the change of control. This takeover bid period of time shall end either (1) not less than 30 days and no more than 60 days after publication of the notice of the issuer Siemens AG maintains two lines of credit in an amount of regarding the change of control, as determined by the issuer or € 4 billion and an amount of US$ 3 billion, respectively, which (2) 30 days after the change of control first becomes publicly provide its lenders with a right of termination in the event that known. The strike price adjustment decreases depending on (1) Siemens AG becomes a subsidiary of another company or the remaining term of the warrants and is determined in detail (2) a person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires in the terms and conditions of the warrants. In this context, a effective control over Siemens AG by being able to exercise change of control occurs if control of Siemens AG is acquired ­decisive influence over its activities (Art. 3(2) of Council Reguby a person or by persons acting in concert. lation (EC) 139 / 2004). In addition, Siemens AG has a bilateral 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 168 132 B.1 Corporate Governance Report 144 B.4 Compensation Report 136 B.2 C  orporate Governance statement pursuant to (part of the Combined ­Management Report) Section 289a of the ­German Commercial Code 165 B.5 Takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to (part of the Combined Management Report) ­Sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the 138 B.3 C  ompliance Report ­German Commercial Code) and explanatory report (part of the Combined Management Report) (part of the Combined Management Report) B.5.9 Compensation agreements with members of the Managing Board or employees in the event of a takeover bid In the event of a change of control that results in a substantial change in the position of a Managing Board member (for example, due to a change in corporate strategy or a change in the Managing Board member’s duties and responsibilities), the member of the Managing Board has the right to terminate his or her contract with the Company for good cause. A change of control exists if one or several shareholders acting jointly or in concert acquire a majority of the voting rights in Siemens AG and exercise a controlling influence, or if Siemens AG becomes a dependent enterprise as a result of entering into an intercompany agreement within the meaning of Section 291 of the German Stock Corporation Act, or if Siemens AG is to be merged into an existing corporation or other entity. If this right of termination is exercised, the Managing Board member is entitled to a severance payment in the amount of no more than two years’ compensation. The calculation of the annual compensation includes not only the base compensation and the target amount for the bonus, but also the target amount for the stock awards, in each case based on the most recent completed fiscal year prior to termination of the contract. The stock-based compensation components for which a firm commitment already exists will remain unaffected. There is no entitlement to a severance payment if the Managing Board member receives benefits from third parties in connection with a change of control. Moreover, there is no right to terminate if the change of control occurs within a period of twelve months prior to a Managing Board member’s retirement. Additionally, the severance payments cover non-monetary benefits by including an amount of 5 % of the total severance amount. Severance payments will be reduced by 15 % as a lump-sum allowance for discounted values and for income earned elsewhere. However, this reduction will apply only to the portion of the severance payment that was calculated without taking account of the first six months of the remaining term of the Managing Board member’s contract. 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 247 D. Consolidated F ­ inancial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 169 In our Combined Management Report, we analyze our business activities in the reporting year as well as the ­current state of Siemens worldwide and Siemens AG. Starting from a description of our business, economic environment and strategy, we present our financial target system and a detailed explanation of our results of operations as well as our financial and net assets position. ­We also report on various aspects of sustainability at Siemens and on expected developments ­and their material opportunities and risks. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/COMBINED-­M ANAGEMENT-REPORT Additional Sustainability indicators are available at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/SUSTAINABILIT Y-FIGURES 170 C. Combined Management Report 172 C.1 Business and 214 C.7 Subsequent events economic environment 172 C.1.1 The Siemens Group 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship C. Combined Management Report 179 C.1.2 Economic environment 215 C.8.1 Sustainability at Siemens 183 C.1.3 Strategy 216 C.8.2 Employees 218 C.8.3 Research and development 187 C.2 Financial performance system 220 C.8.4 Supply chain management 187 C.2.1 Overview 221 C.8.5 Distribution and customer relations 187 C.2.2 Revenue growth 221 C.8.6 Environmental Portfolio 187 C.2.3 Profitability and capital efficiency 222 C.8.7 Environmental protection 189 C.2.4 Capital structure 224 C.8.8 Corporate citizenship 189 C.2.5 Dividend and share buybacks 190 C.2.6 Additional information for 225 C.9 Report on expected developments financial performance measures ­and associated material ­opportunities and risks 193 C.3 Results of operations 225 C.9.1 Report on expected developments 193 C.3.1 Orders and revenue by region 229 C.9.2 Risk management 194 C.3.2 Segment information analysis 230 C.9.3 Risks 201 C.3.3 Income 238 C.9.4 Opportunities 202 C.3.4 Reconciliation to adjusted EBITDA 240 C.9.5 Significant characteristics of the 204 C.3.5 Selected information based on accounting-related internal control new organizational structure and risk management system 205 C.4 Financial position 242 C.10 Compensation Report and legal disclosures 205 C.4.1 Principles and objectives of financial management 205 C.4.2 Capital structure 242 C.11 Siemens AG 206 C.4.3 Investing activities (Discussion on basis of German Commercial Code) 207 C.4.4 Cash flows 242 C.11.1 Business and economic environment 208 C.4.5 Capital resources and requirements 242 C.11.2 Results of operations 244 C.11.3 Net assets and financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position 245 C.11.4 Employees 245 C.11.5 Subsequent events 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the 245 C.11.6 Risks and opportunities ­economic position 245 C.11.7 Outlook 171 C.1 Business and economic environment C.1.1 The Siemens Group Our Company is incorporated in Germany, with our corporate ­headquarters situated in Munich. Siemens operates under the C.1.1.1 ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION leader­ ship of its Managing Board. The Siemens Managing We are a globally operating technology company with core acBoard is the sole management body and has overall business tivities ­in the fields of electrification, automation and digital­ responsibility in accordance with the German Stock C ­ orporation ization, ­and we occupy leading market positions worldwide in Act (Aktiengesetz, AktG). At all other organizational levels the majority of our businesses. We can look back on a successwithin our Company, management responsibility is assigned to ful history spanning 167 years, with groundbreaking and revoindividuals who make decisions and assume personal responsilutionary innovations such as the invention of the dynamo, bility (CEO principle). This principle establishes clear and direct the first electric streetcar, the construction of the first public responsibilities and fosters efficient ­decision-making. power plant, and the first images of the inside of the human body. On a continuing basis, we have around 343,000 employees Below the Managing Board, Siemens was structured organiza­as of September 30, 2014 and business activities in nearly all tionally into four Sectors (Energy, Healthcare, Industry and ­countries of the world and reported consolidated revenue of ­Infrastructure & Cities), Financial Services (SFS), Cross-Sector € 71.920 billion in fiscal 2014. We operate 289 major producServices, Corporate Units and Countries in fiscal 2014. The tion and manufacturing plants worldwide. In addition, we have ­Sectors were principally broken down into Divisions and these ­office buildings, warehouses, research and development faciliin turn into Business Units. ties or sales offices in almost every country in the world. In fiscal 2014, the Sectors formed four of our reportable segSiemens comprises Siemens AG, a stock corporation under the ments. In addition to our four Sectors, we had two additional Federal laws of Germany, as the parent company and a total reportable segments: Equity Investments and SFS. The following of about 800 legal entities, including minority investments. figure shows our reportable segments as of September 30, 2014. Reportable segments as of September 30, 2014 Total Sectors Energy Healthcare Industry Infrastructure & Cities Equity Financial Sector Sector Sector Sector Investments Services therein: therein: therein: therein: > Power Generation > Diagnostics > Industry Automation > Transportation & > Wind Power > Drive Technologies Logistics > Power Transmission > Power Grid Solutions & Products > Building Technologies During fiscal 2014, we initiated a change in the organizational which consist of the following Divisions: Power and Gas; structure of Siemens, which became effective as of October 1, Wind Power and Renewables; Energy Management; Build2014. Beginning with fiscal 2015, we eliminated the Sectors and ing Technologies; Mobility; Digital Factory; and ­Process bundled the businesses of the former Energy, Industry and ­Industries and Drives. ­Infrastructure & Cities Sectors into seven reportable segments, 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 172 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position Global presence 1 Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 38,732 revenue (in millions of €) 3 54% of total worldwide 41,542 orders (in millions of €) 3 53% of total worldwide 211,000 employees 4 62% of total worldwide major 139 production plants 5 48% of total worldwide Americas Asia, Australia 18,756 revenue (in millions of €) 3 26% of total worldwide 14,433 revenue (in millions of €) 3 20% of total worldwide 20,880 orders (in millions of €) 3 27% of total worldwide 15,929 orders (in millions of €) 3 20% of total worldwide 70,000 employees 4 20% of total worldwide 62,000 employees 4 18% of total worldwide major 76 production plants 5 26% of total worldwide 74 major production plants 5 26% of total worldwide 1 All figures refer to continuing operations. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. 3 By customer location. 4 As of September 30, 2014. 5 15 employees or more. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 173 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks The following figure shows the main transfers of the businesses from the three Sectors Energy, Industry and Infrastructure & Cities as of September 30, 2014 to these Divisions as of ­October 1, 2014. Transfer of businesses as of October 1, 2014 Energy Sector Industry Sector Infrastructure & Cities Sector Power Drive Trans­ Power Grid Building Power Industry Wind Power Trans­ Tech­ portation & Solutions & Tech­ Generation1 Automation mission nologies Logistics 2 Products 3 nologies Wind Power Energy Process Building Power Digital and Manage­ Industries Mobility Tech­ and Gas Factory Renewables4 ment and Drives nologies 1 All businesses except for solutions for oil and gas 2 Beginning with fiscal 2015, the airport logistics and 3 All businesses except for rail electrification go to Energy industries go to Power and Gas, oil and gas solutions postal automation business is reported within Centrally Management; Rail electrification goes to Mobility. go to Process Industries and Drives. managed portfolio activities. 4 Also includes solar and hydro business. For more details on these organizational changes see C.1.1.2 SFS, which acts as business partner for Siemens’s other DiviBUSINESS DESCRIPTION . sions and Healthcare and also conducts its own business with external customers, is a reportable segment which is reported In addition, the former Healthcare Sector became a separately outside our Industrial Business. Beginning with fiscal 2015, managed business within Siemens effective October 1, 2014. ­Equity Investments ceased to be a reportable segment and The above mentioned seven Divisions together with Healthbecame part of Centrally managed portfolio activities, which care form our Industrial Business. are reported within the Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements. Beginning of fiscal 2015, Siemens’ reportable segments are as follows: Reportable segments as of October 1, 2014 Industrial Business Wind Power Energy Building Process Power Digital Financial and Manage­ Tech­­ Mobility Industries Healthcare and Gas Factory Services Renewables ment nologies and Drives 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 174 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position Our Divisions are responsible for developing and implementing Except otherwise stated, financial measures presented in this their strategy; for developing and producing their portfolio of Combined Management Report are based on our organizational products and services; and for managing their sales channels. structure as of September 30, 2014. Based on this organizaAs “global entrepreneurs” they have end-to-end business retional structure, we provide financial measures for our four sponsibility worldwide, including with regard to their operating ­Sectors and for two Businesses, each combining two Divisions results. They therefore have “right of way” over the regional within a Sector as well as for eight Divisions of our Sectors. units in business matters. These financial measures include: orders, revenue, profit and profit margin. Divisions within a Sector may do business with As of October 1, 2014, Healthcare became a separately managed each other, leading to corresponding orders and revenue. Such unit, which includes among others, the set-up of customized orders and revenues are eliminated on a Sector level. Furtherstructures (e.g. sales structures, R & D), systems (especially IT) more, our reportable segments may do business with each and functions (e.g. human resources, procurement). other, leading to corresponding orders and revenue. Such ­orders and revenue are eliminated on the Siemens level within Beginning with fiscal 2015, our businesses are supported by our Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling items Corporate Core, which comprises the units Corporate Developand are not included in orders and revenue with external cusment; Governance & Markets; Communications and Governtomers (external orders and external revenue, respectively) ment Affairs; Legal and Compliance, Human Resources; Corpo­reported in this document. For Equity Investments we report rate Technology; and Controlling and Finance and by our profit, and for SFS we report profit and total assets. Free cash Corporate Services, which consist of the units Information flow and further financial measures are reported for each Technology; Supply Chain Management; Export Control and reportable segment in the Notes to Consolidated Financial ­ Customs; Business Process Services; and Siemens Real Estate. Statements. For information related to the definition of these The Corporate Core issues binding company-wide guidelines in financial measures and to the reconciliation of segment financoordination with the Managing Board and oversee their implecial measures to the Consolidated Financial Statements, see mentation. In addition, the Heads of selected corporate funcNOTE 35 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . tions (Governance & Markets, Communications and Government Affairs, Legal and Compliance, Human Resources, Controlling and Finance) have an unrestricted right to issue instructions in relation to their function across all parts of the company in accordance with the Bylaws for the Managing Board of Siemens AG and to the extent legally permissible. During the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we disbanded our ­Regional Cluster organization. Following this organizational change, we have designated 30 Lead Countries which are individually responsible for managing a number of other Countries regarding market penetration. The Lead Countries and their assigned Countries are responsible for the local customer ­relationship management and for implementing the business strategies of the Divisions. Each Lead Country reports directly to the Managing Board. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 175 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks C.1.1.2 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Division. Our solution business for the oil and gas industry will Until September 30, 2014, our business activities focused on be included in the new Process Industries and Drives Division. the four Sectors Energy, Healthcare, Industry and Infrastructure & Cities. In addition to these four Sectors, we had two addiThe businesses of our former Wind Power Division manufactional reportable segments: Equity Investments and SFS. For ture wind turbines for onshore and offshore applications, inmore information on the portfolio transactions described cluding both geared turbines and direct drive machines. The ­below, see NOTE 4 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL product portfolio is based on four product platforms, two for STATEMENTS . each of the onshore and offshore applications. The revenue mix of these businesses may vary from reporting p ­ eriod to reportEnergy ing ­period depending on the project mix between onshore and The businesses of the former Energy Sector offer a wide specoffshore projects in the respective ­period. Beginning with fiscal trum of products, solutions and services for generating and 2015, these businesses were combined with our solar and hydro transmitting power, and for extracting, converting and transactivities in the new Wind Power and Renewables Division. porting oil and gas. The businesses of our former Power Transmission Division In fiscal 2014, the Energy Sector comprised four Divisions: provide energy utilities and large industrial power users Power Generation; Wind Power; Power Transmission; and with turnkey power transmission solutions as well as discrete ­Energy Service. In addition, the Sector included two Sector-­ ­products, systems and related engineering and services. These led businesses: solar and hydro. Results for these businesses ­offerings are used to process and transmit electrical power were included in results for the Sector. Siemens has decided from the source, such as power plants and onshore and offto exit solar business activities after completing projects in shore wind farms, to various points along the power trans­ ­progress. mission network. Beginning with fiscal 2015, these businesses are part of the new Energy Management Division. The businesses of our former Power Generation Division offer an extensive portfolio of products and solutions for generating The businesses of the former Energy Service Division offer electricity from fossil fuels and for producing and transporting comprehensive services for products, solutions and technol­ oil and gas. The Division’s customers include both energy proogies, covering performance enhancements, maintenance serviders and industrial companies. Due to the broad range of the vices, customer trainings and consulting services for the forofferings, the Division’s revenue mix may vary from reporting mer Divisions Power Generation and Wind Power. Financial ­­period to reporting period ­­ depending on the share of revenue results relating to the Energy Service Division were included in attributable to products, solutions and services. Because typical these Divisions. Beginning with fiscal 2015, the Division was profitability levels differ among these three revenue sources, renamed Power Generation Services. Results for that Division the revenue mix in a reporting ­­ period accordingly affects will be included in the new Power and Gas and Wind Power and ­Division profit for that p ­ eriod. Renewables Divisions. In May 2014, we announced the acquisition of the Rolls-Royce Healthcare Energy aero-derivative gas turbine and compressor business Healthcare offers customers a comprehensive portfolio of of Rolls-Royce plc, U.K. With the acquisition, we intend to medical solutions across the treatment chain – from prevenstrengthen our position in the growing oil and gas industry as tion and early detection to diagnosis, treatment and follow-up well as in the field of decentralized power generation. In Sepcare. We are a major supplier of technology to the healthcare tember 2014, we have entered into an agreement with Dresser-­ industry worldwide and a trendsetter in medical imaging, laboRand to acquire all of its issued and outstanding common ratory diagnostics, healthcare IT and hearing instruments. In shares by way of a friendly takeover bid. With its comprehenaddition, we provide technical maintenance, professional and sive portfolio of compressors, steam turbines, gas turbines and consulting services, and, together with SFS, financing to assist engines, Dresser-Rand is a leading supplier for the oil & gas, customers in purchasing our products. process, power and other industries in the related energy infrastructure markets worldwide. The acquisition complements our In August 2014, we announced our plan to sell our hospital existing offerings, notably for the global oil & gas industry and ­information system business to the U.S.-based company Cerner for distributed power generation. Corp. Since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, these activities formerly included in the Healthcare Sector fulfilled the requireBeginning with fiscal 2015, substantially all of the former Diviments to be reported as discontinued operations. Results for sion’s businesses will be included in the new Power and Gas prior ­periods are reported on a comparable basis. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 176 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position Because a large part of our revenue stems from recurring busiprocesses – from product design to production to sales and serness, our business activities are to a certain extent resilient to vice. In line with “Industrie 4.0” – a German high-tech indusshort-term economic trends but are dependent on regulatory trial strategy – we are working on the convergence between and policy developments around the world. We are currently the real and the virtual worlds of production, sometimes called operating in a low growth environment, impacted by ­healthcare “Digital Enterprise.” Our portfolio is geared largely to the manreforms, budgetary constraints and consolidation of healthcare ufacturing industry and its major markets such as automotive, service providers, predominantly in the U.S. and E ­ urope. aerospace and production equipment as well as food and beverage, pharmaceutical and chemical. Therefore our business In fiscal 2014, the Healthcare Sector included four Divisions: activities can be strongly affected by economic cycles because Imaging & Therapy Systems, Clinical Products, Diagnostics these markets tend to react quickly to changes in the overall and Customer Solutions. The Sector also included Audiology economic environment. ­Solutions, a Sector-led business. In addition to our Sector-level ­financial results, we also reported financial results for our With the businesses of the former Drive Technologies Divi­Diagnostics Division. sion we are one of the world’s leading suppliers of integrated drive systems. With our products and systems for innovative Beginning with fiscal 2015, Siemens Healthcare will be manapplications and industry-specific solutions as well as end-toaged separately under the Siemens umbrella. This will enable end services, we are increasing the productivity, energy effiHealthcare to adjust to markets flexibly and in a more focused ciency and reliability of machinery and installations in indusway. It means in essence, a sales organization optimized to tries such as shipbuilding, cement, mining, and pulp and meet the needs of Healthcare and a Healthcare s­ pecific set up paper. Advanced industry software facilitates our offerings’ of support and central functions. In addition, Siemens anoptimal integration. Our reliable gears, couplings, and drive nounced in November 2014 the sale of its hearing aid business solutions are partly also in high demand in other Divisions of Audiology Solutions to the investment company EQT and the the Siemens Group, mainly for rail transport and wind turbines. German entre­preneurial family Strüngmann as co-investors. With our e-Car business, we develop motors and inverters for electric cars and thereby address an additional future growth Industry market. The industries served by our businesses, particularly With the businesses included in the former Industry Sector, we the process industries, the energy industry and the infrastrucare one of the world’s leading suppliers of innovative and enviture sector, generally show a delayed response to changes in ronmentally friendly products and solutions for industrial comthe overall economic environment. In contrast, our business panies, particularly those in the process and manufacturing activities that serve customers in the manufacturing industries industries. Our end-to-end automation solutions, drive technolcan be strongly affected by economic cycles. ogies, industrial IT and industry software, in-depth industry expertise and technology-based services help our customers With a comprehensive portfolio of services and a global netuse resources and energy more efficiently, improve productivwork of experts, our businesses of the former Customer ity, and increase flexibility. ­Services Division support our industrial customers with technology-based industry services across entire lifecycles of their In fiscal year 2014, the Sector consisted of three Divisions: plants and machinery – from planning and engineering to ­Industry Automation, Drive Technologies and Customer Ser­operation and modernization. vices. Financial results relating to the Customer Services Division were included in the results for Industry Automation and Beginning with fiscal 2015, we serve the industrial market Drive Technologies. During the third quarter of fiscal 2014, with two new Divisions that tailor their strategies to specific nearly all activities of the Metals Technologies business for­customer industries. The Digital Factory Division primarily merly included in the Industry Sector fulfilled the requirements ­addresses the manufacturing industry and its major markets: to be reported as discontinued operations. These activities ­automotive, aerospace, and machine tool and production equipare to become part of a joint venture with Mitsubishi-Hitachi ment over the complete product lifecycle of our customers. ­Metals Machinery Inc., in which Siemens will hold a 49 % stake. The Process Industries and Drives Division focuses largely ­on Results for prior ­periods are reported on a comparable basis. the process industries like pharmaceutical, food & beverage, chemical and related industries as well as drive solutions for The businesses of the former Industry Automation Division infrastructure topics. The related business activities within the offer a unique combination of automation technologies, indusformer Industry Automation and Drive Technologies Divisions trial controls and industry software that supports customers in were accordingly realigned into the two new Divisions. In order optimizing the complete product development and production to streamline the process automation activities in the oil & gas 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 177 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks industries, the former Energy Power Generation Division’s business can operate better and more flexible in its medium-­ oil & gas solutions business is part of the new Process Indussized competitive environment. Beginning with fiscal 2015, the tries and Drives Division. The former Customer Services airport logistics and postal automation business is reported ­Division is managed within the new Digital Factory Division. within Centrally managed portfolio activities, which are part of the Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements. Infrastructure & Cities The businesses of the former Infrastructure & Cities Sector ofThe principal customers of the businesses included in our forfer a wide range of technologies that increase the functionality mer Rail Systems and Mobility and Logistics Divisions are puband sustainability of metropolitan centers and urban infra­ lic and state-owned companies in the transportation and logisstructures worldwide, such as integrated mobility solutions, tics sectors. Markets served by these businesses are driven ­building and security systems, power distribution equipment, primarily by public spending. Customers of these businesses grid automation and control products and solutions, smart grid usually have multi-year planning and implementation hori­applications and low and medium-voltage products. We apply zons, and their contract tenders therefore tend to be indepenour IT and automation expertise to optimize infrastructures – dent of short-term economic trends. making better use of existing systems and reducing operating costs while increasing energy efficiency and improving safety Beginning with fiscal 2015, the business activities of the former and security. Rail Systems and Mobility and Logistics Divisions are combined to form the Mobility Division. The Mobility Division also i­ ncludes In fiscal 2014, the Sector consisted of five Divisions: Rail Systhe rail electrification business of the former Smart Grid Division. tems; Mobility and Logistics; Low and Medium Voltage; Smart Grid; and Building Technologies. Financial results of the Rail The business activities of the former Low and Medium VoltSystems and the Mobility and Logistics Divisions were comage Division supply public energy providers, industrial compabined and reported together as the results of the Sector’s Transnies and municipal utilities with a complete range of products, portation & Logistics Business. Financial results of the Divisions systems and solutions for power distribution infrastructures. Low and Medium Voltage and Smart Grid were combined and Our portfolio includes highly reliable power supply solutions reported together as the Sector’s Power Grid Solutions & Prodfor conventional power plants and renewable energy systems ucts Business. as well as intelligent, compact substations for urban and rural distribution networks. We also offer energy-efficient solutions The offerings of the former Rail Systems Division comprise for heavy industry, the oil & gas industry and the process Siemens’ rail vehicle business – including high-speed trains, ­industry. Energy-efficient solutions and energy storage systems commuter trains, passenger coaches, metros, people movers, for the integration of renewable energies into power grids light rail vehicles, locomotives, bogies, traction systems and round off our portfolio. Business activities included in our Low rail-related services. We combine our expertise in the fields of and Medium Voltage Division generally tend to react quickly to mass transit, regional and long-distance transportation, driverchanges in the overall economic environment. less systems, traction systems, bogies and onboard power ­supplies in order to offer comprehensive know-how for reliable Beginning with fiscal 2015, the business activities of the former and efficient rail vehicles. Low and Medium Voltage Division are included in the new ­Energy Management Division. The business activities of the former Mobility and Logistics Division hold leading positions as global providers of the inteThe business activities of the former Smart Grid Division offer grated technologies that enable people and goods to be transpower providers, network operators, industrial enterprises and ported safely, efficiently and in an environmentally friendly cities an end-to-end portfolio of products and solutions for manner. Our offerings encompass rail automation and intelli­developing intelligent grid infrastructures. Smart grids enable gent traffic and transportation systems. The products, services a bidirectional flow of energy and information. They are reand IT-based solutions in our portfolio combine innovation quired for the integration of more renewable energy sources with comprehensive industry know-how. In fiscal 2014, our ofinto conventional power transmission and distribution netferings also comprised our airport logistics business for cargo works. In addition, power providers can run their plants more tracking and baggage handling and our postal automation efficiently with data gained from smart grids. Software solubusiness for letter and parcel sorting. In the third quarter of tions that analyze data from smart grids will continuously gain fiscal 2014, Siemens announced that it no longer intends to sell importance. Our offerings include both in-house technology this business. The activities are to be carved out and operated development and systems from software partners. The principal as a separate business under the Siemens umbrella so that this ­customers are power producers, grid operators, multi utilities, 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 178 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position cities and rail operators. Changes in the overall economic enviFinancial Services ronment generally have a delayed effect on our business activFinancial Services (SFS) provides business-to-business finanities. Furthermore, parts of our businesses are driven by public cial solutions. With its specialist financing and technology spending. Customers in the public sector usually have multi­expertise in the areas of Siemens businesses, SFS supports cusyear planning and implementation horizons, and their contract tomer investments with leasing solutions and equipment, tenders therefore tend to be independent of short-term ecoproject and structured financing. SFS provides capital for nomic trends. Siemens customers as well as other companies and manages financial risks of Siemens. Beginning with fiscal 2015, all businesses of the former Smart Grid Division except for the rail electrification business are inSFS operates the Corporate Treasury of the Siemens Group, cluded in the new Energy Management Division. As described which includes managing liquidity, cash and interest risks as above, the rail electrification business is included in the new well as certain foreign exchange, credit and commodities risks. Mobility Division as of fiscal 2015. Business activities and tasks of Corporate Treasury are reported in the segment information within Reconciliation to ConsoliThe Building Technologies Division is a leading provider of dated Financial Statements. For further information on Corpoautomation technologies and services for safe, secure and effirate Treasury activities see C.4.1 PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES OF cient buildings and infrastructures throughout the lifecycle of ­F INANCIAL MANAGEMENT . buildings. The Division offers products, solutions and services for fire safety, security, building automation, heating, venti­ lation, air conditioning and energy management. The large C.1.2 Economic environment ­customer base is widely-dispersed. It includes public and com­ mercial building owners, operators and tenants, building conC.1.2.1 WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT struction general contractors and system houses. Changes in Fiscal year 2014 started with a divergent global economic the overall economic environment generally have a delayed ­development. While emerging countries showed a mixed piceffect on our business activities. ture with growth slowing down in the BRIC countries (Brasil, Russia, India, China), early economic indicators in many indusAt the beginning of fiscal 2015, the Building Technologies Divitrial economies (U.S., U.K., Japan, countries of the Euro zone) sion includes the same business activities as it did at the end of signaled improvements. In the Euro zone, years of economic fiscal 2014. stagnation and ­recession seemed set to come to an end. Given the importance of these “heavy weights” for the world econEquity Investments omy, expectations for fiscal 2014 were quite positive. Indeed, In fiscal 2014, Equity Investments in general comprised equity with growth of 2.8 % year-over-year, global gross domestic stakes held by Siemens that are accounted for by the equity product (GDP) growth had accelerated in the second half of calmethod or as available-for-sale financial assets and that for endar 2013 compared to the first half, when GDP grew by 2.1 % strategic reasons are not allocated to a Sector or a Division, reyear-over-year. However, these promising prospects did not spectively, SFS, Centrally managed portfolio activities, Siemens materialize in 2014 for several unforeseeable reasons. The unReal Estate (SRE), Corporate items or Corporate Treasury. Our usually strong winter of 2013 / 2014 disrupted large parts of the main investments within Equity Investments were our 50 % U.S. economy and led to negative GDP growth in the U.S. in the stake in BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH (BSH), our first quarter of calendar 2014. With the start of calendar 2014, 17 % stake in OSRAM Licht AG (OSRAM), our 12 % stake in Atos SE the first of a series of geopolitical conflicts escalated: the con(AtoS) and our 49 % stake in Enterprise Networks Holdings flict in Ukraine brought about substantial uncertainty for the B.V. (EN), which in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, was rewhole year. In the Middle East, several military conflicts got named Unify Holdings B.V. (Unify). In the fourth quarter of fiscal worse: Israel and Palestinians again went to war; Libya fell back 2014, Siemens signed an agreement to sell its stake in BSH to into political chaos; the militant group “Islamic State” made sigRobert Bosch GmbH. The transaction is expected to be comnificant military ­advances in Syria and Iraq and triggered an pleted in the first half of calendar 2015. Equity Investments American-led intervention. All these shocks to the global eco­n­ ceased to be a reportable segment beginning with fiscal 2015. omy led to increased uncertainty and weighed on global econ­ As of October 1, 2014, equity stakes formerly included in Equity omic activity. Accordingly, global GDP grew only by 2.7 % and Investments are reported within Centrally managed portfolio not by 3.2 % as expected in October 2013. The slowdown of fixed activities, which are part of the Reconciliation to Consolidated investment growth and value added manufacturing growth – Financial Statements. both impor­tant indicators for Siemens as a producer of capital goods – was even stronger: Fixed investments grew by only 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 179 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks 3.6 % in 2014 and not by 5.2 % as expected in October 2013, reflecting slower growth in China (7.3 % against 8 % expected global value added in manufacturing grew by only 3.5 % and last year), which is largely explained by continued downturns not by the ­expected 4.0 %, hurting Siemens’ industrial and in real estate and manufacturing investment. India suffered energy-­related businesses in particular. from investment shifts before the general election that took place from April to May 2014. From a geographical perspective, the region Europe, C.I.S., ­Africa, Middle East was the only of our three reporting regions Real GDP growth per region (change in % compared to prior year) 1 delivering faster GDP growth in 2014 than in 2013. However, World Europe, C.I.S.,3 Americas Asia, Africa, Australia with 1.6 % the level of growth is still lower than in the other reMiddle East porting regions. In addition, last year’s expectation was 0.5 per5 4.8 4.9 centage points higher. The main reasons for the disappointing 4 performance are the still very sluggish development in Europe, 3 2.7 2.6 in particular the Euro zone, and recessions in both Russia and 2.0 2.3 2 1.6 Ukraine. In Germany, the fiscal year started promisingly with 1.1 1 sentiment indicators continuously improving, followed by a strong first quarter of calendar 2014 (which was partly due to mild winter weather). However, in the course of year 2014 the 2014 2 2013 uncertainties caused by the geopolitical conflicts increasingly 1 Source: Siemens AG, based on an IHS Global Insight as of October 15, 2014. weighed on economic activity and slowed down GDP growth Growth rates provided by calendar year. 2 Estimate for calendar year 2014. for the full year. 3 Commonwealth of Independent States. In the Americas region, growth slowed down slightly to 2.0 %. A year earlier, the expectation was for growth of 2.7 %. The The partly estimated figures presented here for GDP, fixed harsh winter mentioned above, which reduced consumption invest­ments and manufacturing value added are calculated by and factory output in some areas of the U. S. and Canada, was Siemens based on an IHS Global Insight report dated Octoone reason for the slowdown. In addition, the economies of ber 15, 2014. most Latin American countries grew substantially slower than estimated last year. For example GDP growth for Brazil was Our businesses are dependent on the development of raw marked down from 3.1 % to a negative 0.1 % from October 2013 ­material prices. Key materials to which we have significant cost to October 2014. The pattern was similar for Argentina, Chile, exposure include copper, various grades and formats of steel, Venezuela and Peru. One important driver for this weak perforand aluminum. In addition, within stainless steel we have mance was globally weaker commodity markets. ­exposure related to nickel and ferro-alloy materials. In Asia, Australia, GDP growth for calendar 2014 is estimated The average monthly price of copper (denominated in € per at 4.8 %, virtually the same level as in previous years. Compared metric ton) for September 2014 was 1 % lower than the average to last year’s expectation this is 0.3 percentage points lower, monthly price in September 2013. Prices on a fiscal-year a ­ verage World real GDP growth (in % compared to previous ­period) 1 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 7 6 5 4.8 5.1 4.4 4 3.7 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.2 3.3 3.2 3.1 3.2 3 2.9 2.6 2.6 2.7 2.7 2.4 2.5 2.4 2.4 2.5 2 1.8 1.5 1.4 1 Quarterly GDP growth (seasonally adjusted annual rate) Annual GDP growth  Quarterly GDP growth forecast (seasonally adjusted annual rate) Annual GDP growth forecast 1 Siemens AG, based on an IHS Global Insight report as of October 15, 2014. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 180 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position were still 10 % lower in fiscal 2014 than the average for fiscal C.1.2.2 MARKET DEVELOPMENT 2013, reflecting modest demand during fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2014, the addressed market of our Energy Sector developed stable year-over-year. Wind power markets showed the Average monthly prices of aluminum traded on the London strongest growth (both onshore and offshore). Markets for Metal Exchange recently rebounded and were 17 % higher power transmission grew slightly while market volume for in September 2014 compared to September 2013. Prices on a large gas turbines declined year-over-year. fiscal-­year average were nevertheless 8 % lower in fiscal 2014 than the average of fiscal 2013. Significantly rising premiums Markets of the Power Generation Division declined in fiscal for physically delivered aluminum have added to the prices of 2014 compared to fiscal 2013. In particular the advanced gas the London Metal Exchange contracts. The aluminum industry turbine market remained difficult with a market size in fiscal is in a situation of a global oversupply due to rapid expansion 2014 clearly below fiscal 2013. In addition, production over­ of capacities, while regional markets in the western world face capacities have been resulting in increased price pressure. a tighter supply. During the fiscal year, the overall market environment for fossil power generation faced project shifts in various regions leadThe average monthly steel prices for September 2014 declined ing to tough competition. While key countries such as the by 8 % compared to the average monthly prices in SeptemU.S. or China have been facing market delays, countries of the ber 2013. Prices on a fiscal-year average were 7 % lower in fiscal ­Middle East, especially Saudi-Arabia showed higher invest2014 than the average for fiscal 2013. ments in gas-fired power plants year-over-year. Demand for ­industrial gas and steam turbines developed roughly flat. Our main exposure to the prices of copper, aluminum and ­related products is in the new Divisions Energy Management Markets served by our Wind Power Division grew clearly in fisand Process Industries and Drives. Our main price exposure cal 2014 fueled by strong demand in Europe, which is the most ­related to carbon steel and stainless steel is in our new Divimature geographic market in the world for onshore and offsions Power and Gas and Wind Power and Renewables. In addishore wind power. In particular, Europe is home to almost all tion, Siemens is generally exposed to energy and fuel prices, offshore installations currently active worldwide. Within the both directly (electricity, gas, oil) and indirectly (energy used Americas, growth in the U.S. was driven by onshore wind projin the manufacturing processes of suppliers, fuels included in ects, following the extension of an existing production tax logistics costs). credit (PTC) for renewable energy into the first quarter of fiscal 2014. Market development in the Asia, Australia region was Siemens employs various strategies to reduce the price risk in characterized by intense local competition, particularly in its project and product businesses, such as long-term contractChina. While China has the largest wind market in the world, ing with suppliers, physical and financial hedging and price market access for foreign companies remains to be very diffiescalation clauses with customers. cult and limited. The competitive situation in the wind power Development of raw material prices (Index: Beginning of fiscal 2010 = 100) FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 170 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 Copper Aluminium (HG) Steel HRC Source: London Metal Exchange (LME) for copper and aluminium, CRU HRC Germany for steel; cash prices in € per ton. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 181 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks markets differs between the market segments. In the market China are experiencing a shift in demand, from an emphasis on for onshore wind farms, competition is widely dispersed withlarge clinics to increased investment in small and midsize out any one company holding a dominant share of the market. ­regional clinics. Along with this change, competitive and price In contrast, there are only a few major players in the market for pressure rose, due mainly to increasing numbers of local venoffshore wind farms, which are technologically more complex. dors. Overall, the trend toward consolidation in the healthcare Several competitors have managed to return to profitability industry continues. Competition among the leading companies through cost reduction measures and restructuring. Previously is strong, including with respect to price. existing overcapacities have been adjusted to better match ­demand. Consolidation is moving forward in both onand offIn fiscal 2014, markets served by our Industry Sector, consistshore wind power through the market exit of smaller players, ing of our Industry Automation and Drive Technologies Diviand especially in offshore through joint ventures between sions, grew slightly year-over-year. At the beginning of the ­established players and new market entrants. The key drivers ­fiscal year, growth came mainly from stronger demand in for consolidation are technology and market access challenges, long-cycle industries and restocking by customers in China. which increase development costs and the importance of risk ­Towards the end of the fiscal year, demand also began to pick sharing in offshore wind power. up in short-cycle industries. Within the main industries served by our Divisions, demand in the automotive industry was parMarkets addressed by our Power Transmission Division grew ticularly strong, with many countries reporting significant inslightly in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013, due mainly creases in production, especially in Europe. The machine buildto strong demand from parts of Europe and the Middle East, ing industry developed less favorable in the beginning of the ­including Germany, the U.K. and Saudi Arabia, where large fiscal year due to weaker growth in many emerging economies, transmission projects were awarded. In contrast, investments which are important markets for export-oriented industrialized in Russian electrical infrastructure went down significantly in countries. In the last months of fiscal 2014, demand in the fiscal 2014. Markets in Asia remained stable year-over-year. ­machine building industries picked up somewhat. On a regional While growth in China slowed down somewhat, India awarded basis, our markets in Europe experienced a slight recovery in a new contract for a large high-voltage direct current (HVDC) fiscal 2014, due to a more positive overall economic environproject. On a currency-adjusted basis, market volume in the ment year-over-year, particularly including Spain, Poland and Americas increased slightly year-over-year. Including currency the Netherlands. While markets in Germany grew year-overtranslation effects, markets in the Americas declined slightly year, growth was held back by stagnation in original equipyear-over-year. ment manufacturing (OEM) industries, which were i­mpacted by lower demand from emerging markets. Overall, demand in In fiscal 2014, markets served by our Healthcare Sector grew Europe for industrial investment goods was held back as proslightly year-over-year. Growth was again driven by emerging duction capacities of our customers still did not reach full utilimarkets, which continued to build up their healthcare infrazation. In the Americas, except the U.S., growth in end-cusstructures and expand access to modern medical technology tomer markets slowed down in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal for a broader population. Market development in industrialized 2013. This was particularly evident in Brazil. Within the U.S., countries remained weak, impacted by healthcare reforms and demand in the oil and gas industries grew strongly. In contrast budgetary constraints. On a regional basis, markets in the markets for electrical investment goods expanded modestly. Americas grew moderately. Market conditions in our large U.S. Within the Asia, Australia region, growth slowed down yearmarket remained challenging as service providers faced ongoover-year in several countries, particularly including Australia, ing pressure on utilization and reimbursement rates associated India, Indonesia and Thailand. Growth in China was solid yearwith medical devices. The U.S. market for Healthcare IT continover-year. While growth in China benefited from restocking efues to grow, but at a slower pace than in previous years. fects, it was supported also by strong demand from the counHealthcare markets in the Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East try’s automotive and infrastructure industries, and, to a lesser region declined slightly. During fiscal 2014, European healthextent, by demand in parts of the construction machinery marcare markets saw some stabilization. The market situation in kets and food machinery, elevators and rubber machines marGermany was challenging. Demand stagnated and price preskets. Competition of Industry ’s business activities can be sure was strong. Decreasing public grants to the country ’s grouped into two categories: multinational companies that ofhealth insurance system is burdening the financial situation of fer a relatively broad portfolio and companies that are active hospitals and thus their willingness to invest. Growth in China only in certain geographic or product markets. Consolidation is slowed down compared to the previous fiscal year. Markets in taking place mostly in particular market segments and not 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 182 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position across the broad base of our portfolio, with the exception of to fiscal 2013. Within Europe, non-residential construction the acquisition of Invensys by Schneider Electric. Consolidation ­markets saw some stabilization in fiscal 2014, but remained in solution-driven markets is going in the direction of in-depth weak due to the economic situation and austerity programs in niche market expertise, whereas consolidation of the product-­ some southern and western European countries. In contrast, driven market follows the line of convergence. Most major markets in the Middle East, in Asia and Australia grew considcompetitors have established global bases for their businesses. erably year-over-year. In the Americas, growth in non-residenIn addition, competition has become increasingly f­ocused on tial construction markets began to accelerate during the fiscal technological improvements and cost position. year. There is usually a time lag of three to four quarters before Building Technologies businesses begin to participate in In fiscal 2014, the broad overall market for the offerings of the such growth. Infrastructure & Cities Sector grew slightly. The market for rail systems showed growth, non-residential construction markets Infrastructure & Cities principal competitors are multinational were recovering, and the market for power grid solutions and companies. The Sector also faces competition from niche comproducts remained challenging. petitors and from new entrants, such as utility companies and consulting firms, exploiting the fragmented energy efficiency Markets served by the Transportation & Logistics Business market. The Sector’s solution businesses also compete with engrew moderately in fiscal 2014, fueled e.g. by large contract gineering, procurement and construction providers, and comawards in the U.K. and in Saudi Arabia within the Europe, C.I.S., petitors in the service field often include small local players. Africa, Middle East region. Europe remained the largest market for the Business. Growth in the Americas region benefited from demand for passenger locomotives and urban transport prodC.1.3 Strategy ucts in the U.S. The Asia, Australia region showed the highest growth rates of all regions. This growth was fueled, amongst C.1.3.1 VISION 2020 others, by a recovery in China, which began to increase its In May 2014, we presented our entrepreneurial concept ­investments in high-speed trains. “­Vision 2020.” In fiscal 2014, markets for our Power Grid Solutions & ProdShaped by our history, culture and values, our mission defines ucts Business declined slightly year-over-year including weaker how we understand ourselves. As an expression of a strong demand from some emerging markets countries. Overall, the brand, it formulates our aspiration: We make real what matters, decline is caused by weak demand in the Europe, C.I.S., Africa, by setting the benchmark in the way we electrify, automate Middle East region. The market situation in southern Europe and digitalize the world around us. Ingenuity drives us and remained particularly challenging. In Germany, which is under­ what we create is yours. Together we deliver. taking a massive shift to renewable energy (“Energie­wende”), utilities continued to delay major grid investments due to unThere are three stages in which we will lead our Company into certainty in the regulatory environment. The Americas rethe future: ported modest growth in real terms, particularly in the U.S., where the economy is gaining momentum in construction and >> In the short term, we want to “drive performance.” To oil and gas markets. The overall market development was more achieve this aim, we are retailoring our structures and repositive in the Asia, Australia region, particularly including sponsibilities. We are also focusing on business excellence. ­demand in the utility business within emerging economies. In addition, we want to get those businesses back on track Furthermore, markets in the oil and gas business and in the that have not reached their full potential and make them non-residential construction business grew year-over-year, parcompetitive again. ticularly in China. >> “Strengthen core” is our aim in the medium term. We intend to strengthen our successful businesses along the value In fiscal 2014, markets addressed by our Building Technol­ chain of electrification by, among other things, allocating ogies Division grew slightly in aggregate year-over-year. Within ­resources in a more rigorous way in order to expand in our non-residential construction markets, some segments ­strategic growth fields. ­developed more favorably than the market overall. Among >> In the long term, we want to “scale up.” We will intensify our them were data centers and the pharmaceutical industry, efforts to seize further growth opportunities and tap new which showed clear growth in construction activities ­compared fields. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 183 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks We have linked the success of Vision 2020 to the attainment of b) Customer and business focus seven overarching goals: We expect that the megatrends digital transformation, globalization, urbanization, demographic change and climate change >> Implement stringent corporate governance: We want to will provide growth opportunities. We are focusing on our posisimplify and accelerate our processes, while reducing comtioning along the value chain of electrification. This is where plexity in our Company and strengthening our corporate our core business lies. From power generation to power trans­governance functions. We expect that these measures enmission, power distribution and smart grid to the efficient able us to reduce our costs by roughly € 1 billion. The savings ­application of electrical energy – in every one of these inter­ are ­expected to be mainly effective in fiscal 2016. related fields, electrification, automation and digitalization are >> Create value sustainably: We are tapping attractive growth the key business drivers. fields and getting those businesses that have not yet reached their full potential back on track. >> Power generation: The field of efficient power generation – >> Execute financial target system: We are rigorously impleencompassing conventional and renewable energy sources menting our financial target system. as well as comprehensive services – is addressed by our >> Expand global management: To reflect our global orienta­Divisions Power and Gas, Wind Power and Renewables, and tion more strongly in the future, we want more than 30 % of Power Generation Services. our Division and Business Unit managers to be based outside >> Power transmission, power distribution and smart grid: Germany. Solutions for power transmission and distribution as well as >> Be partner of choice for our customers: We want to be our technologies for smart grids are all bundled at our Energy customers’ partner of choice. To measure customer satisfacManagement Division. tion, we use the Net Promoter Score (NPS) – a comprehensive >> Energy application: Our Divisions Building Technologies, customer satisfaction survey that we conduct every year. Our Mobility, Digital Factory and Process Industries and Drives goal is to improve our score by at least 20 %. are delivering technologies for the efficient application of >> Be an employer of choice: Highly committed and satisfied energy in building technology, transportation and industry. employees are the basis of our success. We are – and want to >> Imaging and in-vitro diagnostics: Healthcare is responsible remain – an attractive employer. That is why we conduct a for our medical imaging and in-vitro diagnostics businesses. global engagement survey to measure employee satisfaction. In the categories Leadership and Diversity, we aim to achieve In all areas related to project financing, Financial Services is a an approval rating of over 75 % on a sustainable b ­ asis. reliable partner to our customers. >> Foster an ownership culture: In the future, our employees will have an even greater stake in their company ’s success. We want to set clear priorities for resource allocation and We want to increase the current number of employee share­address promising growth fields, for example: holders by at least 50 %. >> Flexible and small gas turbines; C.1.3.2 STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK >> Offshore wind power; We have defined a comprehensive strategic framework that >> Distribution grid automation and software; ­integrates the key fields of company management. These key >> Urban and interurban mobility; fields are: >> Digital-twin software; >> Key sectors in process industries; >> Ownership culture; >> Image-guided therapy and molecular diagnostics; and >> Customer and business focus; >> Business analytics and data-driven services, software and >> Governance; and IT solutions. >> our management model “One Siemens.” Flexible and small gas turbines: In the area of power generaa) Ownership culture tion, the trend is increasingly toward decentralized energy One engine of sustainable business is our ownership culture, ­supply. Customers worldwide are relying more and more on in which every employee takes personal responsibility for our individualized energy supplies and demanding tailor-made Company’s success. “Always act as if it were your own C ­ ompany” – solutions. As a result, we see major growth potential in the this maxim applies to everyone at Siemens, from M ­ anaging field of flexible and small gas turbines. Board member to trainee. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 184 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position Offshore wind power: Among renewable sources of energy, customers’ business processes. In the future, we want to leverwind power will play a key role over the long term. Offshore age this knowledge even better by analyzing the data generwind turbines deliver high yields and are subject to less fluctuated in these processes, providing recommendations for imation than other renewables. We want to continue building on provement and action, and thus creating value. The resulting the leading position in offshore wind power that we have capcompetitive advantages for our customers are increasingly tured in recent years. We consider double-digit market growth derived from cloud-based solutions and services powered ­ realistic in this field in the medium term. by data-analytics software. Distribution grid automation and software: Energy managec) Governance ment is becoming increasingly vital – for distribution grids as We want to lead Siemens in such a way that we focus on our well as industrial and private energy producers and consumers. customers at all times and further expand our market penetraEnergy management systems make it possible to integrate intion while maintaining lean and flexible structures. That is why creasingly decentralized power supplies into the energy cycle, we have selected a market-integrative setup that combines a while mitigating the negative impact of the fluctuations that common regional organization with a coordinated vertical occur when power is generated from renewable sources – thus ­approach. Against this backdrop, we have retailored the strucimproving the utilization of existing power grids. Our intellitures and responsibilities of our businesses, our Regions and gent, integrated automation solutions offer customers decisive our corporate governance functions: added value. >> We have removed layers from our Company, thus bringing Urban and interurban mobility: In strong demand, intelligent our businesses closer to customers and key markets. We remobility solutions are providing major impulses for growth – placed our 14 Regional Clusters with 30 Lead Countries. The particularly in the areas of urban transportation and automated CEOs of these countries now report directly to our Managing traffic-control solutions. We see stronger growth potential in Board. this area as well. >> We have also eliminated the Sector level and consolidated our business activities into nine Divisions and one separately Digital-twin software: The virtual and real worlds are merging managed unit, Healthcare. This change is increasing our more and more. Already today, our software solutions are help­customer proximity and accelerating our decision-making. ing customers develop products much faster, more flexibly and >> In addition, we have made governance even more stringent more efficiently. Not only products but also the plants in which across all levels of our organization. Our Managing Board they are produced have digital twins that can be used to co­ leads the Company and maintains the balance between our ordinate and integrate product design and production planbusinesses and regions. It is supported by strong, efficient ning. The digital models are always up-to-date – as planned, as governance functions, our Corporate Core. This Corporate built, as maintained – while allowing improvements throughCore ensures fast, unbureaucratic decision-making across out entire lifecycles. key company functions. Key sectors in process industries: Some industry sectors – d) Management model “One Siemens” oil & gas and food & beverage, for example – are growing at To enable us to manage our Company more effectively, we have above-average rates. We want to participate in this growth. expanded “One Siemens” into an integrated management That is why we are bundling our expertise in process industries model that combines under one roof the overarching targets and drive technologies and continuing to expand our related and priorities with which we are implementing our strategy portfolio of products and software solutions. throughout the Company. It encompasses a financial framework, an operating system and Corporate Memory as well as Image-guided therapy and molecular diagnostics: The insustainability and citizenship. creasing use of molecular biological methods and progress in the life sciences are accelerating technological change in healthFinancial framework care. To improve quality and efficiency, societies worldwide are To measure and compare our development against the market also demanding new solutions for next-generation healthcare. and in our competitive environment, we used a system of ­defined key indicators. We have now refined and expanded Business analytics and data-driven services, software and this financial target system, which is explained in more detail IT solutions: We have a comprehensive understanding of our in C.2 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SYSTEM . 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 185 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Operating system and Corporate Memory These tools enable us, for instance, to benchmark our per­ We manage our Company in accordance with specific, clearly formance against the best and to increase our productivity. defined priorities. Our One Siemens operating system sets the ­T ightening our risk management approach is helping us idenfollowing four priorities: Customer proximity, innovation, busitify project risks while still in the bidding phase and thus ness excellence, as well as people excellence and care. In addiavoid costly project delays. Last but not least, we are fostering tion, the Corporate Memory – our knowledge management – our service business across organizational boundaries – for ensures that we learn from mistakes and keep our work focused ­example, by developing service platforms. on success. People excellence and care: Excellent employees are the Customer proximity: Profitable growth is based on proximity heart and soul of Siemens. That is how it has always been. And to our customers and on an understanding of their individual we want it to be even more so in the future. Therefore we are requirements. To meet and exceed our customers’ expectaanchoring an ownership culture at our Company. For us, this is tions, we invest in local sales presence and support for spenot an abstract idea but a concrete goal that we are pursuing cific groups of market partners. Our key account management with measures we can track. After all, the behavior, motivation ­approach is just one successful example of this. We are repreand values of the people who work for Siemens mold our culsented in virtually every country in the world by Regional Comture. In an attractive working environment, we promote lifelong panies that operate as local partners to our customers. We also learning and personal development. Integrity – supported by a exploit our in-depth knowledge of customer processes and well-established compliance system – remains the prin­ciple continually develop our offerings for key verticals in a targeted that guides our conduct. Our share programs are enabling us manner – across organizational boundaries. To regularly gauge to increase employee participation in our Company’s s­ uccess, the satisfaction of our customers around the world, we use a while bringing us closer every day to a lived ownership culture. uniform measure, the Net Promoter Score. Sustainability and citizenship Innovation: Innovation is essential for ensuring long-term We contribute to sustainable development by maintaining a competitiveness. This applies to our entire portfolio of prod­responsible balance at company level between profit, planet ucts, solutions and services. Added value for our customers is and people. based increasingly on software and IT solutions. As a result, we have made this field a particular focus of our attention – for >> Profit: by having a range of products, solutions and services example, through research and development activities in softthat makes a difference worldwide, because it provides cusware architecture and platforms. Tools such as partner nettomers with decisive competitive advantages. works are enabling us to manage highly effective innovation >> Planet: by utilizing our planet’s limited resources responsibly processes and an open innovation culture. We are concentratand by enabling our customers to improve their own environing on new technology-driven growth areas as well as innovamental performance. tive business models. >> People: by living a culture that strengthens our employees’ sense of responsibility worldwide, fosters their development Business excellence: We want to do an excellent job of manand places integrity at the center of our Company’s activities. aging our businesses while pursuing our aim of continuous As good corporate citizens, we are also contributing to the improvement. For this, we have developed outstanding tools sustainable development of society through our portfolio, our that we intend to apply with even greater rigor in the future. local presence worldwide and our role as a thought leader. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 186 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.2 Financial performance system C.2.1 Overview Adjusted EBITDA margins 1 Margin Target range Within One Siemens, we have established a financial frameEnergy work – for revenue growth, for profitability and capital effiFY 2014 8.1% ciency, for our capital structure, and for our dividend policy. 10 – 15% FY 2013 9.9% Healthcare C.2.2 Revenue growth FY 2014 20.5% 15 – 20% FY 2013 20.7% Within the framework of One Siemens, we aim to grow our revIndustry enue faster than the average weighted revenue growth of our FY 2014 16.4% most relevant competitors. In fiscal 2014, we calculated our rev11 – 17% FY 2013 13.1% enue growth for this comparison using actual revenue as presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our primary Infrastructure & Cities measure for managing and controlling our revenue growth is FY 2014 9.4% 8 – 12% comparable growth, which excludes currency translation and FY 2013 3.7% portfolio effects. We provide figures for both comparable and actual revenue growth in this Annual Report, within C.3.1 1 Adjusted EBITDA margins of respective markets through business cycle. Target range ­O RDERS AND REVENUE BY REGION . Revenue growth In line with common practice in the financial services business, our financial indicator for measuring capital efficiency at Revenue current ­period ­Financial Services (SFS) is return on equity after tax, or ROE – 1 × 100 % Revenue prior-year ­period (after tax). For information on the calculation of ROE (after tax) and its components, see C.2.6.1 RETURN ON EQUIT Y (ROE) (­A FTER TAX) . Actual FY 2014 (2)% Return on equity (ROE) (after tax) FY 2013 (2)% Comparable 1 SFS’ profit after tax FY 2014 1% × 100% SFS’ average allocated equity FY 2013 (1)% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. FY 2014 18.1% FY 2013 17.1% C.2.3 Profitability and capital efficiency Target range: 15 – 20% Within the framework of One Siemens, we aim to achieve marFor purposes of managing and controlling profitability at the gins through the entire business cycle that are comparable to Group level, we use net income as our primary measure. This those of our relevant competitors. For purposes of this comparmeasure is the main driver of basic earnings per share (EPS) ison in fiscal 2014, we used defined adjusted EBITDA margin from net income, which we use for communicating with ranges, which are based on the results of the respective relethe capital markets. For an analysis of this measure, refer to vant competitors of our four Sectors. Information regarding C.3.3 INCOME . the calculation of adjusted EBITDA is presented in C.3.4 ­R ECONCILIATION TO ADJUSTED EBITDA . 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 187 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Beginning with fiscal 2015, we defined profit margin ranges for Within the framework of One Siemens we seek to work profitour Industrial Business (for the new organizational set up of ably and as efficiently as possible with the capital provided by Siemens, see C.1.1.1 ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION ), our shareholders and lenders. For purposes of managing and which are based on the profit margins of the respective relecontrolling our capital efficiency in fiscal 2014, we used return vant competitors. Their determination is based on our enon capital employed, or ROCE, for continuing operations as hanced profit definition for our Industrial Business, which is our primary measure. We aimed to achieve a range of 15 % to also effective beginning with fiscal 2015. In contrast to the 20 %. An analysis of this financial measure is provided in profit definition we used for fiscal 2014, the enhanced definiC.3.3 INCOME . For information on the calculation of ROCE and tion eliminates income statement effects resulting from amorits components, see C.2.6.2 ­R ETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) . tization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. This type of amortization is basically a technical consequence Return on capital employed (ROCE) (continuing operations) of the purchase price allocation resulting from an acquisition, and therefore has nearly no operational business relevance. Moreover, by eliminating these income statement effects, we Income from continuing operations before interest after tax × 100% improve the comparability of our Industrial Businesses’s profits Average capital employed with that of their relevant competitors. Beginning with fiscal 2015, profit for SFS is also presented excluding amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. Except FY 2014 17.2% for this adjustment, the profit definition remains ­unchanged. FY 2013 13.7% Profit margin ranges Target range: 15 – 20% Margin range Power and Gas 11 – 15% Beginning with fiscal 2015 and within the scope of further Wind Power and Renewables 5 – 8% develop­ment of One Siemens, we intend to use ROCE for conEnergy Management 7 – 10% tinuing and discontinued operations as the primary measure for Building Technologies 8 – 11% managing and controlling our capital efficiency. Going forward Mobility 6 – 9% all activities of the Group are included in this financial measure. Digital Factory 14 – 20% We continue to aim for a ROCE in the range of 15 % to 20 %. ROCE Process Industries and Drives 8 – 12% for continuing and discontinued operations amounted to 17.3 % Healthcare 15 – 19% in fiscal 2014, compared to 13.5 % a year earlier. SFS (ROE (after taxes)) 15 – 20% Beginning with fiscal 2015, we incorporated a measure called total cost productivity into our One Siemens framework, to emphasize and evaluate our continuous efforts to improve productivity. We define this measure as the ratio of cost savings from defined productivity improvement measures to the aggregate of functional costs for the Siemens Group. We aim to achieve an annual value of 3 % to 5 % for Total cost productivity. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 188 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.2.4 Capital structure At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, the Managing Board, in agreement with the Supervisory Board, will submit the followSustainable revenue and profit development is supported by a ing proposal to allocate the unappropriated net income of healthy capital structure. A key consideration within the frameSiemens AG for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014: to work of One Siemens is to maintain ready access to the capital distribute a dividend of € 3.30 on each share of no-par value markets through various debt products and preserve our ability entitled to the dividend for fiscal year 2014 existing at the date to repay and service our debt obligations over time. Our priof the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, with the remaining mary measure for managing and controlling our capital strucamount to be carried forward. Payment of the proposed diviture is the ratio of industrial net debt to adjusted EBITDA. dend is contingent upon approval by Siemens shareholders This financial measure indicates the approximate amount of at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 27, 2015. The time in years that would be needed to cover industrial net debt prior-­year dividend was € 3.00 per share. through income from continuing operations, without taking into account interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. In The proposed dividend of € 3.30 per share for fiscal 2014 repfiscal 2014, we aimed to achieve a ratio in the range of 0.5 to resents a total payout of € 2.706 billion based on the estimated 1.0. For more information regarding adjusted EBITDA and for an number of shares entitled to dividend at the date of the Annual analysis of our capital structure ratio, see C.3.4 RECONCILIAShareholders’ Meeting. Based on net income of € 5.507 billion TION TO ADJUSTED EBITDA and C.4.2 CAPITAL STRUCTURE . for fiscal 2014, the dividend payout percentage is 49 %. The percentage for fiscal 2013 was 57 %, based on a total dividend payCapital structure (continuing operations) out of € 2.533 billion and a net income of € 4.409 billion. Dividend payout percentage Industrial net debt Adjusted EBITDA Total dividend payout × 100% Net income FY 2014 0.15 FY 2013 0.35 FY 2014 49% Target range: 0.5 – 1.0 FY 2013 57% Beginning with fiscal 2015, we intend to achieve a ratio of up to 1.0, and thereby maintain our healthy capital structure. In November 2013, we announced a share buyback of up to € 4 billion ending latest on October 31, 2015. In May 2014, we C.2.5 Dividend and share buybacks started to repurchase shares. Through the end of fiscal 2014, outlays for our publicly announced share buybacks (excluding We intend to continue providing an attractive return to shareincidental transaction charges) totaled € 1.079 billion and repreholders. In fiscal 2014, we intended to propose a dividend paysent 20 % of net income. out which, combined with outlays during the fiscal year for publicly announced share buybacks, results in a sum representThe percentage for fiscal 2013 was 26 % with outlays for share ing 40 % to 60 % of net income, which for this purpose we may buybacks in the amount of € 1.152 billion. adjust to exclude selected exceptional non-cash effects. Beginning with fiscal 2015, we intend to realize a dividend payout range, without the effect of share buybacks, of 40 % to 60 % of net income, which for this purpose we may adjust to exclude selected exceptional non-cash effects. As in the past, we intend to fund the dividend payout from Free cash flow. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 189 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks C.2.6 Additional information for ­financial performance measures C.2.6.1 RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) (AFTER TAX) The following table reports the calculation of ROE (after tax) of SFS as defined under One Siemens. Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Calculation of income taxes of SFS Profit of SFS (Income before income taxes, IBIT) 465 409 Less: Income of SFS from investments ­accounted for using the equity method, net 1 (66) (85) Less: Tax-free income components and others 2 (41) (26) Tax basis 358 298 Tax rate (flat) 30% 30% Calculated income taxes of SFS 107 89 Profit after tax of SFS Profit of SFS (IBIT) 465 409 Less: Calculated income taxes of SFS (107) (89) Profit after tax of SFS 357 320 ROE (after tax) of SFS (I) Profit after tax of SFS 357 320 (II) Average allocated equity of SFS 3 1,976 1,874 (I) / (II) ROE (after tax) of SFS 18.1% 17.1% 1 For information on Income (loss) of SFS from invest­ are classified from at equity to available-for-sale financial 3 Average allocated equity of SFS for a fiscal year is deter­ ments accounted for using the equity method net, assets and are therefore not included in the (Income) loss mined as a five-point average in allocated equity of SFS see C.3.4 RECONCILIATION TO ADJUSTED EBITDA . of SFS from investments accounted for using the equity of the respective quarters starting with the allocated method, net. Such results are already taxed or generally equity of SFS as of September 30 of the previous fiscal 2 Tax-free income components include forms of financing tax free. ­Others may also comprise an adjustment for year. which are generally exempted from income taxes. material taxable Income (loss) of SFS from investments Others comprise result components related to the accounted for using the equity method, net. ­(partial) sale/divestment of equity investments, which 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 190 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.2.6.2 RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) As part of One Siemens, we managed and controlled our capital efficiency in fiscal 2014 using the financial measure ROCE for continuing operations. The following tables report this financial measure as defined under One Siemens and also provide a reconciliation to ROCE for continuing and discontinued operations. (in millions of €) 09/30/2014 06/30/2014 03/31/2014 12/31/2013 09/30/2013 Capital employed Fiscal 2014 Total equity 31,514 28,633 28,336 30,372 28,625 Plus: Long-term debt 19,326 18,364 18,587 18,377 18,509 Plus: Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 1,620 4,092 3,757 2,883 1,944 Less: Cash and cash equivalents (8,013) (8,210) (8,585) (8,885) (9,190) Less: Current available-for-sale financial assets (925) (907) (799) (666) (601) Plus: Post-employment benefits 9,324 10,473 9,614 8,771 9,265 Less: SFS Debt (18,663) (17,017) (16,428) (16,022) (15,600) Less: Fair value hedge accounting adjustment 1 (1,121) (1,114) (1,134) (1,166) (1,247) Capital employed (continuing and discontinued operations) 33,063 34,313 33,348 33,665 31,706 Less: Assets classified as held for disposal presented as ­discontinued operations (2,325) (1,689) (14) (758) (768) Plus: Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal presented as discontinued operations 1,559 1,275 20 232 258 Capital employed (continuing operations) 32,297 33,898 33,354 33,138 31,195 (in millions of €) 09/30/2013 06/30/2013 03/31/2013 12/31/2012 09/30/2012 Capital employed Fiscal 2013 Total equity 28,625 27,909 26,620 30,551 31,424 Plus: Long-term debt 18,509 19,140 20,182 16,651 16,880 Plus: Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 1,944 3,656 2,752 3,709 3,826 Less: Cash and cash equivalents (9,190) (6,071) (7,892) (7,823) (10,891) Less: Current available-for-sale financial assets (601) (506) (533) (517) (524) Plus: Post-employment benefits 9,265 9,325 9,890 9,856 9,801 Less: SFS Debt (15,600) (15,004) (14,879) (14,490) (14,558) Less: Fair value hedge accounting adjustment 1 (1,247) (1,323) (1,473) (1,570) (1,670) Capital employed (continuing and discontinued operations) 31,706 37,127 34,667 36,367 34,289 Less: Assets classified as held for disposal presented as ­discontinued operations (768) (4,783) (4,616) (4,589) (4,693) Plus: Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal presented as discontinued operations 258 1,948 1,948 2,045 2,010 Capital employed (continuing operations) 31,195 34,291 31,999 33,823 31,606 1 Debt is generally reported with a value representing value mainly due to changes in interest rates. Accord­ figure for the calculation presented above. For further approximately the amount to be repaid. However, for ingly, we deduct these changes in market value in order infor­mation on fair value hedges see NOTE 30 in debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value to end up with an amount of debt that approximately D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . hedges), this amount is adjusted by changes in market will be repaid, which we believe is a more meaningful 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 191 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Income from continuing operations before interest after tax Net income 5,507 4,409 Less: Other interest expenses / income, net (606) (455) Plus: SFS Other interest expenses / income 1 630 556 Plus: Net interest expenses from post-employment benefits 295 297 Less: Taxes on interest adjustments 2 (87) (111) Income before interest after tax 5,739 4,695 Less: Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (108) (231) Income from continuing operations before interest after tax 5,632 4,465 Return on capital employed (ROCE) (continuing and discontinued operations) (I) Income before interest after tax 5,739 4,695 (II) Average capital employed (continuing and discontinued operations) 3 33,219 34,831 (I) / (II) ROCE (continuing and discontinued operations) 17.3% 13.5% Return on capital employed (ROCE) (continuing operations) (I) Income from continuing operations before interest after tax 5,632 4,465 (II) Average capital employed (continuing operations) 3 32,777 32,583 (I) / (II) ROCE (continuing operations) 17.2% 13.7% 1 SFS Other interest expenses / income is included in Other 2 Effective tax rate for the determination of taxes on 3 Average capital employed for a fiscal year is determined interest expenses / income, net. Adding back SFS Other interest adjustments is calculated by dividing Income as a five-point average in capital employed of the interest expenses / income in the numerator corresponds tax expenses by Income from continuing o ­ perations respective quarters starting with the capital employed to the adjustment for SFS Debt in the denominator. before income taxes, both as reported in D.1 CONas of September 30 of the previous fiscal year. SOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME . C.2.6.3 DEFINITIONS OF OTHER Order backlog represents an indicator for the future revenues FINANCIAL MEASURES of our Company resulting from already recognized orders. O ­ rder We also use other financial measures in addition to the meabacklog is calculated by adding the orders of the current fiscal sures described above, such as orders and order backlog for the year to the balance of the order backlog as of the end of the assessment of our future revenue potential. We define and calprior fiscal year and then subtracting the revenue recognized in culate orders and order backlog as follows: the current fiscal year. If the amount of an order already recognized in the current or the previous fiscal years is modified or Under our policy for the recognition of orders, we generally if an order from the current fiscal year is cancelled, we adjust recognize the total contract amount for an order when we enter orders for the current quarter and also our order backlog ­ into a contract that we consider legally effective and compul­accordingly, but do not retroactively adjust previously pubsory based on a number of different criteria. The contract lished orders. However, if an order from a previous fiscal year is amount is the agreed price or fee for that portion of the ­contract cancelled, orders of the current quarter and, accordingly, the for which the delivery of goods and / or the provision of services current fiscal year are generally not adjusted; instead, the existhas been irrevocably agreed. Future revenue from long-term ing order backlog is revised directly. Aside from cancellations, service, maintenance and outsourcing contracts is recognized the order backlog is also subject to currency translation and as orders in the amount of the total contract value only if there portfolio effects. is adequate assurance that the contract will r­ emain in effect for its entire duration (e.g., due to high exit barriers for the cusThere is no standard system for compiling and calculating ortomer). Orders are generally recognized immediately when the ders and order backlog information that applies across comparelevant contract is considered legally e ­ ffective and compulnies. Accordingly, our orders and order backlog may not be sory. The only exceptions are orders with short overall contract comparable with orders and order backlog measures reported terms. In this case, a separate reporting of orders would provide by other companies. We subject our orders and our order backno significant additional information regarding our perforlog to internal documentation and review requirements. We mance. For orders of this type, the recognition of orders thus may change our policies for recognizing orders and order backoccurs when the corresponding revenue is recognized. log in the future without previous notice. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 192 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.3 Results of operations C.3.1 Orders and revenue by region Orders for fiscal 2014 totaled € 78.350 billion, and revenue came On a global basis, orders from emerging markets, as these marin at € 71.920 billion. Both represented a 2 % decrease year-overkets are defined by the International Monetary Fund, remained year, due in part to unfavorable currency translation effects. level year-over-year, and accounted for € 27.471 billion, or 35 %, The resulting book-to-bill ratio was 1.09 for Siemens in fiscal of total orders for fiscal 2014. Comparable order growth in 2014. On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation emerging markets was 6 % year-over-year. and portfolio effects, orders and revenue both grew 1 % yearover-year. Revenue (location of customer) Year ended % Change therein September 30, The order backlog (defined as the sum of order backlogs of the Compa­ Cur­ Port­Sectors) was € 100 billion as of September 30, 2014, up from (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual rable 1 rency folio € 94 billion a year earlier. Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 38,732 39,390 (2)% (1)% (1)% 0% Orders (location of customer) therein Germany 10,857 10,652 2% 2% 0% 0% Year ended % Change therein Americas 18,756 19,644 (5)% 0% (5)% 0% September 30, therein U.S. 12,876 13,110 (2)% 1% (3)% 1% Compa­ Cur­ Port­Asia, Australia 14,433 14,411 0% 4% (4)% 0% (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual rable 1 rency folio therein China 6,442 5,866 10% 12% (2)% 0% Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East 41,542 43,889 (5)% (4)% (1)% 0% Siemens 71,920 73,445 (2)% 1% (3)% 0% therein Germany 10,986 11,616 (5)% (5)% 0% 0% Americas 20,880 21,070 (1)% 4% (5)% 1% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. therein U.S. 14,842 13,592 9% 11% (3)% 1% 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. Asia, Australia 15,929 14,796 8% 12% (4)% 0% therein China 6,641 6,053 10% 12% (2)% 0% Revenue related to external customers declined 2 % comSiemens 78,350 79,755 (2)% 1% (3)% 0% pared to fiscal 2013. Clear revenue growth year-over-year in Infra­structure & Cities resulting from the continuing execution 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. of large rolling-stock projects, was more than offset by a clear 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. decline in Energy, which saw revenue fall in many of its ­businesses and in all three reporting regions. Industry revenue Orders related to external customers in fiscal 2014 decreased came in near the prior-year level and Healthcare reported 2 %, largely due to a moderate decline in Infrastructure & Cities a slight decline, both including unfavorable currency trans­ where prior-year orders included a € 3.0 billion contract for lation effects. trains and maintenance in the U.K. Slight decreases in Healthcare and Energy were only partially offset by order growth in While revenue in Asia, Australia came in near the prior-year Industry. level, it included double-digit revenue growth in China that ­resulted from a sharp increase in Infrastructure & Cities and a In the region Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East, the decline solid contribution from Industry. In the Americas, revenue was in orders was due mainly to a double-digit decrease in Infra­ lower year-over-year in all Sectors, due in part to currency transstructure & Cities caused by a lower volume from large orders lation headwinds as mentioned above. A double-digit d ­ ecrease ­compared to a year earlier. Orders came in slightly lower in in Energy revenue in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East more the Americas, despite 9 % order growth in the U.S. Key growth than offset clear growth in Infrastructure & Cities. Emerging ­drivers here included Siemens’ largest-ever order for light rail markets reported a 2 % decline compared to fiscal 2013 and vehicles in the U.S. and a rebound in the U.S. wind business ­accounted for € 24.312 billion, or 34 %, of total revenue in fiscal after a sharp drop in the previous year. Clear order growth in 2014. Comparable revenue growth in emerging markets was 3 % Asia, Australia was due in part to a higher volume from large year-over-year. orders in Energy. In addition, China contributed to the regional development with a sharp increase in Infrastructure & Cities and double-digit order growth in Industry. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 193 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Orders and revenue by quarter (in millions of €) Orders Revenue Book-to-bill ratio Q4 2014 20,733 Q4 2014 20,621 1.01 Q3 2014 19,284 Q3 2014 17,692 1.09 Q2 2014 18,027 Q2 2014 16,865 1.07 Q1 2014 20,306 Q1 2014 16,742 1.21 Q4 2013 20,298 Q4 2013 20,559 0.99 Q3 2013 19,928 Q3 2013 18,363 1.09 Q2 2013 20,761 Q2 2013 17,226 1.21 Q1 2013 18,767 Q1 2013 17,297 1.09 C.3.2 Segment information analysis C.3.2.1 ENERGY Sector Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Profit 1,569 1,955 (20)% Profit margin 6.4% 7.3% Orders 28,646 28,797 (1)% 4% (3)% (1)% Total revenue 24,631 26,638 (8)% (3)% (3)% (1)% External revenue 24,380 26,425 (8)% therein: Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 12,766 14,382 (11)% therein Germany 2,507 2,246 12% Americas 7,013 7,155 (2)% Asia, Australia 4,601 4,888 (6)% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. Energy Sector profit of € 1.569 billion in fiscal 2014 was down Revenue for the Sector came in 8 % lower than a year ago on significantly compared to a year earlier, due mainly to continudecreases in all three reporting regions, reflecting weak order ing profitability challenges including a revenue decline and a development at Power Generation and selective order intake at less favorable business mix. Both p ­ eriods included substantial Power Transmission in the past. Power Generation and Power burdens on profit. In the current ­period, the impacts included Transmission posted revenue declines compared to the prior € 538 million in charges at Power Transmission and € 272 milyear, while Wind Power clearly increased its revenue. Orders lion in charges at Wind Power. Burdens on Sector profit a year for the Sector came in 1 % lower than in the prior year. On a ago included € 301 million in charges for the “Siemens 2014” ­regional basis, an increase in the Asia, Australia reporting program, a loss of € 255 million at Siemens’ solar activities, ­region was more than offset by a decline in the Americas. € 171 million in charges at Power Transmission, among others, ­Negative currency translation effects took three percentage € 94 million in charges related to onshore wind turbine blades points from both revenue and order development during the and € 46 million in charges related to compliance with sancyear. The book-to-bill ratio for Energy was 1.16, and its order tions on Iran at Power Generation. The Power Generation Divibacklog was € 58 billion at the end of the fiscal year. Out of the sion increased its profit year-over-year, benefiting from a gain order backlog as of September 30, 2014, orders of € 19 billion on the sale of the Division’s turbo fan business and a positive are expected to be converted into revenue in fiscal 2015 and the effect from a successful project completion. Power Trans­ remainder in the ­periods thereafter. mission posted a sharply higher loss year-over-year, and Wind Power reported a loss compared to a profit in fiscal 2013. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 194 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position Orders by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Power Generation 15,478 16,366 (5)% 0% (4)% (2)% Wind Power 7,748 6,593 18% 19% (2)% 0% Power Transmission 5,586 5,700 (2)% 2% (4)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. Revenue by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Power Generation 13,909 15,242 (9)% (4)% (3)% (2)% Wind Power 5,500 5,174 6% 9% (3)% 0% Power Transmission 5,310 6,167 (14)% (10)% (3)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. Profit and Profit margin by Business Profit Profit margin Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 % Change 2014 2013 Power Generation 2,186 2,126 3% 15.7% 13.9% Wind Power (15) 306 n/a (0.3)% 5.9% Power Transmission (636) (156) >(200)% (12.0)% (2.5)% Profit at Power Generation in fiscal 2014 increased moderately c­ ontribution from the higher-margin offshore business. In addiyear-over-year to € 2.186 billion, despite a 9 % revenue decline. tion, the ­Division’s production costs were higher compared to The current ­period benefited from a € 73 million gain on the sale the prior year. For comparison, fiscal 2013 profit was burdened of the Division’s turbo fan business and a positive € 72 million by € 94 million in charges related to inspecting and retrofitting effect from a successful project completion in the turnkey busionshore turbine blades, but benefited from positive effects reness. The Division continues to face challenges in an increaslated to project completions and the settlement of a claim ingly competitive market for large gas turbines. For comparison, ­related to an offshore wind-farm project. Revenue was up 6 % as profit development a year earlier was held back by € 163 million an increase in the onshore business, particularly in the Ameriin “Siemens 2014” charges and € 46 million in charges related to cas, more than offset the above-mentioned decline in the offcompliance with sanctions on Iran. Revenue for the Division shore business. Order intake was up significantly year-over­decreased 9 % year-over-year on declines in all three reporting year as order intake in the Americas region grew sharply, driven regions, due in part to negative currency translation. Order inmainly by a recovery in the U.S., the Division’s largest national take was below the level of the prior year, including strong negmarket for onshore wind power, from a low basis of comparison ative currency translation effects, as declines in the Americas in the prior year that resulted from uncertainty about continuand Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East were only partially offset ation of production tax incentives. by an increase in Asia, Australia. On an organic basis, order ­intake was on the same level as in the prior year. Power Transmission reported a loss of € 636 million, substantially wider than the loss a year earlier mainly due to project Wind Power reported a loss of €15 million in fiscal 2014, comexecution challenges. In the current year, the Division took pared to a profit of €306 million in fiscal 2013. The Division charges totaling € 298 million related to two high voltage direct ­recorded charges of €272 million for inspecting and replacing current (HVDC) transmission line projects in Canada, resulting main bearings in onshore wind turbines and for repairing from revised estimates for civil engineering and infrastructure ­ offshore and onshore wind blades. The revenue mix was provided by suppliers as well as penalties for associated project clearly less favorable year-over-year, due to a significantly lower delays, among other factors. In addition, the Division took 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 195 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks charges of € 240 million primarily related to grid connections to year, the Division recorded € 129 million in charges for the offshore wind-farms resulting from transport, installation and “Siemens 2014” program. Revenue was down 14 % on decreases commissioning costs, compared to charges of € 171 million in in all reporting regions, due mainly to selective order intake in the prior year. The Division reached several material milestones prior ­periods primarily in the solutions business. Order intake with respect to its North Sea grid connection projects in fiscal was down 2 % year-over-year on decreases in the Americas 2014. Finally, profit development in fiscal 2014 was also held and Asia, ­Australia, held back by negative currency translation back by a less favorable revenue mix due to a high proportion ­effects. On an o ­ rganic basis, orders grew 2 %. Legacy projects of projects with low or negligible profit margins. In the prior are expected to hold back results going forward. C.3.2.2 HEALTHCARE Sector Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Profit 2,027 2,033 0% Profit margin 16.3% 16.1% Orders 12,819 13,004 (1)% 3% (4)% 0% Total revenue 12,429 12,649 (2)% 2% (4)% 0% External revenue 12,401 12,626 (2)% therein: Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 4,391 4,392 0% therein Germany 880 903 (2)% Americas 4,729 4,815 (2)% Asia, Australia 3,281 3,419 (4)% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. The Healthcare Sector delivered € 2.027 billion in profit in fiscal Revenue and orders for Healthcare in fiscal 2014 declined 2014, close to the level of the prior year. Results in the current slightly year-over-year. Negative currency translation effects ­period include burdens on profit from currency effects due to affected reported results for most of the Sector’s businesses, the greater strength of the euro compared to fiscal 2013. These and also reduced reported revenue and orders in Asia, Australia unfavorable effects were strongest at the Sector’s imaging and and the Americas compared to fiscal 2013. On a comparable therapy systems businesses and at Diagnostics, and they more ­basis, both revenue and orders were up. The book-to-bill ratio than offset a € 66 million positive effect related to the sale of a was 1.03, and Healthcare’s order backlog was € 4 billion at the particle therapy installation in Marburg, Germany. For comparend of fiscal 2014. Out of the order backlog as of September 30, ison, Sector profit in fiscal 2013 was burdened by € 80 million in 2014, orders of € 3 billion are expected to be converted into revcharges associated with the Sector’s “Agenda 2013” initiative. enue in fiscal 2015 and the remainder in the ­periods thereafter. Despite negative currency effects, profit at Diagnostics rose The Diagnostics business reported revenue of € 3.834 billion in significantly to € 417 million. For comparison, profit of € 350 milfiscal 2014, a 3 % decrease from € 3.942 billion a year earlier. lion a year earlier was held back by € 35 million in charges for A clear decline in the Americas was due primarily to headwinds the Sector’s “Agenda 2013” initiative. Purchase price allocation from currency translation as mentioned above. On a compara(PPA) effects related to past acquisitions at Diagnostics were ble basis, Diagnostics revenue was up 1 % year-over-year. € 163 million in fiscal 2014. A year earlier, Diagnostics recorded € 169 million in PPA effects. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 196 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.3.2.3 INDUSTRY Sector Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Profit 2,252 1,563 44% Profit margin 13.2% 9.2% Orders 17,103 16,688 2% 5% (3)% 0% Total revenue 17,064 16,896 1% 4% (3)% 0% External revenue 15,346 15,256 1% therein: Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 8,906 8,839 1% therein Germany 4,141 4,145 0% Americas 2,592 2,718 (5)% Asia, Australia 3,848 3,699 4% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. In fiscal 2014, profit at Industry rose sharply to € 2.252 billion, On a geographic basis, order and revenue development was supported by a more favorable revenue mix and improved prosupported largely by growth in Asia, Australia, driven by China, ductivity compared to the prior year. For comparison, profit in and by a slight increase in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East. the prior-year ­period was burdened by € 375 million in “Siemens Reported orders and revenue in the Americas region were 2014” charges. Through most of fiscal 2014, the market environlower compared to the prior-year ­period, held back by negative ment for the Sector’s businesses was clearly more favorable currency translation effects. The book-to-bill ratio was 1.00, and than a year earlier. While reported orders and revenue for the Industry’s order backlog was € 7 billion at the end of fiscal 2014. year were up 2 % and 1 %, respectively, both were held back by Out of the order backlog as of September 30, 2014, orders of negative currency translation effects that took away three per€ 5 billion are expected to be converted into revenue in fiscal centage points from reported growth. 2015 and the remainder in the ­periods thereafter. Orders by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Industry Automation 8,412 8,143 3% 5% (3)% 1% Drive Technologies 9,210 9,024 2% 5% (3)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. Revenue by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Industry Automation 8,353 8,194 2% 4% (3)% 1% Drive Technologies 9,211 9,208 0% 3% (2)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 197 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Profit and Profit margin by Business Profit Profit margin Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 % Change 2014 2013 Industry Automation 1,401 1,038 35% 16.8% 12.7% Drive Technologies 843 527 60% 9.1% 5.7% Profit at Industry Automation increased substantially yearA ­ frica, Middle East. Reported revenue in the Americas showed over year to € 1.401 billion on an improved business mix and a slight decline due to unfavorable currency translation effects. higher results in all businesses, up from € 1.038 billion in the prior-year ­period which included € 114 million in “Siemens 2014” Profit at Drive Technologies in fiscal 2014 increased to charges. Profit development further included higher revenue € 843 million on contributions from most of its businesses. and lower acquisition-related effects. In particular, PPA effects Profit development included a higher share of revenue from related to the acquisition of UGS Corp. in fiscal 2007 were the Division’s higher-margin motion control business and an € 93 million in the current ­period compared to € 147 million a ­improved cost position. For comparison, profit of € 527 million a year earlier. In addition, the Division recorded PPA effects of year earlier was burdened by € 243 million in “Siemens 2014” € 44 million related to LMS International NV (LMS), acquired in charges. Due to unfavorable currency translation effects, the second quarter of fiscal 2013. For comparison, PPA effects ­reported revenue was level year-over-year while orders grew related to LMS in the prior year were € 33 million, while de2 % on a higher volume of large internal orders from Siemens’ ferred revenue adjustments and inventory step-ups totaled rail business. € 43 million. On a geographic basis, double-digit order growth in China drove Order and revenue development for the Division was driven a moderate increase in Asia, Australia while orders in E ­ urope, mainly by double-digit growth in Asia, Australia, led by China. C.I.S., Africa, Middle East came in slightly above their prior-year In addition, order growth of 3 % year-over-year included a modlevel. Revenue was flat in these two reporting r­ egions. Both erate increase in the Americas. Revenue came in 2 % above ­orders and revenue came in lower in the Americas, held back the prior year and included a slight increase in Europe, C.I.S., by unfavorable currency translation effects. C.3.2.4 INFRASTRUCTURE & CITIES Sector Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Profit 1,487 291 >200% Profit margin 7.9% 1.6% Orders 21,001 21,894 (4)% (4)% (2)% 2% Total revenue 18,934 17,879 6% 6% (3)% 3% External revenue 18,291 17,149 7% therein: Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 11,560 10,494 10% therein Germany 2,763 2,635 5% Americas 4,075 4,288 (5)% Asia, Australia 2,656 2,367 12% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 198 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position In fiscal 2014, Infrastructure & Cities executed its projects Sector revenue in fiscal 2014 rose 6 % compared to the prior ­solidly, improved its productivity, and again won a number of ­fiscal year, due to a double-digit increase at Transportation & very large infrastructure orders. Profit for the Sector rose to ­Logistics. This business continued to execute large rolling stock € 1.487 billion and all its Businesses contributed to the increase projects won in prior p ­ eriods, and also recorded four quarters of year-over-year. For comparison, profit of € 291 million in the revenue from the acquisition of Invensys Rail which closed prior year was impacted by € 468 million in “Siemens 2014” during the third quarter of the prior year. Large orders in the charges as well as project charges including charges of current ­period included a contract worth € 1.6 billion for two € 270 million related to high-speed trains. Transportation & driverless subway lines in Saudi Arabia. A year earlier, large ­Logistics, which posted a loss in the prior fiscal year due to the ­orders included among others a contract worth € 3.0 billion for project charges just mentioned and a majority share of the Sectrains and maintenance in the U.K., and as a result fiscal 2014 tor’s “Siemens 2014” charges, delivered a profit of € 440 million orders for the Sector came in 4 % lower year-over-year. On a geoin fiscal 2014 and made the strongest contribution to the graphic basis, the Sector reported double-­ digit revenue in­Sector’s profit improvement year-over-year. Power Grid Solucreases in Asia, Australia and Europe, C.I.S, Africa, Middle East, tions & Products and Building Technologies improved their profonly partly offset by a decline in the Americas. For orders, its sharply year-over-year, to € 566 million and € 501 million, redouble-­ digit increases in the Americas and Asia, Australia spectively. While both Businesses posted lower revenue, they were more than offset by a double-digit decline in Europe, improved productivity and generated a more favorable revenue C.I.S., ­Africa, Middle East. On a book-to-bill ratio of 1.11, Inframix year-over-year. structure & Cities’ order backlog rose to € 31 billion at the end of fiscal 2014. Out of the order backlog as of September 30, 2014, orders of € 10 billion are expected to be converted into revenue in fiscal 2015 and the remainder in the ­periods thereafter. Orders by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Transportation & Logistics 9,184 10,040 (9)% (13)% (1)% 5% Power Grid Solutions & Products 6,481 6,392 1% 6% (5)% 0% Building Technologies 5,587 5,769 (3)% (1)% (2)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. Revenue by Business Year ended September 30, % Change therein (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Actual Comparable 1 Currency Portfolio Transportation & Logistics 7,615 6,318 21% 14% (2)% 8% Power Grid Solutions & Products 6,005 6,102 (2)% 3% (4)% 0% Building Technologies 5,569 5,754 (3)% (1)% (2)% 0% 1 Excluding currency translation and portfolio effects. Profit and Profit margin by Business Profit Profit margin Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 % Change 2014 2013 Transportation & Logistics 440 (448) n/a 5.8% (7.1)% Power Grid Solutions & Products 566 403 41% 9.4% 6.6% Building Technologies 501 351 43% 9.0% 6.1% 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 199 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Transportation & Logistics contributed a profit of € 440 milC.3.2.5 EQUITY INVESTMENTS lion in the current fiscal year, compared to a loss of € 448 milIn fiscal 2014, Equity Investments generated € 328 million in lion a year earlier. Profit development in the current fiscal was profit, down from € 411 million a year earlier. Profit at Equity driven primarily by significantly higher revenue and solid proj­Investments in both fiscal years included equity investment ect execution. Profit also benefited from a € 55 million net effect ­income related to our stake in BSH. Beginning with the second from the release of accruals related to the “Siemens 2014” proquarter of fiscal 2014, we started to report results related to our gram and a € 27 million positive effect stemming from a change stake in BSH in phase with results of Siemens, rather than with in risk assessment for a rail project. For comparison, the loss in the lag of one quarter. This one-time catch-up effect contribthe prior fiscal year was due to substantial profit impacts, inuted € 59 million to profit at Equity Investments in fiscal 2014. cluding the above-mentioned € 270 million in project charges, Late in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we announced an which stemmed from delays for receiving certification for new agreement to sell our stake in BSH to Robert Bosch GmbH. high-speed trains, and € 267 million in “Siemens 2014” charges. Profit at Equity Investments in the prior year benefited from a Prior-year profit was also burdened by € 76 million in trans­ positive effect of € 301 million stemming from a partial reversal action and integration costs and PPA effects of € 23 million of a fiscal 2009 impairment of our stake in NSN, which was sold ­related to the acquisition of Invensys Rail, which closed during at the end of fiscal 2013. This positive effect was only partly the third quarter of fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2014, full-year PPA efoffset by an equity investment loss related to our share in Unify fects related to the acquisition of Invensys Rail were € 53 milHoldings B.V. (formerly named Enterprise Networks) of € 96 million and integration costs amounted to € 34 million. Revenue at lion. This loss was due largely to additions to our net investTransportation & Logistics rose substantially year-over-year, as ment in Unify, which required us to recognize previously un­ the Business has been executing a number of its large rollrecognized losses. ing-stock orders. Orders declined 9 % compared to fiscal 2013, due primar­ily to lower volume from large orders. For example, C.3.2.6 FINANCIAL SERVICES (SFS) fiscal 2014 included the Business’s share of the above-mentioned € 1.6 billion order from Saudi Arabia, while the prior fiscal year included the entire € 3.0 billion order from the U.K. Year ended September 30, % Change mentioned above. Both revenue and order development in (in millions of €) 2014 2013 ­fiscal 2014 benefited from the acquisition of Invensys rail. Income before income taxes 465 409 14% Total assets 21,970 18,661 18% Profit at Power Grid Solutions & Products rose to € 566 million from € 403 million in the prior fiscal year. Profit grew on improved productivity as well as a more favorable revenue mix. For comparison, profit in fiscal 2013 was burdened by € 97 milSFS delivered € 465 million in profit (defined as income before lion in “Siemens 2014” charges. Slightly lower revenue yearincome taxes) in fiscal 2014. For comparison, profit of € 409 milover-year included declines in the Americas and the Asia, lion in the prior-year ­ period was burdened primarily by a ­Australia regions. A slight increase in orders included the Busi€ 52 million impairment of an equity stake in a power plant ness’s share of the above-mentioned order from Saudi Arabia. project in the U.S. SFS continued to successfully support Revenue and order development in fiscal 2014 was strongly Siemens business and grow in its focus areas leading to higher ­affected by negative currency translation effects. On an organic interest income and associated expenses. Total assets rose to basis, revenue was up 3 % and orders rose 6 % year-over-year. € 21.970 billion at the end of fiscal 2014, compared to € 18.661 billion at the end of fiscal 2013, including positive currency transBuilding Technologies increased its profit to € 501 million lation effects and substantial early terminations of financings. compared to € 351 million in the prior fiscal year. Profit growth year-over-year was supported by higher productivity and a C.3.2.7 RECONCILIATION TO CONSOLIDATED more favorable business mix related to the Division’s highFINANCIAL STATEMENTS er-margin product and service businesses. For comparison, Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements includes profit in fiscal 2013 was held back by € 100 million in “Siemens Centrally managed portfolio activities, Siemens Real Estate 2014” charges. Both revenue and orders declined 3 % year-­over(SRE) and various categories of items which are not allocated to year. On a regional basis, lower volume was due mainly to the the Sectors and to SFS because the Company ’s management Americas. has determined that such items are not indicative of the Sectors’ and SFS’ respective performance. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 200 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position Centrally managed portfolio activities ­current ­­period included expenses resulting from changes in Centrally managed portfolio activities reported a profit of the fair value of warrants issued together with US $ 3 billion in € 44 million in fiscal 2014, compared to a loss of € 113 million bonds in fiscal 2012, as well as negative effects related to legal in fiscal 2013. Results for the prior year included € 100 million in and regulatory matters. The fair value of the warrants depends charges related to two large projects remaining from the Metals on the underlying Siemens and OSRAM share prices as well as ­Technologies business, formerly reported within ­Industry, that their respective volatilities. Because this effect is accounted were not classified as discontinued operations. for in Corporate items, results for Corporate items are expected to remain variable in coming ­periods. Centrally carried penSiemens Real Estate (SRE) sion expense totaled € 393 million in fiscal 2014, compared to Income before income taxes at SRE was € 241 million in fiscal € 416 million in fiscal 2013. 2014, compared to € 168 million in fiscal 2013. As in the past, income from SRE continues to be highly dependent on dis­ Eliminations, Corporate Treasury posals of real estate. and other ­reconciling items Income before income taxes from Eliminations, Corporate Corporate items and pensions ­Treasury and other reconciling items was a negative € 48 milCorporate items and pensions reported a loss of € 938 million in lion in fiscal 2014, compared to a negative € 70 million in fiscal 2014, compared to a loss of € 836 million in fiscal 2013. the same p ­ eriod a year earlier. The change year-over-year inWithin these figures, the loss at Corporate items was € 545 milcluded higher interest income from liquidity at Corporate lion, compared to a loss of € 419 million in fiscal 2013. The Treasury. C.3.3 Income Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 % Change Energy 1,569 1,955 (20)% Healthcare 2,027 2,033 0% Industry 2,252 1,563 44% Infrastructure & Cities 1,487 291 >200% Total Sectors profit 7,335 5,842 26% Equity Investments 328 411 (20)% Financial Services (SFS) 465 409 14% Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements (700) (850) 17% Income from continuing operations before income taxes 7,427 5,813 28% Income tax expenses (2,028) (1,634) (24)% Income from continuing operations 5,400 4,179 29% Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 108 231 (53)% Net income 5,507 4,409 25% Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 134 126 – Net income attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG 5,373 4,284 25% As a result of the developments described in C.3.2 SEGMENT In fiscal 2014, the hospital information system business, forINFORMATION ANALYSIS , Income from continuing operations merly included in the Healthcare Sector, and nearly all of the before i­ncome taxes increased 28% year-over-year. With a Metals Technology business, formerly included in the Industry lower effective tax rate compared to fiscal 2013 (27% in fiscal Sector, were classified as discontinued operations. Income 2014 vs. 28% in fiscal 2013), Income from continuing operafrom discontinued operations, net of income taxes in fiscal tions increased 29% year-over-year. 2014 was €108 million compared to €231 million a year earlier. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 201 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks While Income from discontinued operations in the current Corresponding basic EPS rose 25% to €6.37 compared to €5.08 ­period benefited from a positive €64 million tax effect related in the prior year, primarily reflecting higher Net income attri­ to former Communications activities, the prior year included butable to shareholders of Siemens AG. ­Income from discontinued operations of €277 million related to OSRAM, which was spun off in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2014, ROCE from continuing operations was 17.2%, thus clearly returning to our target range of 15 to 20%. In fiscal As a result of the changes in Income from continuing opera2013, ROCE from continuing operations was 13.7%. The increase tions and Income from discontinued operations, Net income was due primarily to the substantial increase in Income from and Net income attributable to shareholders were 25% higher continuing operations and a slightly lower average capital than a year earlier. ­employed. For more detail on the calculation of ROCE, see C.2.6.2 RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) . C.3.4 Reconciliation to adjusted EBITDA The following table gives additional information on topics ­included in Profit and Income before income taxes and provides a reconciliation to adjusted EBITDA based on continuing ­operations. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 Profit Income (loss) from investments accounted for using the equity method, net (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sectors Energy Sector 1,569 1,955 129 (39) therein: Power Generation 2,186 2,126 32 32 Wind Power (15) 306 52 (8) Power Transmission (636) (156) 29 20 Healthcare Sector 2,027 2,033 6 8 therein: Diagnostics 417 350 – – Industry Sector 2,252 1,563 2 (4) therein: Industry Automation 1,401 1,038 – – Drive Technologies 843 527 2 (5) Infrastructure & Cities Sector 1,487 291 28 26 therein: Transportation & Logistics 440 (448) 16 18 Power Grid Solutions & Products 566 403 10 8 Building Technologies 501 351 2 – Total Sectors 7,335 5,842 165 (10) Equity Investments 328 411 297 372 Financial Services (SFS) 465 409 66 85 Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements Centrally managed portfolio activities 44 (113) 55 69 Siemens Real Estate (SRE) 241 168 – – Corporate items and pensions (938) (836) (2) – Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling items (48) (70) 1 (6) Siemens 7,427 5,813 582 510 Beginning with fiscal 2015, we calculate EBITDA without the elimination of income (loss) from investments accounted for using the equity method, net. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 202 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position Financial income Adjusted EBIT Amortization and Depreciation and Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA margin (expenses), net impairment of other impairments of intangible assets property, plant and equipment and goodwill 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 (41) (27) 1,481 2,022 101 132 406 478 1,988 2,631 8.1% 9.9% (22) (16) 2,177 2,110 57 68 204 222 2,438 2,399 (12) (6) (55) 320 31 32 109 103 85 454 (10) (10) (655) (167) 14 13 89 114 (552) (39) 23 (19) 1,999 2,045 245 266 308 311 2,551 2,622 20.5% 20.7% 25 (27) 392 377 184 196 200 211 776 784 2 (16) 2,248 1,583 242 296 302 342 2,792 2,220 16.4% 13.1% 4 (4) 1,396 1,041 196 240 119 123 1,711 1,404 (2) (11) 843 542 45 56 182 219 1,070 817 (17) (14) 1,476 279 127 154 170 226 1,772 658 9.4% 3.7% (12) (7) 435 (459) 65 39 57 99 556 (321) (3) (6) 560 401 22 57 70 78 652 536 (2) – 501 352 40 58 40 46 581 456 (33) (75) 7,203 5,928 715 848 1,185 1,356 9,103 8,131 29 23 1 16 – – – – 1 16 552 389 (153) (64) 5 5 190 225 41 166 (2) (2) (9) (180) 1 2 3 2 (5) (177) (103) (109) 344 278 1 1 263 307 608 586 (360) (246) (576) (590) 19 17 59 74 (498) (498) 35 30 (83) (94) – – (29) (34) (112) (128) 118 9 6,728 5,293 741 873 1,670 1,931 9,139 8,097 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 203 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks C.3.5 Selected information based if the new organizational structure as of beginning of fiscal on new organizational structure year 2015 had already been in place. As described in more detail in C.7 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS , Audiology Solutions, formerly In May 2014, we announced a new organizational structure ­reported within Healthcare, was classified as discontinued opthat became effective with the beginning of fiscal 2015. In generations in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. This classification is eral, financial measures presented in this Combined Managealready reflected in the numbers presented. Profit amounts are ment Report are based on our organizational structure during reported in accordance with our enhanced definition of segfiscal 2014. In this subchapter, we present selected financial ment profit, which is described in more detail in C.2 FINANresults for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 as they would have looked CIAL PERFORMANCE SYSTEM . Orders Revenue Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Power and Gas 13,996 15,100 12,720 14,016 Wind Power and Renewables 7,759 6,870 5,567 5,382 Energy Management 11,210 11,405 10,708 11,672 Building Technologies 5,587 5,769 5,569 5,754 Mobility 9,280 9,707 7,249 5,823 Digital Factory 9,233 8,897 9,201 8,950 Process Industries and Drives 9,968 9,695 9,645 9,834 Healthcare 12,126 12,338 11,736 11,983 Industrial business 79,158 79,781 72,396 73,414 Profit Profit margin Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Power and Gas 2,215 2,129 17.4% 15.2% Wind Power and Renewables 6 7 0.1% 0,1% Energy Management (86) 254 (0.8)% 2.2% Building Technologies 511 377 9.2% 6.6% Mobility 532 (232) 7.3% (4.0)% Digital Factory 1,681 1,320 18.3% 14.8% Process Industries and Drives 773 510 8.0% 5.2% Healthcare 2,072 2,123 17.7% 17.7% Industrial business 7,703 6,488 10.6% 8.8% Financial Services 466 410 Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements (862) (1,177) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 7,306 5,722 Income tax expenses (2,014) (1,652) Income from continuing operations 5,292 4,070 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 215 340 Net income 5,507 4,409 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 204 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.4 Financial position C.4.1 Principles and objectives and uses financial derivative instruments in transactions with of financial management external financial institutions to offset such concentrated exposures. Especially since the beginning of the global financial Siemens is committed to a strong financial profile, which promarket crisis, Siemens monitors very closely the counterparty vides ­the financial flexibility to achieve growth and portfolio risk in its financial assets and financial derivative instruments. optimization goals largely independent of capital market conFor more detailed information about financial risk manageditions. ment at Siemens, see NOTE 31 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED ­F INANCIAL STATEMENTS . Financial management at Siemens is executed according to ­applicable laws and internal guidelines and regulations. It MANAGEMENT OF POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS ­includes ­the following activities: Siemens’ funding policy for post-employment-benefits is part of its overall commitment to sound financial management, LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT which includes a continuous analysis of the structure of its penSiemens’ principal source of financing is cash inflows from sion liabilities. For more detailed information about Siemens’ ­ operating activities. Corporate Treasury generally manages pension plan funding, see NOTE 22 in D.6 NOTES TO CON­ cash and cash equivalents for Siemens and has primary responSOLIDATED ­F INANCIAL STATEMENTS . sibility for raising funds in the capital markets for Siemens through various debt products, with the exception of countries CAPITAL STRUCTURE MANAGEMENT with conflicting capital market controls. The relevant consoliTo effectively manage Siemens’ capital structure, Siemens dated subsidiaries in these countries obtain financing primarily seeks to maintain ready access to the capital markets through from local banks. Siemens follows a prudent borrowing policy various debt products and to preserve its ability to repay and that is aimed ­towards a balanced financing portfolio, a diversiservice its debt obligations over time. fied maturity profile and a comfortable liquidity cushion. Especially since the beginning of the global financial markets crisis, Siemens ­monitors very closely the funding options available in C.4.2 Capital structure the capital markets, trends in the availability of funds and the cost of such funding in order to evaluate possible strategies As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 our capital structure was regarding its financial and risk profile. as follows: CASH MANAGEMENT Cash management comprises the management of bank partner September 30, % Change relationships and bank accounts as well as the execution of (in millions of €) 2014 2013 payments, including the administration of cash pools, on a Total equity attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG 30,954 28,111 10% global level. Siemens strives to raise efficiency and transparAs percentage of total capital 60% 58% ency through a high level of standardization and continuous Short-term debt and current advancement of payment processes. Where permissible, the maturities of long-term debt 1,620 1,944 execution of intercompany and third party payments is effected Long-term debt 19,326 18,509 centrally through group-wide tools with central controls to enTotal debt 20,947 20,453 2% sure compliance with internal and external guidelines and As percentage of total capital 40% 42% ­requirements. To ensure efficient management of Siemens’ Total capital funds, Corporate Treasury has established a central cash man(total equity and total debt) 51,900 48,564 7% agement approach: to the extent legally and economically feasible, funds are pooled and managed centrally by Corporate Treasury. Conversely, funding needs within Siemens are covered centrally by Corporate Treasury via intercompany current For information on changes in equity and debt, see C.5 NET accounts and / or loans where legally and economically feasible. ASSETS POSITION . FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT We believe that sustainable revenue and profit development is Investments of cash and cash equivalents are subject to credit supported by a healthy capital structure. A key consideration of requirements and counterparty limits. Corporate Treasury our capital structure management is to maintain ready access pools and centrally manages Siemens’ interest rate exposure as to the capital markets through various debt products and to well as certain commodity, currency and credit risk exposures preserve our ability to repay and service our debt obligations 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 205 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks over time. In fiscal 2014, the target range for our capital strucHealthcare’s investments are mainly driven by the medical ture was 0.5 – 1.0. The ratio is defined as the item Industrial net ­imaging and therapy systems and laboratory diagnostics busidebt divided by the item Adjusted EBITDA. This financial perfornesses. Large parts of the additions are related to intangible mance measure indicates the approximate amount of time in assets, such as licenses as well as developing and implementyears that would be needed to cover industrial net debt through ing software and IT solutions. continuing income, without taking into account interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The businesses of the former Industry Sector spend a large portion of its additions to intangible assets, particularly software, Our capital structure ratio as of September 30, 2014 decreased and property, plant and equipment for additional capacities for to 0.15 from 0.35 a year earlier. The change was due to a deinnovative products, for optimization of its global footprint; crease in industrial net debt and an increase in adjusted EBITDA and for the replacement of fixed assets. compared to the prior year. We actively manage this ratio through our ongoing share buybacks. Our announced acquisiThe businesses of the former Infrastructure & Cities Sector tions and divestments of businesses will also have a noticeable spend ­large amounts of their additions to intangible assets and impact on it in fiscal 2015. property, plant and equipment for investments in innovations at the former Power Grid Solutions & Products Business, particFor further information on the calculation of adjusted EBITDA ularly including the business activities of the former Low and and its changes, see C.3.4 RECONCILIATION TO ADJUSTED EBITDA . ­Medium Voltage Division, and at the Building Technologies For further information with respect to our capital structure, ­Division. The businesses also invest significant amounts in the the calculation of industrial net debt and its changes, and our ­replacement and expansion of technical equipment in order to credit rating, see NOTE 26 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED improve productivity and their respective positions in grow­F INANCIAL STATEMENTS . ing market segments, particularly at the former Transportation & Logistics Business. C.4.3 Investing activities The changes of additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment from fiscal 2013 to 2014 were as follows: Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment from continuing operations was € 1.831 billion in fiscal Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (in millions of €) 2014, nearly unchanged from the level in the same ­­period a year earlier. In fiscal 2014, we ­directed € 1.356 billion of these Siemens (continuing operations) additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipFY 2014 1,831 1% ment within the Sectors to investments for technological innoFY 2013 1,808 vations, extending our capacities for designing, manufacturing Energy Sector and marketing new solutions and for the necessary replaceFY 2014 449 ments of fixed assets. The majority of the additions in fiscal 6% FY 2013 425 2014 took place in the focus areas of investing activities of the former Sectors described below, which will basically continue Healthcare Sector to be the focus areas regarding the ­investing activities of the FY 2014 303 Industrial Business in fiscal 2015. The remaining portion in fis26% FY 2013 241 cal 2014, € 475 million, related mainly to SRE and its responsibility for uniform and comprehensive management of Company Industry Sector real estate worldwide. FY 2014 358 (7)% FY 2013 384 The businesses of the former Energy Sector includes investInfrastructure & Cities Sector ments mainly in improving its global footprint to secure comFY 2014 247 petitiveness by improving its cost position and strengthening 3% FY 2013 239 technological innovations. These investments include mainly spending in capacities and facilities related to the business of the former Power Generation Division, such as new test facilities for highly efficient gas turbines, and for the technology-­ For information with respect to acquisitions of businesses, see driven wind power market, particularly in northern Europe. C.1.1.2 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION . 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 206 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.4.4 Cash flows Cash flows Continuing operations Discontinued operations Continuing and discontinued operations Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash flows from: Operating activities 7,230 7,186 (131) 154 7,100 7,340 Investing activities (4,364) (4,759) 339 (317) (4,026) (5,076) therein: Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (1,831) (1,808) (67) (204) (1,898) (2,012) Free cash flow 5,399 5,378 (198) (50) 5,201 5,328 Financing activities (4,485) (3,715) (2) 319 (4,487) (3,396) Cash flows from operating activities – Continuing operations For comparison, the prior year included cash outflows from the provided cash from operating activities of € 7.230 billion in fis­financing activities at SFS of € 2.175 billion and additions to incal 2014, nearly unchanged from the level a year earlier. In both tangible assets and property, plant and equipment of € 1.808 bil­periods, the major component of cash inflows was income lion. In the prior year, cash outflows for acquisitions of from continuing operations, which increased to € 5.400 billion businesses, net of cash acquired, totaled € 2.786 billion. This in fiscal 2014 from € 4.179 billion in the prior year. Included total included the preliminary purchase price (excluding cash therein were amortization, depreciation and impairments of acquired) of € 1.987 billion related to Infrastructure & Cities’ ac€ 2.411 billion in the current ­period and € 2.804 billion in the quisition of Invensys Rail, and € 670 million related to Indusprior year. A decrease in operating net working capital led to try’s acquisitions of LMS International NV. Also in the prior year cash inflows of € 0.1 billion in the current p ­ eriod compared to cash inflows from the disposal of investments, intangibles and outflows of € 1.7 billion due to a build-up in operating net workproperty, plant and equipment were € 2.462 billion. This total ing capital a year earlier. The positive change year-over-year in included proceeds of € 1.7 billion relating to the sale of our 50 % operating net working capital related mainly to Energy, in parstake in NSN and € 0.3 billion relating to the sale of our AtoS ticular to the Wind Power Division, and to Infrastructure & convertible bonds. ­Cities’ Transportation & Logistics Business. In fiscal 2014 we ­recorded negative effects related to changes in other assets and Discontinued operations provided cash of € 339 million in fiscal liabilities, particularly personnel-related liabilities, compared to 2014, compared to cash used of € 317 million in the prior year. positive effects in the prior year. The current p ­ eriod included The current p ­ eriod included proceeds (excluding cash sold) cash outflows of approximately € 0.5 billion corresponding to of € 0.5 billion related to the sale of the Water Technologies charges to income taken for the “Siemens 2014” program, comBusiness Unit. pared to € 0.4 billion in such outflows in the prior year. Free cash flow from continuing and discontinued operations Discontinued operations used cash of € 131 million in fiscal of € 5.201 billion in fiscal 2014 was near the high level of the 2014, compared to cash provided of € 154 million in the prior prior year. On a sequential basis, Free cash flow during fiscal year, which included significant cash inflows at OSRAM. 2014 and fiscal 2013 developed as follows: Cash flows from investing activities – Cash used in investing Free cash flow (in millions of €) 1 activities for continuing operations amounted to € 4.364 billion Q4 2014 3,450 in fiscal 2014, compared to cash used of € 4.759 billion in the Q3 2014 1,048 prior year. In the current p ­ eriod, cash outflows from investing Q2 2014 1,402 activities were due mainly to two factors. Firstly, SFS executed Q1 2014 (699) its planned asset growth during fiscal 2014 and we recorded Q4 2013 4,336 cash outflows totaling € 2.501 billion for a net increase in new Q3 2013 1,053 business volume at SFS. Secondly, we had additions to intan­ Q2 2013 1,335 gible assets and property, plant and equipment of € 1.831 bilQ1 2013 (1,395) lion, which related mainly to investments within the Sectors. 1 Continuing and discontinued operations. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 207 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Cash flows from financing activities – Financing activities for Below we present the maturity profile of our assignable and continuing operations used cash of € 4.485 billion in fiscal 2014, term loans and our bonds, issued mainly in Euro and US$ and compared to cash used of € 3.715 billion a year earlier. In the to a lower extent in £, as of September 30, 2014: ­ current ­ period, the major cash outflows were dividends of € 2.533 billion paid (for fiscal 2013) to shareholders of Bonds and loans maturity profile (nominal amounts outstanding in billions of €) Siemens AG and the repayment of € 1.452 billion in long-term debt. In addition we recorded cash outflows of € 1.066 billion for 4.62 the purchase of treasury shares under Siemens’ share buyback program and paid interest totaling € 617 million. These cash ­outflows were partly offset by cash inflows of € 801 million from 2.3 2.5 the change in short-term debt and other financing activities 2.0 1.91 1.6 1.42 1.3 1.1 ­related to the issuance of commercial paper and by proceeds of 1.91 0.8 0.3 0.5 € 527 million from the issuance of long-term debt, related to a 0.4 total of US$ 700 million in privately placed floating-rate instru2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2025 2026 2028 2042 2066 ments. For comparison, in the prior year we paid dividends of € 2.528 billion (for fiscal 2012) to shareholders of Siemens AG 1 The maturity of the hybrid bond depends on the exercise of a call option: the bond is callable by us in September 2016 and thereafter, with a final legal and € 2.927 billion for the repayment of long-term debt. We rematurity ending in September 2066. corded € 1.394 billion in cash outflows for the purchase of treas­ 2 We may redeem, at any time, all or some of US$-notes, issued in August 2006, at the early redemption amount (call) according to the conditions of ury shares and € 479 million for the payment of interest. In the the notes. prior year these cash outflows were partly offset by cash inflows from the issuance of long-term debt totaling € 3.772 billion. In order to optimize the Company’s position with regard to interest income and interest expense, and to manage the associC.4.5 Capital resources ated interest rate risk, Corporate Treasury uses derivative finanand requirements cial instruments to comprehensively and actively manage our interest rate risk relative to a benchmark. The interest rate risk Our capital resources consist of a variety of shortand longrelating to SFS is managed separately, considering the term term instruments including debt instruments and credit facilistructure of SFS’s financial assets and liabilities. ties. ­In addition to cash and cash equivalents and available-­forsale financial assets, liquid resources consist of future cash We have three credit facilities at our disposal for general corpoflows from operating activities. rate purposes. The credit facilities as of September 30, 2014 consisted of € 6.8 billion in committed, unused lines of credit. Our capital requirements include, among others, scheduled debt service, regular capital spending, ongoing cash requireFurther information about our debt and credit facilities, interest ments from operating and SFS financing activities, dividend rate risk management and the use of financial instruments payments, pension plan funding, portfolio activities and share for hedging purposes is provided in NOTES 21, 30 AND 31 in buybacks. D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES As of September 30, 2014 we recorded in total € 18.2 billion in bonds, € 1.7 billion in loans from banks, € 0.9 billion in other ­financial indebtedness, primarily consisted of US$-commercial paper, and € 0.1 billion in obligations under finance leases. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 208 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position NET DEBT Net debt results from total debt less total liquidity. Total liquidSeptember 30, ity refers to the liquid financial assets we have available at the (in millions of €) 2014 2013 end of a reporting ­period to fund our business operations and Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 1,620 1,944 pay for near-term obligations. Total liquidity comprises Cash Long-term debt 19,326 18,509 and cash equivalents as well as current Available-for-sale finanTotal debt 20,947 20,453 cial assets, as stated in the Consolidated Statements of FinanCash and cash equivalents (8,013) (9,190) cial Position. Management uses the Net debt measure for interAvailable-for-sale financial assets (current) (925) (601) nal finance management, as well as for external communication Total liquidity (8,938) (9,790) with investors, analysts and rating agencies. Net debt 1 12,008 10,663 1 We typically need a considerable portion of our cash and cash equivalents and our current available-for-sale financial assets for purposes other than debt reduc­ tion. ­The deduction of these items from total debt in the calculation of Net debt therefore should not be understood to mean that these items are available exclu­ sively for debt reduction at any given time. The changes in Net debt from fiscal 2013 to 2014 may also be presented as follows: Changes in Net debt (in millions of €) 10,663 (83) (7,147) 4,364 4,211 12,008 Net debt as of Cash inflows for the Income and other changes Cash flows from Changes in certain Net debt as of September 30, 2013 decrease in operating in cash flows from investing activities 2 financing activities 3 September 30, 2014 net working capital 1 operating activities Total cash flows from operating activities 2 1 In fiscal 2014, cash inflows for the decrease in operating payables of €205 million and cash outflows for billings 3 Included cash flows relating to certain financing activities net working capital included cash inflows for inventories in excess of costs and in estimated earnings on uncom­ such as dividends paid and purchase of treasury shares less advance payments received of €336 million, for pleted contracts and related advances of €657 million. as well as effects without cash flow impact such as from trade and other receivables of €200 million, for trade currency translations. 2 Continuing operations. OFF-BALANCE-SHEET COMMITMENTS ­ sset-based lending transactions, meaning that the respective a As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 we recorded € 6.687 billion loans can be drawn only after the borrower has provided suffiand € 5.970 billion, respectively, of the undiscounted amount of cient collateral. The increase in these commitments year-overmaximum potential future payments related to guarantees. The year was due mainly to new business volume at SFS, including increase in these commitments included guarantees related to positive currency translation effects. the disposition of businesses and agreements related to our project businesses. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 we OTHER CAPITAL RESOURCES AND REQUIREMENTS ­recorded also € 3.217 billion and € 3.120 billion, respectively, of For information related to the expected payments for dividend future payment obligations under non-cancellable operating and share buybacks, see C.2.5 DIVIDEND AND SHARE BUYBACKS . leases and € 132 million and € 223 million, respectively, for commitments to make capital contributions to the equity of various For information related to expected cash inflows and outflows companies. in connection with portfolio transactions, see NOTE 4 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . Further information about these off-balance-sheet commitments is provided in NOTE 27 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED With our ability to generate positive operating cash flows, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . our total liquidity of € 8.9 billion and our € 6.8 billion in unused lines of credit and given our credit ratings at year-end, we As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 we recorded also irrevoca­believe that we have sufficient flexibility to fund our capital ble loan commitments of € 3.604 billion and € 2.950 billion. ­requirements. Also in our opinion, our working capital is A ­considerable p ­ ortion of these commitments resulted from ­sufficient for our present requirements. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 209 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks C.5 Net assets position Structure of Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (in millions of €) September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Total liabilities Total assets and equity Cash and cash equivalents 8,013 9,190 3% 3% Available-for-sale financial assets 925 601 Trade and other receivables 14,526 14,853 104,879 104,879 Other current financial assets 3,710 3,250 101,936 101,936 Total current Inventories 15,100 15,560 Total current assets liabilities 37,868 Current income tax assets 577 794 48,076 46,937 (37%) 36,598 (46%) (46%) Other current assets 1,290 1,297 (35%) therein: Assets classified as held for disposal 3,935 1,393 Total liquidity 9,790 Total 8,938 (10%) non-current Total current assets 48,076 46,937 (9%) liabilities 35,443 36,767 (35%) Total (35%) non-current 54,999 assets (54%) Total equity 56,803 31,514 28,625 (54%) (30%) (28%) Cash and cash equivalents decreased by € 1.177 billion from the Sep. 30, Sep. 30, Sep. 30, Sep. 30, prior-year level. For detailed information regarding the change, 2014 2013 2014 2013 see C.4.4 CASH FLOWS . The line items Trade and other receivables and Inventories Our total assets in fiscal 2014 were influenced by positive cur­decreased by € 328 million and € 461 million, respectively, yearrency translation effects of € 2.8 billion, led by the US$. Within over-year. The main factor in the decreases was assets related total assets of € 104.879 billion, total assets related to SFS to the Metals Technologies business, which were classified as ­increased to € 21.970 billion as of September 30, 2014 from held for disposal. These decreases were partly offset by positive € 18.661 billion a year earlier. Within total liabilities, SFS debt currency translation effects. increased to € 18.663 billion from € 15.600 billion a year earlier. Both changes were driven by planned asset growth at SFS The line item Other current financial assets increased by during fiscal 2014. SFS assets represented 21 % of Siemens’ total € 461 million year-over-year, which included higher loans receivassets as of September 30, 2014, compared to 18 % a year earlier. ables of SFS. SFS debt represented 18 % of Siemens total liabilities and equity, compared to 15 % at the end of fiscal 2013. Assets classified as held for disposal increased by € 2.542 billion due mainly to the classification of assets related to the Metals During fiscal 2014 we classified a number of businesses as held Technologies business, our stake in BSH and the Hospital Inforfor disposal. These classifications affected a number of line mation System business. This increase was partly offset by a items in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, reduction in assets due to the sale of the Water Technologies which are noted in the discussion below. The relevant busibusiness. nesses include the following: the Metals Technologies business formerly within Industry, the Hospital Information System business and Microbiology business formerly within HealthSeptember 30, care, and our equity investment stake in BSH. (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Goodwill 17,783 17,883 Other intangible assets 4,560 5,057 Property, plant and equipment 9,638 9,815 Investments accounted for using the equity method 2,127 3,022 Other financial assets 18,416 15,117 Deferred tax assets 3,334 3,234 Other assets 945 872 Total non-current assets 56,803 54,999 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 210 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position Goodwill decreased slightly to € 17.783 billion as of SeptemShort-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt deber 30, 2014 compared to € 17.883 billion a year earlier. The creased by € 324 million year-over-year. The main factors in the ­decrease was mainly related to goodwill in the Metals Techno­ decrease were the redemption of € 1.0 billion in 5.375 % p.a. logies, Hospital Information System and Microbiology busiinstruments and € 400 million in 0.375 % p.a. instruments, ­ nesses, which were classified as assets classified as held for partly offset by the issuance of commercial paper. disposal. This decrease was nearly offset by positive currency translation effects. Other current liabilities decreased to € 17.954 billion as of September 30, 2014 from € 19.701 billion a year earlier. The main Other intangible assets decreased to € 4.560 billion as of Sepfactors were a decrease in billings in excess of costs and estitember 30, 2014, compared to € 5.057 billion a year earlier. The mated earnings on uncompleted contracts and related ad­major factor in the decrease was amortization. vances, mainly in Energy and Industry, and, to a lesser extent, lower personnel-related liabilities. The decrease in Industry reInvestments accounted for using the equity method decreased lated primarily to the Metals Technologies business, where liaby € 894 million year-over-year. The main factor was the classibilities were classified as liabilities associated with assets clasfication of our stake in BSH as assets classified as held for dissified as held for disposal. posal, partly offset by an investment in the joint venture related to the TurboCare Business Unit within Energy. Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal increased to € 1.597 billion as of September 30, 2014 from The line item Other financial assets increased to € 18.416 billion € 473 million a year earlier. The main factor in the increase was as of September 30, 2014 compared to € 15.117 billion a year earthe above-mentioned classification of liabilities associated lier. The change was due primarily to higher loans receivable within Metals Technologies business. driven by planned asset growth at SFS in fiscal 2014 and also to a minor extent positive currency effects. September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 September 30, Long-term debt 19,326 18,509 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Post-employment benefits 9,324 9,265 Short-term debt and current Deferred tax liabilities 552 504 maturities of long-term debt 1,620 1,944 Provisions 4,071 3,907 Trade payables 7,594 7,599 Other financial liabilities 1,620 1,184 Other current financial liabilities 1,717 1,515 Other liabilities 1,874 2,074 Current provisions 4,354 4,485 Total non-current liabilities 36,767 35,443 Current income tax liabilities 1,762 2,151 Other current liabilities 17,954 19,701 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal 1,597 473 Total current liabilities 36,598 37,868 Long-term debt increased by € 817 million as of September 30, 2014, compared to the prior year, due mainly to positive currency translation effects and the issuance of US$ 700 million in privately placed floating-rate instruments. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 211 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks As of September 30, 2014, the funded status of our defined benTotal equity attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG inefit plans showed an underfunding of € 9.1 billion, unchanged creased from € 28.111 billion at the end of fiscal 2013 to from the prior year. Within these figures, underfunding for € 30.954 billion at the end of fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2014, the main pension plans amounted to € 8.5 billion, as of September 30, factors relating to the increase in total equity attributable to 2014 and 2013, respectively. An increase in our defined benefit shareholders of Siemens AG were € 5.373 billion in net income obligation (DBO) by € 2.418 billion mainly resulted from the imattributable to shareholders of Siemens AG and € 825 million in pact of decreasing market interest rates which was offset partly other comprehensive income, net of income taxes. These inby the effect of a refined determination of the discount rate. At creases were partly offset by dividend payments of € 2.533 bilthe same time, plan assets increased by € 2.427 billion due lion (paid for fiscal 2013) and the repurchase of 11,331,922 mainly to a positive return, primarily driven by fixed-income ­treas­ury shares at average costs per share of € 95.27 totaling and equity investments. € 1.080 billion (including incidental transaction charges). For additional information on our net assets position, see the September 30, corresponding notes in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL (in millions of €) 2014 2013 STATEMENTS . Total equity attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG 30,954 28,111 Equity ratio 30% 28% Non-controlling interests 560 514 Total liabilities and equity 104,879 101,936 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 212 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position We reached most of the goals for fiscal 2014 that we set in our i­ ndicators of our economic performance rose 25% year-over-year Annual Report for fiscal 2013, particularly including 1 % organic to € 5.507 billion and €6.37, respectively, which clearly fulfilled revenue growth and net income and basic EPS (net ­income) our forecast for an increase of basic EPS from net income of at growth of well over 15 % compared to the prior year. We also least 15 %. achieved a return on capital employed (ROCE) in our target range. Among the primary measures of our economic position, Total Sectors profit margin in fiscal 2014 was 10.0%, in the midonly our capital structure ratio was outside the target range, as dle of our forecast of 9.5 % to 10.5 % given in our Annual Report we kept our capital structure conservative in fiscal 2014. for fiscal 2013. Infrastructure & Cities and Industry were key drivers in meeting this expectation, as both Sectors showed imDuring the fiscal year, we finished the remaining measures pressive performance improvements in fiscal 2014. Healthcare from the “Siemens 2014” program, which helped to increase our maintained its profit and profit margin near the high level cost productivity. Furthermore, we initiated “Vision 2020,” a achieved in the prior fiscal year. In contrast, the performance of long-term and comprehensive concept for sustainable value the Energy Sector was disappointing. Profit fell significantly and, creation. With this concept we aim to achieve profitable growth contrary to our expectation, profit margin also declined yearthrough greater customer proximity and accelerated innovaover-year due mainly to sharply higher project-related charges. tion, while further optimizing our portfolio, streamlining our management structures and processes, and fostering an “owner­ The Sectors’ results regarding adjusted EBITDA margin followed ship culture” throughout the Company. the same pattern. Infrastructure & Cities and Industry increased their EBITDA margins significantly year-over-year, with the forRevenue for fiscal 2014 was € 71.920 billion, a 2 % decline commer re-entering its target range and the latter approaching the pared to the prior fiscal year. Within the change, Infrastructop of its target range. Healthcare again achieved an EBITDA ture & Cities and Industry reported higher revenue while Energy margin above its target corridor. Energy fell even further below and Healthcare reported declines. Overall, the decline was due its EBITDA margin range than it was in fiscal 2013. to negative currency translation effects. On an organic basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, revenue ROCE is a primary measure of our capital efficiency. As we forewas up 1 % year-over-year, with three Sectors contributing to cast in our Annual Report for fiscal 2013, ROCE for continuing the increase and only Energy reporting a decline year-over-year. operations for fiscal 2014 returned to the target range of 15 % to This fulfilled our expectation that organic revenue would 20 %. We increased our income compared to a year earlier and ­remain near the prior-year level in fiscal 2014. decreased our average capital employed slightly year-over-year. As a result, ROCE for continuing operations rose to 17.2 % from Orders for fiscal 2014 were € 78.350 billion, fulfilling our expec13.7 % in fiscal 2013. tation for a book-to-bill ratio above 1, which came in at 1.09. Order development followed the pattern for revenue: while Free cash flow from continuing and discontinued operations ­reported orders were 2 % lower year-over-year, organic orders for fiscal 2014 came in at € 5.201 billion, 2 % lower than the high were up 1 % on increases in three of the four Sectors. Energy level we achieved a year earlier. While cash inflows from operand Infrastructure & Cities again won large order volumes from ating activities declined moderately year-over-year, we partly major contract wins, demonstrating the trust that customers offset this change by reducing cash outflows for investments in place in our ability to execute large projects despite setbacks in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. certain project businesses in recent years. While Energy’s Wind Power Division achieved a strong order increase year-over-year, Our primary measure for evaluating our capital structure is the volume from large orders at Infrastructure & Cities ­came in ­defined as the ratio of industrial net debt to adjusted EBITDA. lower than a year earlier, when the Sector won an extraordiOur target for this ratio in fiscal 2014 was 0.5 to 1.0. As the net narily large contract worth € 3.0 billion in the U.K. ­result of the portfolio measures that we initiated in fiscal 2014 is e­ xpected to result in a significant net cash outflow in fiscal Total Sectors profit for fiscal 2014 was € 7.335 billion. As ex2015, we kept our capital structure in fiscal 2014 more conserpected, this was a substantial increase from € 5.842 billion a vative. As a result of a combination of sharply lower industrial year earlier, when the Sectors took € 1.2 billion in charges for net debt and clearly higher EBITDA from continuing operations the “Siemens 2014” productivity improvement program. year-over-year the ratio declined to 0.15, down from 0.35 a year earlier. Thus we did not fulfill our forecast for the capital Higher Total Sectors profit was the main driver for growth in ­structure ratio, which was to approach the lower end of the net income and basic EPS from net income. These primary ­target range. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 213 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Our “Vision 2020” concept mentioned above, which was initiattractive geographic markets and get closer to our customers. ated in fiscal 2014, focuses Siemens on profitable growth With regard to innovation, we expect to intensify R & D activialong the value chain of electrification. During the year we ties e.g. to shorten product development cycles and increase ­announced a number of portfolio changes for this purpose, our application of new technologies, such as data analytics. To including acquisition of two major energy businesses: the ­ ­better balance risks and rewards when we take on innovative ­Rolls-Royce aero-derivative gas turbine and compressor busiprojects, we intend to explicitly rely on our so-called corporate ness and the Dresser-Rand oil and gas equipment business. We memory as an early-warning system that takes ­advantage of have also announced planned divestments of our hearing aid the experience and expertise we already possess. business and our stake in the home appliance business BSH. To streamline our processes, we reduced layers of management by We intend to continue providing an attractive return to shareeliminating the Sector structure and reducing the number of holders. As in the past, we intend to fund the dividend payout our Divisions, effective with the beginning of fiscal 2015. We from Free cash flow. The Siemens Managing Board, in agreealso streamlined our regional go-to-market structure, with a ment with the Supervisory Board, proposes a dividend of € 3.30 smaller number of entities that have greater ability to penetrate per share, up from € 3.00 a year earlier. C.7 Subsequent events In November 2014, we announced the sale of our hearing aid business to the investment company EQT and the German entre­preneurial family Strüngmann as co-investors. The transaction volume is € 2.15 billion plus an earn-out component and includes that the new owners will also be allowed to continue using the Siemens product brand for the hearing aid business over the medium term. The hearing aid business so far represents a Business Unit within Healthcare. The transaction is subject to approval by the regulatory authorities. Closing is ­expected in the first quarter of ­calendar year 2015. The hearing aid business is presented as held for disposal and discontinued operations since the first quarter of fiscal 2015. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 214 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.8 Sustainability and citizenship C.8.1 Sustainability at Siemens The Siemens Sustainability Board, which is chaired by the Chief Sustainability Officer, is the central steering committee C.8.1.1 OVERVIEW for sustainability at Siemens. In its regular meetings it directs Siemens has defined sustainability to mean achieving profitour sustainability activities as part of our sustainable strategy able and long-term growth, acting responsibly on behalf of and adopts appropriate measures and initiatives. Our Chief Susfuture generations and to keep the three dimensions of sustainability Officer also manages the Sustainability Office, tainability – people, planet, profit – in balance. We are aware of which is responsible for driving sustainability further within the associated high standards and the possibility of conflicting Siemens and for coordinating the sustainability activities and goals. Nevertheless, we are convinced that sustainability, other company-wide programs and measures. ­especially in the sense of resource efficiency is a business ­opportunity, and worth seizing. To help us maintain an objective perspective on our sustainability challenges and performance, we have also created the Sustainability is a guiding principle within our Company, incorSiemens Sustainability Advisory Board, composed of eight porated in our philosophy, central theme of our corporate strateminent figures in science and industry from a range of disciegy, and integral part of the Siemens Management model. In plines and regions of the world. None are employees of our Sustainability activities we focus on three areas: “SustainSiemens. Furthermore, a network of assigned Sustainability able business practices,” “Contribution to our customers’ comManagers in the businesses and regional units ensure that suspetiveness,” and “Contribution to sustainable development of tainability measures are implemented and multiplied throughsocieties” in order to achieve sustainable progress for Siemens, out the Company. its customers and societies. C.8.1.3 COLLABORATING FOR SUSTAINABILITY >> “Sustainable business practices” comprises our commitment Our sustainability efforts are based on our Business Conduct to embedding sustainability throughout our organization Guidelines, which provide the ethical and legal framework and operations. We want to be a role model ourselves and within which we conduct our business activities. They contain walk the talk across all areas of the Company covering operthe basic principles and rules for our conduct internally and ational businesses, countries, and corporate functions. externally. Specific issues, such as those relating to the environ­ >> The second area means that we contribute to our customers’ ment, are covered in more detailed regulations and guidelines. competitiveness with our products, solutions and services The Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all companies and enable them to increase energy efficiency, save recontrolled by Siemens. sources and reduce carbon emissions at a significant cost advantage. Furthermore, we believe that close collaboration with stake>> Siemens contributes to the sustainable development of sociholders supports us in addressing complex, interlocking suseties with its innovative products and solutions, local operatainability challenges and topics. Maintaining an intensive diations, thought leadership and the fostering of long-term logue with partners along the supply chain and with external ­ relationships with local communities through Corporate stakeholder groups and organizations is important for us: ­Citizenship projects with partners. Siemens is actively engaged with leading global sustainability organizations, such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute C.8.1.2 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT (WRI). We also liaise regularly with a broad group of stakeholdAND ORGANIZATION ers on key sustainability issues, track their most material topics The importance we attach to the topic of sustainability is eviand use them as guide for our activities. dent in its central position within the Company ’s organization and in our programs and the measures we execute. Efficient In addition, we are committed to international standards and sustainability management is a company-wide task that requires guidelines for sustainability. For example, we signed on to the a clear organizational structure and a thorough anchoring of United Nations Global Compact in 2003 and became a signatory sustainability in our corporate culture. All our sustainability acto the Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate in 2008; since fiscal tivities are steered by the Chief Sustainability Officer, who is a 2011, we are a member of the steering committee of the Global member of our Managing Board. In order to coordinate and Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative. We regularly report on manage our sustainability activities efficiently, we established our sustainability performance using the guidelines (G3.0) of the Siemens Sustainability Board, the Sustainability Office and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which aim at high transparthe Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board. ency and comparability for corporate sustainability reporting. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 215 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks C.8.2 Employees measures and to follow-up on improvements. Due to the launch of our “Vision 2020” concept and the related organizaIndicators 1 tional changes the survey originally scheduled for 2014 was Year ended September 30, postponed to 2015. 2014 2013 Employee turnover rate 2 9.1% 10.8% Demographic change, lifelong employability and cross-gener­ Female employees in management ation collaboration are Siemens’ key employee-related chalpositions (percentage of all management lenges to be mastered, and we see differences between regions positions) 3 15.6% 15.6% and labor markets. To remain an employer of choice, we are Expenses for continuing education (in millions of €) 4 276 265 taking appropriate action based on local needs. Expenses per employee for continuing education (in €) 4 769 670 C.8.2.1 DIVERSITY As a global player, the vast and diverse range of our employees’ 1 Continuing and discontinued operations. capabilities, experience and qualifications forms a substantial 2 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. competitive advantage and supports our value proposition as 3 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary an employer. responsibility, plus project managers. 4 Without travel expenses. All our activities, measures and programs fostering Diversity follow these principles: Excellent employees are one of Siemens’ vital strengths. They have made Siemens what it is today and their expertise, capa>> we want to have the best person for every position, bilities and high level of engagement are laying the foundation >> we want to provide opportunities for diversity  for our future success. To stay competitive, we need to continof experience and interaction, and uously win and retain the best and brightest employees world>> we want to achieve diversity of thinking across our Company. wide. As an employer of choice, we empower our diverse and  engaged people worldwide with a high-performance culture, We’ve developed our management recruitment processes to encourage life-long learning and development, offer an attracensure that the preliminary selection of candidates reflects the tive working environment and ensure occupational health diversity of our customers and employees at all levels and in all and safety. regions. For example the percentage of women in management at Siemens globally has nearly doubled since fiscal 2002 to Employees by segments as of September 30, 2014 15.6 %. (in thousands) 1 C.8.2.2 TALENT ACQUISITION AND EMPLOYEE Energy: 81 (24%) Other: 33 (10%) DEVELOPMENT Attracting, contacting, hiring, promoting and systematically Financial Services: developing the best employees worldwide for Siemens – that is 3 (1%) Healthcare: 48 (14%) 343 our goal in Talent Acquisition and Employee Development. In order to meet our requirements for qualified staff, we attract Infrastructure & Cities: Industry: 90 (26%) 88 (26%) new talent to Siemens and also work on retaining our existing workforce for the long term. To attract new talents, Siemens has a wide array of programs in place. The Performance Manage1 Continuing operations. ment Process (PMP) helps leaders and employees determine clear personal goals and share the feedback necessary to Siemens believes that employee engagement is a key driver for achieve them. The process also supports us in setting compensustainable company performance. An engaged workforce sation, providing professional development opportunities and drives innovation, growth and profitability. Since 2010, the identifying talents throughout the Company. To reflect the focus Siemens Global Engagement Survey has been seen as an imon high-performance within Siemens, our compensation sysportant management tool. In general the Engagement Survey tem for our top executives and senior management worldwide will be conducted on a biennial basis to allow more time to set includes a variable component. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 216 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.8.2.3 LEARNING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION e ­ mployees – ­­which already apply worldwide and are firmly We encourage our employees at all locations to develop their ­anchored in our Business Conduct Guidelines. Underscoring qualifications and expertise. In fiscal 2014, we invested around this commitment, Siemens, the Siemens Central Works Coun€ 276 million for continuing education (without travel excil, the ­German trade union IG Metall and the global industrial penses), which equals about € 769 per employee. The expenses union IndustriAll have signed an international framework include courses and training programs both for individual emagreement on the principles of corporate responsibility. ployees and for entire company units. C.8.2.6 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND Siemens Learning Campus and Siemens Leadership Excellence, HEALTH MANAGEMENT two corporate-level organizations, are responsible for impleOccupational safety and health management are key elements menting the global learning portfolio: Siemens Learning of our Company’s sustainable strategy and an integral part of ­Campus offers regional learning opportunities to employees in our business processes. We therefore develop central programs all countries, ranging from courses for employees and managand processes that are applied locally and adapted to the respecers, through tailored training programs and services for groups, tive business needs. Occupational safety and health manageto solutions for entire organizations. Additionally Siemens ment are an integral part of our Business Conduct Guidelines, Leadership Excellence (SLE) is addressing our current and our internal monitoring systems, and our risk management and ­future senior and top leaders. Siemens continues to be one of internal controls. In addition, occupational safety is part of an Germany ’s largest providers of professional education for secinternational framework agreement between Siemens AG, the ondary school graduates (7,100 places for Siemens trainees and Central Works Council of Siemens AG, IG Metall and the global 2,800 places for trainees from other companies). As in previous union IndustriAll. years, we again made 10 % of our trainee positions available to disadvantaged youths. Promote a culture of safety – In the past, occupational safety was often characterized by a focus on technical protective C.8.2.4 SIEMENS EQUITY CULTURE measures, an approach which achieved considerable success. Siemens established its first employee share program in We are convinced, however, that further improvement can be ­Germany as early as 1969. Building on this successful program achieved only through an actively practiced occupational in Germany, Siemens decided in 2008 to extend employee and safety culture and optimal working conditions – in every counmanagement participation. Today, Siemens offers approxitry and for all Siemens employees as well as those of our conmately 97 % of its employees in 60 countries the opportunity to tractors. Both, as a company and as individuals, we are responacquire Siemens shares with the Company’s financial support. sible for ensuring that the working environment at Siemens is The Share Matching Plan is based on a simple principle: Emsafe at all times and for every employee. At present, local manployees participating in the plan will receive one Siemens share agement systems and best practices exist which we can build without payment of consideration (matching share) for every on. We will achieve sustainability, however, only through a three Siemens shares bought and continuously held over a global and consistent approach. ­period of three years. Only condition: The employee still needs to be employed by Siemens. The main idea of the plan has Our customers, suppliers and regulatory authorities expect ­always been to make stock ownership available to employees at high safety standards from us. Safe behavior is governed not all income levels. only by complying with laws, regulations and procedures, but also by the personal values of managers and employees. We are convinced that empowering employees with shares Our “Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens” program, which has been ­motivates them to assume greater responsibilities and helps launched in fiscal 2012 is having an increasingly positive them identify more closely with the company they work for – a ­impact. It contains three principles: fundamental prerequisite for the sustainable development of Siemens. >> Zero incidents – it is achievable. >> Health and safety – no compromises! C.8.2.5 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND RELATIONS >> We take care of each other! TO EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES Fair-minded collaboration among Company management, emIn addition to this global approach of “Zero Harm Culture @ ployees and employee representatives plays a central role at Siemens,” our businesses and countries themselves improve Siemens. As one of the largest corporate employers in Germany safety locally through various activities depending on the curand worldwide, we are committed to our social responsibilrent safety performance and the business needs. Management ity and respect and uphold the fundamental rights of our attention is of utmost importance to foster and improve safety. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 217 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Therefore, the responsible CEO of the affected unit shows com>> using smart analytical systems and our domain expertise to mitment by personally reporting every work related fatality, its develop new services from previously unstructured data cause and the measures taken to the Siemens Managing Board. ­(Examples of such services include anticipatory maintenance work and cost-efficient warehousing offers.), and In fiscal 2014 the overall number of fatalities was lower than in >> making medical imaging, in-vitro diagnostics, and healthfiscal 2013. We attribute this to the numerous and rigorous care IT an integral part of outcome oriented treatment plans. ­actions and specific initiated projects. An implemented process  for the assessment of suppliers is supporting these activities. Another major focus is promoting more efficient energy use in Furthermore, Supply Chain Management and Business have buildings, industrial facilities, and the transport sector. Examdeveloped collaborative plans to improve the EHS profile of ples include the development of electric drives and mass transsuppliers. Regrettably, we report seven fatalities. Of that three portation systems such as local and long-distance trains and fatalities are with contractors (all are work-related fatalities) subways. and four with Siemens employees (one business trip fatality and three commuting accidents). In the previous year, there Across all focus areas, we recognize the vital importance of were five fatalities involving Siemens employees and ten in­sophisticated software solutions. This is true not just for the volving contractors. areas mentioned above but also in nearly all of the other fields in which Siemens is active. Promoting health – Siemens has established a high standard of occupational health and safety to avoid work-related health R & D activities are carried out by the businesses of our former risks and promote employees’ health. We help our employees Sectors and our Corporate Technology (CT) department. CT is a assume responsibility for their own personal behavior in worldwide network with primary locations in Germany, the health-related matters, and support health-promoting general U.S., China, Russia, India, and Austria. The more than 7,400 CT conditions within the Company. We promote the physical, employees contribute their in-depth understanding of fundamental and social well-being of our employees through a range mental technologies, models, and trends, as well as their of activities governing the five topics of healthy work environwealth of software and process expertise. The businesses focus ment, psychosocial well-being, physical activity, healthy nutritheir R & D efforts on the next generations of their products and tion and medical care. solutions. In contrast, the aim of CT is to work with our operating units to develop the Group’s technology and innovation strategies, especially for the next generation of their products C.8.3 Research and development and solutions. In addition, CT strives to secure the technological and innovative future through commonly developed core C.8.3.1 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT – technology initiatives such as future of automation, data to ORGANIZATION AND STRATEGY business or system integration. With its global network of exIn fiscal 2014, we continued to focus on the following areas in perts, our corporate research unit serves as a strategic partner research and development (R & D): for Siemens’ operating units. CT makes important contributions along the entire value chain, from research and development >> ensuring long-term future viability, to production technology, manufacturing processes, and the >> enhancing technological competitiveness, and testing of products and solutions. All of CT’s activities are cho>> optimizing the allocation of R & D resources.  sen to optimize the allocation of R & D resources, with a balance between support the current offerings of our businesses and Our R & D activities are geared toward ensuring economically development of longer-term opportunities. sustainable energy supplies and developing software solutions, which are essential to maintaining the long-term competitiveCT is also networked with leading universities and research ness of our businesses. Accordingly, major focus areas include: ­institutes worldwide. Close collaborative approaches with such partners are also a substantial part of our Open Innovation (OI) >> increasing the efficiency of renewable and conventional enconcept, in which we receive input from internal as well as ergy sources for power generation and improving low-loss ­external experts that significantly contributes to the innovative electricity transmission systems, power of the Company. With OI we aim to overcome the bar­ >> developing new solutions for smart grids and technologies riers of silo thinking, to prove and truly leverage the potential for storing energy from fluctuating renewable sources, of an open network enterprise. >> further development of industrial software to accelerate processes at every point along the value chain, 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 218 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position In addition, Siemens takes part in publicly funded research proCT incurred additional R & D expenses. grams. The most important research areas include the development of sustainable technologies including recycling, the comR&D indicators 1 munication of machines, the creation of new materials and Year ended September 30, bio-technology. (in thousands) 2014 2013 Employees 2 28.8 28.1 CT offers extensive process and production consulting services Inventions 3 8.6 8.3 for development and manufacturing units at Siemens. CT emPatent first filings 4 4.3 4.0 ploys more than 4,200 software developers at locations in Asia, Europe, and the Americas. These specialists help our Business 1 Continuing operations. Units develop concepts from the initial idea to the finished 2 Average number of employees in fiscal year. 3 Number of inventions reported by the Business Units in an internal report. product. In addition, CT strategically handles the intellectual 4 First filings as part of inventions submitted to patent offices. property of Siemens. Around 440 experts help the Company register patents and trademarks, establish them, and put them to profitable use. As of September 30, 2014, Siemens held approximately 56,100 granted patents worldwide in its continuing operations. As of C.8.3.2 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FIGURES September 30, 2013, it held approximately 56,000 granted patIn fiscal 2014, we reported research and development expenses ents. In terms of the number of published patent applications of € 4.065 billion, compared to € 4.048 billion in fiscal 2013. The in calendar year 2013, Siemens ranked fourth in Germany and resulting R & D intensity, defined as the ratio of R & D expenses second in Europe. Siemens was also ranked thirteenth in the and revenue, was 5.7 %, above the R & D intensity in fiscal 2013. statistics for patents issued in the U.S. in calendar year 2013. R&D intensity Rank in patent office statistics Research and 2013 2012 Research and development expenses development (in billions of €) intensity 1 Germany – German Patent and Trade Mark Office (DPMA) 4 3 FY 2014 4.065 5.7% Europe – European Patent Office (EPO) 2 2 FY 2013 4.048 5.5% U.S. – United States Patent and Trademark Office (US PTO) 13 11 1  R&D intensity is defined as the ratio of R&D expenses and revenue. R & D expenses and intensity for the Sectors in fiscal 2014 and In our continuing operations, we had an average of approxi2013: mately 13,200 R & D employees in Germany and approximately 15,600 employees in approximately 30 other countries during R&D expenses fiscal 2014. Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 C.8.3.3 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Energy 873 872 IN OUR BUSINESSES Healthcare 1,010 1,048 The R & D activities of the businesses in our former Energy Industry 1,229 1,204 ­Sector ­are focused on developing methods for the efficient Infrastructure & Cities 719 731 generation and transmission of electrical energy, including advanced gas turbines that increase the efficiency and reduce emissions of power plants, combined cycle power plants, to increase the availability of electricity through higher flexibility R&D intensity and efficient and reliable power supply for decentralized strucYear ended September 30, tures such as those in the oil and gas industries, innovations 2014 2013 for reducing the cost of wind turbines, innovations for increasEnergy 3.5% 3.3% ing the efficiency of wind turbines (offshore and onshore), the Healthcare 8.1% 8.3% development of an HVDC super grid and the development of a Industry 7.2% 7.1% subsea power grid to make deep-sea oil and gas extraction Infrastructure & Cities 3.8% 4.1% more profitable. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 219 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks The R & D activities in the businesses of our former Healthcare i­ncrease cost-effectiveness, and improve the quality of life in Sector are focused on meeting customer requirements, which ­cities. To this end, the businesses develop building technologies are the result of two major trends: the world’s population conthat conserve energy, solutions for ensuring an efficient and tinues to grow steadily and to get older. These trends increase ­secure supply of electricity in cities, and intelligent traffic and the pressure on healthcare providers to treat more and more transport systems. In addition, researchers are looking for ways people at increasingly lower costs in order to stabilize rising to integrate buildings into smart grids. Through such integration, healthcare expenditures. To overcome the challenges of makthe buildings can feed the electricity they produce into the grids ing healthcare more efficient and more effective, the healthand provide additional power during times of peak demand. care measures have to focus on the individual patient and the success of the treatment. C.8.4 Supply chain management One of the R & D fields involves the development of systems that help physicians make precise diagnoses of large numbers of The principal goal of supply chain management (SCM) at ­patients and are also robust, easy to use, and inexpensive to Siemens is to ensure the availability and quality of the materipurchase and maintain. Examples include interventional radiolals we require to serve our customers also considering innovaogy ­or catheter labs. Ultrasound with wireless transducers is tion strength and sustainability of our suppliers. We aim to also ideally suited for minimally-invasive procedures such as strengthen our competitiveness by achieving substantial savnerve ­blockades, access to blood vessels, and positioning for ings in our purchasing volume. In fiscal 2014, Siemens’ purtherapeutic interventions and biopsies. chasing volume amounted to approximately € 37 billion, which equaled roughly half of our total revenue. Our primary strateAnother focus area is automating clinical work processes and gies for achieving savings in purchasing include: optimizing laboratory diagnostics, with a goal of enabling physicians to identify diseases more precisely and at an earlier stage. >> Siemens-wide managed volume, Physicians are then able to monitor the effect of medications >> Sourcing from emerging markets, and more accurately and benefit from the evaluation and analytical >> E-sourcing. capabilities of modern computer technology. As a result, therapies can be tailored more closely to a patient’s needs. Healthcare The successful restructuring of our SCM function since the end also develops products that meet the specific, targeted requireof fiscal 2013 led to a substantial decrease of the cost for the ments of the healthcare systems of emerging countries. SCM organization, driven by optimizing towards a less complex setup and process improvements. Going forward, we will conOne of the R & D priorities of the businesses in our former tinue with reshaping the SCM function in alignment with Vision ­Industry Sector is the software-based integration of product 2020 to support the new Siemens organization structure overall. development, production planning, production processes and services within the framework of product lifecycle manageWe also continue to strengthen Siemens’ innovation power by ment. The objective is to accelerate processes at every point benefiting from the innovative strength in our supplier netalong the value chain. Innovative technologies can cut the time work. In May 2014, we held our “1st Siemens Supplier Innovafrom design to market in the manufacturing industry by up to tion Day,” the first event of its kind on Siemens corporate level. 50 %. The further development of automation and drive techWith this event, we established a platform for regular dialogue nology, and industrial software in particular, plays a major role with our top innovative suppliers at the CEO level. With this here. This applies to the product development and production dialogue, we aim to increase our innovation capabilities, realize process as well as to the integration of the drive system. Moreshared growth potential and ensure long-term cost leadership. over, the businesses of the former Industry Sector are striving to achieve greater energy efficiency, reduce raw material conSustainability requirements – as a guiding principle for our sumption, and lower emissions. These objectives also guide supply chain management – are an integral part of all relevant the development of technology-based service concepts such as supplier management processes – such as supplier selection, energy management and remote maintenance systems. supplier qualification and evaluation, and supplier development. We require all of our suppliers to comply with the princiR & D activities of the businesses in our former Infrastrucples of our Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers, which inture & Cities Sector focus on urban growth issues. Main research clude, besides others, respect for the basic rights of employees, fields therefore cover sustainable technologies for major metrostrong safety & health and environmental protection standards politan areas and their infrastructures. The main aims are to inas well as zero-tolerance on corruption & bribery. We also recrease energy efficiency, reduce burdens on the environment, quire them to support its implementation in their own supply 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 220 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position chains. We have established and continually further develop An elementary component of all our global marketing and sella risk-based system of appropriate processes to enable us to ing activities is compliance with applicable laws and internal systematically identify potential risks in our supply chain. It rules and regulations. Therefore, Siemens values and compliconsists of sustainability self-assessments by suppliers, risk ance are an integral part of our training program. evaluation conducted by our purchasing department, sustainability questions within supplier quality audits and sustainability audits by external auditors. To further encourage sustainC.8.6 Environmental Portfolio able business conduct throughout our entire global supply chain, we are committed to building our suppliers’ competence Indicators 1 and intensifying knowledge transfers related to sustainability. Year ended September 30, 2014 2013 Revenue generated by the Siemens C.8.5 Distribution and customer ­relations Environmental Portfolio (in billions of €) 33.0 31.9 Accumulated annual customer reductions Our Divisions have global responsibility for their business, of carbon dioxide emissions generated by elements from the Siemens Environmental sales and results. They are able to support customers around Portfolio (in millions of metric tons) 428 369 the world directly from their respective headquarters, especially for large contracts and projects. However, most of our 1 Continuing operations. customers are small and medium-sized companies and organizations that require local support. To address local business Our Environmental Portfolio serves as an example of how we opportunities with them, we are able to draw upon a large strive to align our business activities with the aforementioned global sales force steered by our regional companies. They are megatrends, in this case climate change. The Environmental responsible for serving our customers in the respective counPortfolio consists of products, systems, solutions and services tries, leveraging our global network of market partners like (Environmental Portfolio elements) that reduce negative im­consultants, distributors, integrators, EPCs and machine buildpacts on the environment and emissions of carbon dioxide and ers. We are currently selling products and services in almost other greenhouse gases (defined together in the following as every country in the world. carbon dioxide emissions) responsible for climate change. Sustainable customer relationships are the basis for our longIn addition to its environmental benefits, our Environmental term success. We employ a structured key account managePortfolio enables us to compete successfully in attractive marment (KAM) approach throughout the Company to take care of kets and generate profitable growth. In fiscal 2014, revenue our key customers. This means that we tailor our products and from continuing operations from the Environmental Portfolio solutions to their size and regional site structures. We also amounted to € 33.0 billion, which accounted for 46 % of our rev­ensure that our key account managers continually develop and enue from continuing operations in this fiscal year. This rev­ maintain relationships with them over the long term. This enue includes revenue from newly developed and additionally ­approach is supplemented by our Executive Relationship Proqualified elements, and excludes revenue from elements that gram. In this program, members of the Company ’s Executive no longer fulfill our qualifications. Management stay in direct contact with selected customers and maintain an ongoing dialogue with them to familiarize In fiscal 2010, we set ourselves a revenue target for the EnvironSiemens with their needs. mental Portfolio within the One Siemens framework: to exceed € 40 billion in revenue from the Environmental Portfolio by the Our business success is strongly dependent on the satisfaction end of fiscal 2014. Due to recent and ongoing portfolio changes of our customers. For this reason, we measure customer satiswe have not been able to achieve this target. Siemens’ strategic faction in every unit of the Company using the Net Promoter focus on technologies for energy efficiency and climate and enScore (NPS). This internationally recognized and commonly apvironmental protection will nevertheless remain in place. For plied managerial performance indicator, which we determine fiscal year 2014, almost three-quarter of the revenue from our annually on a worldwide basis by means of customer surveys, Environmental Portfolio were already generated with products measures the referral rate of our customers. The NPS for fiscal and solutions for energy efficiency. 2014 was based on the results of more than 25,500 interviews, compared to more than 25,200 interviews in fiscal 2013. In With our Environmental Portfolio, we intend, among other ­fiscal 2014, our company-wide NPS once again increased comthings, to help our customers reduce their carbon dioxide footpared to previous fiscal year. print, cut their energy costs and improve their profitability 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 221 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks through an increase in productivity. Taking together all eleas well as the integration of additionally qualified elements ments of the Environmental Portfolio that were installed at cuswhere evidence of fulfillment of the qualification criteria was tomer locations since the beginning of fiscal 2002 and remain not available in prior reporting p ­ eriods. For additionally qualiin use today, we have reduced customer carbon dioxide emisfied Environmental Portfolio elements, we report their prisions by 428 million metric tons in fiscal 2014, which is the or-year revenue and prior-year contribution to reducing cusequivalent of the following thirteen cities’ combined yearly tomer carbon dioxide emissions on a comparable basis. emissions: Berlin, Bogotá, Cape Town, Hong Kong, London, Los Elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria are exAngeles, Melbourne, Mexico City, Moscow, New York City, São cluded from our Environmental Portfolio. Paulo, Seoul and Tokyo. We report the revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and C.8.6.1 SELECTION CRITERIA annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions generAn Environmental Portfolio element can be a product, a system, ated by it in accordance with internal regulations defined in our a solution or a service. Furthermore, a core component of a Environmental Portfolio Guideline. This Guideline is based on system or solution may qualify as an Environmental Portfolio the Reporting Principles of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corpoelement if the component provided by Siemens is key to enrate Accounting and Reporting Standard, revised edition, and abling environmental benefits resulting from the system’s or the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for Project Accounting. The rev­ solution’s overall application. To qualify for inclusion in the enue generated by the Environmental Portfolio is recognized in ­Environmental Portfolio, an element must meet one of the seaccordance with revenue recognition policies as described in lection criteria described below, which are energy efficiency, NOTE 2 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . renewable energy or environmental technologies. Products, systems, solutions and services with planned application in military use or nuclear power are not included in the EnvironC.8.7 Environmental protection mental Portfolio. Indicators 1 >> Energy efficiency: The criteria for energy efficiency are an Year ended September 30, improvement in energy efficiency of 20 % or more during the 2014 2013 customer use phase compared to the applicable baseline, or Energy efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 2 11% 5% a reduction of at least 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide Waste efficiency improvement equivalents per reporting ­period in the customer use phase. compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 12% 8% Examples of elements that meet the energy efficiency criteWaste for disposal reduction rion are combined cycle power plants and intelligent buildcompared to baseline in fiscal 2010 8% 10% ing technology systems. Carbon dioxide emission efficiency >> Renewable energy: This criterion covers technologies in the improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 20% 14% field of renewable energy sources such as wind turbines or smart grid applications and their respective core compo1 Continuing operations. nents. 2 Indicator incorporates weighted calculations related to the primary fuels >> Environmental technologies: This criterion is related to waconsumed in generating the energy used at our sites and the amount of energy used to extract, convert and distribute the fuels consumed. ter and wastewater treatment, air pollution control, waste reduction, recycling, e-car infrastructure and its core components. It also includes the Siemens Consulting Service which To meet today’s global ecological challenges responsibly, analyzes customers’ environmental impact. Additionally, a Siemens has a comprehensive EHS (Environmental Protection, criterion for the Healthcare Sector is an environmental Health Management and Safety) management system. The pro­impact reduction in terms of noise, radiation or total weight cess requirements of this management system help our operatof at least 25 % compared to the baseline. ing units comply with applicable laws, regulations and customer requirements, satisfy our corporate requirements properly and C.8.6.2 GOVERNANCE AND REPORTING APPROACH achieve our Siemens-wide environmental targets. The environThe qualification of Environmental Portfolio elements as well mental protection management system requires that our releas their respective reporting is based on defined processes and vant production and office sites must implement an environcriteria. The business portfolio of Siemens’ continuing operamental management system which fulfills the requirements of tions is reviewed annually regarding the qualification of Envithe internationally recognized ISO 14001 standard and also our ronmental Portfolio elements based on the criteria described own internal standard, known as “Specifications on environbefore. This covers the inclusion of newly developed elements mentally compatible product and system design.” This internal 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 222 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position standard defines requirements to reduce the environmental management systems. Due to this and to reasonable energy ­impact of our products and systems during the production, use procurement and increased share of renewable energy in elecand disposal phase and is an integral part of our business protricity mix the CO2 efficiency was increased considerably. cesses. We conduct regular internal reviews of our environmental performance and progress, in order to create a cycle of conC.8.7.2 PRODUCT-RELATED tinual improvement. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The major focus of product-related environmental protection is Our commitment to continual improvement led to two environto improve the overall environmental performance of our prodmental protection programs in fiscal 2012: “Serve the Environucts and systems. Therefore the existing “Product Eco Excelment” for industrial environmental protection and “Product Eco lence” program will continue its approach regarding elements Excellence” for product-related environmental protection. Both related to the product life cycle by integrating aspects of the programs were reconfirmed and extended in fiscal 2014. The circular economy and resource efficiency. The program has a general objectives to improve energy and resource efficiency, to modular design and offers innovative solutions to accomplish fulfill growing international requirements with regard to envia higher transparency in terms of declarable substances, to deronmental protection, to increase customer benefits, and to velop and integrate a set of measures to improve resource effiproactively strengthen our position as a sustainable company ciency of materials (e.g. scarcity, criticality) and to increase our will be kept. The two reconfirmed programs will run from 2015 claim on product environmental footprint information. On the to 2020. basis of mandatory requirements as defined in our internal ­environmental standard, we support the reduction of the enviC.8.7.1 INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ronmental impacts of our products and systems during product Our industrial environmental protection efforts focus on optidevelopment, production, use and end of life. Additionally, the mizing energy and resource efficiency at our sites. With the program aims to better prepare the operating units for future current “Serve the Environment” program we have been comregulatory and customer requirements, to strengthen environmitted to the following Siemens-wide main targets in the time mental communication, and to broaden environmental aware­period fiscal 2011 to 2014: ness among our employees. In the time p ­ eriod fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2014 for the main elements of the program following >> to continue our systematic effort to improve ­objectives have been reached: energy efficiency, ­and thereby achieve corresponding ­improvement in our carbon dioxide efficiency; >> Transparency was enhanced with our list of declarable sub>> to improve the waste efficiency each year by 1 %; and stances (LoDS), comprising substances that are restricted in >> to reduce waste for disposal each year by 1 %. use due to regional or application-specific regulations. >> Development and application of a methodological approach Furthermore, Siemens continued with the water risk managefor better assessing risks such as environmental, toxicologiment approach: In locations where there are particular water cal and future availability risks associated with used materirisks or negative impacts on the environment (for example as a als and substances. The application has been verified within result of aridity, high waste-water loads or poorly developed our business. technical infrastructure), the local sites need to define targets >> Establishment of a harmonized procedure on the basis of ISO matched to local conditions. Finally, our “Serve the Environ14040 / 44 (Life-cycle-assessment) for determining the “ecoment” program also addressed air pollution by seeking alternalogical footprint” of our products and thereof derived envitive solutions for any ozone-depleting substances still in legally ronmental product declarations based on the requirements permissible use and control VOC (Volatile organic compounds) of ISO 14025.  emissions. For continuation of the Serve the Environment program energy and waste efficiency aspects will be integrated into our supply chain. Air pollution control will be considered holistically, taking account not only of own emissions but also of the local air immission situation at our production plants and offices. Climate change induced impacts of water use in our businesses will also be integrated. We achieved the targets we set ourselves for fiscal 2014. The energy efficiency could be improved due to implementation of energy efficiency measures and implementation of energy 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 223 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks C.8.8 Corporate citizenship Siemens is committed to providing long-term benefits to the societies in which we operate, through corporate citizenship activities. These activities can take a variety of forms ranging from philanthropic disaster relief to more strategic shared value or inclusive business approaches like our mobile clinics in India. The responsibility for choosing and carrying out charitable ­activities lies with the local units in each country. This ensures that we provide support where it is needed most. In doing so, we apply high management standards and strategically focus our corporate citizenship activities in areas where our company competencies, resources and employee volunteering can make a meaningful difference: >> Education and Science: Our goal is to maintain a continuous dialogue with young people and to identify and foster talent from an early age on. We support educational and research activities particularly in natural sciences, engineering and healthcare. >> Social: Projects in this area aim to bring about a systematic and lasting improvement in people’s living conditions. In ­addition, we provide urgent humanitarian relief, including ­financial and technical assistance after natural disasters. >> Environment: We want to make an effective contribution towards protecting the environment, particularly through our core competencies, and raise environmental awareness among younger generations. >> Arts and Culture: We support Arts and Culture because a ­society’s cultural heritage is a key aspect of its identity. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 224 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.9 Report on expected developments and associated ­material opportunities and risks C.9.1 Report on expected developments growth rate of 2014. The newly re-elected government has to enact substantial structural reforms to increase the growth C.9.1.1 WORLDWIDE ECONOMY ­potential of the country. For the year 2015 we expect world GDP to expand by 3.2 % with fixed investment and manufacturing value added growing As in past years, Asia, Australia is expected to exhibit the higheven more strongly at 4.5 % and 3.9 %, respectively. The slight est GDP growth. We expect China to contribute the main part of acceleration compared to 2.7 % GDP growth anticipated in 2014 the region’s growth. However, the Chinese economy still sufis expected to be driven mainly by the U.S. economy which fers from overcapacities in several industries and fragile real seems to be on a stable recovery path. The monetary environestate and banking sectors. However, the government should ment is still expansive which should further support growth be able to contain these problems if they become more severe. especially in the housing market. Nevertheless the outlook for China’s gradual shift from an investment-driven to a consumpthe world economy remains uncertain, as indicated by the tion-driven economy is expected to slow down its economy in ­deterioration of many early indicators (especially for the Euro the near term. For India, the outlook for next year is better than zone and China), the increased volatility in equity markets in in 2014. Growth should pick up slightly. However, similar to October, and the severe decline in oil prices since summer Brazil, the country needs structural reforms and substantial 2014. On the one hand, the oil price decline is a symptom of ­improvements in infrastructure. slack global demand relative to supply. On the other hand it is a stabilizing factor for oil importing countries, because it inAll in all, for 2015 we expect growth of the global economy to creases purchasing power for consumers and reduces costs for accelerate slightly compared to 2014. However, there is an unmany businesses. The biggest downside risks stem from geousually high number of downside risks, which – even if only political tensions. An escalation of the Ukraine conflict would some of them materialize – could substantially weigh on global lead to a steep decline in investment activity. Similarly, further economic activity. On the upside, a quick solution of political expansion of the “Islamic State” (including control over importconflicts together with strong economic growth in the U.S. ant oil fields) could disrupt global oil markets and hit the global could boost global demand. economy. Further downside risks would also emerge from an uncontrolled spread of the Ebola epidemic outside West-Africa. The forecasts presented here for GDP, gross fixed investments and manufacturing value added are based on a report from IHS In the region Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East the condition Global Insight dated October 15, 2014. of many Euro zone economies is a cause for concern. Given the latest indicators, there is some danger of a possible premature C.9.1.2 MARKET DEVELOPMENT lapse of the recovery in the Euro zone. In the near term, deflaIn fiscal 2015, we expect growth in the markets served by the tion is the most important threat to these economies. While Power and Gas Division to remain on a low level. While we the German economy is expected to still suffer from Euro zone anticipate slightly increasing market volume year-over-year in weakness and geopolitical tensions, it should also benefit from advanced gas turbine markets – especially in the large-scale stabilizing factors, such as a relatively strong service sector, range (H class) – we also expect continued price declines due solid consumer demand, strong employment data, a weaker to manufacturing overcapacities and increased competitive Euro and cheaper energy. For Russia, the outlook for 2015 pressure. We expect growth in the Division’s oil and gas mar­depends on the future course of the Ukraine conflict and the kets to accelerate in South America and Eastern Europe (e.g. reaction of western countries, which is not foreseeable now. Turkey, Azerbaijan). Investments in markets in the Americas While many African ­countries have achieved a steeper growth are likely to pick up, despite delays, due mainly to demand for path in recent years, they might be negatively affected by lower gas-fired power plants. We anticipate flat development for the raw material prices and by the Ebola epidemic in West-Africa. coal-fired steam power plant market, due to an anticipated slow-down in China. We expect that clear growth in distributed For the Americas, we expect the U.S. economy to be the decipower generation will continue to support growth for the sive force. The U.S. recovery seems to be broad-based and sup­Divisions’ markets as a whole. ported by improving labor markets. The possible start of tightening monetary measures should not disrupt the underlying For the markets served by our Wind Power and Renewables recovery. The outlook for Brazil, the second-largest economy in Division, we expect growth in fiscal 2015 to come in slightly the Americas region, is less optimistic. The expected GDP lower than in fiscal 2014, which saw particularly strong growth growth rate of 1.0 % for 2015 (a little more than the population rates. For onshore wind power markets, investments in the U.S. growth rate) has to be regarded as very low, given the poor are expected to decline in fiscal 2015, following the strong prior 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 225 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks fiscal year. In Europe, we expect the onshore market to see conWe expect markets served by our Mobility Division to grow tinuous moderate growth. In both cases, market development slightly in fiscal 2015. Within Europe and the Middle East we strongly depends on the energy policy framework, including expect decisions on large contract tenders in fiscal 2015, stemtax incentives in the U.S. and regulatory frameworks in Germing from major public rail investments in the U.K. and the many and the U.K. We expect these latter factors to have a simMiddle East. Liberalization of the Turkish rail industry is on­ ilar effect on growth in the offshore wind power market, which going and large contract tenders are expected in the upcoming is dominated by Europe. We expect the offshore wind power years. Within the Americas, we expect a continued high level of markets in Asia, Australia and the Americas to remain largely investments in mainline passenger and urban transport infraundeveloped in the short term. structures in the U.S. Within the Asia, Australia region, we expect g ­ rowth in fiscal 2015 to benefit from a recovery of China’s For the markets served by our Energy Management Division, high-speed rail infrastructure market. In Australia, we expect we expect overall moderate growth in fiscal 2015. Within the demand ­to be held back by lower investments in infrastructure Division’s utility markets, we expect a slight increase in fiscal industries. 2015. On a regional basis, the strongest growth in the utility markets is expected to come from the Europe, C.I.S., Africa, In fiscal 2015, we do not expect growth momentum to acceler­Middle East region. Here we expect strong demand from the ate in markets served by our Digital Factory and Process Middle East and growth in transmission investments due to the ­Industries and Drives Divisions compared to fiscal 2014. With integration of renewable sources into existing power distributhe exception of the oil and gas industry, we expect conservation networks. This growth may be partly offset by lower tive investments in industries served by both Divisions over­demand from major European utility companies which have anall, particularly in Europe. Furthermore, we expect demand nounced plans to ­reduce their capital expenditures. We expect from emerging markets, which were growth drivers in the utility markets in the Americas to grow slightly in fiscal 2015. past, to be weak in fiscal 2015, with the exception of China. Markets in the Asia, Australia region are expected to grow Within the r­ egion Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East, we expect slightly, benefiting from demand from utility companies in the markets in Europe to continue to grow, albeit at a slow pace. emerging countries of the region. We expect the Division’s oil While we e ­ xpect moderate growth rates in some central Euroand gas market to grow moderately, with the strongest growth pean countries, we expect growth to remain weak in the rates in the Americas. Production of unconventional oil and gas ­industrial markets of some large economies, such as France is expected to be the main growth driver in the Americas, while and Italy. While we expect currency-related headwinds for growth in the Asia, Australia region is driven by investments in ­export-oriented industries in the Euro-zone to recede in fiscal liquefied natural gas (LNG) infrastructure. The Division’s miner2015 compared to fiscal 2014, we expect weak demand from als markets are ­expected to grow slightly in fiscal 2015 driven by emerging markets to limit growth opportunities for those demand in the Asia, Australia region. Overcapacities burden the ­industries in fiscal 2015. The latter development is expected to Division’s metals markets, which are expected to grow even be particularly evident in Germany ’s export-­ oriented OEM more slowly than the minerals markets. We expect a more posibusinesses, such as the machine building industry. Also, we tive outlook in the Division’s chemicals and non-residential conexpect growth in G ­ ermany ’s large automotive industry to slow struction markets. Both markets are forecast to grow moderately in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014, resulting in less expanin fiscal 2015 year-over-year. In all regions the chemical industry sive investments year-over-year. Within the Americas, we is contributing to growth. For the non-residential construction ­expect that growth will be driven mainly by the U.S., which markets, we e ­ xpect growth to be driven by the recovery of U.S. will also benefit manu­facturing industries in ­Canada and Mexmarkets and by o ­ ngoing construction investments in Asia, ico. We expect a less favorable development in Brazil and ­Australia, particularly in China. other Latin American countries, where industrial growth is largely dependent on mining industries. Within the Asia, AusFor the markets served by our Building Technologies Division, tralia region, we expect industrial markets in China to grow we expect moderate growth in fiscal 2015. On a regional basis, moderately in fiscal 2015, but below the growth rates in previwe expect growth in Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East to pick ous years, as development in the country ’s export-­oriented up in fiscal 2015. Within the region, we expect growth rates in industries is held back by a stronger currency, higher labor Europe including Germany to increase slightly year-over-year. costs and weakness in many other emerging economies which For the Middle East we expect moderate growth rates yearare important for Chinese exports. Growth in Asia, A ­ ustralia is over-year. Within the Americas, we expect the Division to benexpected to benefit from a pick-up of industrial markets in efit from a slow but continued recovery in U.S. construction South Korea. Industrial markets in India are e ­ xpected to immarkets. We expect markets in the Asia, Australia region to prove slightly. Overall, rising regional political uncertainties grow moderately as in fiscal 2014. may further limit investment behavior. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 226 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position For fiscal 2015, we expect slight growth in the markets served we have improved our natural hedge on a global basis through by Healthcare. We expect markets in emerging countries to geographic distribution of our production facilities during the grow faster than markets in the industrialized countries. In past. Nevertheless, Siemens is still a net exporter from the Euro emerging markets, we expect continued strong demand, in zone to the rest of the world, so a weak Euro is principally particular for entry-level products and solutions, as these coun­favorable for our business and a strong Euro is principally un­ tries build up their healthcare infrastructure to provide their favorable. In addition to the natural hedging strategy just menpopulations with affordable access to modern medical technoltioned, we also hedge currency risk in our export business ogy, including in rural areas. In contrast, demand in industrial­using derivative financial instruments, see NOTE 30 in D.6 ized countries is expected to be held back by healthcare NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . We expect these ­reforms and budgetary constraints. We expect industrialized steps to help us limit effects on income related to currency in countries – especially those more reliant on government fiscal 2015. healthcare expenditures – to continue to focus on improving the efficiency of healthcare and on slowing the growth of Revenue growth healthcare spending, thus driving demand for cost-efficient Given our complex economic and market developments, as and high-throughput products and solutions. For the healthcare ­described in the previous section, we expect that fiscal 2015 market overall, we anticipate that the trends towards entry-­level revenue for Siemens on an organic basis, excluding currency solutions, higher efficiency and focus on patient outcomes will translation and portfolio effects, will be flat year-over-year. We continue. On a regional basis, we expect that growth in the expect that a moderate organic revenue decline particularly in Americas in fiscal 2015 will be supported by moderate growth our Power and Gas Division will be offset by organic revenue in the U.S., where we expect the trends towards higher effigrowth in other Divisions. Also, we expect a stabilizing effect ciency and increased accountability of healthcare providers to on revenue from conversion of our order backlog (defined as continue. Our customers continue to face legislative and reguthe sum of order backlogs of our Industrial Business) which latory reimbursement risks as governments and regulators totaled € 100 billion as of September 30, 2014. From this backseek to curb healthcare costs. Within the Europe, C.I.S., Africa, log we e ­ xpect to convert approximately € 37 billion of past Middle East region, we expect the gradual stabilizing of Euro­orders into current revenue in fiscal 2015. We expect that orders pean markets to continue in fiscal 2015. While we expect the for fiscal 2015 will exceed revenue, leading to a book-to-bill markets in the region Asia, Australia to grow faster than other ­ratio above 1. regions in fiscal 2015, we expect growth to slow down yearover-year. This is expected to be particularly evident in China, Profitability where we expect increasing price and competitive pressure due In fiscal 2015, we expect substantial gains from divestments mainly to increasing numbers of local vendors. mentioned in this Annual Report, particularly including the sale of our stake in BSH and the sale of our hearing aid business. We Our SFS Division is geared to Siemens’ Industrial Business and expect that these gains will more than offset charges associated its markets. As such SFS is, among other factors, influenced by with our “Vision 2020” concept, which includes e ­ fforts to increase the overall business development of the markets served by our ­customer proximity, accelerate innovation, and streamline our Industrial Business. management and internal service processes. We anticipate that such charges during fiscal 2015 will be in the mid-to-high triple-­ C.9.1.3 SIEMENS GROUP digit-million euro range. We expect a significant rise in net We are basing our outlook for fiscal 2015 for the Siemens Group ­income in fiscal 2015, which will enable us to increase basic and its segments on the above-mentioned expectations regardearnings per share (EPS) from net income by at least 15 % from ing the overall economic situation and specific market condi€ 6.37 in fiscal 2014. In this forecast we also expect EPS growth tions for the next fiscal year. to benefit modestly from our current program to repurchase Siemens shares in a volume of up to € 4 billion; repurchases This outlook excludes impacts related to legal and regulatory ­under this program in fiscal 2014 totaled € 1.1 billion. matters. Our assumptions regarding net income for fiscal 2015 inWe are exposed to currency translation effects, particularly include targeted increases in selling and R & D expenses, aimed at volving the US$, British £ and currencies of emerging markets, organic volume growth and strengthening our capacities for such as China, India and Brazil. During fiscal 2014, the average innovation. As part of our One Siemens framework, we target a exchange rate conversion for our large volume of US$-denomitotal cost productivity increase of 3 % to 4 %. Furthermore, we nated revenue was US$ 1.357 per Euro. While we expect volaexpect a significant reduction in project charges compared to tility in global currency markets to continue in fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 227 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Additionally, we assume pricing pressure on our offerings of to cost a ­ pprox­imately € 0.6 billion in fiscal 2015, with costs in around 2.5 % in fiscal 2015, with the Wind Power and Renewthe second h ­ alf-year higher than in the first half. Among other ables Division, the Power and Gas Division and Healthcare factors, results from Corporate items are dependent on ­being affected the most. Furthermore, we expect upward preschanges in the fair value of warrants we issued together with sure on costs from wage inflation of around 3 % to 4 %. US$ 3 billion in bonds in fiscal 2012. Centrally carried pension expenses are e ­ xpected to total approximately € 0.5 billion Beginning with fiscal 2015, we defined profit margin ranges for in fiscal 2015. Because our enhanced profit definition now our Industrial Business and SFS, which are based on the profit ­excludes expenses from amortization of intangible assets margins of the respective relevant competitors. The profit mar­acquired in business combinations, we report these expenses gin ranges for our Industrial Business and for SFS are as f­ ollows: separately within our Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements. In fiscal 2014, these expenses were a negative Profit margin ranges € 0.5 billion and we expect them to be on a similar level in Margin range ­fiscal 2015. Power and Gas 11 – 15% Wind Power and Renewables 5 – 8% Income from discontinued operations in fiscal 2015 is expected Energy Management 7 – 10% to rise sharply year-over-year, benefiting particularly from a Building Technologies 8 – 11% substantial gain on the sale of our hearing aid business. Mobility 6 – 9% Digital Factory 14 – 20% Capital efficiency Process Industries and Drives 8 – 12% Our primary measure for managing and controlling our capital Healthcare 15 – 19% efficiency is return on capital employed from continuing and disSFS (ROE (after taxes)) 15 – 20% continued operations (ROCE). Due mainly to our expec­tations regarding the development of net income, we expect to achieve ROCE clearly in our target range of 15% to 20% in ­fiscal 2015. We expect that nearly all of our Divisions and Healthcare will Capital structure reach their margin ranges in fiscal 2015. Our Energy ManageTo measure our capital structure we use the ratio of industrial ment Division and our Wind Power and Renewables Division, net debt to EBITDA, and seek to achieve a ratio of up to 1.0. We whose profit margins were below their respective ranges in fisexpect to achieve a ratio below 1.0 in fiscal 2015, but clearly cal 2014, are expected to significantly improve their profitability above the fiscal 2014 level of 0.15, due to portfolio measures in fiscal 2015. While we expect the profit margin for our Power that we initiated in fiscal 2014 and our share buyback program, and Gas Division to be in the target range in fiscal 2015, we exwhich are expected to result in significant net cash outflows pect it will come in significantly below the margin of 17.4 % in fiscal 2015. achieved in fiscal 2014. Besides the above-mentioned market conditions, the reasons for this development are targeted Dividend ­expense increases for growth and innovation as well as consolWe intend to continue providing an attractive return to shareidation early in fiscal 2015 of our acquisition of the aero-derivaholders. Therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a tive turbine and compressor business of Rolls-Royce, among dividend payout of 40 % to 60 % of net income, which for this other factors. Overall, we expect an aggregate profit margin for purpose we may adjust to exclude selected exceptional nonour Industrial Business of 10 % to 11 %, compared to 10.6 % in cash effects. As in the past, we intend to fund the dividend payfiscal 2014. We expect profit for SFS, which is outside our Indusout from Free cash flow. trial Business, to be near the prior-year level. C.9.1.4 OVERALL ASSESSMENT Within our Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial StateWe believe that our business environment will be complex in ments, profit from Centrally managed portfolio activities is fiscal 2015, among other things due to geopolitical tensions. We expected to rise sharply year-over-year, benefiting from a gain expect revenue on an organic basis to remain flat year-over-year, on the sale of our stake in BSH. This positive effect is expected and orders to exceed revenue for a book-to-bill ratio above 1. Furto be partly offset by burdens that may arise from remaining thermore, we expect that gains from divestments will enable us Centrally managed portfolio activities. While we anticipate to increase basic EPS from net income by at least 15% from €6.37 that SRE will continue with real estate disposals depending on in fiscal 2014. For our Industrial Business, we expect a profit market conditions, we expect gains from disposals to be lower margin of 10 % to 11 %. This outlook excludes impacts from legal in fiscal 2015 than in fiscal 2014. Corporate items are expected and regulatory matters. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 228 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position Overall, the actual development for Siemens and its Segments system. It considers a company ’s strategy, the efficiency and may vary, positively or negatively, from our expectations due to effectiveness of its business operations, the reliability of its the risks and opportunities described below. See C.9.3 RISKS ­financial reporting as well as compliance with relevant laws as well as C.9.4 OPPORTUNITIES . This report on expected develand regulations to be equally important. opments should be read in conjunction with E.6 NOTES AND FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS . The ERM process aims for early identification and evaluation of, and response regarding, risks and opportunities that could materially affect the achievement of our strategic, operational, C.9.2 Risk management ­financial and compliance objectives. Our ERM is based on a net risk approach, covering risks and opportunities remaining after C.9.2.1 BASIC PRINCIPLES OF THE RISK the execution of existing control measures. In order to provide MANAGEMENT a comprehensive view on our business activities, risks and opOur risk management policy stems from a philosophy of pursuportunities are identified in a structured way combining eleing sustainable growth and creating economic value while ments of both top-down and bottom-up approaches. Risks and avoiding and managing inappropriate risks. As risk manageopportunities are generally reported on a quarterly basis. This ment is an integral part of how we plan and execute our busiregular reporting process is complemented by an ad-hoc ness strategies, our risk management policy is set by the Man­reporting process that aims to escalate critical issues in a timely aging Board. Our organizational and accountability structure as manner. Relevant risks and opportunities are prioritized in of September 30, 2014 requires each of the respective manageterms of impact and likelihood, considering different perspecments of our Sectors, SFS, SRE, regions and Corporate Units to tives, including business objectives, reputation and regulatory implement risk management programs that are tailored to their matters. The bottom-up identification and prioritization prospecific industries and responsibilities, while being consistent cess is supported by workshops with the respective managewith the overall policy established by the Managing Board. ment of the Sector, SFS, SRE, regional and Corporate Unit organizations. This top-down element ensures that potential new C.9.2.2 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS risks and opportunities are discussed at the management level We have implemented and coordinated a set of risk manageand are included in the subsequent reporting process, if found ment and control systems which support us in the early recogto be relevant. Reported risks and opportunities are analyzed nition of developments jeopardizing the continuity of our busiregarding potential cumulative effects and are aggregated at ness. The most important of these systems include our Sector, SFS, SRE, regional and corporate level. enterprise-wide processes for strategic planning and management reporting. Strategic planning is intended to support us in Responsibilities are assigned for all relevant risks and opportuconsidering potential risks well in advance of major business nities with the hierarchical level of responsibility depending on decisions, while management reporting is intended to enable the significance of the respective risk or opportunity. In a first us to monitor such risks more closely as our business prostep, assuming responsibility for a specific risk or opportunity gresses. Our internal auditors regularly review the adequacy involves deciding upon one of our general response strategies, and effectiveness of our risk management system. Accordingly, or a combination of them. Our general response strategies with if deficits are detected, it is possible to adopt appropriate mearespect to risks are avoidance, transfer, reduction or acceptance sures for their elimination. This coordination of processes and of the relevant risk. Our general response strategies with procedures is intended to help ensure that the Managing Board ­respect to opportunities are partial or complete realization of and the Supervisory Board are fully informed about significant the relevant opportunity. In a second step, responsibility for a risks in a timely manner. risk or opportunity also involves the development, initiation and monitoring of appropriate response measures correspondRisk management at Siemens is based on a comprehensive, ining to the chosen response strategy. These response measures teractive and management-oriented Enterprise Risk Managehave to be specifically tailored to allow for effective risk manment (ERM) approach that is integrated into the organization agement. Accordingly, we have developed a variety of response and that addresses both risks and opportunities. Our ERM measures with different characteristics: For example, we miti­approach is based on the worldwide accepted Enterprise Risk gate the risk of fluctuations in currency and interest rates by Management – Integrated Framework (2004) developed by the engaging in hedging activities. Regarding our long-term projCommittee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Comects, systematic and comprehensive project management with mission (COSO). The framework connects the ERM process standardized project milestones, including provisional accepwith our financial reporting process and our internal control tances during project execution, and complemented by clearly 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 229 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks defined approval processes assists us in identifying and reof fluctuations in economic activity and customer demand by sponding to project risks at an early stage, even before entering closely monitoring the macroeconomic conditions and develthe bidding phase. Furthermore, we maintain appropriate opments in relevant industries, and by adjusting capacity and ­insurance levels for potential cases of damage and liability risks implementing cost-reduction measures in a timely and consisin order to reduce our exposure to such risks and to avoid or tent manner, if deemed necessary. minimize potential losses. Among others, we address the risk C.9.2.3 RISK MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES Operational and organizational structure of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process as of September 30, 2014 Managing Board Audit Committee Overall responsibility for the Risk and Internal Control System. Oversees the effectiveness of the risk management and Defines risk policy and ERM strategy. internal control system. Corporate Risk & Internal Control Committee (CRIC) Chief Risk & Internal Control Officer Reports to and supports the Managing Board in matters ­relating Chairman of the CRIC. Defines and monitors application of ERM strategy, to the implementation, operation and oversight of an effective ­ olicy and methodology. Consolidates Siemens wide risk and opportunity p Risk and Internal Control System. profile for CRIC. Sector Risk & Internal Lead Country Risk & Internal Control Committees Control Committees Oversee the risk and internal control activities for their area of responsibility and provide the ­Management with information necessary to report to the CRIC. Sector Management 1 Lead Country Management Heads of Corporate Units Implement ERM system and ensure management and monitoring of risks and opportunities in their respective organization. 1 The term “Sector” in this chart comprises Sectors, SFS and SRE. To oversee the ERM process and to further drive the integration C.9.3 Risks and harmonization of existing control activities to align with legal and operational requirements, the Managing Board estabBelow we describe the risks that could have a material adverse lished a Corporate Risk and Internal Control Department, effect on our business, financial condition (including effects on headed by the Chief Risk & Internal Control Officer, and a Cor­ assets, liabilities and cash flows), results of operations and porate Risk and Internal Control Committee (CRIC). The CRIC repu­tation. The order in which the risks are presented in each ­obtains risk and opportunity information from the Risk Comof the four categories reflects the currently estimated relative mittees established at the Sector, SFS, SRE and regional level as exposure for Siemens associated with these risks and thus well as from the Heads of Corporate Units, which then forms ­provides an indication of the risks’ current importance to us. the basis for the evaluation of the company-wide risk and op­Nevertheless, risks currently considered to entail a lower risk portunity situation. The CRIC reports to and supports the Manexposure could potentially result in a higher negative impact aging Board on matters relating to the implementation, operaon Siemens than risks currently considered to entail a higher tion and oversight of the risk and internal control system and risk exposure. Additional risks not known to us or that we curassists the Managing Board in reporting to the Audit Commitrently consider immaterial may also negatively impact our busitee of the Supervisory Board. The CRIC is composed of the Chief ness operations. Unless otherwise stated, the risks described Risk & Internal Control Officer, as the chairperson, and membelow relate to all of our segments. bers of senior management such as the Sector and SFS CEOs, the CFO of Siemens, and selected Heads of Corporate Units. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 230 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.9.3.1 STRATEGIC RISKS a renewed crisis in financial and credit markets, a renewed We operate in highly competitive markets, which are subbanking crisis in Europe, a hard landing of the Chinese econject to price pressures and rapid changes: The worldwide omy, a supra-regional spread of the Ebola epidemic, fluctuating markets for our products and solutions are highly competitive commodity prices, bankruptcies, natural disasters, political in terms of pricing, product and service quality, product devel­crises including further independence debates, social unrest opment and introduction time, customer service and financand other challenges. ing terms. In many of our businesses, we face downward price pressure and we are or could be exposed to market downturns In general, due to the significant proportion of long-cycle busior slower growth, which may increase in times of declining nesses in our former Sectors and the importance of long-term investment activities and consumer demand. We face strong contracts for Siemens, there is usually a time lag between the competitors, some of which are larger and may have greater development of macroeconomic conditions and their impact on resources in a given business area, and also competitors from our financial results. Important exceptions include our short-­ emerging markets, which may have a better cost structure. cycle businesses in the former Industry Sector, particularly Some industries in which we operate are undergoing con­ those in the former Industry Automation Division and parts of solidation, which may result in stronger competition and a the former Drive Technologies Division as well as parts of the change in our relative ­market position. Certain competitors former Power Grid Solutions & Products Business within the formay be more effective and faster in capturing available market mer Infrastructure & Cities Sector, which are highly sensitive to opportunities, such as through heavy investments or new volatility in market demand. If the moderate recovery of macro­entrance of IT companies into emerging service fields (e.g. economic growth stalls again and if we are not successful in data-­driven services). These factors alone or in combination adapting our production and cost structure to subsequent may negatively impact our business, financial condition, and changes to conditions in the markets in which we operate, ­results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will not experience adverse effects (e.g. underutilization of manufacturing and engineerFurthermore, we see a risk that suppliers (and to some extent ing capacities) that may be material to our business, financial even smaller customers), especially from emerging countries condition and results of operations. For example, it may be(e.g. China), could develop into serious competitors for come more difficult for our customers to obtain financing and Siemens resulting in even more competition and thus in reas a result they may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase duced volume, loss of market share, and / or lower profit margin. our products and services or to follow through on purchases or contracts already executed. Furthermore, prices may decline as Our business, financial condition and results of operations a result of adverse market conditions to a greater extent than may be affected by the uncertainties of economic and politcurrently anticipated. In addition, contracted payment terms, ical conditions, particularly in the current macroeconomic especially regarding the level of advance payments by our cusenvironment, which is characterized by a high degree of untomers relating to long-term projects, may become less favorcertainty and modest recovery as well as the continuing risk able, which could negatively impact our cash flows. Additionof resurgence of crisis in financial markets and/or renewed ally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient global economic downturn: Our business environment is inrevenue or securing access to the capital markets, they may not fluenced by both domestic and global demand, which in turn is be able to pay, or may delay payment of, the amounts they owe influenced by economic conditions. These conditions and, in us, which may adversely affect our business, financial condiconsequence, the speed of economic growth and the sustaintion and results of operations. ability of our market environment are dependent upon the evolution of a number of global and local factors. We still see a Numerous other headwinds continue to constrain the world high level of uncertainty regarding the global economic outeconomy, such as the increasing popular support for anti-EU and look, primarily as a result of the anemic economic recovery in anti-business parties, ongoing high public debt, and significant the Euro zone, sluggish growth in various emerging countries, fluctuations in exchange rates, energy prices and raw material and ongoing geopolitical tensions. The main downside risks prices. These and other factors could impact macroeconomic stem from these political tensions. A severe escalation of the ­parameters and the international capital and credit markets, and conflict in Eastern Europe would strongly affect the European the resulting uncertainty could have an adverse impact on our and world economy and lead to a steep decline in investment business, financial condition and results of operations. activity. Similarly, an escalation of the conflicts in the Middle East could disrupt global oil markets and hit the global econOur business is affected by a variety of market conditions and omy. Additional risks for our market environment include such regulations. For example, our former Energy Sector is exposed possibilities as a prolonged decline in investment sentiment, to the development of global demand for energy and strongly 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 231 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks affected by regulations and policies related to energy and the ­ dequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our a environment. Healthcare is dependent on policy development technology. Furthermore, in some of our markets, the need to and regulations affecting healthcare systems around the world, ­develop and introduce new products rapidly in order to capparticularly in the important U.S. healthcare market. Our forture available opportunities may lead to quality problems. Our mer Industry Sector is vulnerable to unfavorable market condioperating results depend to a significant extent on our ability tions in certain segments of the automotive and manufac­ to anticipate and adapt to changes in our markets and to turing industries. Our former Infrastructure & Cities Sector ­reduce the costs of producing high-quality products. Among focuses, among other things, on business with public authorirecent technology trends, we are carefully evaluating the ties around the world and is thus vulnerable to restrictions in ­potential and relevance of digitalization. We believe that the public budgets. potential and usage scenarios of this technology vary among our products, solutions and services depending on the degree Our business, financial condition and results of operations of information technology utilized. However, we also believe may be adversely affected by continued strategic alignments that this trend needs to be monitored closely, because it might ­and cost-cutting initiatives: We are in a continuous p ­ rocess of bear the potential to change the competitive landscape. Any strategic alignments and constantly engage in cost-cutting inability to adapt to the aforementioned factors could have an ­initiatives, including ongoing capacity adjustment measures adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results and structural initiatives. Capacity adjustments through of operations. ­consolidation of business activities and manufacturing facilities, and the streamlining of product portfolios are also part of Our business, financial condition and results of operations these cost reduction efforts. These measures may not be implemay be adversely affected by portfolio measures: Our stratmented as planned, may turn out to be less effective than anegy includes divesting activities in some business areas and ticipated, may become effective later than estimated or may strengthening others through portfolio measures, including not become effective at all. Each of these factors alone or in mergers and acquisitions. combination may negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any future contribution of With respect to divestments, we may not be able to divest some these measures to our profitability will be influenced by the of our activities as planned, and the divestitures we do carry ­actual savings achieved and by our ability to sustain them. out could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation. As a major Our businesses must keep pace with technological divestment, we agreed that Bosch will acquire Siemens’ stake changes and develop new products and services to remain in BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH. competitive: The markets in which our businesses operate experience rapid and significant changes due to the introduction Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky because of diffiof innovative technologies. To meet our customers’ needs, we culties that may arise when integrating people, operations, must continuously design new products and services and uptechnologies and products. There can be no assurance that any date existing ones, while investing in and developing new of the businesses we acquire can be integrated successfully and technologies. Introducing new products and technologies as timely as originally planned, or that they will perform as ­requires a significant commitment to research and develop­anticipated once integrated. In addition, we may incur signifiment, which in return requires expenditure of considerable cant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection financial resources that may not always result in success. Our with these transactions, including costs related to integration sales and profitability may suffer if we invest in technologies of acquired businesses. For example, in September 2014, we that do not operate or may not be integrated as expected, or ­entered into an agreement with Dresser-Rand to acquire all of that are not accepted in the market place as anticipated, or if its issued and outstanding common shares by way of a friendly our products or systems are not introduced to the market in a takeover bid. At the beginning of May 2014, we announced the timely manner, particularly compared to our competitors, or acquisition of the Rolls-Royce Energy aero-derivative gas become obsolete. We constantly apply for new patents and ­turbine and compressor business of Rolls-Royce plc, U.K. (Rolls­actively manage our intellectual property portfolio to secure Royce). Furthermore, portfolio measures may result in addiour technological position. However, our patents and other tional financing needs and adversely affect our financial intellectual property may not prevent competitors from indeleverage and our debt-to-equity ratio. Acquisitions may also pendently developing or selling products and services that are lead to substantial increases in intangible assets, including similar to or duplicates of ours. There can be no assurance that goodwill. Our Statements of Financial Position reflect a signifithe resources we invest to protect our intellectual property cant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill. Among will be sufficient or that our intellectual property portfolio will our businesses, the largest amount of goodwill is allocated to 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 232 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position the former Diagnostics Division and the former Imaging & disclosures on sourcing and usage of the regulated raw materi­Therapy Systems Division of Healthcare, and the former Indusals. In particular, there is U.S. legislation concerning the sourctry Automation Division of the former Industry Sector. If we ing of “conflict minerals” from mines located in the conflict were to encounter continuing adverse business developments zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and its including negative effects on our revenues, profits or cash, or ­adjoining countries. This U.S. legislation requires manufacturadverse effects from an increase in the weighted average cost of ers listed on U.S. stock exchanges to investigate and disclose capital (WACC) or from foreign exchange rate developments, or their use of any conflict minerals originating in the DRC or adif we were otherwise to perform worse than expected at acquijoining countries. Many of our customers fall into this category. sition activities, then these intangible assets, including goodIf their (sub-)suppliers do not provide them with requested inwill, might have to be written off, which could adversely affect formation and do not take other steps to ensure that no such our business, financial condition and results of operations. The conflict minerals are included in minerals or components suplikelihood of such adverse business developments increases in plied to them, they may be forced to disclose information about times of difficult or uncertain macroeconomic conditions. the use of conflict minerals in their supply chain in filings with the SEC. Thus, our customers pass on these transparency obliOur business, financial condition and results of operations gations within their supply chain in which we are also involved. may be adversely affected by our equity interests, other We exercise our duty within the supply chain, as our customers ­investments and strategic alliances: Our strategy includes request transparency in the supply chain and as the obligation strengthening our business interests through joint ventures, to do so already forms an element of customer contracts. If we associated c­ ompanies and strategic alliances. Certain of our are unable to achieve sufficient confidence throughout our ­investments, particularly in our former segment Equity Investsupply chain, or if any of these risks or similar risks associated ments, are accounted for using the equity method, including, with these kinds of regulations, laws and policies were to among others, Unify (formerly EN) and, after contractual clos­materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operaing of the transaction, our Metals Technologies joint venture tions and reputation could be adversely affected. with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. Furthermore, we hold other investments, for example Atos SE and OSRAM Licht AG. Any C.9.3.2 OPERATIONAL RISKS factors negatively influencing the profitability of our equity and Our business, financial condition and results of operations other investments, including negative effects on revenues, may be adversely affected by cost overruns or additional profits or cash, could have an adverse effect on our equity payment obligations related to the management of our pick-up related to these equity interests or may result in a writelong-term, fixed-price or turnkey projects: We perform a poroff of these investments. In addition, our business, financial tion of our business, especially large projects, under long-term condition and results of operations could also be adversely contracts that are awarded on a competitive bidding basis. ­affected in connection with loans, guarantees or non-compliSome of these contracts are inherently risky because we may ance with financial covenants related to these equity and other assume substantially all of the risks associated with completinvestments. Furthermore, such investments are inherently ing a project and the post-completion warranty obligations. For risky as we may not be able to sufficiently influence corporate example, we face the risk that we must satisfy technical regovernance processes or business decisions taken by our quirements of a project even though we may not have gained ­equity investments, other investments and strategic alliances experience with those requirements before we win the project. that may have a negative effect on our business. In addition, The profit margins realized on fixed-priced contracts may vary joint ventures bear the risk of difficulties that may arise when from original estimates as a result of changes in costs and prointegrating people, operations, technologies and products. ductivity over their term. We sometimes bear the risk of unanStrategic alliances may also pose risks for us because we comticipated project modifications, shortage of key personnel, pete in some business areas with companies with which we quality problems, financial difficulties of our customers, cost have strategic alliances. overruns or contractual penalties caused by unexpected technological problems, unforeseen developments at the project We are subject to changes of regulations, laws and policies sites, unforeseen changes or difficulties in the regulatory or concerning our products: As a diversified company with global political environment, performance problems with our supplibusinesses we are exposed to various product-related regulaers, subcontractors and consortium partners or other logistical tions, laws and policies influencing our processes. Recently, difficulties. Certain of our multi-year contracts also contain ­some jurisdictions around the world have adopted certain regdemanding installation and maintenance requirements in ­ ulations, laws and policies requiring us to extend our recycling ­addition to other performance criteria relating to timing, unit efforts, limit the sourcing and usage of certain raw materials, cost and compliance with government regulations requireand request that suppliers provide additional due diligence and ments, which, if not satisfied, could subject us to substantial 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 233 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks c­ ontractual penalties, damages, non-payment and contract terFurthermore, failures on the part of service providers we mination. There can be no assurance that contracts and proj­employ, such as in the area of IT, may have an adverse effect on ects, in particular those with long-term duration and fixedour processes and operations and our ability to meet our comprice ­calculation, can be completed profitably. mitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Any operational failures or quality issues could have an adverse Increased IT security threats and higher levels of profes­effect on our business, financial condition, results of operasionalism in computer crime could pose a risk to our tions and reputation. ­systems, networks, products, solutions and services as well as to those of our service providers: Our business portfolio We are dependent upon hiring, developing and retaining includes a broad array of systems, networks, products, soluhighly qualified management and technical personnel: tions and services across our businesses that rely on digital Competition for highly qualified personnel remains intense technologies. We observe a global increase in IT security in the industries and regions in which our businesses operate. threats and higher levels of professionalism in computer crime, In many of our business areas, we intend to expand our busiwhich pose a risk to the security of systems and networks and ness activities, for which we will need highly skilled employthe confidentiality, availability and integrity of data. We attempt ees. Our future success depends in part on our continued abil­to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, ity to hire, integrate, develop and retain engineers and other including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of qualified personnel. We address this risk with various measures, our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and ­for example succession planning, employer branding, retention ­protective systems such as firewalls and virus scanners. To the and career management. However, there can be no assurance extent we employ service providers, such as in the area of IT that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaininfrastructure, we have contractual arrangements in place in ing all the highly qualified employees and key personnel needed order to ensure that these risks are reduced in a similar manin the future, including in appropriate geographic locations, and ner. Nonetheless, our systems, networks, products, solutions any inability to do so could have an adverse effect on our busiand services, as well as those of our service providers remain ness, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. potentially vulnerable to attacks. Depending on their nature and scope, such attacks could potentially lead to the leakage of We may face interruption of our supply chain, including the confidential information, improper use of our systems and netinability of third parties to deliver parts, components and works, manipulation and destruction of data, defective prodservices on time and in the contractually agreed quality, ucts, production downtimes and supply shortages, which in and we may be subject to rising raw material prices: Our turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition, ­financial performance depends in part on reliable and effective results of operations and reputation. supply chain management for components, sub-assemblies and other materials. Capacity constraints and supply shortages We may face operational failures and quality problems in resulting from ineffective supply chain management may lead our value chain processes: Our value chain comprises all to delays and additional cost. We rely on third parties to supply steps, from research and development to supply chain manageus with parts, components and services. Using third parties to ment, production, marketing, sales and services. Operational manufacture, assemble and test our products reduces our confailures in our value chain processes could result in quality trol over manufacturing yields, quality assurance, product problems or potential product, labor safety, regulatory or envi­delivery schedules and costs. The third parties that supply us ronmental risks. Such risks are particularly present in our with parts and components also have other customers and may ­former Sectors in relation to our production and construction not have sufficient capacity to meet all of their customers’ facilities, which are located all over the world and have a high needs, including ours, during ­periods of excess demand. Comdegree of organizational and technological complexity. From ponent supply delays can affect the performance of our former time to time, some of the products we sell might have quality Sectors. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid issues resulting from the design or manufacture of such prodsupply-related problems, there can be no assurance that we ucts or from the software integrated into them. Our Healthcare will not encounter supply problems in the future or that we will business, for example, is subject to regulatory authorities be able to replace a supplier that is not able to meet our ­including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the Euro­demand. This risk is particularly evident in businesses with a pean Commission’s Health and Consumer Policy Department, very limited number of suppliers. Shortages and delays could which require us to make certain efforts to safeguard our prodmaterially harm our business. Unanticipated increases in the uct quality. If we are not able to comply with these requireprice of components or raw materials due to market shortages ments, our business, financial condition, results of operations or other reasons could also adversely affect the performance of and reputation may be adversely affected. our former Sectors. Furthermore, we may be exposed to the 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 234 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position risk of delays and interruptions of the supply chain as a conseshare price fluctuations may lead to higher volatility and quence of natural disasters in case we are unable to identify ­adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results alternative sources of supply or ways of transportation in of operations. a timely manner or at all. A general shortage of materials, components or sub-components as a result of natural disasters also We are exposed to volatile credit spreads: Regarding our bears the risk of unforeseeable fluctuations in prices and ­Corporate Treasury activities, widening credit spreads due to ­demand, which might adversely affect our business, financial uncertainty and risk aversion in the financial markets might condition and results of operations. lead to adverse changes of fair market values of our financial assets, in particular concerning our derivative financial instruOur former Sectors purchase raw materials including so-called ments. In addition, widening credit spreads could lead to rare-earth metals, copper, steel, aluminum and oil, which ex­increasing refinancing costs if the Euro zone sovereign debt pose them to fluctuations in energy and raw material prices. In ­crisis with its ongoing significant impact on global financial recent times, commodities prices have been subject to volatile markets and the European financial sector in particular, continmarkets, and such volatility is expected to continue. If we are ues or even ­worsens. Any such development could also further not able to compensate for our increased costs or pass them on ­increase the costs for buying protection against credit risks due to customers, price increases could have an adverse impact on to a potential increase of counterparty risks. our business, financial condition and results of operations. In contrast, in times of falling commodity prices, we may not fully Our future financing via Corporate Treasury may particuprofit from such price decreases as we attempt to reduce the larly be affected by the uncertainty of economic condirisk of rising commodity prices by several means, such as longtions and the developments of capital and financial marterm contracting or physical and financial hedging. In addition kets: Our Corporate Treasury is responsible for the financing to price pressure that we may face from our customers expectof the Company. Negative developments in foreign exchange, ing to benefit from falling commodity prices or adverse market money or capital markets, such as limited availability of funds conditions, this could also adversely affect our business, finan(particularly U.S. dollar funds), may increase our overall cost cial condition and results of operations. of funding. The ongoing Euro zone sovereign debt crisis continues to have an impact on global capital markets. The resultC.9.3.3 FINANCIAL RISKS ing higher risk awareness of governments led to more regulaWe are exposed to market price risks: We are exposed to fluctions on the use of financial instruments through (1) the tuations in exchange rates, especially between the U.S. dollar Regulation on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and and the euro, because a high percentage of our business trade repositories (European Market Infrastructure Regula­volume is conducted in the U.S. and as exports from Europe. In tion) and (2) other similar regulations in other jurisdictions, addition, we are exposed to currency effects involving the which may have an impact on the future availability or the currencies of emerging markets, in particular the Chinese ­ costs of adequate hedging instruments for the Company. Yuan. A strengthening of the euro (particularly against the U.S. It may even lead to further regulations of the financial sector dollar) may change our competitive position, as many of our as well as to the use of financial instruments that could competitors may benefit from having a substantial portion of ­adversely influence our future possibilities of obtaining debt their costs based in weaker currencies, enabling them to offer financing, and / or may increase our r­ efinancing costs. Deteriotheir products at lower prices. As a result, a strong euro in relarating credit quality or even default of business partners may tion to the U.S. dollar and other currencies could have an adversely affect our business, financial condition and results ­adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. of operations. ­Certain currency risks as well as interest rate risks are hedged using derivative financial instruments. Depending on the Downgrades of our rating could increase our cost of capital ­development of foreign currency exchange and interest rates, and therefore could negatively affect our business: Our our hedging activities could have significant effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations are influbusiness, financial condition and results of operations. enced significantly by the actual and expected performance of Changes in the fair value of warrants issued together with the former Sectors and SFS, as well as our portfolio measures. US$ 3 billion bonds in fiscal 2012 depends mainly on the under­ An actual or expected negative development of our business, lying Siemens and OSRAM share prices as well as their respecfinancial condition or results of operations could result in the tive volatilities, irrespective of the fact that our potential deterioration of our credit rating. Downgrades by rating agen­obligation related to the warrant writer position to physically cies could increase our cost of capital, may reduce our potential deliver Siemens and OSRAM shares could be covered out of investor base and may negatively affect our business, financial existing stock. Accordingly, exchange rate, interest rate and condition and results of operations. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 235 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks Our financing activities subject us to various risks, includguarantees customary for the business are procured from banks, ing credit, interest rate and foreign exchange risk: We prosuch as down-payment or warranty bonds, as part of the order. vide our customers with various forms of direct and indirect Sometimes customers may also set minimum requirements as ­financing in connection with large projects. We also finance a to the creditworthiness of acceptable guarantors. Accordingly, large number of customer orders, for example, the leasing of situations may arise with respect to existing orders that, during medical equipment, mainly through SFS. SFS also bears credit the order’s execution phase, customers request the provision of risk by financing third-party equipment or by taking direct or alternative security upon the deterioration of a guaranteeing indirect participation in financings, such as syndicated loans. bank’s creditworthiness. In part, we take a security interest in the assets we finance or we receive additional collateral. Our business, financial condiExaminations by tax authorities and changes in tax regulation and results of operations may be adversely affected if the tions could adversely affect our business, financial condicredit quality of our customers deteriorates or if they default on tion and results of operations: We operate in nearly all countheir payment obligation to us, if the value of the assets in tries of the world and therefore are subject to many different tax which we have taken a security interest or additional collateral regulations. Changes in tax law in any of these jurisdictions declines, if interest rates or foreign exchange rates fluctuate, or could result in higher tax expense and payments. Furthermore, if the projects in which we invest are unsuccessful. Potential legislative changes could impact our tax receivables and liabiladverse changes in economic conditions could cause a decline ities as well as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. In in the fair market values of assets, derivative instruments as addition, the uncertain tax environment in some regions could well as collateral, resulting in losses which could have an limit our ability to enforce our rights. As a globally operating ­adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results ­organization, we conduct business in countries subject to comof operations. plex tax rules, which may be interpreted in different ways. Future interpretations or developments of tax regimes may affect our Our business, financial condition and results of operations business, financial condition and results of operations. We are may be adversely affected by several parameters influencregularly examined by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. ing the funded status of our pension benefit plans: The funded status of our pension plans may be affected by an For further information on derivative financial instruments, ­increase or decrease in the defined benefit obligation (DBO), as hedging activities and financial risk management, see NOTE well as by an increase or decrease in the value of plan assets. 30 AND 31 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED ­F INANCIAL STATEMENTS . A significant increase in the underfunding may have a negative effect on our rating. Pensions are accounted for in accordance C.9.3.4 COMPLIANCE RISKS with actuarial valuations, which rely on statistical and other We are subject to regulatory risks associated with our interfactors in order to anticipate future events. These factors national operations: Protectionist trade policies and changes ­include key pension plan valuation assumptions such as the in the political and regulatory environment in the markets in discount rate, rate of future compensation increases and which we operate, such as import and export controls, tariffs ­pension progression. Actual developments may differ from and other trade barriers including debarment from certain mar­assumptions due to changing market and economic conditions, kets and price or exchange controls, could affect our business thereby resulting in an increase or decrease in the DBO. Signifin several national markets, impact our sales and profitability icant movements in financial markets or a change in the portand make the repatriation of profits difficult, and may expose folio mix of invested assets could result in corresponding us to penalties, sanctions and reputational damage. In addi­increases or decreases in the value of plan assets, particularly tion, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some regions equity securities. Also, changes in pension plan assumptions could limit our ability to enforce our rights and subject us to could affect defined benefit costs. For example, a change in discontinually increasing costs related to designing and implecount rates may result in changes in the defined benefit costs menting appropriate compliance programs and protocols. in the following fiscal year. In order to comply with local pension regulations in selected foreign countries, we may face a As a globally operating organization, we conduct business with risk of increasing cash outflows to reduce an underfunding of customers in countries, such as Iran, Syria, Cuba and countries our pension plans in these countries, if any. in Eastern Europe, that are subject to export control regulations, embargoes, economic sanctions or other forms of trade restricWith respect to sales-related bank guarantees to be issued tions imposed by the U.S., the European Union or other counin the course of orders or supplies, we are exposed to certries or organizations. New or expanded export control regu­ tain risks arising from our banks’ rating and its developlations, economic sanctions, embargoes or other forms of ment: Frequently customers request from the supplier that trade restrictions imposed on Iran, Syria or on other sanctioned 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 236 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position c­ ountries in which we do business may result in a curtailment ­ iolations and other illegal acts, such activities may impair our v of our existing business in such countries or indirectly in other ability to do business with these or other organizations. Corcountries and in amendments to our policies. We are also aware ruption, antitrust and related proceedings may lead to criminal of initiatives by institutional investors, such as pension funds or and civil fines as well as penalties, sanctions, injunctions other companies, to adopt or consider adopting policies prohibagainst future conduct, profit disgorgements, disqualifications iting investment in and transactions with, or requiring divestfrom directly and indirectly engaging in certain types of busiment of interests in entities doing business with, Iran and other ness, the loss of business licenses or permits or other restriccountries identified as state sponsors of terrorism by the U.S. tions. Accordingly, we may be required to record material proSecretary of State. It is possible that such initiatives may result visions to cover potential liabilities arising in connection with in us being unable to gain or retain investors, customers or supsuch investigations and proceedings, including potential tax pliers. In addition, the termination of our activities in sanctioned penalties. Moreover, any findings related to public corruption countries may expose us to customer claims and other actions. that are not covered by the 2008 and 2009 corruption charge Our reputation could also suffer due to our activities with counsettlements, which were concluded with American and German terparties in or affiliated with these countries. As previously ­ authorities, may endanger our business with government ­disclosed, Siemens has decided that, subject to certain limited agencies and intergovernmental and supranational organizaexceptions, it will not enter into new contracts with customers tions, further monitors could be appointed to review future in Iran and has issued group-wide policies establishing the business practices and we may otherwise be required to further ­details of its general decision. modify our business practices and our compliance program. We expect that sales to emerging markets will account for an Our involvement in ongoing and potential future corruption or increasing portion of our total revenue, as our business natuantitrust proceedings could damage our reputation and have rally evolves and as developing nations and regions around the an adverse impact on our ability to compete for business from world increase their demand for our offering. Emerging market public and private sector customers around the world. If we or operations involve various risks, including civil unrest, health our subsidiaries are found to have engaged in certain illegal concerns, cultural differences such as employment and busiacts or not to have taken effective steps to address allegations ness practices, volatility in gross domestic product, economic or findings of corruption or antitrust violations in our business, and governmental instability, the potential for nationalization this may impair our ability to participate in business with govof private assets and the imposition of exchange controls. The ernments or intergovernmental organizations and may result Asian markets, in particular, are important for our long-term in our formal exclusion from such business. Even if we are not growth strategy, and our sizeable operations in China are influformally excluded from participating in government business, enced by a legal system that is still developing and is subject government agencies or intergovernmental or supranational to change. Our growth strategy could be limited by governorganizations may informally exclude us from tendering for or ments supporting local industries. Our former Sectors, particparticipating in certain contracts. For example, legislation of ularly those that derive their revenue from large projects, member states of the European Union could in certain cases could be adversely affected if future demand, prices and gross result in our mandatory or discretionary exclusion from public domestic product in the markets in which those former Sectors contracts in case of a conviction for bribery and certain other operate do not develop as favorably as expected due to such offences or for other reasons. As described in more detail in regulatory measures. If any of these risks or similar risks assoNOTE 28 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS , ciated with our international operations were to materialize, we and certain of our subsidiaries have in the past been exour business, financial condition and results of operations cluded or currently are excluded from some contracting, incould be adversely affected. cluding with governments, development banks and multilateral financial institutions, as a result of findings of corruption Current and future investigations regarding allegations of or other misconduct. Ongoing or potential future investigapublic corruption, antitrust violations and other illegal acts tions into allegations of corruption or antitrust violations could could have an adverse effect on our business, financial also impair existing relationships with, and our ability to accondition and results of operations and on our reputation: quire new private sector business partners. For instance, such We engage in a substantial amount of business with governinvestigations may adversely affect our ability to pursue potenments and government-owned enterprises around the world. tially important strategic projects and transactions, such as We also participate in a number of projects funded by governstrategic alliances, joint ventures or other business combinament agencies and intergovernmental and supranational orgations, or could result in the cancellation of certain of our existnizations such as multilateral development banks. If we are ing contracts and third parties, including our competitors, found to have been engaged in public corruption, antitrust could initiate significant third-party litigation. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 237 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks In addition, future developments in ongoing and potential s­ervices, product liability, product defects, quality problems, ­future investigations, such as responding to the requests of ­intellectual property infringement, non-compliance with tax reggovernmental authorities and cooperating with them, could ulations and/or alleged or suspected violations of applicable divert management’s attention and resources from other issues laws. In addition, we may face further claims in connection with facing our business. The materialization of any of these risks the circumstances that led to the corruption charges. For addicould have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditional information with respect to specific proceedings, see tion and results of operations and on our reputation. NOTE 28 in D.6 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . There can be no assurance that the results of these or any other We are subject to environmental and other governmental proceedings will not materially harm our business, financial conregulations: Some of the industries in which we operate are dition and results of operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately highly regulated. Current and future environmental and other prevail on the merits in any such proceedings, we may have to governmental regulations or changes thereto may require us incur substantial legal fees and other costs defending ourselves to change the way we run our operations and could result in against the underlying allegations. Under certain c­ ircumstances ­significant increases in our operating or production costs. In we record a provision for risks arising from legal disputes and addition, while we have procedures in place to ensure compliproceedings. In addition, we maintain liability i­nsurance for cerance with applicable governmental regulations in the conduct tain legal risks at levels our management b ­ elieves are appropriate of our business operations, it cannot be excluded that violaand consistent with industry practice. Our insurance policy, howtions of applicable governmental regulations may be caused ever, does not protect us against reputational damage. Moreover, either by us or by third parties that we contract with, including we may incur losses relating to legal proceedings beyond the limsuppliers or service providers, whose activities may be atits, or outside the coverage, of such insurance or exceeding any tributed to us. Any such violations expose us to the risk of liaprovisions made for legal proceedings related losses. ­Finally, bility, reputational damage or loss of licenses or permits that there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adeare important to our business operations. In particular, we quate insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms in could also face liability for damage or remediation for environthe future. Each of these risks may have an adverse effect on mental contamination at the facilities we design or operate. For our business, financial condition and results of operations. example, we are required to bear environmental clean-up costs mainly related to remediation and environmental protection C.9.3.5 ASSESSMENT OF THE OVERALL ­liabilities, which have been accrued based on the estimated RISK SITUATION costs of decommissioning facilities for the production of uraThe most significant challenges have been mentioned first in nium and mixed-oxide fuel elements in Hanau, Germany, as well each of the four categories Strategic, Operations, Financial and as a nuclear research and service center in Karlstein, Germany. Compliance with the risks caused by highly competitive mar­ For further information, see NOTE 23 in D.6 NOTES TO kets currently being our most significant. Even though the asC ONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . Under certain circum­ sessments of individual risk exposures have changed during stances, we establish provisions for environmental risks. With fiscal 2014 due to developments in the external environment as regard to certain environmental risks, we maintain liability inwell as the effects of our own mitigation measures, the overall surance at levels that our management believes are appropririsk situation for Siemens did not change significantly as comate and consistent with industry practice. We may incur envipared to the prior year. At present, no risks have been identified ronmental losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of that either individually or in combination could endanger our such insurance, and such losses may have an adverse effect on ability to continue as a going concern. We are confident that we our business, financial condition and results of our operations. can continue to successfully counter the challenges arising In addition, our provisions for environmental liabilities may from the risks mentioned above. not be sufficient to cover our ultimate losses or expenditures resulting therefrom. C.9.4 Opportunities Our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer as a result of current or future litigation: We are Within our comprehensive, interactive and management-orisubject to numerous risks relating to legal, governmental and ented Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) approach that is interegulatory proceedings to which we are currently a party or to grated into the organization and that addresses both risks and which we may become a party in the future. We routinely beopportunities, we regularly identify, evaluate and respond to come subject to legal, governmental and regulatory investigaopportunities that present themselves in our various fields of tions and proceedings involving, among other things, requests activity. Below we describe our most significant opportunities. for arbitration, allegations of improper delivery of goods or Unless otherwise stated, the opportunities described below 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 238 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position r­ elate to all of our segments. The order in which the opportunif­ urther SMART products to our portfolio and developing stronties are presented reflects the currently estimated relative exger sales channels would enable us to increase our revenues by posure for Siemens associated with these opportunities and serving large and fast-growing geographic markets, where custhus provides an indication of the opportunities’ current importomers making a purchase decision may consider price more tance to us. Nevertheless, opportunities currently considered strongly than product features without compromising on prodto entail a lower opportunity exposure could potentially result uct quality and reliability. in a higher positive impact on Siemens than opportunities currently considered to entail a higher opportunity exposure. The Through selective acquisitions, equity investments and described opportunities are necessarily not the only ones we partnerships we constantly strive to strengthen our leadencounter. In addition, our assessment of opportunities is subing technology position, open up additional potential marject to change as our Company, our markets and technologies kets and further develop our product portfolio: We conare constantly developing. As a consequence, new opportunistantly monitor our current and future markets for opportunities ties may arise, existing opportunities may cease to be relevant, for strategic acquisitions, equity investments or partnerships to or the significance of an opportunity may change. Generally, complement organic growth. Such activities could help us to opportunities are assessed to the best of our knowledge, constrengthen our market position in our existing markets, provide sidering certain assumptions, including market development, access to new markets or complement our technological portmarket potential of technologies or solutions, and anticipated folio in selected areas. developments in customer demand or prices, among other things. When opportunities materialize, they may have a lower Localizing value chain activities in low-cost countries could effect than previously estimated on the basis of the underlying further improve our cost position: Localizing certain value assumptions. It is also possible that opportunities we see today chain activities, such as procurement, manufacturing, maintewill never materialize. nance and service in markets such as the BRIC countries, other emerging markets, and the Middle East could enable us to reIn our view, the overall opportunity situation did not change duce costs and strengthen our global competitive position, in significantly as compared to the prior year. particular compared to competitors based in countries with a more favorable cost structure. We constantly strive to develop new technologies, offer new products, solutions and services, and improve existing ones: We are in the process of continuously developing and imWe invest in new technologies that we expect will meet future plementing initiatives to reduce costs, adjust capacities, demands in accordance with the megatrends ­ demographic improve our processes and streamline our portfolio: In an change, urbanization, climate change, globalization and digital increasingly competitive market environment, a competitive transformation (for further information see C.1.3 STRATEGY ). cost structure complements the competitive advantage of Furthermore, a growing awareness for cyber security could lead ­being innovative. We believe that further improvements in our to additional business for high quality solutions offered by the cost position can strengthen our global competitive position former Industry Sector’s Industry Automation Division. and secure our market presence against emerging and incumbent competitors. For example, we expect to create sustainable We see further opportunities in the growth potential of value from productivity measures in connection with our emerging markets as well as established markets: We ex­“ Vision 2020” (for further information, see C.1.3 STRATEGY ). pect that in coming years growth in our markets will be driven Moreover, fostering a stringent claim management process can by countries in Asia and the Middle East, in particular by counhelp materialize opportunities by enforcing our claims towards tries such as Indonesia and Turkey. Within One Siemens, we our contract partners even stronger. take measures aimed at continuously increasing our share of revenue from emerging markets. Our “Vision 2020” concept, We are realigning our organization: As of November, 2013, which puts a stronger focus on getting close to customers is we disbanded our Regional Cluster organization. Following this expected to result in higher market penetration (for further organizational change, we have designated 30 Lead Countries ­information, see C.1.3 STRATEGY ). which are individually responsible for managing a number of other countries regarding market penetration. Each Lead We believe that developing the capability to design, manufacCountry reports directly to the Managing Board. By implementture and sell so-called SMART products (simple, maintenance-­ ing this move, Siemens intends to intensify its customer access friendly, affordable, reliable, and timely-to-market) will proand expand its regional business. We expect this new setup to vide us with opportunities to gain market share and enhance further enhance our local market penetration and our customer our local ­presence in these strategic growth markets. Adding proximity going forward. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 239 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks As of October 1, 2014, we have also eliminated the Sector level Our management is responsible for establishing and maintainand consolidated our business activities into nine Divisions and ing adequate internal control over financial reporting. At the one separately managed unit, Healthcare (for details see end of each fiscal year, our management performs an evaluaC.1.1.1 ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION ). This change is tion of the effectiveness of its control system, both in design expected to increase our customer proximity and accelerate our and operating effectiveness. We have a standardized procedure decision-making. In addition, we have made governance even under which necessary controls are defined, documented in more stringent across all levels of our organization. Our Manaccordance with uniform standards, and tested regularly on aging Board leads the Company and maintains the balance betheir effectiveness. Nevertheless, there are inherent limitations tween our businesses and Regions. It is supported by strong, in the effectiveness of any control system, and no system, inefficient corporate governance functions, our Corporate Core, cluding one determined to be effective, may prevent or detect which is expected to ensure fast, nonbureaucratic deciall misstatements. sion-making across key company functions (for details, see C.1.3 STRATEGY ). Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the basis of a conceptual framework which primarily consists of company-wide uniform Financial Reporting Guidelines and a chart C.9.5 Significant characteristics of accounts, both issued centrally and to be applied consistently of the accounting-related internal throughout Siemens. New laws, accounting standards, and other official announcements are analyzed on an ongoing basis ­control and risk management system with regard to their relevance and impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Combined Management Report The following discussion describes information required pursuand where necessary, our Financial Reporting Guidelines and ant to Section 289 (5) and Section 315 (2) no. 5 of the German the chart of accounts are adjusted accordingly. In quarterly closCommercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch) and explanatory report. ing letters, accounting departments of Siemens AG and its subsidiaries are informed about current topics from an accounting The overarching objective of our accounting-related internal and closing process perspective and any deadlines that must be control and risk management system is to ensure that finanmet for the respective closing processes. cial reporting is conducted in a proper manner such that the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Combined ManThe base data used in preparing the Consolidated Financial agement Report are prepared in accordance with all relevant Statements consists of the closing data reported by the operaregulations. tions of Siemens AG and its subsidiaries, which are derived from the various accounting records. The preparation of the As described in C.9.2 RISK MANAGEMENT , our ERM approach is closing data of most of our subsidiaries is supported by an based on the worldwide accepted “Enterprise Risk Manage­internal shared services organization. Furthermore, other acment – Integrated Framework” developed by the COSO. As one of counting activities, such as governance and monitoring related the objectives of this framework is reliability of a company’s activities, are bundled on regional level. In addition, for some ­financial reporting, it also includes an accounting-related perareas requiring specialized know-how such as valuations relatspective. The accounting-related internal control system (control ing to post-employment benefits support from external service system) implemented by us is based on Internal Control – providers is obtained and used. The reported closing data is Integrated Framework (2013), an internationally recognized ­ used to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements in the ­framework also developed by the COSO. The two systems are consolidation system. The steps necessary to prepare the Concomplementary. solidated Financial Statements are subject to both manual and automated controls at all levels. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 240 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position The specialist skills required of employees involved in the acThrough audits on a continuous and Siemens wide basis our counting process are assessed when the employees are initially internal corporate audit function monitors compliance with selected; thereafter, the employees receive regular training. As our guidelines and the reliability and functional operation of a fundamental principle, at the different levels and based on our control system as well as the adequacy and effectiveness materiality considerations, items must be verified by at least of our risk management system. one other person (four eyes principle) and specific procedures must be adhered to for the authorization of the data. Additional In addition we have rules for accounting-related complaints control mechanisms include target-performance comparisons and a Code of Ethics for Financial Matters. and analyses of the composition of, and changes in, individual line items, both in the closing data reported by units and in the ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RELATED TO THE Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting-related IT sysANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SIEMENS AG tems provide for defined access rules in order to ensure that (GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE) accounting related data is protected from unauthorized access, Siemens AG as the parent company of the Siemens Group is use or modification. Every unit included in our Consolidated integrated into the company-wide accounting-related internal Financial Statements is subject to the rules and regulations of control system described above. Generally, the information set the Corporate Information Security Guide. out above also applies for Annual Financial Statements of Siemens AG prepared in accordance with the German ComOn a quarterly basis, an internal certification process is ex­ mercial Code. ecuted. Management of different levels of our organization, supported by confirmations of management of entities under The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accortheir responsibility, confirms the accuracy of the financial data dance with IFRS. Where required, i.e. for purposes of preparing that has been reported to Siemens’ corporate headquarters and statements for local regulatory or tax purposes, data is adopted reports on the effectiveness of the related control systems. in accordance with relevant regulations by means of reconciliation at account level. Accordingly, accurately determined IFRS In addition, we have set up a Disclosure Committee – comprisclosing data also forms an important basis for the Annual ing selected heads of Corporate Units – which is responsible for ­Financial Statements of Siemens AG. In the case of Siemens AG reviewing certain financial and non-financial information prior and other group companies required to prepare financial stateto publication. ments in accordance with German Commercial Code, the ­conceptual framework described above is complemented by The Supervisory Board, through the Audit Committee, is also mandatory regulations specific to German Commercial Code integrated into our control system. In particular, the Audit within our Financial Reporting Guidelines and a German Com­Committee oversees the accounting process, the effectiveness mercial Code chart of accounts. The manual and system-based of the control system, the risk management system and the control mechanisms referred to above generally also apply internal audit system, and the independent audit of financial when ­reconciling the IFRS closing data to the Annual Financial statements. In addition, it conducts an audit of the documents Statements of Siemens AG. related to the Annual Financial Statements of Siemens AG and the Consolidated Financial Statements and discusses the ­Annual Financial Statements of Siemens AG, the Consolidated Financial Statements and Combined Management Report of these statements with the Managing Board and the independent auditors. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 241 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks C.10 Compensation Report and legal disclosures The Compensation Report outlines the principles underlying The Takeover-relevant information (pursuant to Sections 289 the determination of the total compensation of the members of para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the German Commercial Code) and the Managing Board of Siemens AG, and sets out the structure explanatory report are an integral part of the Combined Manand level of the remuneration of the Managing Board memagement Report and are presented in B.5 TAKEOVER-RELEVANT bers. It also describes the policies governing and levels of comINFORMATION (PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 289 PARA. 4 AND 315 PARA. 4 OF pensation paid to Supervisory Board members. The CompensaTHE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE) AND EXPL ANATORY REPORT . tion Report is an integral part of the Combined Management Report and is presented in B.4 COMPENSATION REPORT . The Compliance Report outlines the principles of our Compliance System which aims to ensure that all our worldwide busiThe Corporate Governance statement pursuant to Section 289a ness practices are in line with our Business Conduct Guidelines of the German Commercial Code is an integral part of the Comand in compliance with all applicable laws. In addition, it debined Management Report and is presented in B.2 CORPORATE scribes our approach on compliance risk management, busiGOVERNANCE STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 289A OF THE GERMAN ness partner compliance due diligence, cooperation with third COMMERCIAL CODE . parties and the Siemens Integrity Initiative. The Compliance Report is an integral part of the Combined Management Report and is presented in B.3 COMPLIANCE REPORT . C.11 Siemens AG (Discussion on basis of German Commercial Code) Unlike our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are C.11.2 Results of operations ­prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the Annual Financial Statements of Statement of Income of Siemens AG in accordance with German Commercial Code (condensed) Siemens AG have been prepared in accordance with the rules set out in the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch). September 30, % Change (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Revenue 30,934 30,305 2% C.11.1 Business and economic environment Cost of sales (22,109) (22,016) 0% Gross profit 8,824 8,289 6% Siemens AG is the parent company of the Siemens Group. as percentage of revenue 29% 27% Siemens AG is a technology company with core activities in the Research and development expenses (2,781) (2,878) 3% fields of electrification, automation and digitalization. Siemens AG Selling and general includes one additional operating business, Siemens ­Real Estate. administrative expenses (4,036) (4,173) 3% Furthermore Siemens AG is significantly influenced by directly Other operating income or indirectly owned subsidiaries and investments. Siemens AG (expenses), net (20) (178) 89% holds directly and indirectly 640 legal entities including Financial income, net thereof income from non-controlling interests. Siemens AG also includes the Group’s investments 2,870 corporate headquarters functions. (prior year 3,893) 2,243 3,631 (38)% Result from The economic environment for Siemens AG is largely the same ordinary activities 4,230 4,692 (10)% as for the Siemens Group and is described in detail in C.1.2 Income taxes (444) (840) 47% ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT . Net income 3,786 3,852 (2)% Profit carried forward 110 115 (4)% Assets reduction due to spin-off – (1,800) 100% Allocation to other retained earnings (988) 476 n/a Unappropriated net income 2,907 2,643 10% 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 242 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position The increase in Revenue is due primarily to revenue increases The improvement in Other operating income (expenses), net of € 1.002 billion in the Energy Sector, € 251 million in the Indusresulted from an increase in other operating income of try Sector and € 73 million in the Infrastructure & Cities Sector. € 161 million, only slightly offset by an increase of € 4 million in These increases were partly offset by revenue declines of other operating expenses. Within other operating income, pos€ 419 million in the Healthcare Sector and € 16 million in itive effects included € 137 million from higher allocation of Siemens Real Estate. As a consequence of the mutual agreecentral infrastructure and support services to Sectors and ment procedure with tax authorities related to transfer pricing, ­Divisions outside Siemens AG, and gains totaling € 110 million Siemens AG received compensatory payments from Siemens ­related to the sale of concessions and industrial property rights Healthcare U.S. The payments amounted to € 259 million, comto Siemens Schweiz AG. pared to € 670 million in the prior year, and were booked as revenue by the Healthcare Sector. On a geographic basis, revenue The decline in Financial income, net was primarily attributgrew 31 % year-over-year in the Asia, Australia region and deable to lower income from investments, which decreased by clined 12 % in the Americas region and 3 % in the Europe, C.I.S., € 1.023 billion. Other financial income was € 395 million lower Africa, Middle East region. Exports from Germany accounted compared to the prior year, while net interest income came in for 73 % and 70 % of revenue in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respec€ 29 million higher. tively. In fiscal 2014, orders for Siemens AG amounted to € 32.3 billion, nearly level compared to the prior year. The primary factor for the decrease in income from investments was lower dividend payments. In fiscal 2013, we received The increase in Gross profit included increases of € 421 million a dividend payment of €3.000 billion from Siemens Beteiligungs­ in the Energy Sector, € 279 million in the Industry Sector verwaltung GmbH & Co. OHG. We received no such dividend and € 269 million in the Infrastructure & Cities Sector. These payment in fiscal 2014. In contrast, income from profit transfers ­increases were partly offset by a decrease of € 335 million in the from Siemens Beteiligungen Inland GmbH increased by Healthcare Sector. A year earlier, gross profit was burdened by € 909 million. In addition, gains (losses) from the disposal of charges for the company-wide “Siemens 2014” productivity iminvestments came in € 755 million higher year-over-year, inprovement program. While both years included project charges, cluding a gain of € 321 million from the sale of our 17 % stake in these were higher in fiscal 2014. In particular, the Energy OSRAM Licht AG to Siemens Beteiligungen Inland GmbH. ­Sector’s Power Transmission Division took charges including € 361 million related primarily to grid-connections to offshore The decrease in other financial income resulted mainly from a wind-farms and € 197 million related to onshore HVDC trans­ realized loss related to interest and foreign currency derivatives mission line projects. amounting to € 309 million, compared to income amounting to € 548 million in the prior year. In addition, expenses from comResearch and development (R & D) expenses decreased due pounding of pension provisions increased by € 161 million. ­primarily to a reduction of € 196 million in the Infrastructure & These factors were partly offset by reversals of impairments of Cities Sector. This decrease was partly offset by increases of shares in investments of € 214 million. € 46 million in the Energy Sector and € 16 million in the Healthcare Sector. R & D expenses as a percentage of revenue (R & D The decline in Income tax expenses was due mainly to prior-­ intensity) decreased by one percentage point, to 9 % year-over year one-time special effects. year. On an average basis, we employed 12,600 people in R & D in fiscal 2014, compared to 12,500 in fiscal 2013. For additional information see C.8.3 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT . 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 243 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C  ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S  iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks C.11.3 Net assets and financial position The increase in Financial assets was due primarily to the purchase of a 14.26% stake in Atos SE from Siemens Beteiligungen Statement of Financial Position of Siemens AG in ­Inland GmbH amounting to € 779 million and a capital increase accordance with German Commercial Code (condensed) of € 500 million relating to Siemens Bank GmbH. In addition, September 30, % Change loans increased € 297 million and securities in non-current (in millions of €) 2014 2013 ­assets came in € 350 million higher. These increases were partly Assets offset by the sale of our 17 % stake in OSRAM Licht AG to Non-current assets Siemens Beteiligungen Inland GmbH. The sale price amounted Intangible and tangible assets 2,419 2,437 (1)% to € 715 million and the book value amounted to € 395 million. Financial assets 42,121 40,530 4% 44,540 42,967 4% The decline in Receivables and other assets was due primarCurrent assets ily to lower receivables from affiliated companies as a result of Receivables and other assets 15,816 17,032 (7)% intra-group financing activities. Cash and cash equivalents, securities 2,672 2,282 17% Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 18,488 19,313 (4)% are significantly affected by the liquidity management of Prepaid expenses 111 75 48% Siemens AG. T ­ he liquidity management is based on the finance Deferred tax assets 2,222 2,467 (10)% strategy of the Siemens Group. Therefore, the change in liquidActive difference resulting from offsetting 40 46 (13)% ity of Siemens AG resulted not only from business activities of Total assets 65,400 64,868 1% Siemens AG. Liabilities and equity The increase in Equity was attributable to net income for Equity 18,798 18,295 3% the year of € 3.786 billion and issuance of treasury stock of € 330 million in conjunction with our share-based compensaSpecial reserve with tion program. These factors were partly offset by dividends paid an equity portion 759 767 (1)% in fiscal 2014 (for fiscal 2013) of € 2.533 billion (for additional Provisions information see C.2.5 DIVIDEND AND SHARE BUYBACKS ). In addiPensions and similar tion, the equity reduction was due to share buybacks during commitments 11,103 10,432 6% Other provisions 7,369 7,827 (6)% the year amounting to € 1.079 billion. The equity ratios at Sep18,472 18,260 1% tember 30, 2014 and 2013 were 29 % and 28 %, respectively. Liabilities Liabilities to banks 208 138 51% The increase in Pension and similar commitments included Advanced payments received 677 1,349 (50)% interest and service costs amounting to € 1.007 billion and the Trade payables, liabilities effect from the adjustment of the discount rate amounting to to affiliated companies and € 277 million. These factors were partly offset by pension payother liabilities 26,189 25,771 2% ments amounting to € 514 million. 27,075 27,257 (1)% Deferred income 296 290 2% The decrease in Other provisions was due primarily to a deTotal liabilities and equity 65,400 64,868 1% crease of € 176 million in provisions for personnel expenses and a decline of € 98 million in provisions for operating expenses. The increase in Trade payables, liabilities to affiliated companies and other liabilities was due primarily to higher liabilities to affiliated companies as a result of intra-group financing activities. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 244 172 C.1 Business and ­economic environment 187 C.2 Financial performance system 193 C.3 Results of operations 205 C.4 Financial position 210 C.5 Net assets position C.11.4 Employees C.11.6 Risks and opportunities Indicators The business development of Siemens AG is fundamentally Year ended September 30, subject to the same risks and opportunities as the Siemens 2014 2013 Group. Siemens AG generally participates in the risks of its subEmployee turnover rate 1 4.1% 3.0% sidiaries and equity investments in line with its percentage of Female employees in management positions each holding. For additional information see C.9.3 RISKS and (percentage of all management positions) 2 11.8% 11.3% C.9.4 OPPORTUNITIES . Expenses for continuing education (in millions of €) 3 98 94 Expenses per employee for continuing As the parent company of the Siemens Group, Siemens AG is education (in €) 3 919 864 integrated into the group-wide risk management system. For additional information see C.9.2 RISK MANAGEMENT . 1 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens AG during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. The description of the internal control system for Siemens AG 2 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary responsibility, plus project managers. required by Section 289 para. 5 of the German Commercial Code 3 Without travel expenses. is included in C.9.5 SIGNIFICANT CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ACCOUNT­ ING REL ATED INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM . As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the numbers of employees were 106,860 and 108,234 respectively. For additional information regarding the use of financial ­instruments see NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF Employees of Siemens AG SIEMENS AG . as of September 30, 2014 (in thousands) Energy: 25 (24%) Other: 8 (8%) C.11.7 Outlook Siemens Real Estate: Due to the interrelations between Siemens AG and its subsid2 (2%) Healthcare: 10 (10%) 107 iaries and the relative size of Siemens AG within the Group, the outlook of the Group also largely reflects our expectations for Siemens AG. We expect that the anticipated market and rev­ Infrastructure & Cities: Industry: 36 (33%) 26 (24%) enue developments for fiscal 2015 described in statements made ­by the Siemens Group will be mainly reflected in the revenue of Siemens AG. In fiscal 2015, we continue to execute the Group’s “Vision 2020” concept. In particular, we expect that gains from divestments will significantly influence the profit of For additional information see C.8.2 EMPLOYEES . Siemens AG. For additional information see C.9.1 ­R EPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS . C.11.5 Subsequent events We intend to continue providing an attractive return to shareholders. Therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a There have been no events of particular significance since the dividend payout of 40 % to 60 % of net income of Siemens end of fiscal 2014. Group, which for this purpose we may adjust to exclude ­selected exceptional non-cash effects. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 245 213 C.6 Overall assessment of the economic position 242 C.10 C ompensation Report and legal disclosures 214 C.7 Subsequent events 242 C.11 S iemens AG (Discussion on basis 215 C.8 Sustainability and citizenship of ­German ­Commercial Code) 225 C.9 Report on expected developments and ­associated material opportunities and risks The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with Inter­ national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU), the supplementary requirements of German law pursuant to Section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (Handels­gesetzbuch) and full IFRS as issued by the Inter­national Accounting Standards Board (IASB). They give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the group in accordance with these requirements. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/CONSOLIDATED-­F INANCIAL-STATEMENTS 246 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 273 NOTE 13 – Inventories 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 273 NOTE 14 – Other current assets 274 NOTE 15 – Goodwill 275 NOTE 16 – Other intangible assets 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of ­Comprehensive Income 276 NOTE 17 – Property, plant and equipment 278 NOTE 18 – Other financial assets 278 NOTE 19 – Other current financial liabilities 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 278 NOTE 20 – Other current liabilities 278 NOTE 21 – Debt 281 NOTE 22 – Post-employment benefits 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements 287 NOTE 23 – Provisions of Cash Flows 288 NOTE 24 – Other liabilities 289 NOTE 25 – Equity 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements 290 NOTE 26 – Additional capital disclosures of ­Changes in Equity 292 NOTE 27 – Commitments and contingencies 293 NOTE 28 – Legal proceedings 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated 296 NOTE 29 – Additional disclosures on D. Consolidated Financial Statements ­Financial Statements ­financial instruments 254 NOTE 1 – Basis of presentation 300 NOTE 30 – Derivative financial instruments 254 NOTE 2 – Summary of significant and hedging activities ­accounting policies 301 NOTE 31 – Financial risk management 262 NOTE 3 – Critical accounting estimates 306 NOTE 32 – Share-based payment 264 NOTE 4 – Acquisitions, dispositions and 309 NOTE 33 – Personnel costs ­discontinued operations 309 NOTE 34 – Earnings per share 267 NOTE 5 – Interests in other entities 310 NOTE 35 – Segment information 268 NOTE 6 – Other operating income 314 NOTE 36 – Information about geographies 268 NOTE 7 – Other operating expenses 315 NOTE 37 – Related party transactions 268 NOTE 8 – Interest income, interest expenses and other financial income 317 NOTE 38 – Principal accountant fees (expenses), net and ­services 269 NOTE 9 – Income taxes 317 NOTE 39 – Corporate Governance 271 NOTE 10 – Available-for-sale financial assets 317 NOTE 40 – Subsequent events 271 NOTE 11 – Trade and other receivables 318 NOTE 41 – List of subsidiaries and ­associated companies pursuant 273 NOTE 12 – Other current financial assets to Section 313 para. 2 of the ­German Commercial Code 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and ­Managing Board 330 D.7.1 Supervisory Board 334 D.7.2 ­Managing Board 247 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 (in millions of €, per share amounts in €) Note 2014 2013 Revenue 71,920 73,445 Cost of sales (51,165) (53,309) Gross profit 20,755 20,135 Research and development expenses (4,065) (4,048) Selling and general administrative expenses (10,424) (10,869) Other operating income 6 656 500 Other operating expenses 7 (194) (424) Income from investments accounted for using the equity method, net 5 582 510 Interest income 8 1,058 947 Interest expenses 8 (764) (784) Other financial income (expenses), net 8 (177) (154) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 7,427 5,813 Income tax expenses 9 (2,028) (1,634) Income from continuing operations 5,400 4,179 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 4 108 231 Net income 5,507 4,409 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 134 126 Shareholders of Siemens AG 5,373 4,284 Basic earnings per share 34 Income from continuing operations 6.24 4.81 Income from discontinued operations 0.13 0.27 Net income 6.37 5.08 Diluted earnings per share 34 Income from continuing operations 6.18 4.76 Income from discontinued operations 0.13 0.26 Net income 6.31 5.03 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 248 D.2 Consolidated Statements of ­Comprehensive Income For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 (in millions of €) Note 2014 2013 Net income 5,507 4,409 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 22 288 394 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 288 394 therein: Expenses from investments accounted for using the equity method (37) (121) Currency translation differences 940 (1,062) Available-for-sale financial assets 10 (56) 183 Derivative financial instruments 29, 30 (316) 45 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 569 (834) therein: Expenses from investments accounted for using the equity method (85) (136) Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes 857 (440) Total comprehensive income 6,364 3,969 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 165 81 Shareholders of Siemens AG 6,199 3,888 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 249 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 September, 30 (in millions of €) Note 2014 2013 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 8,013 9,190 Available-for-sale financial assets 10 925 601 Trade and other receivables 11 14,526 14,853 Other current financial assets 12 3,710 3,250 Inventories 13 15,100 15,560 Current income tax assets 577 794 Other current assets 14 1,290 1,297 Assets classified as held for disposal 4 3,935 1,393 Total current assets 48,076 46,937 Goodwill 15 17,783 17,883 Other intangible assets 16 4,560 5,057 Property, plant and equipment 17 9,638 9,815 Investments accounted for using the equity method 5 2,127 3,022 Other financial assets 18 18,416 15,117 Deferred tax assets 9 3,334 3,234 Other assets 945 872 Total non-current assets 56,803 54,999 Total assets 104,879 101,936 Liabilities and equity Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 21 1,620 1,944 Trade payables 7,594 7,599 Other current financial liabilities 19 1,717 1,515 Current provisions 23 4,354 4,485 Current income tax liabilities 1,762 2,151 Other current liabilities 20 17,954 19,701 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal 4 1,597 473 Total current liabilities 36,598 37,868 Long-term debt 21 19,326 18,509 Post-employment benefits 22 9,324 9,265 Deferred tax liabilities 9 552 504 Provisions 23 4,071 3,907 Other financial liabilities 1,620 1,184 Other liabilities 24 1,874 2,074 Total non-current liabilities 36,767 35,443 Total liabilities 73,365 73,312 Equity 25 Issued capital, no par value 2,643 2,643 Capital reserve 5,525 5,484 Retained earnings 25,729 22,663 Other components of equity 803 268 Treasury shares, at cost (3,747) (2,946) Total equity attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG 30,954 28,111 Non-controlling interests 560 514 Total equity 31,514 28,625 Total liabilities and equity 104,879 101,936 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 250 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 (in millions of €) Note 2014 2013 Cash flows from operating activities Net income 5,507 4,409 Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations (Income) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (108) (231) Amortization, depreciation and impairments 2,411 2,804 Income tax expenses 2,028 1,634 Interest (income) expenses, net (295) (164) (Gains) losses on disposals of assets related to investing activities, net (527) (292) Other (income) losses from investments (526) (326) Other non-cash (income) expenses 92 671 Change in assets and liabilities Inventories 336 (256) Trade and other receivables 200 (326) Trade payables 205 (208) Other assets and liabilities (1,203) 818 Additions to assets leased to others in operating leases (371) (377) Income taxes paid (1,828) (2,164) Dividends received 333 356 Interest received 977 837 Cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations 7,230 7,186 Cash flows from operating activities – discontinued operations (131) 154 Cash flows from operating activities – continuing and discontinued operations 7,100 7,340 Cash flows from investing activities Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (1,831) (1,808) Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired (31) (2,786) Purchase of investments (335) (346) Purchase of current available-for-sale financial assets (613) (157) Change in receivables from financing activities (2,501) (2,175) Disposal of investments, intangibles and property, plant and equipment 518 2,462 Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed 112 (26) Disposal of current available-for-sale financial assets 317 76 Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations (4,364) (4,759) Cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations 339 (317) Cash flows from investing activities – continuing and discontinued operations (4,026) (5,076) Cash flows from financing activities Purchase of treasury shares 25 (1,066) (1,394) Other transactions with owners (20) (15) Issuance of long-term debt 21 527 3,772 Repayment of long-term debt (including current maturities of long-term debt) (1,452) (2,927) Change in short-term debt and other financing activities 801 8 Interest paid (617) (479) Dividends paid to shareholders of Siemens AG 25 (2,533) (2,528) Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests (125) (152) Cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations (4,485) (3,715) Cash flows from financing activities – discontinued operations (2) 319 Cash flows from financing activities – continuing and discontinued operations (4,487) (3,396) Effect of deconsolidation of OSRAM on cash and cash equivalents – (476) Effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 214 (108) Change in cash and cash equivalents (1,199) (1,717) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 9,234 10,950 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 8,034 9,234 Less: Cash and cash equivalents of assets classified as held for disposal and discontinued operations at end of period 21 44 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Consolidated Statements of Financial Position) 8,013 9,190 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 251 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 Issued capital Capital reserve Retained earnings (in millions of €) Balance as of October 1, 2012 2,643 6,173 22,877 Net income – – 4,284 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes – – 395 Dividends – – (2,528) Share-based payment – 21 (40) Purchase of treasury shares – – – Re-issuance of treasury shares – 5 – Transactions with non-controlling interests – – (52) Spin-off related changes in equity – (163) (2,270) Other changes in equity – (553) (3) Balance as of September 30, 2013 2,643 5,484 22,663 Balance as of October 1, 2013 2,643 5,484 22,663 Net income – – 5,373 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes – – 290 Dividends – – (2,533) Share-based payment – 11 (24) Purchase of treasury shares – – – Re-issuance of treasury shares – 31 – Transactions with non-controlling interests – – (34) Other changes in equity – – (6) Balance as of September 30, 2014 2,643 5,525 25,729 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 252 Currency trans­lation Available-for-sale Derivative financial Treasury Total equity attribut­ Non-controlling Total equity differences ­financial assets instruments shares at cost able to shareholders interests of Siemens AG 857 245 (44) (1,897) 30,855 569 31,424 – – – – 4,284 126 4,409 (1,017) 183 43 – (396) (44) (440) – – – – (2,528) (119) (2,647) – – – – (18) – (18) – – – (1,349) (1,349) – (1,349) – – – 300 304 – 304 – – – – (52) (10) (62) – – – – (2,433) – (2,433) – – – – (556) (8) (564) (160) 428 (1) (2,946) 28,111 514 28,625 (160) 428 (1) (2,946) 28,111 514 28,625 – – – – 5,373 134 5,507 905 (56) (314) – 825 31 857 – – – – (2,533) (121) (2,654) – – – – (13) – (13) – – – (1,080) (1,080) – (1,080) – – – 279 310 – 310 – – – – (34) (3) (37) – – – – (6) 5 – 745 373 (314) (3,747) 30,954 560 31,514 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 253 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 1 Basis of presentation loses control of the subsidiary. For Consolidated Financial Statements, all assets,­­ liabilities, income, expenses and cash The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements present flows of Siemens AG with those of its subsidiaries are comthe operations of Siemens AG with registered offices in Berlin bined. Intra-group transactions are eliminated in full. and Munich, Germany, and its subsidiaries (the Company or Siemens). They have been prepared in accordance with Inter­ Business combinations – Business combinations are acnational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the count­ed for under the acquisition method. Siemens as the European Union as well as with the additional requirements set ­acquirer and the acquiree may have a relationship that existed forth in Section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (HGB). before they contemplated the business combination, referred to The financial statements are also in accordance with IFRS as as a pre-existing relationship. If the business combination in ­issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). ­effect settles a pre-existing relationship, Siemens as the acquirer recognizes a gain or loss for the pre-existing relationship. Siemens prepares and reports its Consolidated Financial StateThe cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the ments in euros (€). Due to rounding, numbers presented may ­­assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of not add up precisely to totals provided. exchange. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by Siemens as the acquirer will be recognized at fair value at the Siemens is a German based multinational technology company acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the with core activities in the fields of electrification, automation contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liabiland digitalization. ity will be recognized either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorized for is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured; subsequent ­issue by the Managing Board on November 26, 2014. The Consettle­ment is accounted for within equity. Acquisition-related solidated Financial Statements are generally prepared on the costs are expensed in the ­­period incurred. Identifiable ­­assets historical cost basis, except as stated in NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES . (­including contingent liabilities) are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest. Uniform accounting policies are NOTE 2 Summary of significant ­applied. Non-controlling interests may be measured at their fair a ­ ccounting policies value (full goodwill method) or at the proportional fair value of ­­assets acquired and liabilities assumed (partial goodwill The accounting policies set out below have been applied con­ method). After initial recognition non-controlling interests may sistently to all periods ­­ presented in these Consolidated Finan­ show a deficit balance since both profits and losses are allocated cial Statements. to the shareholders based on their equity interests. In business combinations achieved in stages, any previously held equity Basis of consolidation – The Consolidated Financial State­interest in the acquiree is remeasured to its acquisition date fair ments include the accounts of Siemens AG and its subsidiaries value. If there is no loss of control, transactions with non-conover which the Company has control. Siemens controls an introlling interests are accounted for as equity transactions not vestee if it has power over the investee that is, Siemens has affecting profit and loss. At the date control is lost, any retained existing rights that give Siemens the current ability to direct equity interests are remeasured to fair value. In case of a written the relevant activities, which are the activities that significantly put on non-controlling interests the Company distinguishes affect Siemens’ return. In addition, Siemens is exposed to, or whether the prerequisites for the transfer of present ownership has rights to, variable returns from the involvement with interest are fulfilled at the balance sheet date. Provided that the the investee and Siemens has the ability to use its power over Company is not the beneficial owner of the shares underlying the investee to affect the amount of Siemens’ return. When the put option, the exercise of the put option will be assumed at Siemens holds less than the majority of voting rights, other each balance sheet date and treated as equity transaction befacts and circumstances including contractual arrangements tween shareholders with the recognition of a purchase liability that give Siemens power over the investee may result in the at the respective exercise price. The non-controlling interests Company controlling the investee. Siemens reassesses whether participate in profits and losses during the reporting ­­period. it controls an investee if, and when, facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to the elements evidencing Associates and joint ventures – Associates are companies control. Consolidation begins when the Company obtains over which Siemens has the ability to exercise significant ­control of the subsidiary and ceases from the date that Siemens ­ influence over operating and financial policies (generally 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 254 through direct or indirect ownership of 20 % to 50 % of the vot­ easures and recognizes any retaining investment at its fair m ing rights). These are recorded in the Consolidated Financial value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the asStatements using the equity method and are initially recogsociate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or nized at cost. When Siemens holds less than 20 % of the voting joint control and the fair value of the retaining investment and power of the investee, other facts and circumstances may proceeds from disposal is recognized in profit or loss. ­result in the Company exercising significant influence. Joint arrangements are arrangements over which Siemens and one Joint operations – A joint operation is a jointly controlled or more parties have joint control. Joint control is the contracarrange­ment whereby the parties have rights to the assets ­­ and tually agreed sharing of control that exists only when decisions obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of Siemens as joint operator recognizes in relation to its interest the parties sharing control. Joint arrangements that are strucin the joint operation the assets ­­ and liabilities controlled by tured through a separate vehicle are classified as joint ventures Siemens, its share of any jointly held assets ­­ or jointly incurred if the parties to the arrangement have rights to its net assets. ­­ liabilities and revenues from the sale of its output and any Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method ­related expenses including its share in revenues and expenses and are initially recognized at cost. The equity method is incurred jointly, in relation to the joint operation. ­applied from the date when Siemens obtains significant influence or joint control, and is discontinued from the date when Foreign currency translation – The assets, ­­ including goodSiemens ceases to have significant influence or joint control will, and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, where the functional over an ­investee. currency is other than the euro, are translated using the spot exchange rate at the end of the reporting period, ­­ while the The following policies equally apply to associates and joint venConsolidated Statements of Income are translated using avertures. Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the age exchange rates during the period. ­­ Differences arising from ­accounting policies in line with those of Siemens. The excess such translations are recognized within equity and reclassified of Siemens’ initial investment in associates over Siemens’ ownto net income when the gain or loss on disposal of the foreign ership percentage in the underlying net ­­assets of those compasubsidiary is recognized. The Consolidated Statements of Cash nies is attributed to certain fair value adjustments with the Flow are translated at average exchange rates during the ­remaining portion recognized as goodwill. Goodwill relating to ­­­period, whereas cash and cash equivalents are translated at the the acquisition of associates is included in the carrying amount spot exchange rate at the end of the reporting ­­period. of the investment and is not amortized but is tested for impairment as part of the overall investment in the associate. The exchange rate of the U.S. dollar, Siemens’ significant curSiemens’ share of its associate’s post-acquisition profits or rency outside the euro zone used in the preparation of the losses is recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income, ­Consolidated Financial Statements is as follows: and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity that have not been recognized in the associate’s profit or loss is recognized directly in equity. The cumulative post-acquisition Year-end exchange Annual average rate € 1 quoted into rate € 1 quoted into movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the currencies currencies investment in the associate. When Siemens’ share of losses in specified below specified below an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, Year ended September 30, September 30, Siemens does not recognize further losses, unless it incurs Currency ISO Code 2014 2013 2014 2013 ­obligations or makes payments on behalf of the associate. The U.S. dollar USD 1.258 1.351 1.357 1.313 interest in an associate is the carrying amount of the investment in the associate together with any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of Siemens’ net investment in the associate. Intercompany results arising from transactions between Siemens and its associates are eliminated to the extent Foreign currency transaction – Transactions that are of Siemens’ interest in the associate. Siemens determines at ­denominated in a currency other than the functional currency each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence of an entity, are recorded at that functional currency applying that the investment in the associate is impaired. If this is the the spot exchange rate at the date when the underlying transcase, Siemens calculates the amount of impairment as the actions are initially recognized. At the end of the reporting ­difference between the recoverable amount of the associate ­­­period, foreign currency-denominated monetary ­­assets and liaand its carrying value. Upon loss of significant influence over bilities are revalued to functional currency applying the spot the associate or joint control over the joint venture, Siemens exchange rate prevailing at that date. Gains and losses arising 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 255 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows from these foreign currency revaluations are recognized in net the estimates of the total contract revenue and the total conincome. Those foreign currency-denominated transactions tract costs are adjusted reflecting the reduced scope of work to which are classified as non-monetary are remeasured using the be performed, typically leading to a reversal of revenue recoghistorical spot exchange rate. nized. This methodology is also applied to contracts for which it is management’s best estimate that a termination is the most Revenue recognition – Under the condition that persuasive likely scenario, but which have not yet been ­terminated. evidence of an arrangement exists revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to Rendering of services: Revenues from service transactions are the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured, regard­ recognized as services are performed. For long-term service less of when the payment is being made. In cases where the contracts, revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis over inflow of economic benefits is not probable due to customer the term of the contract or, if the performance pattern is other related credit risks the revenue recognized is subject to the than straight-line, as the services are provided, i.e. under the amount of payments irrevocably received. Revenue is meapercentage-of-completion method as described above. sured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable net of discounts and rebates and excluding taxes or duty. Sales from multiple element arrangements: Sales of goods The Company assesses its revenue arrangements against speand services as well as software arrangements sometimes cific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or ­involve the provision of multiple elements. In these cases, the agent. The following specific recognition criteria must also be ­Company determines whether the contract or arrangement met before revenue is recognized: contains more than one unit of accounting. If certain criteria are met, foremost if the delivered element(s) has (have) value Sale of goods: Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized to the customer on a stand-alone basis, the arrangement is sepwhen the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the arated and the appropriate revenue recognition convention is goods have passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods. then applied to each separate unit of accounting. Generally, the total arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate Sales from construction contracts: A construction contract is a units of accounting based on their relative fair values. Howcontract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset ever, if in rare cases fair value evidence is available for the unor a combination of ­­assets that are closely interrelated or interdelivered but not for one or more of the delivered elements, the dependent in terms of their design, technology and function or amount allocated to the delivered element(s) equals the total their ultimate purpose or use. When the outcome of a construcarrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of tion contract can be estimated reliably, revenues from conthe undelivered element(s) (residual method). If the criteria for struction-type projects are recognized under the percentthe separation of units of accounting are not met, revenue is age-of-completion method, based on the percentage of costs ­deferred until such criteria are met or until the period ­­ in which incurred to date compared to the total estimated contract costs. the last undelivered element is delivered. An expected loss on the construction contract is recognized as an expense immediately. When the outcome of a construction Interest income: Interest is recognized using the effective intercontract cannot be estimated reliably (1) revenue is recognized est method. only to the extent contract costs incurred are probable of being recoverable, and (2) contract costs are recognized as an Royalties: Royalties are recognized on an accrual basis in accor­expense in the ­­period in which they are incurred. dance with the substance of the relevant agreement. During project execution, variation orders by the customer for a Income from lease arrangements: Operating lease income for change in the scope of the work to be performed under the conequipment rentals is recognized on a straight-line basis over the tract may be received leading to an increase or a decrease in lease term. An arrangement that is not in the legal form of a contract revenue. Examples of such variations are changes lease is accounted for as a lease if it is dependent on the use of in the specifications or design of the asset and changes in the a specific asset or ­­assets and the arrangement conveys a right ­duration of the contract. As the scope of work to be performed to use the asset. Receivables from finance leases, in which changes also in case of contract terminations, such terminaSiemens as lessor transfers substantially all the risks and retions are considered to be a subset of variations. Therefore wards incidental to ownership to the customer are recognized the requirements of IAS 11 relating to variations are applied to at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Finance ­contract terminations, irrespective of whether the contract is income is subsequently recognized based on a pattern ­reflecting ­terminated by the customer, Siemens or both. In accordance a constant ­­periodic rate of return on the net investment using with the requirements of IAS 11 relating to changes in estimates, the effective interest method. A selling profit component on 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 256 manufacturing leases is recognized based on the policies for Costs for development activities, whereby research findings are outright sales. Profit from sale and leaseback transactions is recapplied to a plan or design for the production of new or subognized immediately if significant risks and r­ ewards of ownerstantially improved products and processes, are capitalized if ship have passed to the buyer, the leaseback results in an (1) development costs can be measured reliably, the product ­operating lease and the transaction is established at fair value. or process is (2) technically and (3) commercially feasible, (4) ­future economic benefits are probable and (5) Siemens Dividends: Dividends are recognized when the right to receive ­intends, and (6) has sufficient resources, to complete developpayment is established. ment and to use or sell the asset. The costs capitalized include the cost of materials, direct labour and other directly attributFunctional costs – In general, operating expenses by types able expenditure that serves to prepare the asset for use. Such are assigned to the functions following the functional area capitalized costs are included in line item Other intangible of the corresponding profit and cost centers. Expenses relating ­­assets as software and other internally generated intangible to cross-functional initiatives or projects are assigned to the ­assets. Other development costs are expensed as incurred. ­respective functional costs based on an appropriate allocation Capitalized development costs are stated at cost less accumuprinciple. Regarding amortization see NOTE 16 OTHER INTANGIBLE lated amortization and impairment losses with an amortization ­­A SSETS , regarding depreciation see NOTE 17 PROPERT Y, PL ANT ­period of generally three to ten years. AND EQUIPMENT and regarding employee benefit expenses see NOTE 33 PERSONNEL COSTS . Government grants for research and development activities are offset against research and development costs. They are recogGovernment grants – Government grants are recognized nized as income over the p ­ eriods in which the research and when there is reasonable assurance that the conditions atdevelopment costs incur that are to be compensated. Governtached to the grants are complied with and the grants will be ment grants for future research and development costs are received. Grants awarded for the purchase or the production ­recorded as deferred income. of fixed ­­assets (grants related to ­­assets) are generally offset against the acquisition or production costs of the respective Earnings per share – Basic earnings per share are computed ­assets and reduce future depreciations accordingly. Grants by dividing income from continuing operations, income from awarded for other than non-current ­assets (grants related to discontinued operations and net income, all attributable to income) are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income ­ordinary shareholders of Siemens AG by the weighted average under the same functional area as the corresponding expenses. number of shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnThey are recognized as income over the periods ­­ necessary ings per share are calculated by assuming conversion or exerto match them on a systematic basis to the costs that are cise of all potentially dilutive securities and share-based pay­intended to be compensated. Government grants for future ment plans. ­expenses are recorded as deferred income. Goodwill – Goodwill is not amortized, but instead tested for Product-related expenses and losses from onerous conimpairment annually, as well as whenever there are events or tracts – Provisions for estimated costs related to product warchanges in circumstances (triggering events) which suggest ranties are recorded in line item Cost of sales at the time the that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill is related sale is recognized, and are established on an individual carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. basis, except for the standard product business. The estimates reflect historic experience of warranty costs, as well as inforThe goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of a mation regarding product failure experienced during construccash-­generating unit or a group of cash-generating units repretion, installation or testing of products. In the case of new sented by a Division or equivalent, which is the lowest level products, expert opinions and industry data are also taken at which goodwill is monitored for internal management into consideration in estimating product warranty provisions. ­purposes. ­Expected losses from onerous contracts are recognized in the ­ period when the current estimate of total contract costs For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in ­exceeds contract revenue. a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating unit or the group of cash-generating units that is expected to Research and development costs – Costs of research activi­benefit from the synergies of the business combination. If the ties undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or carrying amount of the cash-generating unit or the group of technical knowledge and understanding are expensed as cash-generating units, to which the goodwill is allocated, ex­incurred. ceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss on goodwill 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 257 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows allocated to this cash-generating unit or this group of cash-­ Impairment of property, plant and equipment and other generating units is recognized. The recoverable amount is the intangible ­assets – The Company reviews property, plant and higher of the cash-generating unit’s or the group of cash-­ equipment and other intangible ­assets for impairment whengenerating units’ fair value less costs to sell and its value in ever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the caruse. If either of these amounts exceeds the carrying amount, rying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In addition, it is not always necessary to determine both amounts. These intangible ­assets with indefinite useful lives as well as intangivalues are generally determined based on discounted cash flow ble ­assets not yet available for use are subject to an annual imcalculations. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed pairment test. Recoverability of ­assets is measured by the comin future p ­ eriods if the recoverable amount exceeds the carryparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the recoverable ing amount of the cash-generating unit or the group of cash-­ amount, which is the higher of the asset’s value in use and its generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. fair value less costs to sell. If ­assets do not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other a ­ ssets or Other intangible ­assets – The Company amortizes intangible groups of a ­ ssets, the impairment test is not performed at an ­assets with finite useful lives on a straight-line basis over their individual asset level, instead, it is performed at the level of the respective estimated useful lives. Estimated useful lives for cash-generating unit the asset belongs to. If such ­assets are ­patents, licenses and other similar rights generally range from considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is three to five years, except for intangible ­assets with finite usemeasured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the ful lives acquired in business combinations. Intangible a ­ ssets assets or cash-generating unit exceeds their recoverable ­ acquired in business combinations primarily consist of cusamount. If the fair value cannot be determined, the a ­ ssets’ tomer relationships and technology. Useful lives in specific value in use is applied as their recoverable amount. The a ­ ssets’ ­acquisitions ranged from eleven to twenty years for cus­tomer value in use is measured by discounting their estimated future relationships and from three to 18 years for technology. Intancash flows. If there is an indication that the reasons which gible a ­ ssets which are determined to have indefinite useful caused the impairment no longer exist, Siemens assesses the lives as well as intangible ­assets not yet available for use are need to reverse all or a portion of the impairment. not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least ­annually. The Company’s property, plant and equipment and other intangible ­assets to be disposed of are recorded at the lower of Property, plant and equipment – Property, plant and equip­carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell and depreciation ment, including investment property, is valued at cost less is ceased. ­accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Discontinued operations and non-current a ­ ssets held for If the costs of certain components of an item of property, plant disposal – Discontinued operations are reported when a comand equipment are significant in relation to the total cost of the ponent of an entity comprising operations and cash flows that item, they are accounted for and depreciated separately. Deprecan be clearly distinguished, operationally and for financial ciation expense is recognized using the straight-line method. ­reporting purposes, from the rest of the entity is classified as Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and, if held for disposal or has been disposed of, if the component expectations differ from previous estimates, adjusted accord­either (1) represents a separate major line of business or geoingly. Costs of construction of qualifying ­assets, i.e. ­assets that graphical area of operations and (2) is part of a single co-­ require a substantial p ­ eriod of time to be ready for its intended ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or use, include capitalized interest, which is amortized over the geographical area of operations or (3) is a subsidiary acquired estimated useful life of the related asset. The following useful exclusively with a view to resale. In the Consolidated Statelives are assumed: ments of Income, income (loss) from discontinued operations is reported separately from income and expenses from continuing operations; prior ­periods are presented on a comparable basis. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow, the cash Factory and office buildings 20 to 50 years flows from discontinued operations are presented separately Other buildings 5 to 10 years from cash flows of continuing operations; prior p ­ eriods are preTechnical machinery & equipment 5 to 10 years sented on a comparable basis. The disclosures in the Notes Furniture & office equipment generally 5 years to the Consolidated Financial Statements outside NOTE 4 Equipment leased to others generally 3 to 5 years ­A CQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS that refer to the Consolidated Statements of Income and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow relate to continuing operations. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 258 Siemens reports discontinued operations separately in NOTE 4 ­ rst-out method. Production costs comprise direct material fi ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS . In order and labor and applicable manufacturing overheads, including to present the financial effects of a discontinued operation, rev­depreciation charges. Net realizable value is the estimated sellenue and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are ing price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated eliminated except for those revenue and expenses that are concosts of completion and selling expenses. sidered to continue after the disposal of the discontinued operation. In any case, no profit or loss is recognized for intragroup Defined benefit plans – Siemens measures the entitlements transactions. of the defined benefit plans by applying the projected unit credit method. The approach reflects an actuarially calculated Siemens classifies a non-current asset or a disposal group as net present value of the future benefit entitlement for services held for disposal if its carrying amount will be recovered princialready rendered. In determining the net present value of the pally through a sale transaction or through distribution to future benefit entitlement for service already rendered (Defined shareholders rather than through continuing use. For this to be Benefit Obligation (DBO)), Siemens considers future compensathe case, the asset or disposal group must be available for imtion and benefit increases, because the employee’s final benefit mediate sale or distribution in its present condition subject entitlement at regular retirement age depends on future comonly to terms that are usual and customary for sales or distribupensation or benefit increases. The assumptions used for the tions of such a ­ ssets or disposal groups and its sale or distribucalculation of the DBO as of the ­period-end of the preceding tion must be highly probable. The disclosures in the Notes to fiscal year are used to determine the calculation of service cost Consolidated Financial Statements outside NOTE 4 ACQUISIand interest income and expense of the following year. The net TIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS that refer to the interest income or expense for the fiscal year will be based on Consolidated Statements of Financial Position generally relate the discount rate for the respective year multiplied by the net to ­ assets that are not held for disposal. Siemens reports liability at the preceding fiscal year’s ­period-end date. The fair non-current ­assets or disposal groups held for disposal sepavalue of plan a ­ ssets and DBO and thus the interest income on rately in NOTE 4 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED plan ­assets and the interest expenses on DBO are adjusted for OPERATIONS . Non-current ­ assets classified as held for disposal significant events after the preceding fiscal year end, such as a and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying supplemental funding, plan changes or business combinations amount and fair value less costs to sell, unless these items preand disposals. The DBO includes the present value from the sented in the disposal group are not part of the measurement effects of taxes payable by the plan on contributions or benescope as defined in IFRS 5, Non-current Assets held for Sale and fits relating to services already rendered. Discontinued Operations. Service cost and past service cost for post-employment benefits Income taxes – The Company applies IAS 12, Income taxes. as well as other administration costs which are unrelated to the Current taxes are calculated based on the profit (loss) of the management of plan ­assets are allocated among functional fiscal year and in accordance with local tax rules of the tax costs (line items Cost of sales, Research and development ­jurisdiction respectively. Expected and executed additional tax ­expenses, Selling and general administrative expenses) followpayments respectively tax refunds for prior years are also taken ing the functional area of the corresponding profit and cost into account. Under the liability method, deferred tax a ­ ssets centers. Past service cost and settlement gains (losses) are recand liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences ognized immediately in profit or loss when the plan amend­attributable to differences between the financial statement ment, curtailment or settlement occurs. Administration Costs ­carrying amounts of existing a ­ ssets and liabilities and their which are related to the management of plan a ­ ssets and taxes ­respective tax bases. The effect on deferred tax ­assets and directly linked to the return on plan a ­ ssets and payable by the ­liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the income plan itself are included in the return on plan a ­ ssets and are recstatement, unless related to items directly recognized in equity, ognized in Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes. in the p ­ eriod the new laws are enacted or substantively For unfunded plans, Siemens recognizes a post-employment ­enacted. Deferred tax a ­ ssets are recognized to the extent that it benefit liability equal to the DBO. For funded plans, Siemens is probable that future taxable income will be available against offsets the fair value of the plan ­assets with the benefit obligawhich the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses tions. Siemens recognizes the net amount, after adjustments and unused tax credits can be utilized. for effects relating to any asset ceiling, in line item Post-­employ­ ment benefits or in line item Other current ­assets. Inventories – Inventories are valued at the lower of acquisition or production costs and net realizable value, costs being Remeasurements comprise actuarial gains and losses, resulting generally determined on the basis of an average or first-in, for example from an adjustment of the discount rate, as well as 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 259 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows the difference between the return on plan a ­ssets and the mainly comprise notes and bonds, loans from banks, trade payamounts included in net interest on the net defined benefits ables, obligations under finance leases and derivative financial liability (asset) and are recognized in Other comprehensive instruments with a negative fair value. Siemens does not make ­income, net of income taxes. use of the option to designate financial ­assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss at inception (Fair Value Provisions – A provision is recognized in the Statement of Option). Based on their nature, financial instruments are classi­Financial Position when the Company has a present legal or fied as financial ­assets and financial liabilities measured at cost constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable or amortized cost and financial ­­­assets and financial liabilities that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle measured at fair value and as receivables from finance leases. the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are Financial instruments are recognized on the Consolidated State­ recognized at present value by discounting the expected future ments of Financial Position when Siemens becomes a party to cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market assessthe contractual obligations of the instrument. Regular way ments of the time value of money. When a contract b ­ ecomes ­purchases or sales of financial ­­assets, i.e. purchases or sales onerous, the present obligation under the contract is recogunder a contract whose terms require delivery of the ­asset nized as a provision and measured at the lower of the ­expected within the time frame established generally by regulation or cost of fulfilling the contract and the expected cost of terminatconvention in the market place concerned, are accounted for at ing the contract as far as they exceed the expected economic the trade date. benefits of the contract. Additions to provisions and reversals are generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Initially, financial instruments are recognized at their fair value. ­Income. The present value of the recognized obligations associTransaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or ated with the retirement of property, plant and equipment ­issue of financial instruments are only included in determining (­asset retirement obligations) that result from the acquisition, the carrying amount, if the financial instruments are not construction, development or normal use of an asset is added to ­measured at fair value through profit or loss. Receivables from the carrying amount of the related asset. The additional carry­finance leases are recognized at an amount equal to the net ing amount is depreciated over the useful life of the related investment in the lease. Subsequently, financial ­­assets and ­asset. Additions to and reductions from the present value of ­liabilities are measured according to the category – cash and ­asset retirement obligations that result from changes in esticash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets, ­­ loans and mates are generally recognized by adjusting the carrying receivables, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost or amount of the related asset and provision. If the asset ­retirement financial ­­assets and liabilities classified as held for trading – to obligation is settled for other than the carrying amount of the which they are assigned. liability, the Company recognizes a gain or loss on ­settlement. Cash and cash equivalents – The Company considers all Termination benefits – Termination benefits are provided as highly liquid investments with less than three months matua result of an entity’s offer made in order to encourage volunrity from the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents. Cash tary redundancy before the normal retirement date or from an and cash equivalents are measured at cost. entity ’s decision to terminate the employment. Termination benefits in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits, are recAvailable-for-sale financial ­­assets – Investments in equity ognized as a liability and an expense when the entity can no instruments, debt instruments and fund shares are all classilonger withdraw the offer of those benefits. fied as available-for-sale financial assets ­­ and are measured at fair value, if reliably measurable. Unrealized gains and losses, Financial instruments – A financial instrument is any connet of applicable deferred income tax expenses, are recognized tract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a in line item Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes. finan­cial liability or equity instrument of another entity. FinanProvided that fair value cannot be reliably determined, Siemens cial a­ ssets of the Company mainly include cash and cash equivmeasures available-for-sale financial instruments at cost. This alents, available-for-sale financial ­ assets, trade receivables, applies to equity instruments that do not have a quoted market loans receivables, receivables from finance leases and d ­ erivative price in an active market, and decisive parameters cannot be financial instruments with a positive fair value. Cash and cash reliably estimated to be used in valuation models for the deterequivalents are not included within the category available-formination of fair value. sale ­financial ­assets as these financial instruments are not subject to fluctuations in value. Siemens does not make use of the When available-for-sale financial a ­ ssets incur a decline in fair ­category held to maturity. Financial liabilities of the Company value below acquisition cost and there is objective evidence 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 260 that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that has been l­iabilities that result from meeting the firm commitments are recognized in equity is removed from equity and recognized in ­adjusted to include the cumulative changes in the fair value the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company considthat were previously recognized as separate financial ­assets or ers all available evidence such as market conditions and prices, ­liabilities. investee-specific factors and the duration as well as the extent to which fair value is less than acquisition cost in evaluating Cash flow hedges – The effective portion of changes in the fair potential impairment of its available-for-sale financial a ­ ssets. value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges The Company considers a decline in fair value as objective are recognized in line item Other comprehensive ­income, net ­evidence of impairment, if the decline exceeds 20 % of costs or of income taxes (applicable deferred income tax), and any inefcontinues for more than six months. An impairment loss is fective portion is recognized immediately in net income. ­reversed in subsequent p ­ eriods, if the reasons for the impairAmounts accumulated in equity are reclassified into net inment no longer exist. The reversal of impairment losses on come in the same p ­ eriods in which the hedged item a ­ ffects net debt instruments is recognized in the Consolidated Statement income. of Income, while any reversal of impairment losses on equity instruments is recognized in line item Other comprehensive Share-based payment – IFRS 2, Share-based payment, distinincome, net of income taxes. guishes between cash-settled and equity-settled share-based payment transactions. For both types, the fair value is meaLoans and receivables – Financial a­ ssets classified as loans sured at grant date and compensation expense is recognized and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the efover the vesting ­period during which the employees become fective interest method less any impairment losses. Impairunconditionally entitled to the awards granted. Cash-settled ment losses on trade and other receivables are recognized awards are re-measured at fair value at the end of each reportusing separate allowance accounts. Loans and receivables ­ ing ­period and upon settlement. The fair value of share-based bearing no or lower interest rates compared to market rates awards, such as stock awards, matching shares, and shares with a maturity of more than one year are discounted. granted under the Jubilee Share Program, is determined as the market price of Siemens shares, considering dividends during Financial liabilities – Siemens measures financial liabilities, the vesting p ­ eriod the grantees are not entitled to and market except for derivative financial instruments, at amortized cost conditions and non-vesting conditions, if applicable. using the effective interest method. Prior-year information – The presentation of certain prior-­ Derivative financial instruments – Derivative financial year information has been reclassified to conform to the cur­instruments, such as foreign currency exchange contracts and rent year presentation. To enhance transparency, the Company interest rate swap contracts, are measured at fair value. Derivchanged retrospectively the presentation of financing of disative financial instruments are classified as held for trading uncontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Cash less they are designated as hedging instruments, for which Flows in fiscal 2014. hedge accounting is applied. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognized p ­ eriodically either in RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING net income or, in the case of a cash flow hedge, in line item PRONOUNCEMENTS Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes (applicable As of October 1, 2013, Siemens adopted IFRS 10, Consolidated deferred income tax). Certain derivative instruments embedFinancial Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12, Disded in host contracts are also accounted for separately as closure of Interests in Other Entities and consequential amend­derivatives. ments to IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements (amended 2011) and IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Fair value hedges – The carrying amount of the hedged item (amended 2011). IFRS 10 provides a comprehensive concept of is adjusted by the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk. control in determining whether an entity is to be consolidated, Where an unrecognized firm commitment is designated as IFRS 11 provides guidance on accounting for joint arrangements hedged item, the subsequent cumulative change in its fair by focusing on rights and obligations of the arrangement and value is recognized as a separate financial asset or liability with IFRS 12 provides comprehensive disclosure requirements for all corresponding gain or loss recognized in net income. forms of interests in other entities. The standards are applied on a retrospective basis. The adoption of the new standards did For hedged items carried at amortized cost, the adjustment is not have a material impact on the ­Company ’s Consolidated amortized until maturity of the hedged item. For hedged ­Financial Statements. The application of IFRS 12 resulted in firm commitments the initial carrying amount of the ­assets or ­additional disclosures. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 261 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows As of October 1, 2013, Siemens adopted IFRS 13, Fair Value NOTE 3 Critical accounting estimates Measurement. The new standard defines fair value and ­ ­standardizes disclosures on fair value measurements of both Siemens’ Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in ­financial and non-financial instrument items. The standard ­accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as adopted by is ­applied on a prospective basis. The adoption of IFRS 13 did the EU. Siemens’ significant accounting policies, as described not have a material impact on the Company ’s Consolidated in NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES are ­Financial Statements. ­essential to understanding the Company’s results of operations, ­financial positions and cash flows. Certain of these accounting RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS, policies require critical accounting estimates that involve comNOT YET ADOPTED plex and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions, The following pronouncements, issued by the IASB, are not yet some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain effective and have not yet been adopted by the Company: and susceptible to change. Such critical accounting estimates could change from ­period to ­period and have a material impact In July 2014, the IASB completed its project to replace IAS 39, on the Company’s results of operations, financial positions and Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement by pubcash flows. Critical accounting estimates could also involve lishing the final version of IFRS 9: Financial Instruments. IFRS 9 ­estimates where management reasonably could have used a introduces a single approach for the classification and measuredifferent estimate in the current accounting p ­ eriod. Management of financial ­assets according to their cash flow characterment cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and istics and the business model they are managed in, and prothat estimates routinely require adjustment. vides a new impairment model based on expected credit losses. IFRS 9 also includes new regulations regarding the application Revenue recognition on construction contracts – The of hedge accounting to better reflect an entity’s risk manageCompany ’s Sectors, particularly Energy, Industry and Inframent activities especially with regard to managing non-finanstructure & Cities, conduct a significant portion of their cial risks. The new standard is effective for annual reporting business under construction contracts with customers. ­ ­periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, while early The ­Company accounts for construction projects using the ­application is permitted. The European Financial Reporting percentage-­ of-­ completion method, recognizing revenue as ­Ad­visory Group postponed its endorsement advice on IFRS 9. performance on contract progresses. Certain long-term serThe C ­ ompany is currently assessing the impacts of adopting vice contracts are accounted for under the percentage-of-­ IFRS 9 on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. completion method as well. This method places considerable importance on accurate estimates of the extent of progress In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts towards completion and may involve estimates on the scope with Customers. According to the new standard, revenue is recof deliveries and services required for fulfilling the contractuognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to ally defined obligations. These significant estimates include a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to total contract costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for ­including technical, political and regulatory risks, and other those goods or services. Revenue is recognized when, or as, judgments. Under the percentage-of-completion method, the customer obtains control of the goods or services. IFRS 15 changes in estimates may lead to an increase or decrease of also includes guidance on the presentation of contract balrevenue. The creditworthiness of our customers is taken into ances, that is, a ­ ssets and liabilities arising from contracts with account in estimating the probability that economic benefits customers, depending on the relationship between the entity’s associated with a contract will flow to the Company. In addiperformance and the customer’s payment. In addition, the new tion, we need to assess whether the contract is expected to standard requires a set of quantitative and qualitative disclocontinue or to be terminated. In determining whether the consures to enable users of the Company’s Consolidated Financial tinuation or termination of a contract is expected to be the Statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and unmost likely scenario, all relevant facts and circumstances relatcertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with ing to the contract are considered on an individual basis. For customers. IFRS 15 supersedes IAS 11, Construction Contracts contracts expected to be continued, amounts already included and IAS 18, Revenue as well as related interpretations. The in revenue for which collectability ceases to be probable are ­standard is effective for annual ­periods beginning on or after recognized as an expense. For contracts expected to be termiJanuary 1, 2017; early application is permitted. The Company nated, including terminations due to expected payment deis currently assessing the impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the faults of our customers or terminations due to force majeure ­Company ’s Consolidated Financial Statements and will deterevents, the estimates on the scope of deliveries and services mine the adoption date as well as the transition method. provided under the contracts are revised accordingly, typically 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 262 resulting in a decrease of revenue in the respective reporting Non-current ­ assets and disposal groups classified as ­period. Management of the operating Divisions continually held for disposal – Assets held for disposal and disposal reviews all estimates ­involved in such construction contracts groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and adjusts them as necessary. and their fair value less costs to sell. The determination of the fair value less costs to sell includes the use of management Trade and other receivables – The allowance for doubtful ­estimates and assumptions that tend to be uncertain. accounts involves significant management judgment and ­review of individual receivables based on individual customer Employee benefit accounting – Post-employment benefits – creditworthiness, current economic trends and analysis of Obligations for pension and other post-employment bene­fits ­historical bad debts on a portfolio basis. For the determination and related net p ­ eriodic benefit costs are determined in accorof the country-specific component of the individual allowance, dance with actuarial valuations. These valuations rely on key Siemens also consider country credit ratings, which are cenassumptions including discount rates, expected compensation trally determined based on information from external rating increases, rate of pension progression and mortality rates. The agencies. Regarding the determination of the valuation allowdiscount rate assumptions are determined by reference to ance derived from a portfolio-based analysis of historical bad yields on high-quality corporate bonds of appropriate duration debts, a decline of receivables in volume results in a correand currency at the end of the reporting ­period. In case such sponding reduction of such provisions and vice versa. As of yields are not available discount rates are based on governSeptember 30, 2014 and 2013, Siemens recorded a total valuament bonds yields. Due to changing market, economic and tion allowance for trade and other receivables of € 1,073 million social conditions the underlying key assumptions may differ and € 1,147 million, respectively. from ­actual developments and may lead to significant changes in pension and other post-employment benefit obligations. Impairment – Siemens tests at least annually whether goodSuch differences are recognized in full through line item Other will has incurred any impairment, in accordance with its comprehensive income, net of income taxes in the ­period in accounting policy. The determination of the recoverable ­ which they occur without affecting profit or loss. amount of a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated involves the use of Provisions – Significant estimates are involved in the determi­estimates by management. The outcome predicted by these nation of provisions related to onerous contracts, warranty estimates is ­influenced e.g. by the successful integration of costs, asset retirement obligations and legal proceedings. acquired entities, volatility of capital markets, interest rate A significant portion of the business of certain operating dividevelopments, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the ­ sions is performed pursuant to long-term contracts, often for ­outlook on economic trends. The recoverable amount is the large ­projects, in Germany and abroad, awarded on a competihigher of the cash-generating unit’s or the group of cash-­ tive bidding basis. Siemens records a provision for onerous generating units’ fair value less costs to sell and its value in sales contracts when current estimates of total contract costs use. The Company generally uses discounted cash flow based exceed expected contract revenue. Such estimates are subject methods to determine these values. These discounted cash to change based on new information as projects progress toflow calculations use five-year projections that are based on wards completion. Onerous sales contracts are identified by financial forecasts. Cash flow projections take into account monitoring the progress of the project and updating the estipast experience and represent management’s best estimate mate of ­total contract costs which also requires significant about future developments. Cash flows after the planning judgment ­relating to achieving certain performance standards ­period are extrapolated using individual growth rates. Key as well as estimates involving warranty costs and estimates ­assumptions on which management has based its determinaregarding project delays including the assessment of respon­ tion of fair value less costs to sell and value in use include sibility splits between the contract partners for these delays. ­estimated growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and Significant e ­ stimates and assumptions are also involved in the tax rates. These estimates, including the methodology used, determination of provisions related to major asset retirement can have a material impact on the respective values and ultiobligations. Uncertainties surrounding the amount to be recmately the amount of any goodwill impairment. Likewise, ognized i­nclude, for example, the estimated costs of decomwhenever property, plant and equipment, other intangible missioning because of the long time frame over which future ­assets and investments ­accounted for using the equity method cash outflows are expected to occur including the respective are tested for impairment, the determination of the ­assets’ interest accretion. Amongst others, the estimated cash out­recoverable amount involves the use of estimates by manageflows could alter significantly if, and when, political development that can have a material impact on the respective values ments affect the government’s plans to develop the final and ultimately the amount of any impairment. ­storage. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 263 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Siemens is subject to legal and regulatory proceedings in variNOTE 4 Acquisitions, dispositions ous jurisdictions. Such proceedings may result in criminal or and ­discontinued operations civil sanctions, penalties, damage claims and other claims, or disgorgements against the Company. If it is more likely than A) ACQUISITIONS not that an obligation of the Company exists and will result in In September 2014, Siemens has entered into an agreement an outflow of resources, a provision is recorded if the amount with Dresser-Rand to acquire all of its issued and outstanding of the obligation can be reliably estimated. Regulatory and common shares by way of a friendly takeover bid. With its com­legal proceedings as well as government investigations often prehensive portfolio of compressors, steam turbines, gas turinvolve complex legal issues and are subject to substantial unbines and engines, Dresser-Rand is a leading supplier for the certainties. Accordingly, management exercises considerable oil & gas, process, power and other industries in the related judgment in determining whether there is a present obligation ­energy infrastructure markets worldwide. The acquisition comas a result of a past event at the end of the reporting p ­ eriod, plements Siemens’ existing offerings, notably for the global whether it is more likely than not that such a proceeding oil & gas industry and for distributed power generation. will result in an outflow of resources and whether the amount Siemens offers US$ 83 per share in cash or US$ 6.5 billion in of the obligation can be reliably estimated. The Company total if the transaction is closed prior to March 1, 2015 (€ 5.2 bil­periodically reviews the status of these proceedings with both lion as of September 30, 2014). Thereafter, the price increases inside and outside counsel. These judgments are subject to by US$ 0.55 per share or US$ 43 million (€ 34 million as of Sepchange as new information becomes available. The required tember 30, 2014) on the first day of each month starting amount of a provision may change in the future due to new March 1, 2015 (ticking fee). As part of the transaction, Siemens developments in the particular matter. Revisions to estimates will assume Dresser-Rand’s net debt, currently estimated at may significantly impact future net income. Upon resolution, US$ 1.1 billion (€ 0.9 billion as of September 30, 2014), resulting Siemens may incur charges in excess of the recorded proviin a transaction volume without ticking fee of approximately sions for such matters. It cannot be excluded that the financial US$ 7.6 billion (approximately € 6 billion as of September 30, position or results of operations of Siemens will be materially 2014). The transaction is subject to approval by regulatory affected by an unfavorable outcome of legal or regulatory pro­authorities. Closing is expected in summer 2015. ceedings or government investigations. At the beginning of May 2014, Siemens announced the acquisiIncome taxes – Siemens operates in various tax jurisdictions tion of the Rolls-Royce Energy aero-derivative gas turbine and therefore has to determine tax positions under respective and compressor business of Rolls-Royce plc, U.K. (Rolls-Royce). local tax laws and tax authorities’ views which can be complex With the acquisition Siemens intends to strengthen its position and subject to different interpretations of tax payers and local in the growing oil and gas industry as well as in the field of tax authorities. As an effect of tax audits, different interpretadecentralized power generation. The preliminary purchase tions of tax laws may result in additional tax payments for prior price amounts to £ 785 million (€ 1 billion as of September 30, years and are taken into account based on management’s 2014). In addition, as part of the transaction, Siemens will pay ­considerations. Deferred tax a ­ ssets are recognized if sufficient Rolls-Royce £ 200 million (€ 257 million as of September 30, ­ future taxable profit is available, including income from 2014) for a 25 year technology licensing agreement granting ­forecasted operating earnings, the reversal of existing taxable exclusive access to future Rolls-Royce aero-turbine technology ­temporary differences and established tax planning opportunidevelopments in the four to 85 megawatt power output range ties. As of each p ­eriod-end, management evaluates the as well as preferred access to supply and engineering services recover­ability of deferred tax ­assets, based on projected future of Rolls-Royce. The regulatory authorities approved the trans­ taxable profits. As future developments are uncertain and action after fiscal year end. Closing is expected in the first quarpartly ­beyond management’s control, assumptions are necester of fiscal 2015. sary to estimate future taxable profits as well as the p ­ eriod in which deferred tax ­assets will recover. Estimates are revised in the ­period in which there is sufficient evidence to revise the assumption. If management considers it probable that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset cannot be realized, that portion would not be recognized. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 264 At the beginning of May 2013, Siemens acquired all of the that are not separable such as employee know-how and e ­ xpected shares of several entities constituting the rail automation busisynergy effects. Including earnings effects from purchase price ness of Invensys plc, U.K. (Invensys), which were integrated allocation and integration costs, the acquired business contribin the Infrastructure & Cities Sector’s Mobility and Logistics uted revenues of €335 million and a net loss of €44 million to ­Division. With the acquisition, Siemens expanded and compleSiemens for the p ­ eriod from acquisition to September 30, 2013. If mented the Infrastructure & Cities Sector’s rail automation busithe acquired business had been included as of October 1, 2012, ness. The purchase price allocation was finalized in the third the impact on consolidated revenues and consolidated net inquarter of fiscal 2014 following the final agreement on the purcome for the twelve months ended September 30, 2013 would chase price and the completion of post-closing project reviews. have been €915 million and €(9) million, respectively. Adjustments mainly relate to Intangible a ­ ssets, Inventories, ­Liabilities and Deferred income tax liabilities. The final considAt the beginning of January 2013, Siemens acquired all of the eration amounts to € 2,024 million (including € 53 million cash shares in LMS International NV, Belgium, a leading provider of acquired) of which € 472 million were paid to the Invensys mechatronic simulation solutions, which was integrated in the ­Pension Trust. The following figures reflect the amounts re­c­ Industry Sector’s Industry Automation Division. The purchase ognized as of the acquisition date for each major class of ­assets price allocation was finalized in the second quarter of fiscal acquired and liabilities assumed: Intangible ­assets €883 million, 2014. No significant adjustments were made to the preliminary Inventories €159 million, Receivables €127 million, ­Deferred inpurchase price allocation as of September 30, 2013. The final come tax a ­ ssets €65 million, Liabilities €537 million and Deferred consideration amounts to € 702 million (including € 32 million income tax liabilities €116 million. Intangible a ­ ssets mainly relate cash acquired); € 352 million were allocated to Goodwill which to customer relationships of €616 million with a useful life of comprises intangible ­assets that are not separable such as 18 years and technology of €245 million with a useful life of ­employee know-how and expected synergy effects. 18 years. Goodwill of €1,315 million comprises intangible a ­ ssets B) DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Assets and liabilities held for disposal As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amounts of the major classes of ­assets and liabilities held for disposal were as follows: September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Trade and other receivables 606 310 Inventories 479 340 Goodwill 846 187 Other intangible a ­ ssets 246 111 Property, plant and equipment 311 317 Investments previously accounted for using the equity method 1,156 – Other financial ­assets 132 72 Other ­assets 158 56 Assets classified as held for disposal 3,935 1,393 Trade payables 381 153 Current provisions 126 60 Other current liabilities 856 183 Post employment benefits 110 18 Other non-current liabilities 123 59 Liabilities associated with ­assets classified as held for disposal 1,597 473 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 265 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ba) Dispositions not qualifying for Metals Technologies ­discontinued operations In May 2014, Siemens signed an agreement to contribute BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH (BSH) nearly all of its metallurgical solutions business (Business In September 2014, Robert Bosch GmbH and Siemens agreed Unit Metals Technologies), formerly included in the Industry that Robert Bosch GmbH will acquire Siemens’ 50 % stake in ­Sector, into a joint venture with Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals the joint venture BSH. The transaction volume amounts to Machinery Inc., a company majority owned by Mitsubishi ­ € 3.25 billion. The agreement includes the permission to proHeavy Industries, Ltd. As a result of this transaction, Siemens duce and market household appliances under the Siemens will lose control over its metallurgical solutions business brand over the long term as well as a distribution of € 250 milupon closing. Siemens will hold an equity interest of 49 % lion from BSH prior to the completion of the transaction. The in the new company which will be accounted for using the transaction is subject to approval by the regulatory authorities. equity method. The transaction is subject to approval by ­ Closing is expected in the first half of calendar year 2015. the regulatory authorities. Closing is ­expected in the second Siemens’ stake in BSH is presented as held for disposal since ­quarter of fiscal 2015. The respective metallurgical solutions the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. No impairment was identified business (the disposal group) is presented as held for disposal either upon reclassification or at year end. and discontinued operations since the third quarter of fiscal 2014. No impairment was identified either upon reclassificaMicrobiology business tion or at year end. In July 2014, Siemens signed an agreement to sell its Micro­ biology business of the Healthcare Sector to Beckman Coulter bd) Discontinued operations: closed transactions Inc., a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation. The activities of the The results presented in Income (loss) from discontinued operMicrobiology business include systems for the identification ations in the Company ’s Consolidated Statements of Income and antibiotic susceptibility testing of micro­organisms. The also include the results of businesses that have been disposed regulatory authorities approved the trans­action. Closing is exof prior to the end of fiscal 2014. pected in the first half of fiscal 2015. The microbiology business (the disposal group) is presented as held for disposal since the Water Technologies third quarter of fiscal 2014. No impairment was identified The Water Technologies Business Unit, formerly included in the ­either upon reclassification or at year end. Industry Sector, is presented as held for disposal and discontinued operations since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. In Octobb) Dispositions not qualifying for discontinued ber 2013, Siemens signed an agreement to sell the disposal operations: closed transactions group to funds managed by American European Associates TurboCare business ­Investors LP, U.S. On January 15, 2014, Siemens closed the In May 2014, the TurboCare Business Unit of the Energy Sectransaction for a preliminary cash consideration of € 612 miltor – which was previously presented as held for disposal – was lion. Assets and liabilities held for disposal of € 794 million and contributed into a joint venture with John Wood Group plc. of € 214 million, respectively, were derecognized upon closing. The joint venture is a service provider of rotating equipment The major classes of ­assets held for disposal were Property, ­services to the industry, with a focus on power and oil & gas plant and equipment of € 164 million, Goodwill of € 154 million, markets. Siemens’ interest in the new company is accounted Inventories of € 136 million, Trade and other receivables of for using the equity method. € 125 million, and Cash and cash equivalents of € 75 million. bc) Discontinued operations OSRAM, Siemens IT Solutions and Services, Customer Solutions Health Services Siemens VDO Automotive and Communications In August 2014, Siemens announced its plans to sell its hospital Net results from discontinued operations of OSRAM, Siemens information system business (Customer Solutions Health SerIT Solutions and Services, Siemens VDO Automotive and the vices Business Unit), formerly included in the Healthcare Secformer operating segment Communications presented in the tor, to the US-based company Cerner Corp. for a consideration Consolidated Statements of Income in fiscal 2014 and 2013 of US$ 1.3 billion (€ 1 billion as of September 30, 2014) in cash. amounted to € 89 million (thereof € 66 million income tax) and The regulatory authorities approved the transaction. Closing € 222 million (thereof €(165) million income tax), respectively. is ­expected in the second quarter of fiscal 2015. The hospital Net results from discontinued operations in fiscal 2013 include ­information system business (the disposal group) is presented € 277 million relating to OSRAM, thereof the pretax spin-off gain as held for disposal and discontinued operations since the of € 54 million. Income tax in fiscal 2014 and 2013 includes fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. No impairment was identified € 64 million and €(80) million, respectively, related to former ­either upon reclassification or at year end. Communications activities. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 266 INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS m ­ anufacturer. In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, Siemens In fiscal 2014 and 2013, the major line items of income from started to report results related to its stake in BSH using the discontinued operations were as follows: equity method in phase with results of Siemens, rather than with the lag of one quarter. Due to the one-time catch-up effect associated with this change, item Share of profit (loss), net for Year ended September 30, fiscal 2014 therefore ­includes results related to BSH for approx(in millions of €) 2014 2013 imately five quarters rather than the usual four. This one-time Revenue 2,951 7,757 catch-up effect increased the income from Siemens’ investExpenses (2,916) (7,501) ment in BSH by € 59 million. At the end of the fourth quarter of Income on the measurement to fair value less fiscal 2014, BSH was classified as held for disposal and the use costs to sell or on the disposal of the disposal of the equity method was ceased. groups constituting the discontinued operations 23 129 Pretax income from discontinued operations 57 385 Income taxes on ordinary activities 41 (174) Item Share of profit (loss), net, also includes Siemens’ share in Income taxes on the income on the measure­ BWI Informationstechnik GmbH’s (BWI IT) earnings of € 55 milment to fair value less costs to sell or on the lion and € 69 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013. disposal of the disposal groups constituting the discontinued operations 9 20 Items Share of profit (loss), net, Gains (losses) on sales, net and Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 108 231 Impairment and reversals of impairment include the effects Thereof attributable to the shareholders of of disposing of Siemens’ share in NSN in the fourth quarter of Siemens AG 107 225 ­fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2013, item Impairment and reversals of ­impairment includes €(97) million related to an investment of Siemens’ solar business. b) Associates NOTE 5 Interests in other entities As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amount of all individually not material associates amounts to € 1,417 million For information on the composition of the Siemens Group refer and € 1,483 million, respectively. Summarized financial inforto the list of our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in mation for all individually not material associates adjusted fiscal 2014 in NOTE 41 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATED for the percentage of ownership held by Siemens, is presented ­C OMPANIES PURSUANT TO SECTION 313 PARA. 2 OF THE GERMAN COM­ ­below. Items included in the Statements of Comprehensive MERCIAL CODE and NOTE 4 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND DIS­Income are presented for the twelve month ­period applied CONTINUED OPERATIONS . ­under the equity method. INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD Year ended September 30, a) Income (loss) from investments accounted (in millions of €) 2014 2013 for using the equity method, net Income (loss) from continuing operations 102 163 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 22 – Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes (52) (33) Year ended September 30, Total comprehensive income 71 130 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Share of profit (loss), net 575 247 Gains (losses) on sales, net 6 78 Impairment and reversals of impairment 1 185 Income (loss) from investments accounted The carrying amount of all individually not material associates for using the equity method, net 582 510 includes the carrying amount of BWI IT, amounting to € 131 million and € 154 million as of September 30, 2014 and 2013. Siemens holds a 50.05 % stake in BWI IT. BWI IT is not controlled by Siemens due to significant participating rights of the two As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, Siemens has one principal other shareholders. Together with the HERKULES obligajoint venture, BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH tions disclosed in NOTE 27, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES , (BSH), Munich, Germany which is a worldwide home a ­ ppliances the Company ’s maximum exposure to loss from BWI IT as of 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 267 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows S ­ eptember 30, 2014 and 2013 amounts to € 1,621 million and NOTE 8 Interest income, interest expenses € 2,044 million. BWI IT finances its operations on its own. and other financial income (expenses), The accumulated unrecognized share of losses in associates net amounts to € 84 million and € 11 million, respectively, as of ­September 30, 2014 and 2013. Within fiscal 2014 and 2013 the ­ unrecognized share of losses amounts to € 74 million and Year ended September 30, € 11 million. (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Interest income from post-employment c) Joint ventures ­benefits 1 3 As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amount of all Interest income other than from ­post-employment benefits 1,058 944 individually not material joint ventures amounts to € 710 milInterest income 1,058 947 lion and € 393 million, respectively. Summarized financial inforInterest expenses from mation for all individually not material joint ventures adjusted post-employment benefits (295) (294) for the percentage of ownership held by Siemens, is presented Interest expenses other than ­from below. Items in the Statements of Comprehensive Income post-employment benefits (469) (490) are presented for the twelve month ­period applied under the Interest expenses (764) (784) ­equity method of accounting. Income (expenses) from available-for-sale ­financial ­assets, net 45 (80) Miscellaneous financial income (expenses), net (221) (74) Other financial income (expenses), net (177) (154) Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Income (loss) from continuing operations 30 (33) Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes (72) 4 Total amounts of item Interest income and (expense), other Total comprehensive income (42) (30) than from post-employment benefits, were as follows: Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 NOTE 6 Other operating income Interest income other than from post-employment benefits 1,058 944 Interest expenses other than from In fiscal 2014 and 2013, Other operating income includes gains ­post-employment benefits (469) (490) on sales of property, plant and equipment and intangible a ­ ssets Interest income (expenses), net, other than of € 355 million and € 227 million, respectively, including gains from post-employment benefits 589 454 from real estate sold and leased back; gains from the sale of Thereof: Interest income (expenses) businesses of € 143 million and € 10 million, respectively; as well of operations, net (17) (2) as income in connection with legal and regulatory matters. Thereof: Other interest income (expenses), net 606 455 NOTE 7 Other operating expenses Other operating expenses in fiscal 2014 and 2013 include losses Item Interest income (expense) of operations, net includes on sales of property, plant and equipment and intangible ­assets, ­interest income and expense primarily related to receivables impairment losses on goodwill and effects from insurance, legal from customers and payables to suppliers, interest on advances and regulatory matters. from customers and advanced financing of customer contracts. Item Other interest income (expense), net includes all other interest amounts primarily consisting of interest relating to corporate debt, and related hedging activities, as well as interest income on corporate ­assets. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 268 Item Interest income (expense) other than from post-employNOTE 9 Income taxes ment benefits includes the following with respect to financial ­assets (financial liabilities) not at fair value through profit or Income from continuing operations before income tax is attribloss: utable to the following geographic regions: Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Total interest income on financial ­assets 1,050 931 Germany 2,295 1,304 Total interest expenses on financial liabilites (643) (766) Foreign 5,132 4,509 7,427 5,813 The components of item Income (expense) from available-forsale financial ­assets, net were as follows: Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following: Year ended September 30, Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Dividends received 16 18 Current tax: Gains on sales, net 40 17 German corporation and trade taxes 469 542 Impairment (11) (117) Foreign income taxes 1,253 1,212 Other – 2 1,722 1,754 Income (expenses) from available-for-sale Deferred tax: financial ­assets, net 45 (80) Germany 207 256 Foreign 99 (376) 306 (120) Income tax expenses 2,028 1,634 Item Miscellaneous financial income (expense), net, in fiscal 2014 and 2013, includes gains (losses) of €(293) million and € 95 million, respectively, from the accretion of provisions and the increase (decrease) in the discount rate, as well as The current income tax expenses in fiscal 2014 and 2013 ­expenses as a result of allowances and write offs of finance ­include adjustments recognized for current tax of prior years ­receivables, net of reversals of € 40 million and € 80 million, in the amount of € 106 million and € 87 million, respectively. ­respectively. Furthermore, gains (losses) related to derivative The current tax expense in 2013 is positively impacted by the ­financial instruments are included. closing of a mutual agreement procedure regarding transfer prices between Germany and the U.S. leading to an increase Changes in the fair value of warrants issued together with of German current taxes and an overcompensating decrease of US$ 3 billion bonds in fiscal 2012 resulted in a pretax loss of foreign income taxes. € 42 million and a pretax gain of € 11 million, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013. In fiscal 2014, the fair value increased mainly The deferred tax expense (benefit) in fiscal 2014 and 2013 due to an increase in the underlying Siemens and OSRAM share ­includes tax effects of the origination and reversal of tempoprices as well as increased implied volatilities. The gain (loss) rary differences of € 119 million and €(302) million, respectively. is disclosed in Other financial income (expenses), net and in The German deferred tax expense in fiscal 2014 and 2013 is ­Corporate items for segment reporting purposes. mainly related to the utilization of tax loss carryforwards, partly compensated by tax effects in connection with positive appeal ­proceedings in 2014. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 269 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows In Germany, the calculation of current tax is based on a corpoDeferred income tax a ­ ssets and liabilities on a gross basis are rate tax rate of 15 % and a solidarity surcharge thereon of 5.5 %, summarized as follows: for all distributed and retained earnings. In addition to corporate taxation, trade tax is levied on profits earned in Germany. As the German trade tax is a non deductible expense, the averSeptember 30, age trade tax rate amounts to 15 % and the combined total tax (in millions of €) 2014 2013 rate results in 31 %. Deferred tax ­assets and liabilities are meaAssets: sured at tax rates that are expected to apply to the p ­ eriod when Non-current ­assets 433 547 the asset is realized or the liability is settled. Inventories and receivables 1,445 1,240 Post-employment benefits 3,112 2,954 For foreign subsidiaries, current taxes are calculated based on Liabilities 3,991 3,699 the local tax laws and applicable tax rates in the individual forOther 229 282 eign countries. Deferred tax a ­ ssets and liabilities are measured Tax loss and credit carryforward 706 918 at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the p ­ eriod when Deferred tax ­assets 9,915 9,640 the asset is realized or the liability is settled. Liabilities: Non-current ­assets 2,185 2,452 Income tax expense (current and deferred) differs from the Inventories and receivables 3,882 3,476 amounts computed by applying a combined statutory German Liabilities 787 670 income tax rate of 31 % as follows: Other 280 312 Deferred tax liabilities 7,133 6,910 Total deferred tax ­assets, net 2,782 2,730 Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Expected income tax expenses 2,302 1,802 Increase (decrease) in income taxes resulting In assessing the realizability of deferred tax ­assets, managefrom: ment considers the extent to which it is probable that the Non-deductible losses and expenses 282 377 ­deferred tax asset will be realized. The ultimate realization of Tax-free income (236) (343) deferred tax a ­ ssets is dependent upon the generation of future Taxes for prior years 78 56 taxable profits during the ­periods in which those temporary Change in realizability of deferred tax a ­ ssets and tax credits 11 21 differences and tax loss carryforwards become deductible. Change in tax rates (1) (31) Management considers the expected reversal of deferred tax Foreign tax rate differential (244) (175) liabilities and projected future taxable income in making this Tax effect of investments accounted assessment. Based upon the level of historical taxable income for using the equity method (163) (74) and projections for future taxable income over the ­periods in Other, net (1) 1 which the deferred tax ­assets are deductible, management Actual income tax expenses 2,028 1,634 ­believes it is probable the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences. As of September 30, 2014, the Company has certain tax losses subject to significant lim­ itations. For those losses deferred tax a ­ ssets are not recogThe tax free income in fiscal 2014 is impacted by several Port­ nized, as it is not probable that gains will be generated to offset folio activities, whereas 2013 is amongst others attributable to those losses. the NSN disposal. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the Company had € 2,425 mil­lion and € 3,341 million, respectively of gross tax loss carryforwards. The Company assumes that future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred tax ­assets. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 270 Deferred tax ­assets have not been recognized with respect of NOTE 10 Available-for-sale financial a ­ ssets the following items (gross amounts): The following tables summarize the current portion of the Company’s investment in available-for-sale financial ­assets: September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Deductible temporary differences 155 150 September 30, 2014 Tax loss carryforward 760 941 Cost Fair value Unrealized Unrealized gain loss 915 1,091 (in millions of €) Equity instruments 1 1 – – Debt instruments 693 702 9 – Fund shares 195 222 28 – 888 925 37 – As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, € 152 million and € 221 million, respectively the major part of the unrecognized tax loss carryforwards expire over the ­periods to 2018. The Company has ongoing regular tax audits concerning open September 30, 2013 income tax years in a number of jurisdictions. Adequate proviCost Fair value Unrealized Unrealized sions for all open tax years have been foreseen. The Company gain loss (in millions of €) has applied for several mutual agreement procedures to avoid Equity instruments 6 8 2 – double taxation. Debt instruments 378 382 3 – Fund shares 195 211 16 – The Company recorded deferred tax liabilities for income taxes 580 601 21 (1) and foreign withholding taxes on future dividend distributions from subsidiaries which are actually intended to be repatriated. Apart from this liability, the Company has not recognized deferred tax liabilities for income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on the cumulative earnings of subsidiaries of € 21,115 milNon-current available-for-sale financial a ­ ssets, which are inlion and € 19,214 million, respectively in fiscal 2014 and 2013 cluded in line item Other financial a ­ ssets are measured at fair because the earnings are intended to be permanently reinvalue, if reliably measurable. They primarily consist of equity vested in the subsidiaries. in­stru­ments, including shares in AtoS and in OSRAM. As of ­ September 30, 2014 and 2013 non-current available-for-sale Including the items charged or credited directly to equity ­financial a ­ ssets measured at cost amount to € 192 million and and the expense (benefit) from continuing and discontinued € 167 million, respectively; non-current available-for-sale finanoperations, the income tax expense (benefit) consists of the cial ­assets measured at fair value amount to € 1,611 million and following: € 1,394 million, respectively. Unrealized gains (losses) in fiscal 2014 and 2013 resulting from non-current available-for-sale finan­cial a ­ ssets at fair value were € 317 million and € 401 milYear ended September 30, lion, respectively. (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Continuing operations 2,028 1,634 Discontinued operations (50) 154 NOTE 11 Trade and other receivables Income and expenses recognized directly in equity (346) 738 1,632 2,526 September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Trade receivables from the sale of goods and services 12,537 12,932 Receivables from finance leases 1,988 1,921 14,526 14,853 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 271 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Changes to the valuation allowance of current and long-term Minimum future lease payments to be received are as follows: receivables presented in NOTE 11, 12 AND 18 , which belong to the class of financial a ­ ssets measured at (amortized) cost are as follows (excluding receivables from finance leases): September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Within one year 2,406 2,318 Year ended September 30, After one year but not more than five years 3,393 3,406 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 More than five years 233 214 Valuation allowance as of beginning 6,033 5,938 of fiscal year 1,023 1,056 Increase in valuation allowances recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income in the current ­period 62 205 Write-offs charged against the allowance (126) (208) The following table shows a reconciliation of minimum future Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 6 9 lease payments to the gross and net investment in leases and Foreign exchange translation differences 5 (38) to the present value of the minimum future lease payments Reclassifications to line item Assets held for receivable: disposal and dispositions of those entities (33) – Valuation allowance as of fiscal year-end 938 1,023 September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Minimum future lease payments 6,033 5,938 In fiscal 2014 and 2013, receivables from finance leases, current Plus: Unguaranteed residual values 91 97 amount to € 1,988 million and € 1,921 million, respectively; the Gross investment in leases 6,124 6,034 long-term portion amounts to € 3,357 million and € 3,340 milLess: Unearned finance income (643) (649) lion, respectively. The valuation allowance on current and longNet investment in leases 5,481 5,385 term receivables from finance leases changed as follows: Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (135) (124) Less: Present value of unguaranteed residual value (80) (85) Present value of minimum future lease Year ended September 30, ­payments receivable 5,266 5,176 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Valuation allowance as of beginning of fiscal year 124 134 Increase in valuation allowances recorded in The gross investment in leases and the present value of minithe Consolidated Statements of Income in the current ­period 47 35 mum future lease payments receivable are due as follows: Write-offs charged against the allowance (46) (47) Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 5 5 Foreign exchange translation differences 5 (4) September 30, Reclassifications to and from line item (in millions of €) 2014 2013 ­Assets held for disposal and dispositions Gross investment in leases 6,124 6,034 of those entities – – Within one year 2,433 2,345 Valuation allowance as of fiscal year-end 135 124 One to five years 3,449 3,472 Thereafter 242 218 Present value of minimum future lease ­payments receivable 5,266 5,176 Within one year 2,013 1,946 One to five years 3,037 3,035 Thereafter 215 195 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 272 Investments in finance leases primarily relate to industrial Item Costs and earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted ­machinery, medical equipment, transportation systems, equipcontracts relates to construction contracts, with net asset balment for information technology and office machines. Actual ances where contract costs plus recognized profits less recogcash flows will vary from contractual maturities due to future nized losses exceed progress billings. Construction contracts, sales of finance receivables, prepayments and write-offs. here and as follows, include service contracts accounted for under the percentage of completion method. Liabilities from contracts for which progress billings exceed costs and recogNOTE 12 Other current financial ­assets nized profits less recognized losses are recognized in line item Other current liabilities. September 30, The aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognized profits (in millions of €) 2014 2013 less recognized losses for construction contracts in progress, Derivative financial instruments 458 435 as of September 30, 2014 and 2013 amounted to € 86,140 milLoans receivable 2,111 1,861 lion and € 79,296 million, respectively. Revenue from construcOther 1,141 954 tion contracts amounted to € 29,735 million and € 30,441 mil3,710 3,250 lion, respectively, for fiscal 2014 and 2013. Advance payments received on construction contracts in progress were € 7,704 million and € 8,239 million as of September 30, 2014 and 2013. Retentions in connection with construcNOTE 13 Inventories tion contracts were € 245 million and € 452 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 NOTE 14 Other current ­assets Raw materials and supplies 2,389 2,476 Work in process 3,436 3,502 Costs and earnings in excess of billings September 30, on uncompleted contracts 8,329 8,604 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Finished goods and products held for resale 2,312 2,311 Miscellaneous tax receivables 707 735 Advances to suppliers 528 707 Prepaid expenses 229 227 16,994 17,601 Other 354 335 Advance payments received (1,895) (2,040) 1,290 1,297 15,100 15,560 Cost of sales include inventories recognized as expense amounting to € 49,453 million and € 52,039 million, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013. Raw materials and supplies, work in process as well as finished goods and products held for resale are valued at the lower of acquisition or production cost and net realizable value. The respective write-downs, as compared to prior year, increased by € 1 million and € 39 million as of September 30, 2014 and 2013. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 273 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NOTE 15 Goodwill Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Cost Balance at beginning of year 19,564 18,517 Translation differences and other 777 (697) Acquisitions and purchase accounting adjustments 60 1,719 Dispositions and reclassifications to a ­ ssets classified as held for disposal (856) 25 Balance at year-end 19,546 19,564 Accumulated impairment losses and other changes Balance at beginning of year 1,681 1,448 Translation differences and other 82 (66) Impairment losses recognized during the p ­ eriod 5 70 Dispositions and reclassifications to a ­ ssets classified as held for disposal (5) 229 Balance at year-end 1,763 1,681 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of year 17,883 17,069 Balance at year-end 17,783 17,883 Carrying amount as Translation Acquisitions and Dispositions, Impairments Carrying amount as of 10/01/2013 ­differences ­purchase accounting ­reclassifications incl. of 09/30/2014 and other adjustments reclassifications to ­assets classified as (in millions of €) held for disposal Sectors Energy 2,606 71 14 (2) – 2,688 Healthcare 7,950 373 7 (426) (4) 7,900 Industry 4,276 147 (1) (419) – 4,003 Infrastructure & Cities 2,930 99 36 (3) (1) 3,061 Total Sectors 17,761 691 55 (851) (5) 17,651 Financial Services (SFS) 122 5 4 – – 132 Siemens 17,883 696 60 (851) (5) 17,783 Carrying amount as Translation Acquisitions and Dispositions, Impairments Carrying amount as of 10/01/2012 ­differences ­purchase accounting ­reclassifications incl. of 09/30/2013 and other adjustments reclassifications to ­assets classified as (in millions of €) held for disposal Sectors Energy 2,718 (61) 5 (34) (23) 2,606 Healthcare 8,314 (362) (3) – – 7,950 Industry 4,173 (146) 418 (169) – 4,276 Infrastructure & Cities 1,742 (65) 1,299 – (47) 2,930 Total Sectors 16,949 (633) 1,719 (204) (70) 17,761 Financial Services (SFS) 121 2 – – – 122 Siemens 17,069 (632) 1,719 (204) (70) 17,883 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 274 Siemens performs the mandatory annual impairment test The fair value less costs to sell is mainly driven by the terminal in the three months ended September 30. The recoverable value which is particularly sensitive to changes in the assumpamounts for the annual impairment test 2014 for Divisions or tions on the terminal value growth rate and discount rate. Both equivalents were generally estimated to be higher than the assumptions are determined individually for each Division or ­carrying amounts. Key assumptions on which management equivalent. Discount rates reflect the current market assesshas based its determinations of the fair value less costs to sell ment of the risks specific to each Division or equivalent and are for the Divisions’ or equivalents’ carrying amount include terbased on the weighted average cost of capital for the Divisions minal value growth rates up to 2.9 % in fiscal 2014 and 2.3 % in or equivalents (for SFS the discount rate represents cost of fiscal 2013, respectively and after-tax discount rates of 6.5 % to ­equity). Terminal value growth rates take into consideration 9.0 % in fiscal 2014 and 6.0 % to 10.8 % in fiscal 2013. Where posexternal macroeconomic sources of data and industry sible, reference to market prices is made. ­specific trends. For the purpose of estimating the fair value less costs to sell of The following table presents the key assumptions used to the Divisions or equivalents, cash flows were projected for ­ determine fair value less costs to sell for impairment test the next five years based on past experience, actual operating ­purposes for the Divisions to which a significant amount of ­results and management’s best estimate about future developgoodwill is allocated: ments as well as market assumptions. The determined fair value of the Divisions or equivalents is assigned to level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Year ended September 30, 2014 Year ended September 30, 2013 Goodwill Terminal value After-tax discount Goodwill Terminal value After-tax discount (in millions of €) growth rate rate growth rate rate Diagnostics of the Healthcare Sector 4,765 2.4 % 6.5 % 4,758 2.3 % 6.0 % Industry Automation of the Industry Sector 3,105 1.7 % 8.5 % 2,986 1.7 % 8.5 % Imaging & Therapy Systems of the Healthcare Sector 2,603 2.2 % 7.5 % 2,483 2.2 % 7.5 % In fiscal 2013, an impairment loss of € 46 million resulted from the logistics and airport solutions business of the Mobility & Logistics Division of the Infrastructure & Cities Sector. NOTE 16 Other intangible ­assets Gross carrying Translation Additions Additions Retirements 1 Gross carrying Accumulated Carrying Amortization amount as of differences through amount as of amortization amount as of and impair­ 10/01/2013 ­business 09/30/2014 and 09/30/2014 ment in fiscal (in millions of €) c­ ombinations ­impairment 2014 Software and other internally generated intangible ­assets 3,346 111 – 312 (1,019) 2,750 (1,526) 1,224 (183) Patents, licenses and similar rights 8,070 277 21 78 (370) 8,077 (4,741) 3,336 (558) Other intangible ­assets 11,415 388 21 390 (1,389) 10,826 (6,266) 4,560 (741) 1 Includes Other intangible ­assets reclassified to Assets classified as held for disposal and dispositions of those entities. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 275 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Gross carrying Translation Additions Additions Retire­ments 1 Gross carrying Accumulated Carrying Amortization amount as of differences through amount as of amortization amount as of and impair­ 10/01/2012 ­business 09/30/2013 and 09/30/2013 ment in fiscal (in millions of €) c­ ombinations ­impairment 2013 2 Software and other internally generated intangible a ­ ssets 3,270 (78) 2 265 (114) 3,346 (2,104) 1,241 (224) Patents, licenses and similar rights 7,154 (253) 1,363 65 (259) 8,070 (4,254) 3,816 (648) Other intangible a ­ ssets 10,424 (332) 1,365 330 (372) 11,415 (6,358) 5,057 (873) 1 Includes Other intangible ­assets reclassified to Assets 2 Includes impairment expenses of € 53 million in fis­ classified as held for disposal and dispositions of those cal 2013, thereof € 25 million at Infrastructure & Cities, entities. € 19 million at Energy, € 8 million at Industry and € 2 ­million at Healthcare. Amortization and impairment on intangible a ­ ssets is contained As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, contractual commitments in line items Cost of sales, Research and development expenses for purchases of other intangible a ­ ssets amount to € 18 million or Selling and general administrative expenses, depending on and € 14 million. the use of the asset. NOTE 17 Property, plant and equipment Gross Translation Additions Additions Reclassi­ Retire­ Gross Accumu­ Carrying Deprecia­ ­carrying differences through fications ments 1 ­carrying lated depre­ amount as tion and ­amount business amount ciation and of ­impairment as of combi­ as of impairment 09/30/2014 in fiscal (in millions of €) 10/01/2013 nations 09/30/2014 2014 2 Land and buildings 7,677 136 (7) 155 128 (733) 7,356 (3,489) 3,868 (242) Technical machinery and equipment 7,020 122 4 277 239 (521) 7,140 (4,687) 2,453 (456) Furniture and office ­equipment 5,740 106 2 608 81 (751) 5,786 (4,440) 1,347 (653) Equipment leased to others 2,936 104 – 371 1 (485) 2,927 (1,705) 1,222 (316) Advances to suppliers and construction in progress 710 7 – 516 (449) (25) 760 3 (10) 750 – Property, plant and ­equipment 24,083 475 – 1,927 – (2,515) 23,968 (14,330) 9,638 (1,666) 1 Includes Property, plant and equipment reclassified to 2 Includes impairment expenses of € 29 million in fiscal 3 Includes € 670 million expenditures for property, Assets classified as held for disposal and dispositions of 2014, therein € 19 million at SRE. plant and equipment under construction. those entities. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 276 Gross carry­ Translation Additions Additions Reclassi­ Retire­ Gross carry­ Accumu­ Carrying Deprecia­ ing amount differences through fications ments 1 ing amount lated depre­ amount as tion and as of business as of ciation and of ­impairment 10/01/2012 combina­ 09/30/2013 impairment 09/30/2013 in fiscal (in millions of €) tions 2013 2 Land and buildings 8,285 (189) 68 187 150 (824) 7,677 (3,651) 4,027 (286) Technical machinery and equipment 7,076 (177) 30 269 284 (463) 7,020 (4,594) 2,426 (510) Furniture and office ­equipment 5,664 (149) 27 681 131 (614) 5,740 (4,352) 1,387 (698) Equipment leased to others 3,372 (117) – 377 (7) (689) 2,936 (1,662) 1,274 (362) Advances to suppliers and construction in progress 859 (26) 5 465 (559) (33) 710 3 (9) 701 (6) Property, plant and ­equipment 25,255 (658) 129 1,979 – (2,623) 24,083 (14,268) 9,815 (1,862) 1 Includes Property, plant and equipment reclassified to 2 Includes impairment expenses of € 141 million in fiscal 3 Includes € 594 million expenditures for property, Assets classified as held for disposal and dispositions of 2013, thereof € 55 million at SRE, € 34 million at Industry, plant and equipment under construction. those entities. € 31 million at Energy, € 10 million at Infrastructure & Cities, € 8 million at SFS and € 2 million at Healthcare. Depreciation and impairment is included in line items Cost of Payments from lessees under operating leases primarily relate sales, Research and development expenses or Selling and gento buildings, medical equipment and transportation systems. eral administrative expenses, depending on the use of the ­asset. Total contingent rent recognized in income in fiscal 2014 and As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, contractual commitments 2013 amounts to € 223 million and € 214 million, respectively. for purchases of property, plant and equipment amount to € 351 million and € 434 million, respectively. INVESTMENT PROPERTY The carrying amount of investment property amounts to In fiscal 2014 and 2013, government grants awarded for the € 113 mil­ lion and € 116 million compared to a fair value of purchase or the production of property, plant and equipment € 214 mil­lion and € 258 million as of September 30, 2014 and amounted to € 6 million and € 9 million, respectively. The award 2013, respectively. Fair value is generally a level 2 measurement of further government grants of € 65 million and € 60 million in and is determined based on sales of similar property, bid prices fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively, related to costs incurred and for similar property, external independent appraisals or internal future costs. fair value measurements which rely on the income approach or on adjusted official standard land values depending on the As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, minimum future lease pay­nature of the property. ments receivable from lessees under operating leases are as follows: September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Within one year 338 321 After one year but not more than five years 590 578 More than five years 117 137 1,045 1,035 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 277 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NOTE 18 Other financial ­assets Item Other employee related costs primarily includes vacation payments, accrued overtime and service anniversary awards, severance payments, as well as liabilities related to termination September 30, benefits. (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Loans receivable 10,919 8,012 Receivables from finance leases, see NOTE 21 Debt NOTE 11 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 3,357 3,340 Derivative financial instruments 2,111 1,894 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,803 1,560 September 30, Other 226 311 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 18,416 15,117 Short-term Notes and bonds – 1,431 Loans from banks 773 412 Other financial indebtedness 826 82 Item Loans receivable primarily relate to long-term loan transObligations under finance leases 21 20 actions of SFS. Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt 1,620 1,944 Long-term NOTE 19 Other current financial liabilities Notes and bonds (maturing until 2066) 18,165 17,060 Loans from banks (maturing until 2023) 968 1,233 Other financial indebtedness September 30, (maturing until 2027) 85 106 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Obligations under finance leases 108 110 Derivative financial instruments, Long-term debt 19,326 18,509 see NOTES 29 AND 30 680 350 20,947 20,453 Accrued interest expense 210 221 Other 826 944 1,717 1,515 Interest rates in this Note are per annum. In fiscal 2014 and 2013, weighted-average interest rates for loans from banks, other financial indebtedness and obligations under finance leases were 3.0 % (2013: 2.7 %), 0.3 % (2013: 3.1 %) and 4.0 % NOTE 20 Other current liabilities (2013: 4.1 %), respectively. 1. COMMERCIAL PAPER PROGRAM September 30, Siemens has a US$ 9.0 billion (€7.2 billion as of September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014) multi-currency commercial paper program in place includBillings in excess of costs and estimated earn­ ing US$ extendible notes capabilities. As of September 30, 2014 ings on uncompleted contracts and related US$ 1.0 billion (€795 million as of September 30, 2014) were outadvances 9,559 10,559 standing. As of September 30, 2013 no commercial papers were Payroll obligations and social security taxes 1,438 1,561 Other employee related costs 1,644 2,103 outstanding. Siemens’ commercial papers have a maturity of Deferred income 1,068 1,035 generally less than 90 days. Interest rates ranged from 0.1% to Accruals for pending invoices 1,059 1,067 0.2% in fiscal 2014 and from 0.01 % to 0.37% in fiscal 2013. Bonus obligations 1,785 1,683 Miscellaneous tax liabilities 663 669 Deferred reservation fees received 56 101 Other 682 923 17,954 19,701 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 278 2. BONDS September 30, 2014 September 30, 2013 Currency Carrying Currency Carrying notional amount amount in notional amount amount in (interest / issued / maturity) (in millions) millions of € 1 (in millions) millions of € 1 5.625 %/2006/March 2016/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 500 425 US$ 500 412 5.375 %/2008/June 2014/EUR fixed-rate instruments 2 – – – € 1,000 1,031 5.625 %/2008/June 2018/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 1,600 1,839 € 1,600 1,844 5.125 %/2009/February 2017/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 2,000 2,122 € 2,000 2,136 US$ 3m LIBOR+1.4 %/2012/February 2019/US$ floating-rate instruments US$ 400 318 US$ 400 296 0.375 %/2012/September 2014/EUR fixed-rate instruments 2 – – – € 400 400 1.5 %/2012/March 2020/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 1,000 995 € 1,000 994 2.75 %/2012/September 2025/GBP fixed-rate instruments £ 350 448 £ 350 416 3.75 %/2012/September 2042/GBP fixed-rate instruments £ 650 819 £ 650 760 1.75 %/2013/March 2021/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 1,250 1,276 € 1,250 1,242 2.875 %/2013/March 2028/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 1,000 996 € 1,000 995 1.5 %/2013/March 2018/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 500 396 US$ 500 368 3.5 %/2013/March 2028/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 100 77 US$ 100 72 2013/June 2020/US$ floating-rate instruments US$ 400 317 US$ 400 295 2014/March 2019/US$ floating-rate instruments US$ 300 238 – – – 2014/September 2021/US$ floating-rate instruments US$ 400 317 – – – Total Debt Issuance Program 10,582 11,262 5.75 %/2006/October 2016/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 1,750 1,457 US$ 1,750 1,389 6.125 %/2006/August 2026/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 1,750 1,843 US$ 1,750 1,759 Total US$ Bonds 3,301 3,147 5.25 %/2006/September 2066/EUR fixed-rate instruments € 900 959 € 900 976 6.125 %/2006/September 2066/GBP fixed-rate instruments £ 750 1,025 £ 750 986 Total Hybrid Capital Bond 1,984 1,962 1.05 %/2012/August 2017/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 1,500 1,158 US$ 1,500 1,068 1.65 %/2012/August 2019/US$ fixed-rate instruments US$ 1,500 1,140 US$ 1,500 1,052 Total Bond with Warrant Units 2,298 2,120 18,165 18,491 1 Includes adjustments for fair value hedge accounting. 2 Redeemed at face value at maturity in fiscal 2014. Debt Issuance Program floating-rate instruments due September 10, 2021 and redeemed The Company has a program for the issuance of debt instruat face value € 400 million in 0,375 % fixed-rate instruments on ments under which it may issue instruments up to € 15.0 billion September 10, 2014. as of September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 € 10.2 billion and € 10.9 billion in notional Hybrid Capital Bond amounts were issued and are outstanding. In September 2006, the Company issued a subordinated hybrid bond in a EUR tranche of € 900 million and a GBP tranche of In March 2014, Siemens issued US$ 300 million (€ 238 million as £ 750 million (€ 965 million as of September 30, 2014), both of September 30, 2014) privately placed floating-rate instruwith a legal final maturity on September 14, 2066 and with a ments due March 6, 2019. Furthermore, Siemens redeemed at call option for Siemens in 2016 or thereafter. The instruments face value € 1.0 billion in 5.375 % fixed-rate instruments on bear fixed-rate interests until September 14, 2016; thereafter, June 11, 2014. In September 2014 Siemens issued US$ 400 milfloating-rate interest is applied according to the conditions of lion (€ 318 million as of September 30, 2014) privately placed the bond. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 279 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Bond with Warrant Units As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, € 6.8 billion and € 6.7 billion In February 2012, Siemens issued US$ fixed-rate bonds with of these lines of credit remained unused. Commitment fees for warrant units in an aggregate principal amount of US$ 3 billion the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 amount to in two tranches, comprising: (1) US$ 1.5 billion (€ 1.2 billion as € 6 million and € 6 million, respectively. The facilities are for of September 30, 2014) in 1.05 % instruments maturing on general business purposes. ­August 16, 2017 and (2) US$ 1.5 billion (€ 1.2 billion as of September 30, 2014) in 1.65 % instruments maturing on August 16, 5. OTHER FINANCIAL INDEBTEDNESS 2019. Each of the US$ 1.5 billion instruments were issued with Item Other financial indebtedness includes € 27 million and 6,000 detachable warrants. The warrants’ exercise price was € 111 million as of September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, for fixed in Euro. The warrants entitle the holders, at their option, the Company’s real estate a ­ ssets that were sold or transferred to receive 1,806.1496 Siemens AG shares per warrant at an and in which Siemens has retained significant risks and re­exercise price per share of € 104.0018 during the exercise ­period wards of ownership, including circumstances in which Siemens which matures on August 1, 2017 and August 1, 2019 for instruparticipates directly or indirectly in the change in market ments (1) and instruments (2), respectively. After the spin-off value of the property. Therefore, these transactions have been of OSRAM in fiscal 2013, the warrants entitle the holders to ­accounted for as financing obligations. These real estate prop­obtain 169.4234 OSRAM shares in addition to Siemens shares. erties are carried on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of The number of additional shares remains subject to the adjustFinancial Position and no sale and profit has been recognized. ment provisions under the terms and conditions of warrants. Since the approval of the OSRAM spin-off in January 2013 the OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES warrants are accounted for as other financial liability. The warrants result in option rights relating to a total of 21.7 million Siemens AG shares. September 30, 2014 Present value of Minimum future minimum future 3. ASSIGNABLE AND TERM LOANS lease payment Unamortized lease payment The Company has a 5.435 % fixed rate assignable loan for gen(in millions of €) obligation ­interest expense obligation eral corporate purposes due on June 12, 2015 with a notional Due amount of € 333 million as of September 30, 2014 and 2013 and Within one year 49 28 21 a carrying amount of € 343 million and € 356 million, respecAfter one year but not more than five years 92 7 85 tively, as of September 30, 2014 and 2013. More than five years 76 52 24 Total 217 87 130 In March 2014, the two bilateral US$ 500 million term loan facilLess: Current portion (21) ities (in aggregate € 795 million in notional and carrying 108 amount as of September 30, 2014) that the company signed and fully drew in fiscal 2013 bearing floating-rate interest of 0.79 % above three months LIBOR with an original term of five years were extended by one year and are now due on March 26, 2019 with a remaining one year extension option. September 30, 2013 Present value of 4. CREDIT FACILITIES Minimum future minimum future lease payment Unamortized lease payment The credit facilities at September 30, 2014 and 2013 consisted of (in millions of €) obligation ­interest expense obligation € 6.8 billion and € 6.7 billion, respectively, in committed lines of Due credit. As of September 30, 2014, those include: (1) a € 4.0 bilWithin one year 32 12 20 lion undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving credit facilAfter one year but not ity; in June 2014, the facility has been amended and extended more than five years 94 9 86 to June 27, 2019 with two one-year extension options remainMore than five years 78 53 25 ing; (2) a US$ 3.0 billion (€ 2.4 billion as of September 30, 2014) Total 204 74 130 undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving credit facility; in Less: Current portion (20) 2014 its maturity has been extended by one year to Septem110 ber 27, 2019 with one one-year extension option remaining; (3) a € 450 million revolving credit facility provided by a domestic bank expiring September 30, 2015. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 280 NOTE 22 Post-employment benefits these plans. However, these frozen plans still expose the C ­ ompany to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest Post-employment benefits provided by Siemens are organized rate risk and longevity risk. Furthermore, deferred compen­ through defined benefit plans as well as defined contribution sation plans are offered which are also funded via a CTA. In plans which cover almost all of the Company ’s domestic em­Germany no legal or regulatory minimum funding requireployees and the majority of the Company’s foreign employees. ments apply. The Trusts, which are legally separate from the Post-employment defined benefit plans include pension beneCompany, manage their plan ­assets as trustees, in accordance fits and other post-employment benefits, which primarily with the respective trust agreements with the Company. ­consist of transition payments to German employees after ­retirement as well as post-employment health care and life U.S.: ­insurance benefits to employees in the U.S. and Canada. Siemens Corporation in the U.S. sponsors one major defined benefit plan, the Siemens Pension Plan, which is frozen to new DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS entrants and accretion of new benefits (with the exception of In order to reduce the Company ’s exposure to certain risks one small group of union employees). Employees of Siemens ­associated with defined benefit plans, such as longevity, inflaU.S. companies hired prior to April 1st, 2006 participate in the tion, effects of compensation increases, Siemens regularly Siemens Pension Plan. Most of the defined benefit plan par­ ­reviews and continuously improves the design of its post-­ ticipants’ benefits are calculated using a cash balance formula; employment defined benefit plans. The benefits of defined ­although a small group of participants are eligible for a benefit benefit plans open to new entrants are based predominantly on based on a final average pay formula. This frozen defined bencontributions made by the Company and are still affected by efit plan exposes the Company to actuarial risks such as investlongevity, inflation adjustments and compensation increases, ment risk, interest rate risk and longevity risk. but only to a significant lesser extent. The Company ’s major defined benefit plans are funded with ­assets in segregated enThe defined benefit plan a ­ ssets are held in a Master Trust. tities. The defined benefit plans cover 494,000 participants, Siemens Corporation, as the sponsoring employer, has deleincluding 210,000 active employees, 85,000 former employees gated investment oversight of the plans’ a ­ ssets to the Investwith vested benefits and 199,000 retirees and surviving depenment Committee. The Investment Committee members have dents. Individual benefits are generally based on eligible coma fiduciary duty to act solely in the best interests of the bene­ pensation levels and / or ranking within the Company hierarchy ficiaries according to the trust agreement and U.S. law. The and years of service. The characteristics of the defined benefit ­Committee has established an Investment Policy Statement plans and the risks associated with them vary depending on which articulates the goals and objectives of the plans’ investlegal, fiscal and economic requirements in each country. For ment management, including diversifying the a ­ ssets of the the ­major defined benefit plans of Siemens the characteristics Master Trust with the intention of appropriately addressing and risks are as follows: concentration risks. The trustee of the Master Trust acts only by direction of the Investment Committee. It is responsible for Germany: the safekeeping of the trust, but generally has no decision In Germany, Siemens AG provides pension benefits through the making authority over the plan a ­ ssets. The legal and regulatory cash-balance plan BSAV (Beitragsorientierte Siemens Alters­ framework for the plans is based on the applicable U.S. legislaversorgung), frozen legacy plans and deferred compensation tion Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Based plans. The majority of Siemens’ active employees in Germany on this legislation a funding valuation is prepared annually. participate in the BSAV introduced in fiscal 2004, which is a Annual contributions are determined by the plans’ indepenfunded defined benefit pension plan whose benefits are predent actuaries as prescribed under the rules and regulations of dominantly based on contributions made by the Company and ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. There is a regulatory returns earned on such contributions, subject to a minimum ­requirement to maintain a minimum funding level of 80 % in return guaranteed by the Company. The BSAV is funded via a the defined benefit plans in order to avoid benefit restrictions. contractual trust arrangement (CTA), the BSAV Trust. Individual benefits under the frozen legacy plans are based on eligible U.K.: compensation levels or ranking within the Company hierarchy Siemens plc in the U.K. sponsors a frozen defined benefit plan and years of service. In connection with the implementation of and a defined contribution plan for all new employees and for the BSAV, benefits provided under the frozen legacy plans the active service of those members who have participated funded via a CTA, the Siemens Pension Trust, were modified to in the frozen defined benefit plan. There are several smaller substantially eliminate the effects of compensation increases ­defined benefit plans which result from previous acquisitions, by freezing the accretion of benefits under the majority of those plans are in the process of being de-risked. For most of 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 281 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows the defined benefit plan members an inflation increase of the Switzerland: accrued benefits until the start of retirement is mandatory. Siemens Switzerland sponsors several funded defined benefit ­Furthermore, the plans expose the Company to actuarial risks (cash-balance) plans following the Swiss law of occupational such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and benefits (BVG) according to which each employer has to grant salary increase risk. The funding environment is determined by post-employment benefits for qualifying employees. These the Pension Regulator and the applicable social and labor laws. plans are administered by foundations that are legally sepaThe defined benefit plans are each governed by a benefit trust rated from the entity. For the main pension fund, which repwhose decision making body is a Board of Trustees who have a resents almost all of the defined benefit obligation in Switzerfiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries land, the board of the pension fund is composed of equally according to the trust agreement and law. The required fundmany employer and employee representatives. The board of ing is determined by a funding valuation carried out every third each pension fund is required by law and by the regulations to year based on legal requirements, which measures the liabiliact in the fund’s and all stakeholders’ best interest, i.e. in the ties on a government bond basis rather than under a high qualinterest of all active employees and retirees. The board of the ity corporate bond basis as under IAS 19, thus the technical pension fund is responsible for the investment policy and the funding deficit is usually larger. The funding valuation assumpasset management, as well as for any changes in the plan rules, tions are negotiated between the Company and the Trustees. in which it determines the necessary contributions to finance The latest funding valuation, for the largest plan, in UK in calthe benefits. The Company is required to make total contribuendar year 2011 resulted in a technical underfunding of GBP 939 tions at least as high as the sum of the employee contributions (€ 1,208) million, based on the assumptions at that date. As a set out in the plan rules. Employer’s and employees’ contriburesult, in fiscal 2013, Siemens entered into an agreement with tions are determined by the respective foundation boards. the trustees to provide an annual payment of GBP 31 (€ 40) milAbout 40 % of the necessary contributions are financed by lion for the next 20 years, beginning in fiscal 2014. The agreethe employees. In the case of an underfunding in a plan the ment also provides for a cumulative advance payment by ­Company together with the employees may be asked to pay Siemens AG compensating the remaining annual payments at ­extra contributions in a well defined framework of recovery the date of early termination of the agreement due to cancellameasures. The plans expose the Company to various actuarial tion or insolvency. In addition to these payments the Company and financial risks such as longevity, interest rate risks and is obliged to pay GBP 5 (€ 6) million until the next funding valu­salary increases. ation, when the funding requirements will be updated based on new assumptions. This valuation process will start in calenThe amounts included in the Company’s Consolidated F ­ inancial dar year 2014. Statements arising from its post-employment defined benefit plans are as follows: Defined benefit Fair value Effects in connection Net defined obligation (DBO) of plan assets with asset ceiling benefit balance September 30, September 30, September 30, September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Germany 22,414 20,367 15,105 14,017 – – (7,309) (6,350) U.S. 3,730 3,769 2,888 2,575 – – (842) (1,194) U.K. 4,845 4,455 4,818 4,022 (97) (65) (125) (498) CH 2,784 2,828 2,673 2,489 (59) (49) (170) (388) Other 1,818 1,753 1,021 975 (46) (32) (843) (810) Total 35,591 33,173 26,505 24,078 (202) (146) (9,288) (9,241) The net defined benefit balance of € 9,288 million and € 9,241 million as of September 30, 2014 and 2013 comprises € 9,324 million and € 9,265 million net defined benefit liability and € 36 million and € 24 million net defined benefit asset, ­respectively. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 282 Defined benefit costs are as follows: The Company’s defined benefit plans are explicitly explained in the subsequent sections with regard to: Year ended September 30, >> Reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and plan a ­ ssets, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 >> Actuarial assumptions, Current service cost 477 505 >> Sensitivity analysis, Past service (benefit) cost 3 (9) >> Asset-liability matching strategies, Settlement (gains) losses 1 (7) >> Disaggregation of plan ­assets, and Net interest expenses 295 294 >> Future cash flows. Net interest income (1) (3) Liability administration expenses 8 16 Reconciliation for defined benefit obligations Components of defined benefit and plan ­assets costs recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income 784 795 A detailed reconciliation for the changes in the DBO for fiscal Return on plan assets 2014 and 2013 is provided in the following table: (excluding amounts included in net interest expenses and net interest income) (2,098) (507) Actuarial (gains) and losses 1,972 (47) Year ended September 30, Effect from asset ceiling 43 (23) (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Change in defined benefit obligations: recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (83) (577) Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 33,173 33,650 Defined benefit costs 701 218 Current service cost 477 505 Past service (benefit) cost 3 (9) Settlement (gains) losses 1 (7) Interest expenses 1,089 1,029 A reconciliation of the funded status to the amounts recogRemeasurements: nized in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position is as Actuarial (gains) losses from changes ­ in demographic assumptions 370 43 follows: Actuarial (gains) losses from changes ­ in financial assumptions 1,602 (245) Experience (gains) losses – 156 September 30, Plan participants’ contributions 122 105 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Benefits paid (1,649) (1,612) Defined benefit obligation of pension Settlement payments (7) (67) benefit plans 35,037 32,594 Business combinations, disposals and other (224) 135 Defined benefit obligation of other Foreign currency translation effects 635 (507) post-employment benefit plans 554 579 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 35,591 33,173 Total defined benefit obligation 35,591 33,173 Thereof: Fair value of plan assets of pension benefit plans 26,500 24,073 Active employees 11,360 10,767 Fair value of plan assets of other Former employees with vested rights 4,958 4,645 post-employment benefit plans 5 5 Retirees and surviving dependants 19,273 17,761 Total fair value of plan assets 26,505 24,078 Funded status of pension benefit plans (8,537) (8,520) Funded status of other post-employment ­benefit plans (548) (575) Actuarial (gains) losses from changes in demographic assumpTotal funded status (excluding effects in connection with asset ceiling) (9,086) (9,095) tions include losses from modified assumptions of German and US mortality tables of total € 441 million and gains of € 102 million from adjusted turnover rates in Switzerland. Actuarial (gains) losses from changes in financial assumptions include losses from decreasing market interest rates which were compensated by gains of total € 2,214 million from the ­refined extrapolation and data selection used to derive the discount rate in the major currency zones (EUR, GBP, USD, CHF). 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 283 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows The net interest income/expense for fiscal year 2015 improves by The data selection criteria used to derive the discount rate in €19 million due to the refined determination of discount rate. the major currency zones (EUR, GBP, USD, CHF) and the extra­ polation were refined as of September 30, 2014. The discount A detailed reconciliation of the changes in the fair value of plan rate was derived from high-quality corporate bonds with an ­assets for fiscal 2014 and 2013 is provided in the following t­ able: ­issuing volume of more than 100 million units in the respective currency zones, which have been awarded an AA rating (or equivalent) by at least one of the two rating agencies Moody ’s Year ended September 30, Investor Service or Standard & Poor’s Rating Services. (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Change in plan assets: The mortality tables used for the actuarial valuation of the DBO Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 24,078 24,057 were as follows (most significant countries): Interest income 802 745 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest income and net interest expenses 2,098 507 Germany Heubeck Richttafeln 2005 G (modified) Employer contributions 533 528 U.S. RP2000 Combined Healthy ­ Fully Generational Mortality Table and Plan participants’ contributions 122 105 longevity improvement scale BB2D Benefits paid (1,514) (1,476) U.K. S1PxA (Standard mortality tables for Self Administered Pension Schemes Settlement payments (7) (67) (SAPS) with allowance for future ­mortality improvements) Business combinations, disposals and other (122) 93 Liability administration costs (8) (16) CH BVG 2010 G Foreign currency translation effects 525 (397) Fair value of plan assets at end of year 26,505 24,078 The rates of compensation increase for countries with significant effects with regard to this assumption were as follows in Line item Business combinations, disposals and other in the fiscal 2014 and 2013: U.K.: 4.80 % and 4.80 %, Switzerland: 1.50 % tables above contains reclassifications to ­assets and to liabiliand 1.50 %. The rates of pension progression for countries with ties held for disposal. significant effects with regard to this assumption were as follows in fiscal 2014 and 2013: Germany: 1.69 % and 1.69 %, U.K.: Actuarial assumptions 3.2 % and 3.2 %. Assumed discount rates, compensation increase rates, pension progression rates and mortality rates used in calculating the The DBO is also affected by assumed future inflation rates. The DBO vary according to the economic and other conditions of effect of inflation is recognized within the assumptions above the country in which the retirement plans are situated. where applicable. The weighted-average discount rate used for the actuarial valuSensitivity analysis ation of the DBO at ­period-end was as follows: A one-half-percentage-point change of the established assumptions mentioned before, used for the calculation of the DBO as of September 30, 2014 and 2013, would result in the following September 30, increase (decrease) of the DBO: 2014 2013 Discount rate 3.0 % 3.4 % Germany 2.4 % 3.1 % Effect on DBO due to a U.S. 4.6 % 3.7 % ­one-half percentage-point as of ­September 2014 U.K. 4.5 % 4.5 % (in millions of €) increase decrease CH 1.8 % 2.1 % Discount rate (2,100) 2,361 Rate of compensation increase 95 (90) Rate of pension progression 1,590 (1,441) 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 284 Asset Liability Matching Strategies Effect on DBO due to a Siemens’ funding policy for its funded defined benefit plans is ­one-half percentage-point as of S­ eptember 2013 part of the overall commitment to sound financial manage(in millions of €) increase decrease ment, which also includes an ongoing analysis of the structure Discount rate (1,919) 2,159 of Siemens’ defined benefit liabilities. To balance return and Rate of compensation increase 136 (105) risk, Siemens has developed a benefit risk management conRate of pension progression 1,492 (1,339) cept. The Company has identified as a major risk a decline in the plans’ funded status as a result of the adverse development of plan a ­ssets and / or defined benefit obligations. Siemens monitors its investments and its defined benefit obligations in The reduction of the mortality rates by 10 % results in an order to measure such risk. The risk quantifies the expected ­increase of life expectancy depending on the individual age of maximum decline in the principle plans’ funded status for a each beneficiary. That means for example, that the life expecgiven confidence level over a given time horizon. A risk limit on tancy of a 55 years old male Siemens employee as of Sep­ the Group level forms the basis for the determination of the tember 30, 2014 increases by approximately 1 year. In order to Company ’s investment strategy, i.e. the strategic asset class ­determine the longevity sensitivity the mortality rates were allocation of principle plan ­assets and the degree of interest ­reduced by 10 % for all beneficiaries. The effect on DBO due to rate risk hedging. Both the risk limit and investment strategy a 10 % reduction in mortality rates would result in an increase are regularly reviewed with the participation of senior external of € 1,027 million and € 985 million as of September 30, 2014 experts of the international asset management and insurance and 2013. industry to allow for an integral view on plan a ­ ssets and benefit liabilities. The Company selects asset managers based on quanWhen calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligatitative and qualitative analysis and subsequently constantly tion to significant actuarial assumptions the same method monitors their performance and risk, both on a stand-alone (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with ­basis, and in the broader portfolio context. Siemens reviews the projected unit credit method) has been applied as when calthe asset allocation of each plan in light of the duration of the culating the post-employment benefit obligation recognized in related benefit liabilities and analyzes trends and events that the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Increases and may affect asset values in order to inform about appropriate decreases in the discount rate, rate of compensation ­increase, measures at a very early stage. rate of pension progression and mortality rates which are used in determining the DBO do not have a symmetrical effect on the Derivatives are used for risk reducing purposes to either reduce DBO primarily due to the compound interest e ­ ffect created the fluctuations in the value of plan a ­ ssets or reduce funded when determining the net present value of the future benefit. If status volatility as part of an integrated risk management more than one of the assumptions are changed simultaneously, ­approach for a ­ ssets and liabilities. Main risks mitigated are the combined impact due to the changes would not necessarily ­interest rate, credit, equity, currency and inflation risk. All overbe the same as the sum of the individual effects due to the the-counter derivatives are collateralized on a daily basis to changes. Furthermore, the sensitivities r­ eflect a change in the eliminate counterparty risk. In addition, derivatives are permitDBO only for a change in the ­assumptions in this specific magted for investment managers to use as substitutes for tradinitude, i.e. 0.5%. If the a ­ ssumptions change at a different level, tional securities where appropriate, to manage exposure to the effect on the DBO is not necessarily in a linear ­relation. foreign exchange and interest rate risks. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 285 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Disaggregation of plan ­assets Expected benefit payments The asset allocation of the plan a ­ ssets of the defined benefit (in millions of €) September 30, 2014 plans is as follows: 2015 1,687 2016 1,659 2017 1,668 September 30, 2018 1,706 (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2019 1,725 Asset class 2020 – 2024 9,069 Equity securities 7,050 6,604 (in millions of €) September 30, 2013 U.S. equities 1,463 1,416 European equities 2,030 2,214 2014 1,647 Emerging markets 1,611 1,457 2015 1,613 Global equities 1,947 1,517 2016 1,624 Fixed income securities 14,694 12,768 2017 1,668 Government bonds 4,216 3,003 2018 1,713 Corporate bonds 10,479 9,765 2019 – 2023 8,958 Alternative investments 3,174 2,961 Hedge Funds 1,211 978 Private Equity 626 497 Real estate 1,337 1,487 The weighted average duration of the DBO for Siemens defined Derivatives 646 175 benefit plans was 13 years as of September 30, 2014 and 2013. Interest risk 1,149 263 Foreign currency risk (45) 53 MULTI-EMPLOYER DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Credit / Inflation / Price risks (458) (141) Multi-employer plans mainly exist in the Netherlands and in Cash and cash equivalents 456 1,148 the U.S. These plans are industry specific plans based on local Other assets 485 422 laws, which are accounted for as defined contribution plans as Total 26,505 24,078 Siemens has no right to obtain the necessary data for defined benefit plan accounting. These plans may expose the Company to investment and actuarial risk in case of a deficit. Virtually all equity securities have quoted prices in active markets. The fair value of fixed income securities is based on prices In the Netherlands the Company is not liable for other entiprovided by price service agencies. The fixed income securities ties’ obligations under the terms and conditions of the multi-­ are traded in highly liquid markets and almost all fixed income employer plan. securities are investment grade. In addition, the asset class Other ­assets includes a ­ ssets with quoted prices in active marIn the U.S. the Company may be liable for other entities’ obligakets in the amount of € 67 million and € 78 million as of Septemtions in case of failure of other participating employers to make ber 30, 2014 and 2013. required contributions. In case of withdrawal from a plan the Company may be subject to a liability for the potential future As of September 30, 2013, the major part of cash and cash statutory underfunding for its share in the plan. The Company equivalents is marked as cash in transition into corporate bond has only a minor share in these plans compared to other particmandates. ipating entities and has no intention to withdraw from one of these plans. The plan ­assets include own transferable financial instruments of the Company with a fair value of € 110 million and € 89 milSiemens is not aware of any probable significant risk due to lion as of September 30, 2014 and 2013. multi-employer defined benefit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans. Future cash flows Employer contributions expected to be paid to the post-emSiemens expects contributions to multi-employer defined benployment defined benefit plans in fiscal 2015 are € 655 million. efit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans for the At the end of fiscal 2013 the Company expected to pay € 631 milnext fiscal year of € 27 million. lion employer contributions for fiscal 2014. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 286 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS AND STATE PLANS The amount recognized as expense for defined contribution plans amounts to € 535 million and € 594 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. Contributions to state plans amount to € 1,317 million and € 1,354 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013, ­respectively. NOTE 23 Provisions Warranties Order related Asset Other Total losses and risks r­ etirement (in millions of €) ­obligations Balance as of October 1, 2013 3,350 1,929 1,138 1,976 8,392 Thereof non-current 1,200 686 1,113 908 3,907 Additions 1,776 881 3 469 3,128 Usage (771) (725) (8) (337) (1,842) Reversals (657) (320) (8) (528) (1,513) Translation differences 59 31 2 10 102 Accretion expense and effect of changes in discount rates 1 8 264 10 284 Other changes (37) (59) 7 (38) (127) Balance as of September 30, 2014 3,721 1,745 1,398 1,561 8,425 Thereof non-current 1,423 580 1,377 691 4,071 Item Other changes contains reclassifications to line item wind blades; in fiscal 2013 charges related to inspecting and ­Liabilities associated with ­assets classified as held for disposal retrofitting onshore turbine blades amounted to € 94 million. including the disposal of those entities of € 131 million. Asset retirement obligations – The Company is subject to Except for asset retirement obligations, the majority of the asset retirement obligations related to certain items of propCompany ’s provisions are generally expected to result in cash erty, plant and equipment. Such asset retirement obligations outflows during the next one to 15 years. are primarily attributable to environmental clean-up costs which amounted to € 1,347 million and € 1,096 million, respecWarranties – mainly relate to products sold. Order related tively, as of September 30, 2014 and 2013 (the non-current porlosses and risks – are provided for anticipated losses and tion thereof being € 1,339 million and € 1,086 million, respecrisks on uncompleted construction, sales and leasing contracts. tively) and to costs primarily associated with the removal of leasehold improvements at the end of the lease term. In fiscal 2014, the Power Transmission Division of the Energy Sector incurred charges totaling € 298 million related to two Environmental clean-up costs relate to remediation and envihigh voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission line projects in ronmental protection liabilities which have been accrued based Canada, resulting from revised estimates for civil engineering on the estimated costs of decommissioning facilities for and infrastructure provided by suppliers as well as penalties for the production of uranium and mixed-oxide fuel elements associated project delays, among other factors. In addition, in Hanau, Germany (Hanau facilities), as well as a nuclear Power Transmission incurred charges of € 240 million primarily ­research and service center in Karlstein, Germany (Karlstein related to grid connections to offshore wind-farms resulting ­facilities). According to the German Atomic Energy Act, when from transport, installation and commissioning costs, comsuch a facility is closed, the resulting radioactive waste must be pared to charges of € 171 million in fiscal 2013. The Wind Power collected and delivered to a government-developed final storDivision of the Energy Sector r­ ecorded charges of € 272 million age facility. In this regard, the Company has developed a plan in fiscal 2014 for inspecting and replacing main bearings in to decommission the Hanau and Karlstein facilities in the fol­onshore wind turbines and for repairing offshore and onshore lowing steps: clean-out, decontamination and disassembly of 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 287 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows equipment and installations, decontamination of the facilities develop the so called Schacht Konrad. As of September 30, and buildings, sorting of radioactive materials, and inter­ 2014 and 2013, the provision totals € 1,347 million and mediate and final storage of the radioactive waste. This process € 1,096 million, respectively, and is recorded net of a present will be supported by continuing engineering studies and radiovalue discount of € 977 million and € 1,259 million, respectively active sampling under the supervision of German federal and reflecting the assumed continuous outflow of the total state authorities. The decontamination, disassembly and final ­expected payments until the 2070’s. waste conditioning are planned to continue until 2018; there­ after, the Company is responsible for intermediate storage of The Company recognizes the accretion of the provision for enthe radioactive materials until a final storage facility is availvironmental clean-up costs using the effective interest method able. With respect to the Hanau facility, the process of setting applying current interest rates prevailing at the ­period-end up intermediate storage for radioactive waste has nearly date. In fiscal 2014 and 2013, the Company recognized € 22 milreached completion; on September 21, 2006, the Company lion and € 22 million, respectively, in accretion expense for received official notification from the authorities that the ­ environmental clean-up costs in line item Other Financial ­ Hanau facility has been released from the scope of application ­income (expenses), net. Changes in discount rates increased of the German Atomic Energy Act and that its further use is the carrying amount of provisions by € 242 million as of Sepunrestricted. The ultimate costs of the remediation are contintember 30, 2014 and decreased it by € 128 million as of Septemgent on the decision of the federal government on the location ber 30, 2013. of the final storage facilities and the date of their availability. Consequently, the provision is based on a number of significant Other – Other includes transaction-related and post-closing estimates and assumptions. Several parameters relating to the provisions in connection with portfolio activities as well as prodevelopment of a final storage facility for radioactive waste are visions for legal and regulatory matters. based on the assumptions for the so called Schacht Konrad ­final storage. Parameters related to the life-span of the German nuclear reactors reflect a planned phase-out until 2022. The valNOTE 24 Other liabilities uation uses assumptions to reflect the current and detailed cost estimates, price inflation and discount rates as well as a continuous outflow until the 2070’s related to the costs for dismanSeptember 30, tling as well as intermediate and final storage. (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Employee related liabilities 550 604 Using the input of an independent advisor, management upLiabilities due to employees and retirees in the U.S. not qualifying for presentation dated its valuation of the liability due to changes in estimates as Post-employment benefits 618 534 which resulted in minor adjustments in fiscal 2014 and 2013. Deferred income 228 275 The determination of the provisions related to major asset Accruals for pending invoices 76 96 retire­ment obligations will continue to involve significant estiSeverance payments 118 133 mates and assumptions. Uncertainties surrounding the amount German pension insurance association – to be recognized include, for example, the estimated costs of Pensionssicherungsverein (PSV) 34 39 decommissioning and final storage because of the long time Insurance liabilities 39 76 frame over which future cash outflows are expected to occur. Other 210 317 Amongst others, the estimated cash outflows related to the 1,874 2,074 asset retirement obligation could alter significantly if, and ­ when, political developments affect the government’s plans to 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 288 NOTE 25 Equity CAPITAL STOCK Siemens’ issued capital is composed of no par value shares with a notional value of € 3.00 per share. Each share of issued capital is entitled to one vote. Issued capital Authorized capital Conditional capital (not issued) (not issued) in thousands in thousand in thousands in thousand in thousands in thousand of € shares of € shares of € shares As of September 30, 2012 2,643,000 881,000 610,800 203,600 1,027,517 342,506 Approved, expired or cancelled capital – – – – – – As of September 30, 2013 2,643,000 881,000 610,800 203,600 1,027,517 342,506 Expired or cancelled – – (520,800) (173,600) (426,951) (142,317) Newly approved capital – – 528,600 176,200 240,000 80,000 As of September 30, 2014 2,643,000 881,000 618,600 206,200 840,566 280,189 As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the Company has a total of Conditional Capital 2014 approved on January 28, 2014 and 1,087,200 thousand and 1,084,600 thousand authorized shares. ­expiring on January 27, 2019, permits the issuance of convertible and / or warrant bonds in aggregate of up to € 15 billion, AUTHORIZED CAPITAL (NOT ISSUED) ­entitling the holders to subscribe to up to 80 million no par The Company ’s shareholders authorized the Managing Board, value shares (representing up to € 240 million capital stock with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase capital ­increase), issuable for contributions in cash and, in certain stock through the issuance of no par value shares registered in ­circumstances, contributions in kind. the names of the holders and to determine the further content of the rights embodied in the shares, whereas subscription Conditional Capital 2010 permits the issuance of bonds with rights are or may be excluded: conversion rights and / or with warrants in aggregate of up to € 15 billion, entitling the holders to subscribe to up to 200 milAuthorized Capital 2014 resolved on January 28, 2014, permits lion no par value shares (representing up to € 600 million the increase of capital stock by up to € 528.6 million or 176.2 milcapital stock increase) against contribution in cash until ­ lion shares for contributions in cash or in kind until January 27, ­Jan­uary 2015. 2019. Authorized Capital 2011 permits the increase of capital stock by up to € 90 million or 30 million shares for contributions Conditional Capital 2011 was cancelled on January 28, 2014, in cash until January 24, 2016; new shares are solely issuable to which permitted the issuance of convertible bonds and / or employees of Siemens. Authorized Capital 2009 expired on Jan­warrant bonds in aggregate of up to € 15 billion, entitling the uary 26, 2014; it permitted the issuance of up to 173.6 million holders to subscribe to up to 90 million no par value shares shares, equaling € 520.8 million. (representing up to € 270 million capital stock increase). Conditional Capital to service the 2001 and 1999 Siemens Stock CONDITIONAL CAPITAL (NOT ISSUED) ­Option Plans was cancelled on January 28, 2014, since the last Conditional Capital is primarily provided for the purpose of tranche of stock options expired in November 2010 and from serving the issuance of bonds with conversion rights and (or) that date on, no further shares were to be issued. It amounted with warrants; subscription rights are or may be excluded: to € 157 million, representing 52.32 million shares. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 289 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows TREASURY SHARES In fiscal 2014 and 2013, Siemens repurchased 11,331,922 treaUntil January 24, 2016, the Company is authorized by its sharesury shares and 17,150,820 treasury shares at average costs per holders to acquire treasury shares of up to 10 % of its capital share of € 95.27 and € 78.66, respectively. In fiscal 2014 and stock as of the date of the shareholders’ resolution or, if this 2013, Siemens transferred 3,584,370 shares and 3,878,899 value is less, 10 % of capital stock as of the date on which the shares, respectively, in connection with share-based payment authorization is exercised. Repurchased shares may only be plans. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the Company has used for purposes stipulated in the Articles of Association of treasury shares of 45,745,147 and 37,997,595, respectively. Siemens AG. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, In November 2013, Siemens announced a share buyback of up NET OF INCOME TAXES to € 4 billion ending latest on October 31, 2015. Buybacks are The changes in line item Other comprehensive income, net of made under the current authorization, which allows for further income taxes including non-controlling interest holders are as share repurchases of a maximum of 47.8 million shares as follows: of the date of the buyback announcement. Siemens started to ­repurchase shares in May 2014. Year ended September 30, 2014 Year ended September 30, 2013 (in millions of €) Pretax Tax effect Net Pretax Tax effect Net Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 39 249 288 543 (149) 394 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets (31) (13) (44) 182 (3) 179 Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in net income (12) – (12) 4 1 4 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets (43) (13) (56) 185 (2) 183 Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments (394) 92 (301) 142 (48) 94 Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in net income (24) 10 (14) (70) 21 (50) Net unrealized gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments (418) 102 (316) 72 (27) 45 Foreign-currency translation differences 940 – 940 (1,062) – (1,062) 480 89 569 (805) (29) (834) Other comprehensive income 519 338 857 (262) (178) (440) MISCELLANEOUS ­ ayments. Payment of the proposed dividend is contingent p Under the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz), the upon approval by the shareholders at the Annual Shareholders’ amount of dividends available for distribution to shareholders Meeting on January 27, 2015. is based upon the earnings of Siemens AG as reported in its statutory financial statements determined in accordance with the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch). In fiscal NOTE 26 Additional capital disclosures 2014, Siemens AG management distributed to its shareholders an ordinary dividend of € 2,533 million (€ 3.00 per share) of Siemens believes that sustainable revenue and profit developthe fiscal 2013 earnings to its shareholders. In fiscal 2013, ment is supported by a healthy capital structure. A key considSiemens AG management distributed an ordinary dividend of eration of our capital structure management is to maintain € 2,528 million (€ 3.00 per share) of the fiscal 2012 earnings to ready access to the capital markets through various debt prodits shareholders. ucts and to preserve our ability to repay and service our debt obligations over time. In fiscal 2014, Siemens set a capital strucThe Managing Board and the Supervisory Board proposed a divture target range of 0.5 – 1.0. The ratio is defined as the item idend of € 3.30 per share of the fiscal 2014 Siemens AG earnings, Industrial net debt divided by the item Adjusted EBITDA in total representing approximately €2.7 billion in expected (­continuing operations). This financial performance measure 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 290 indicates the approximate amount of time in years that would be needed to cover Industrial net debt through continuing September 30, ­income, without taking into account interest, taxes, deprecia(in millions of €) 2014 2013 tion and amortization. Allocated equity 2,148 1,938 SFS debt 18,663 15,600 Siemens calculates the item Industrial net debt as set forth in Debt to equity ratio 8.69 8.05 the table below: September 30, To measure capital efficiency at SFS, equity capital is allocated (in millions of €) 2014 2013 to SFS. Allocated equity capital differs from book capital as it is Short-term debt and current maturities of mainly determined and influenced by the size and quality of its ­long-term debt 1 1,620 1,944 portfolio of commercial finance as well as project and strucPlus: Long-term debt 1 19,326 18,509 tured finance ­assets (primarily loans and leases) and equity Less: Cash and cash equivalents (8,013) (9,190) investments. This allocation is designed to cover the risks of Less: Current available-for-sale financial assets (925) (601) the underlying business. The actual risk of the SFS portfolio is Net debt 12,008 10,663 evaluated and controlled on a regular basis. Less: SFS Debt 2 (18,663) (15,600) Plus: Post-employment benefits 3 9,324 9,265 In November 2013, Siemens announced that Siemens intends Plus: Credit guarantees 774 622 to further optimize the Company’s capital structure through a Less: 50% nominal amount hybrid bond 4 (932) (899) share buyback of up to € 4 billion in volume in the time ­period Less: Fair value hedge accounting ­adjustment 5 (1,121) (1,247) until October 31, 2015. In May 2014, we started to repurchase Industrial net debt 1,390 2,805 shares. The share buyback serves exclusively the purpose of Adjusted EBITDA (continuing operations) 9,139 8,097 Industrial net debt / Adjusted EBITDA retiring shares and reducing capital, for issuing shares to (continuing operations) 0.15 0.35 ­employees, board members of associated companies and members of the Managing Board, and for meeting obligations under 1 The item Short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt as well as the convertible and / or warrant bonds. For additional information, item Long-term debt included, in total, fair value hedge accounting adjustments of €1,121 million and €1,247 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. see NOTE 25 EQUIT Y . 2 The adjustment considers that both Moody’s and S&P view SFS as a captive finance company. These rating agencies generally recognize and accept higher levels of debt attributable to captive finance subsidiaries in determining credit ratings. In fiscal 2015, Siemens may again fulfill commitments for Following this concept, Siemens excludes SFS Debt in order to derive an industrial share-based compensation through treasury shares. net debt which is not affected by SFS’s financing activities. 3 To reflect Siemens’ total post-employment benefit liability, industrial net debt includes line item Post-employment benefits as presented in the Consolidated A key factor in maintaining a strong financial profile is our Statements of Financial Position. credit rating which is affected by, among other factors, 4 The adjustment for our hybrid bond considers the calculation of this financial ratio applied by rating agencies to classify 50% of our hybrid bond as equity and 50% as Siemens’ capital structure, profitability, ability to generate cash debt. This assignment reflects the characteristics of our hybrid bond such as a long maturity date and subordination to all senior and debt obligations. flows, geographic and product diversification and Siemens’ 5 Debt is generally reported with a value representing approximately the amount to competitive market position. Siemens’ current corporate credit be repaid. However, for debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value hedges), this amount is adjusted for changes in market value mainly due to changes ratings from Moody ’s Investors Service (Moody ’s) and Stanin interest rates. Accordingly, Siemens deducts these changes in market value in dard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S & P) are noted as follows: order to end up with an amount of debt that approximately will be repaid. Siemens believes this is a more meaningful figure for the calculation presented above. September 30, 2014 September 30, 2013 SFS’ capital structure differs from the capital structure of Moody’s S&P Moody’s S&P Investors Investors Siemens’ industrial business, as SFS’ business is capital intenService Service sive and requires a larger amount of debt to finance its operaLong-term debt Aa3 A+ Aa3 A+ tions, in particular to finance SFS’s expanding asset base. The Short-term debt P -1 A -1+ P -1 A -1+ following table provides information on the capital structure of SFS as of September 30, 2014 and 2013: 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 291 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Moody’s made no rating changes in fiscal 2014. Moody’s longIn addition, Siemens provides credit guarantees generally as term credit rating for Siemens is “Aa3” and the rating outlook is guarantees for credit-lines with variable utilization for obliga“negative.” Within Moody ’s long-term credit rating scale, the tions of joint ventures and associates accounted for using the classification “Aa” is the second highest category. The numeriequity method. The maximum amount of these guarantees is cal modifier “3” indicates a ranking in the lower end of that equal to the outstanding balance of the credit or, in case where ­category. The rating outlook is an opinion regarding the likely a credit line is subject to variable utilization, the nominal direction of an issuer’s long-term credit rating over the amount of the credit line. These guarantees have terms up to medium-­term. Rating outlooks of Moody’s fall into the follow19 years and twelve years, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013. ing six categories: “positive,” “negative,” “stable,” “developing,” Except for statutory recourse provisions against the primary “ratings under review” or “no outlook.” debtor, credit guarantees are generally not subject to additional contractual recourse provisions. The Company accrued € 49 milMoody’s short-term credit rating is “P-1.” The classification “P-1” lion and € 38 million relating to credit guarantees as of Septemis the highest available rating in the prime rating system of ber 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Moody’s, which assesses issuers’ ability to honor senior financial obligations and contracts. It applies to senior unsecured Furthermore, Siemens issues guarantees of third-party perforobligations with an original maturity of less than one year. mance, which include performance bonds and guarantees of advanced payments in cases where Siemens is the general or S & P made also no rating changes in fiscal 2014. S & P’s longsubsidiary partner in a consortium. In the event of non-fulfillterm credit rating for Siemens is “A+” and the rating outlook is ment of contractual obligations by the consortium partner(s), “stable.” Within S & P’s long-term credit rating scale, “A” is the Siemens will be required to pay up to an agreed-upon maxithird highest long-term rating category. The modifier “+” indimum amount. These agreements span the term of the concates that our long-term debt ranks in the upper end of the “A” tract, typically ranging from three months to ten years in fiscal category. Rating outlooks of S & P fall into the following four 2014 and 2013. Generally, consortium agreements provide for categories: “positive,” “negative,” “stable” or “developing.” S & P’s fallback guarantees as a recourse provision among the consorshort-term rating is “A-1+,” which is the highest rating within tium partners. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the C ­ ompany S & P’s short-term rating scale. accrued € 3 million and € 66 million, respectively, relating to performance guarantees. NOTE 27 Commitments and contingencies In fiscal 2007, The Federal Republic of Germany commissioned a consortium consisting of Siemens and IBM Deutschland GmbH GUARANTEES AND OTHER COMMITMENTS (IBM) to modernize and operate the non-military information The following table presents the undiscounted amount of and communications technology of the German Federal Armed ­maximum potential future payments for each major group of Forces (Bundeswehr). This project is called HERKULES. A project guarantees: company, BWI Informationstechnik GmbH (BWI), provides the services required by the terms of the contract. Siemens is a shareholder in the project company. The total contract value September 30, amounts to a maximum of approximately €6 billion. In connec(in millions of €) 2014 2013 tion with this project, Siemens issued several guarantees conGuarantees nected to each other legally and economically in favor of the Credit guarantees 774 622 Federal Republic of Germany and of the consortium member Guarantees of third-party performance 2,061 1,593 IBM in December 2006. The guarantees ensure that BWI has HERKULES obligations 1,490 1,890 ­sufficient resources to provide the required services and to fulfill Other 2,362 1,864 its contractual obligations. These guarantees are listed as a sepa­ 6,687 5,970 rate item HERKULES obligations in the table above due to their compound and multilayer nature. Total ­future payments potentially required by Siemens amount to € 1.49 billion and €1.89 billion as of September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively and will be Item Credit guarantees cover the financial obligations of third reduced by approximately € 400 million per year over the reparties in cases where Siemens is the vendor and (or) contracmaining three-year contract p ­ eriod as of September 30, 2014. tual partner. These guarantees generally provide that in the Yearly payments under these guarantees are limited to €400 milevent of default or non-payment by the primary debtor, lion plus, if applicable, a maximum of €90 million in unused Siemens will be required to settle such financial obligations. guarantees carried forward from the prior year. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 292 Item Other includes indemnifications issued in connection Completion of the power plant has been delayed for reasons with dispositions of business entities. Such indemnifications, if which are in dispute. In December 2008, the supplier consorcustomary to the relevant transactions, may protect the buyer tium filed a request for arbitration against TVO demanding an from potential tax, legal and other risks in conjunction with the extension of the construction time, additional compensation, purchased business entity. Indemnifications include those for milestone payments, damages and interest. In 2013, the supUnify (EN), disposed of in fiscal 2008 and Siemens IT Solutions plier consortium increased its monetary claims to € 2.71 billion. and Services disposed of in fiscal 2011. As of September 30, TVO rejected the claims and made counterclaims against the 2014 and 2013, the total amount accrued for guarantees in item supplier consortium consisting primarily of damages due to Other is € 168 million and € 242 million, respectively. the delay. As of September 2012, TVO’s counterclaims amounted to € 1.59 billion based on a delay of up to 56 months. In OctoAs of September 30, 2014 and 2013, future payment obligations ber 2014, TVO estimated that its counterclaims, based on a deunder non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: lay of 116 months, may be increased to € 2.3 billion in calendar year 2015. The supplier consortium increased its monetary claims in October 2014 to € 3.39 billion. The arbitration proceedSeptember 30, ings may continue for several years. The amounts claimed by (in millions of €) 2014 2013 the parties may be updated further. Within one year 815 807 After one year but not more than five years 1,574 1,556 As previously reported, Essent Wind Nordsee Ost PlanungsMore than five years 828 757 und Betriebsgesellschaft mbH filed a request for arbitration 3,217 3,120 against Siemens AG in October 2013 alleging breaches of a contract for the delivery of a High Voltage Substation entered into by the parties in 2010. The claimant claims damages in an amount of € 256 million plus interest and a determination that Total operating rental expense for the years ended SeptemSiemens AG shall be liable for any further damages claimed to ber 30, 2014 and 2013 were € 1,122 million and € 1,049 million, amount to € 152 million. Siemens AG filed a motion to dismiss respectively. Total sublease income amounts to € 51 million and the request for arbitration. In addition, Siemens filed counter€ 62 million, respectively in fiscal 2014 and 2013. Total future claims of € 48 million plus interest and requested a determinaminimum sublease payments expected to be received under tion concerning compensation for all future damages. non-cancellable subleases as of September 30, 2014 and 2013 amount to € 94 million and € 139 million, respectively. During fiscal year 2014 Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery Ltd., UK was sued before an Iranian Court. The alleged damage claims As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the Company has commitare not quantified. Siemens will defend itself against the action. ments to make capital contributions to the equity of various companies of € 132 million and € 223 million, respectively. PROCEEDINGS OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ALLEGED COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS The Company is jointly and severally liable and has capital conAs previously reported, Siemens AG agreed on a settlement tribution obligations as a partner in commercial partnerships with nine out of eleven former members of the Managing and and as a participant in various consortiums. Supervisory Board in January 2010. The settlement relates to claims of breaches of organizational and supervisory duties in view of the accusations of illegal business practices that ocNOTE 28 Legal proceedings curred in the course of international business transactions in calendar 2003 to 2006 and the resulting financial burdens PROCEEDINGS OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION for the Company. In January 2013, Siemens AG agreed on a WITH ALLEGED BREACHES OF CONTRACT ­ settlement with Dr. Thomas Ganswindt. In August 2014, As previously reported, Siemens AG is a member of a supplier Siemens AG reached a settlement with Mr. Joachim Neubürger. consortium that has been contracted to construct the nuclear The ­settlement is subject to the approval of the annual share­ power plant “Olkiluoto 3” in Finland for Teollisuuden Voima Oyj holders’ meeting of Siemens AG and will terminate the litiga(TVO) on a turnkey basis. The agreed completion date for the tion ­proceeding. nuclear power plant was April 30, 2009. Siemens AG’s share of the contract value is approximately 27 %. The other member of As previously reported in July 2008, Hellenic Telecommunicathe supplier consortium is a further consortium consisting of tions Organization S.A. (OTE) filed a lawsuit against Siemens AG Areva NP S.A.S. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Areva GmbH. with the district court of Munich, Germany, seeking to compel 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 293 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Siemens AG to disclose the outcome of its internal investigaSiemens AG and other companies that allegedly formed a cartel tions with respect to OTE. OTE seeks to obtain information with in the Israeli gas insulated switchgear market in the amount of respect to allegations of undue influence and / or acts of bribery ILS 3.8 billion (approximately € 800 million). Siemens AG is in connection with contracts concluded between Siemens AG ­defending itself against the actions. and OTE from calendar 1992 to 2006. At the end of July 2010, OTE expanded its claim and requested payment of damages by As previously reported, claims are being asserted against Siemens AG of at least € 57 million to OTE for alleged bribery Siemens in connection with a decision of the E ­ uropean Compayments to OTE employees. At the end of October 2014 OTE mission rendered in January 2007 regarding antitrust violations increased its damage claim to the amount of at least € 68 milin the high-voltage gas-insulated switchgear market, which has lion. Siemens AG continues to defend itself against the exbecome binding and final. Among such claims is a claim aspanded claim. serted by N­ ational Grid Electricity Transmission Plc. (National Grid) with the High Court of England and Wales in NovemAs previously reported, in June 2008, the Republic of Iraq filed ber 2008. The Parties are no longer in dispute with each other an action requesting unspecified damages against 93 named and settled the High Court action in fiscal year 2014. defendants with the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on the basis of findings made in the As previously reported, in May 2013, Siemens Ltda. in Brazil “Report of the Independent Inquiry Committee into the United (Siemens Ltda. Brazil) e ­ ntered into a leniency agreement with Nations Oil-for-Food Programme.” Siemens S.A.S. France, the Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE) and Siemens Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Turkey, and the former Siemens other relevant Brazilian authorities relating to possible antisubsidiary OSRAM Middle East FZE, Dubai, are among the 93 trust violations in connection with several Brazilian metro named defendants. In February 2013, the trial court dismissed transport projects. In March 2014, CADE commenced administhe Republic of Iraq’s action. The Republic of Iraq appealed the trative proceedings, confirming Siemens Ltda. Brazil’s immudecision, which was then affirmed by the court of appeals. The nity from administrative fines for the reported potential misRepublic of Iraq thereafter petitioned for an “en banc” review of conduct. In connection with the above mentioned metro the appellate decision. The court of appeals has not yet granted transport projects, several Brazilian authorities initiated investhe ­request for review. tigations relating to alleged criminal acts (corruptive payments, anti-competitive conduct, undue influence on public tenders). As previously reported, in September 2011, the Israeli Antitrust In March 2014, Siemens Ltda. Brazil signed an agreement with Authority requested that Siemens present its legal position the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the State of São Paulo (“Public ­regarding an alleged anti-competitive arrangement between Prosecutor’s Office São Paulo”) that formalizes and structures April 1988 and April 2004 in the field of gas-insulated switchthe cooperation in the investigations. gear. In September 2013, the Israeli Antitrust Authority concluded that Siemens AG was a party to an illegal restrictive In March 2014, Siemens was informed that in connection with ­arrangement regarding the Israeli gas-insulated switchgear the above mentioned metro transport projects the Public Prosmarket between 1988 and 2004, with an interruption from ecutor’s Office São Paulo has requested criminal proceedings at ­October 1999 to February 2002. The Company appealed against court into alleged violations of Brazilian antitrust law against a this decision in May 2014. number of individuals including current and former Siemens employees. Based on the above mentioned conclusion of the Israeli Antitrust Authority, two electricity consumer groups filed each a In May 2014 the Public Prosecutor’s Office São Paulo initiated a motion to certify a class action for cartel damages against a law suit against Siemens Ltda. Brazil as well as other companies number of companies including Siemens AG with an Israeli and several individuals in the amount of BRL 2.5 billion ­District Court in September 2013. Both class actions seek com(­approximately € 800 million) in relation to a train refurbishpensation for alleged damages, which are claimed to be in a ment project that is not part of the above cooperation agreerange of ILS 2 billion (approximately € 400 million) to ILS ment. A technical note issued by the Brazilian cartel authority 2.8 billion (approximately € 600 million). In addition, the Israel CADE earlier in calendar 2014 had not identified any anticompetElectric Corporation (IEC) filed at the end of December 2013 a itive wrongdoing by Siemens Ltda. Brazil in relation to this projseparate claim for damages with the Israeli state court against ect. Siemens Ltda. Brazil is defending itself against the a ­ ction. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 294 It cannot be excluded that further significant damages claims In addition to the investigations and legal proceedings described will be brought by customers or the state against Siemens based ­above, Siemens AG and its subsidiaries have been named as deon the outcome of the above mentioned ­investigations. fendants in various other legal actions and proceedings ­arising in connection with their activities as a global diversified group. As previously reported, CADE is conducting – unrelated to the Some of these pending proceedings have been previously disabove mentioned proceedings – two further investigations into closed. Some of the legal actions include claims or potential possible antitrust behavior in the field of gas-insulated and claims for compensatory and in some cases punitive damages air-insulated switchgear in the 1990’s calendar years to 2006. for indeterminate amounts. Siemens is from time to time also Siemens is cooperating with the authorities. involved in regulatory or other investigations in several jurisdictions beyond those described above. Siemens cooperates with As previously reported, in August 2013, a Brazilian Appellate the relevant authorities and, where appropriate, conducts interCourt upheld a decision to suspend Siemens Ltda. Brazil from nal investigations with the assistance of in-house and external participating in public tenders and signing contracts with counsel. In some instances, criminal or civil sanctions could be ­public a ­ dministrations in Brazil for a five year term, based on brought against the Company itself or against certain of its em­alleged ­irregularities in calendar 1999 and 2004 public tenders ployees in connection with possible violations of law. In addiwith the Brazilian Postal Authorities. Siemens Ltda. Brazil has tion, the scope of pending investigations may be expanded and further appealed the decision. In March 2014, upon request of new investigations commenced in connection with allegations Siemens Ltda. Brazil, said exclusion from public tenders and of bribery or other illegal acts. The Company’s operating activicontracts was temporarily suspended until a final court decities, financial results and reputation may also be negatively sion is reached. ­affected, particularly as a result of penalties, fines, disgorgements, compensatory damages, third-party litigation, including As previously reported, the Vienna public prosecutor in Austria with competitors, the formal or informal exclusion from public is conducting an investigation into payments between calendar invitations to tender, or the loss of business licenses or permits. 1999 and calendar 2006 relating to Siemens AG Österreich for Additional expenses and provisions, which could be material, which adequate services rendered could not be identified. In may need to be recorded in the future for penalties, fines, damSeptember 2011, the Vienna public prosecutor extended the ages or other charges in connection with the investigations. ­ investigations to include a tax evasion matter for which Given the number of legal actions and other proceedings to Siemens AG Österreich is potentially liable. Siemens is cooperwhich Siemens is subject, some may result in adverse decisions. ating with the authorities. Siemens contests actions and proceedings when it considers it appropriate. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the As previously reported, the Inter-American Development Bank outcome of such matters, particularly in cases in which claim(IADB) conducted administrative proceedings in two Latin-­ ants seek indeterminate damages, Siemens may not be able to American countries against, among others, Siemens alleging predict what the eventual loss or range of loss related to such misconduct in connection with public invitations to tender in matters will be. The final resolution of the matters discussed in calendar 2003. In April 2014, a settlement was reached with the this paragraph could have a material effect on Siemens’ busiIADB which involves a payment of a single digit million € ness, results of operations and financial condition for any reportamount and a voluntary restraint from IADB-­financed projects ing period in which an adverse decision is rendered. There can for three years by two Latin-American businesses, one of which be no assurance that the results of any additional legal matter is no longer owned by Siemens. not separately discussed in this paragraph will not have a material negative impact on the Company’s net worth, financial conFor legal proceedings information required under IAS 37, Providition and operational results. However, Siemens currently does sions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets is not disnot expect its net worth, financial condition or operational closed, if the Company concludes that the disclosure can be ­results to be materially affected by such additional legal matters expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the litigation. not separately discussed in this paragraph. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 295 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NOTE 29 Additional disclosures on financial instruments The following table presents the carrying amounts of each ­category of financial ­­assets and financial liabilities: September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Financial ­­assets: Loans and receivables 32,281 29,331 Cash and cash equivalents 8,013 9,190 Derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship 574 625 Financial ­­assets held for trading 1,995 1,705 Available-for-sale financial ­­assets 2,728 2,161 45,591 43,010 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 30,128 29,704 Financial liabilities held for trading 1,338 887 Derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship 411 160 31,877 30,751 The following table presents the fair values and carrying amounts of financial a ­ ssets and financial liabilities measured at cost or amortized cost: September 30, 2014 September 30, 2013 Carrying Carrying (in millions of €) Fair value amount Fair value amount Financial ­assets measured at cost or amortized cost Trade and other receivables 1 12,558 12,558 12,944 12,944 Receivables from finance leases 5,345 5,345 5,261 5,261 Cash and cash equivalents 8,013 8,013 9,190 9,190 Other non-derivative financial ­assets 14,378 14,378 11,126 11,126 Available-for-sale financial ­assets 2 – 192 – 167 Financial liabilities measured at cost or amortized cost Notes and bonds 18,787 18,165 18,742 18,491 Trade payables 3 7,594 7,594 7,599 7,599 Loans from banks and other financial indebtedness 2,635 2,652 1,821 1,832 Obligations under finance leases 186 130 167 130 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 1,588 1,588 1,651 1,651 1 Consists of (1) € 12,537 million and € 12,932 million trade the sale of goods and services of € 788 million and 3 As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, trade payables of receivables from the sale of goods and services in fiscal € 686 million have a remaining term of more than twelve € 40 million and € 32 million have a remaining term of 2014 and 2013, respectively, as well as (2) € 20 million months. more than twelve months. and € 11 million receivables included in line item Other 2 Consists of equity instruments classified as available-­forfinancial ­assets in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. As sale, for which a fair value could not be reliably measured of September 30, 2014 and 2013, trade receivables from ­and which are therefore recognized at cost. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 296 Cash and cash equivalents includes € 429 million and € 320 milFinancial instruments categorized as financial ­ assets and lion as of September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, which are ­finan­cial liabilities measured at fair value are presented in the not available for use by Siemens mainly due to minimum following table: ­reserve requirements with banks. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amount of September 30, ­financial ­assets Siemens has pledged as collateral amounted to (in millions of €) 2014 2013 € 271 million and € 344 million, respectively. Financial ­assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial ­assets 2,536 1,994 The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade and Derivative financial instruments 2,569 2,330 other receivables and trade payables with a remaining term of Not designated in a hedge accounting ­relationship 1,783 1,587 up to twelve months, other current financial a ­ ssets and liabiliIn connection with fair value hedges ties represent a reasonable approximation of their fair values, (mainly interest rate derivatives) 476 472 mainly due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. In connection with cash flow hedges (mainly foreign currency exchange derivatives) 98 153 Fixed-rate and variable-rate receivables with a remaining term Embedded derivatives 212 118 of more than twelve months, including receivables from 5,105 4,324 ­finance leases, are evaluated by the Company based on para­ meters such as interest rates, specific country risk factors, indiFinancial liabilities measured at fair value vidual creditworthiness of the customer, and the risk characterDerivative financial instruments 1,749 1,047 istics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, Not designated in a hedge accounting ­relationship 1,308 765 allowances for these receivables are recognized. As of SeptemIn connection with fair value hedges 5 8 ber 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amounts of such receivIn connection with cash flow hedges (mainables, net of allowances, approximate their fair values. ly foreign currency exchange derivatives) 406 152 Embedded derivatives 30 122 The fair value of notes and bonds is based on prices provided 1,749 1,047 by price service agencies at the p ­ eriod-end date (Level 2). The fair value of loans from banks and other financial indebtedness, obligations under finance leases as well as other non-­ current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting future The fair value of available-for-sale financial a ­ ssets quoted in an cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar active market is based on price quotations at the p ­ eriod-end terms and remaining maturities (Level 2). date. The fair value of debt instruments is either based on prices provided by price service agencies or estimated by discounting future cash flows using current market interest rates. The Company limits default risks resulting from derivative financial instruments by a careful counterparty selection. ­ ­Derivative financial instruments are generally transacted with financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The fair valuation of derivative financial instruments at Siemens incorporates all factors that market participants would consider. This includes credit risks for which a credit valuation ­adjustment is determined based on Siemens’ net exposure ­towards each counter­party. The exact calculation of fair values of derivative financial instruments depends on the specific type of instrument: 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 297 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Derivative interest rate contracts – The fair values of derivative interest rate contracts (e.g. interest rate swap agreements) are September 30, 2013 estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using cur(in millions of €) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total rent market interest rates and yield curves over the remaining Financial ­assets measured at fair value term of the instrument. Interest rate futures and interest rate Available-for-sale financial ­assets 1,612 382 – 1,994 options are valued on the basis of quoted market prices when Equity instruments 1,612 – – 1,612 available. If quoted market prices are not available, interest rate Debt instruments – 382 – 382 options are valued based on option pricing models. Derivative financial instruments – 2,330 – 2,330 Total 1,612 2,712 – 4,324 Derivative currency contracts – The fair value of foreign curFinancial liabilities measured rency exchange contracts is based on forward exchange rates. at fair value Currency options are valued on the basis of quoted market Derivative financial instruments – 1,047 – 1,047 prices or on estimates based on option pricing models. Derivative commodity contracts – The fair value of commodity swaps is based on forward commodity prices. Commodity The levels of the fair value hierarchy and its application to our ­options are valued on the basis of quoted market prices or on financial ­assets and financial liabilities are described below: estimates based on option pricing models. Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical a ­ ssets The warrants issued together with US$ 3 billion bonds in fiscal or liabilities; 2012 are valued based on an option pricing model. The most significant inputs used are the underlying Siemens and OSRAM Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices that are observshare price and the implied volatility. able for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and In determining the fair values of the derivative financial instruments, no compensating effects from underlying transactions Level 3: inputs for ­assets or liabilities, not based on observ(e.g. firm commitments and forecast transactions) are taken able market data. into consideration. The unquoted equity instrument allocated to level 3 of the fair The following table allocates financial a ­ssets and financial value hierarchy relates to an investment in an offshore wind ­liabilities measured at fair value to the three levels of the fair farm. The fair value is determined based on discounted cash value hierarchy. flow calculations. The most significant unobservable input used to determine the fair value is the cash flow forecast which is mainly based on the future power generation income. This September 30, 2014 income is generally subject to future market developments and (in millions of €) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total thus price volatility. Since a long-term power purchase agreeFinancial ­assets measured ment is in place that mitigates price volatility, significant at fair value changes to the cash flow forecast are unlikely and thus, no Available-for-sale financial a ­ ssets 1,527 703 307 2,536 ­significant effects on Other comprehensive income, net of Equity instruments 1,527 1 307 1,834 ­income taxes, are expected. Debt instruments – 702 – 702 Derivative financial instruments – 2,569 – 2,569 At the end of the reporting ­ period the Company assesses Total 1,527 3,272 307 5,105 whether transfers from one level of the fair value hierarchy to Financial liabilities measured at fair value another level have to be made. In fiscal 2014, there were no Derivative financial instruments – 1,749 – 1,749 such transfers. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 298 Net gains (losses) of financial instruments are as follows: recoveries of amounts previously written-off. Net gains (losses) in fiscal 2014 and 2013 on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are comprised of gains (losses) from derecogniYear ended September 30, tion and the ineffective portion of fair value hedges. Net gains (in millions of €) 2014 2013 (losses) in fiscal 2014 and 2013 on financial a ­ ssets and financial Cash and cash equivalents 19 (1) liabilities held for trading consist of changes in the fair value of Available-for-sale financial ­assets 29 (99) derivative financial instruments, including interest income and Loans and receivables 58 (172) expense, for which hedge accounting is not applied. Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (844) 408 Financial ­assets and financial liabilities The amounts presented include foreign currency gains and held for trading (283) 370 losses from the realization and valuation of the financial a ­ ssets and liabilities mentioned above. Offsetting Net gains (losses) in fiscal 2014 and 2013 on available-for-sale Siemens enters into master netting agreements and similar financial ­assets include net gains on derecognition as well as agreements for derivative financial instruments and reverse impairment losses. repurchase agreements. The requirements to offset recognized financial instruments are usually not met. The following table Net losses on loans and receivables contain changes in valuareflects financial a ­ ssets and financial liabilities that are subject tion allowances, gains or losses on derecognition as well as to netting agreements and similar agreements: September 30, 2014 Gross amounts Amounts Net amounts Related Net amounts set off in the in the amounts not ­Statement ­Statement set off in the of ­Financial of ­Financial Statement ­Position ­Position of ­Financial (in millions of €) ­Position Financial ­assets Derivative financial ­assets 2,364 7 2,357 955 1,402 Reverse repurchase agreements 400 – 400 400 – Total 2,764 7 2,757 1,355 1,402 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 1,533 7 1,526 905 621 September 30, 2013 Gross amounts Amounts Net amounts Related Net amounts set off in the in the amounts not ­Statement ­Statement set off in the of ­Financial of ­Financial Statement ­Position ­Position of ­Financial (in millions of €) ­Position Financial ­assets Derivative financial a ­ ssets 2,234 22 2,212 587 1,625 Reverse repurchase agreements 100 – 100 100 – Total 2,334 22 2,312 687 1,625 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 796 22 774 566 208 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 299 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NOTE 30 Derivative financial instruments Hedging activities and hedging activities The Company’s operating units apply hedge accounting for certain significant forecast transactions and firm commitments As part of the Company ’s risk management program, a variety denominated in foreign currencies. Particularly, the Company of derivative financial instruments is used to reduce risks has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts to reduce ­resulting primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exthe risk of variability of future cash flows resulting from forechange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. cast sales and purchases as well as firm commitments. This risk results mainly from contracts denominated in US$ both from The fair values of each type of derivative financial instruments Siemens’ operating units entering into long-term contracts, recorded as financial a ­ ssets or financial liabilities are as follows: e.g. project business, and from the standard product business. Cash flow hedges – As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the September 30, 2014 September 30, 2013 ­ineffective portion of cash flow hedges is not significant indi(in millions of €) Asset Liability Asset Liability vidually or in aggregate. Foreign currency exchange contracts 352 901 416 331 Periods in which the hedged forecast transactions or the firm Interest rate swaps and commitments denominated in foreign currency are expected to combined interest / currency swaps 1,769 456 1,637 261 impact profit or loss: Commodity swaps 43 46 35 49 Embedded derivatives 212 30 118 122 Options 192 316 123 281 Year ended September 30, Credit Default Swaps – – – 4 2017 to 2020 and (in millions of €) 2015 2016 2019 thereafter 2,569 1,749 2,330 1,047 Expected gain (loss) to be ­reclassified from line item ­Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes into r­ evenue or cost of sales (166) (62) (94) 6 FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT Derivative financial instruments not ­designated in a hedging relationship INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT The Company manages its risks associated with fluctuations in Interest rate risk arises from the sensitivity of financial a ­ ssets foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt, firm and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. The Company commitments and forecast transactions primarily through seeks to mitigate that risk by entering into interest rate derivaa Company-wide portfolio approach. Under this approach the tives such as interest rate swaps, options, interest rate futures Company-wide risks are aggregated centrally, and various and forward rate agreements. ­derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency ­exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and options, are Derivative financial instruments utilized to minimize such risks. Such a strategy does not qualify not ­designated in a hedging relationship for hedge accounting treatment. Accordingly, all such derivaFor the interest rate risk management relating to the Group tive financial instruments are recorded at fair value on the Con­excluding SFS’ business, derivative financial instruments are solidated Statements of Financial Position, either in line items used under a portfolio-based approach to manage interest risk Other current financial a ­ ssets (liabilities) or line items Other actively relative to a benchmark. The interest rate management financial a ­ ssets (liabilities); changes in fair values are charged relating to the SFS business remains to be managed separately, to net income (loss). considering the term structure of SFS’ financial ­assets and liabilities on a portfolio basis. Neither approach qualifies for The Company also has foreign currency derivatives, which are hedge accounting treatment. Accordingly, all interest rate deembedded in sale and purchase contracts denominated in a rivatives held in this relation are recorded at fair value, either in currency that is neither the functional currency of the substanline items Other current financial ­assets (liabilities) or in line tial parties to the contract nor a currency which is commonly items Other financial a ­ ssets (liabilities), and changes in the fair used in the economic environment in which the contract values are charged to line item Other financial income (extakes place. Gains (losses) relating to such embedded foreign penses), net. Net cash receipts and payments relating to inter­currency derivatives are reported in line item Cost of sales in est rate swaps used in offsetting relationships are also recorded the Consolidated Statements of Income. in line item Other financial income (expenses), net. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 300 Fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt obligations COMMODITY PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT Under the interest rate swap agreements outstanding during Derivative financial instruments not designated the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, the Company has in a hedging relationship agreed to pay a variable rate of interest multiplied by a n ­ otional The Company applies a portfolio approach to manage the principle amount, and receives in return an amount equal to a ­Company-wide risks associated with fluctuations in commodity specified fixed rate of interest multiplied by the same notional prices from firm commitments and forecast transactions by principal amount. These interest rate swap agreements offset ­entering into commodity swaps and commodity options. Such an impact of future changes in interest rates designated as the a strategy does not qualify for hedge accounting ­treatment. hedged risk on the fair value of the underlying fixed-rate debt obligations. The interest rate swap contracts are recorded at Cash flow hedging activities fair value in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of FinanThe Company’s corporate procurement applies cash flow hedge cial Position and the related portion of fixed-rate debt being accounting for certain firm commitments to purchase copper. hedged is recorded at an amount equal to the sum of its ­carrying The ineffective portion as well as resulting gains and (losses) amount plus an adjustment representing the change in fair were not significant individually or in aggregate. value of the debt obligations attributable to the respective interest rate risk being hedged. Changes in the fair value of interest It is expected that € 73 million of net deferred losses in line item rate swap contracts and the offsetting changes in the adjusted Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes will be carrying amount of the related portion of fixed-rate debt being ­reclassified into line item Cost of sales in fiscal 2015, when the hedged are recognized in line item Other financial income consumption of the hedged commodity purchases is recog(­expenses), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. nized in line item Cost of sales. As of September 30, 2014 and ­Adjustments in the carrying amount of the debt obligations 2013, the maximum length of time over which the Company is ­resulted in a gain (loss) of €(8) million and € 293 million, respec­ hedging its future commodity purchases is 75 months and tively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013. During the same p ­ eriod, the re87 months, respectively. lated swap agreements resulted in a gain (loss) of €3 million and €(305) million, respectively. Accordingly, the net effect recog­ nized in line item Other financial income (expenses), net, repreNOTE 31 Financial risk management senting the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship, amounts to €(5) million and €(12) million, in fiscal 2014 and 2013, Siemens’ financial risk management is an integral part of how respectively. Net cash receipts and payments relating to such to plan and execute its business strategies. Siemens’ financial ­interest rate swap agreements are r­ ecorded as interest expenses. risk management policy is set by the Managing Board. Siemens’ organizational and accountability structure as of September 30, The Company had interest rate swap contracts to pay variable 2014 requires each of the respective managements of Siemens rates of interest of an average of 0.3 % and 0.3 % as of SeptemSectors, Financial Services, SRE, regions and Corporate Units ber 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively and received fixed rates of to implement financial risk management programs that are interest (average rate of 4.0 % and 3.5 %, as of September 30, ­tailored to their specific industries and responsibilities, while 2014 and 2013, respectively). The notional amount of indebtedbeing consistent with the overall policy established by the ness hedged as of September 30, 2014 and 2013 was € 6,645 milManaging Board. lion and € 7,100 million, respectively. This changed 41 % and 41 % of the Company ’s underlying notes and bonds from fixed Increasing market fluctuations may result in significant earninterest rates into variable interest rates as of September 30, ings and cash flow volatility risk for Siemens. The Company ’s 2014 and 2013, respectively. The notional amounts of these operating business as well as its investment and financing contracts mature at varying dates based on the maturity of the ­activities are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates, underlying hedged items. The net fair value of interest rate ­interest rates, commodity prices and equity prices. In order to swap contracts (excluding accrued interest) used to hedge inoptimize the allocation of the financial resources across the debtedness as of September 30, 2014 and 2013 was € 386 milSiemens segments and entities, as well as to secure an optimal lion and € 385 million, respectively. return for its shareholders, Siemens identifies, analyzes and proactively manages the associated market risks. The Company seeks to manage and control these risks primarily through its regular operating and financing activities, and uses derivative financial instruments when deemed appropriate. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 301 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Within the various methodologies to analyze and manage risk, FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK Siemens has implemented a system based on parametric variTransaction risk and foreign currency ance-covariance Value at Risk (VaR). The VaR methodology proexchange rate risk management vides a quantification of market risks based on historical volaSiemens’ international operations expose the Company to tilities and correlations of the different risk factors under the ­foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly regarding assumptions of the parametric variance-covariance Value at fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the euro, in the ordiRisk model. The VaR figures are calculated based on nary course of business. The Company employs various strategies discussed below involving the use of derivative financial >> historical volatilities and correlations, ­instruments to mitigate or eliminate certain of those ­exposures. >> a ten day holding ­period, and >> a 99.5 % confidence level Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may create unwanted and unpredictable earnings and cash flow volatility. for foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, Each Siemens unit conducting businesses with international ­commodity price risk and equity price risk as discussed below. counterparties leading to future cash flows denominated in a currency other than its functional currency is exposed to risks Actual results that are included in the Consolidated Statements from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign curof Income or Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive rency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing ­Income may differ substantially from VaR figures due to fundaof goods, commodities and services in the respective currenmental conceptual differences. The Consolidated Statements cies as well as production activities and other contributions of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive along the value chain in the local markets. ­Income are prepared in accordance with IFRS. The VaR figures are the output of a model with a purely financial perspective Operating units (total Sectors and SFS) are prohibited from and represent the potential financial loss which will not be ­borrowing or investing in foreign currencies on a speculative ­exceeded within ten days with a probability of 99.5 %. The basis. Intercompany financing or investments of operating ­concept of VaR is also used for internal management of the units are preferably carried out in their functional currency or ­Corporate Treasury activities. on a hedged basis. Although VaR is an important tool for measuring market risk, Siemens has established a foreign currency exchange rate risk the assumptions on which the model is based give rise to management system that has an established track record for some limitations including the following. A ten day holding years. Each Siemens unit is responsible for recording, assess­period assumes that it is possible to dispose of the underlying ing, monitoring, reporting and hedging its foreign currency positions within this p ­ eriod. While this is considered to be a transaction exposure. The binding guideline for Siemens’ operrealistic assumption in almost all cases, it may not be valid ating units provides the concept for the identification and during prolonged ­periods of severe market illiquidity. A 99.5 % ­determination of a single net foreign currency position for each confidence level does not reflect losses that may occur beyond affected unit and commits these units to hedge this aggregated this level. There is a 0.5 % statistical probability that losses position within a narrow band of at least 75 % but no more than could exceed the calculated VaR. The use of historical data as 100 % of their net foreign currency position. In addition, the a basis for estimating the statistic behavior of the relevant guideline provides a framework of the organizational structure markets and finally determining the possible range of the necessary for foreign currency exchange rate risk management, ­future outcomes on the basis of this statistic behavior may proposes hedging strategies and defines the hedging instrunot always cover all possible scenarios, especially those of an ments available to the entities: foreign currency exchange exceptional nature. Any market sensitive instruments, including ­contracts, foreign currency put and call options and stop-loss equity and interest bearing investments, that our Company’s ­orders. If there are no conflicting country specific r­ egulations, ­pension plans hold are not included in the following quantitahedging activities of the operating units are transacted intertive and qualitative disclosures. nally with Corporate Treasury. Hedging transactions with external counterparties in the global financial markets are carried out under these limitations by Corporate Treasury. T ­ his includes hedging instruments which qualify for hedge a ­ ccounting. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 302 Siemens has a Company-wide portfolio approach which generINTEREST RATE RISK ates a benefit from any potential off-set of divergent cash flows Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash in the same currency, as well as optimized transaction costs. flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. This risk arises whenever The VaR relating to foreign currency exchange rates is calcu­interest terms of financial a ­ ssets and liabilities are different. In lated by aggregating the net foreign currency positions after order to optimize the Company’s position with regard to interhedging by the operating units. As of September 30, 2014 the est income and interest expenses and to manage the interest foreign currency exchange rate risk based on historical volatilirate risk, Corporate Treasury performs a comprehensive corpoties and correlations, a ten day holding p ­ eriod and a confidence rate interest rate risk management by using derivative financial level of 99.5 % resulted in a VaR of € 47 million compared to a instruments. The interest rate risk relating to the Group, exVaR of € 72 million in the year before. The prior-year amount has cluding SFS’ business, is mitigated by managing interest rate been adjusted in order to take into consideration modified risk actively relatively to a benchmark. The interest rate risk ­principles with regard to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to the SFS’ business is managed separately, considermanagement. Changes in euro values of future cash flows ing the term structure of SFS’s financial a ­ ssets and liabilities. ­denominated in foreign currency due to volatile foreign curThe Company ’s interest rate risk results primarily from the rency exchange rates might influence the unhedged portion of funding in U.S. dollar, GBP and euro. revenues, but would also affect the unhedged portion of cost of materials. Future changes in the foreign currency exchange If there are no conflicting country-specific regulations, all rates can impact sales prices and may lead to margin changes, Siemens operating units generally obtain any required financthe extent of which is determined by the matching of foreign ing through Corporate Treasury in the form of loans or intercurrency revenues and expenses. company clearing accounts. The same concept is adopted for deposits of cash generated by the units. Siemens defines foreign currency exchange rate exposure ­generally as items of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Assuming historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day Position in addition to firm commitments which are denomi­holding p ­ eriod and a confidence level of 99.5 % the interest rate nated in foreign currencies, as well as foreign currency denomiVaR was € 220 million as of September 30, 2014, compared to nated cash inflows and cash outflows from forecast trans­ a VaR of € 236 million in the year before. actions for the following twelve months. This foreign currency ­exchange rate exposure is determined based on the respective COMMODITY PRICE RISK functional currencies of the exposed Siemens’ entities. Siemens’ production operations expose the Company to various commodity price risks in the ordinary course of business. Effects of foreign currency translation Especially in the Sectors Industry and Energy a continuous Many Siemens units are located outside the euro zone. Since ­supply of copper was necessary for the operating activities. the financial reporting currency of Siemens is the euro, the Commodity price risk fluctuations may create unwanted and finan­cial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into unpredictable earnings and cash flow volatility. The Company euro for the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Stateemploys various strategies discussed below involving the use ments. To consider the effects of foreign currency translation in of derivative financial instruments to mitigate or eliminate the risk management, the general assumption is that invest­certain of those exposures. ments in foreign-based operations are permanent and that reinvestment is continuous. Effects from foreign currency Siemens has established a commodity price risk management ­ exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of net asset system to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility. Each amounts into euro are reflected in the Company’s consolidated Siemens unit is responsible for recording, assessing, monitorequity position. ing, reporting and hedging its risks from forecast and pending commodity purchase transactions (commodity price risk exposure). The binding guideline for Siemens operating units provides the concept for the identification and determination of the commodity price risk exposure and commits the units to hedge it within a narrow band of 75 % to 100 % of the commodity price risk exposure in the product business for the next three months and 95 % to 100 % of the commodity price risk e ­ xposure in the project business after receipt of order. Siemens operating units are prohibited from speculative transactions. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 303 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows The aggregated commodity price risk exposure is hedged In addition to the above-mentioned sources of liquidity, with external counterparties through derivative financial hedgSiemens constantly monitors funding options available in the ing instruments by Corporate Treasury. Derivative financial capital markets, as well as trends in the availability and costs of ­ hedging instruments designated for hedge accounting are such funding, with a view to maintaining financial flexibility ­directly entered into with external counterparties. Additionally, and limiting repayment risks. Siemens applies a Company-wide portfolio approach which ­optimizes the Company’s position of the overall financial comThe following table reflects all contractually fixed pay-offs for modity price risk. settlement, repayments and interest resulting from recognized financial liabilities as well as from credit guarantees and irrevoUsing historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day holding cable loan commitments. It includes expected net cash out­period and a confidence level of 99.5 %, the VaR, which comflows from derivative financial liabilities that are in place as per prises the net position of commodity derivatives and the comSeptember 30, 2014. Such expected net cash outflows are demodity purchase transactions with price risk, was € 13 million termined based on each particular settlement date of an instruas of September 30, 2014 compared to € 19 million as of Septemment. The amounts disclosed are undiscounted net cash outber 30, 2013. The prior-year amount has been adjusted in order flows for the respective upcoming fiscal years, based on the to take into consideration modified principles with regard to earliest date on which Siemens could be required to pay. Cash commodity price risk management. outflows for financial liabilities (including interest) without fixed amount or timing are based on the conditions existing at EQUITY PRICE RISK September 30, 2014. Siemens’ investment portfolio consists of direct and indirect investments in publicly traded companies held for purposes other than trading. The direct participations result mainly from Year ended September 30, strategic partnerships, strengthening Siemens’ focus on its core 2017 to 2020 and (in millions of €) 2015 2016 2019 thereafter business activities or compensation from M & A trans­actions; Non-derivative financial indirect investments in fund shares are mainly transacted for ­liabilities financial reasons. Notes and bonds 649 2,911 9,361 8,383 Loans from banks 834 133 843 9 These investments are monitored based on their current Other financial ­market value, affected primarily by fluctuations in the volatile indebtedness 828 9 45 33 ­technology-related markets worldwide. The market value of Obligations under Siemens’ portfolio in publicly traded companies decreased from finance leases 27 49 34 97 € 1,444 million as of September 30, 2013 to € 1,351 million as of Trade payables 7,697 16 18 1 Other financial liabilities 1,014 65 432 8 September 30, 2014. Derivative financial liabilities 933 278 487 56 Credit guarantees 774 – – – Based on historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day holdIrrevocable loan ing p­ eriod and a confidence level of 99.5 %, the VaR as of Sep­commitments 3,214 215 174 1 tember 30, 2014 of Siemens’ equity investments was € 122 million compared to € 81 million the year before. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk results from the Company’s potential inability to The risk implied from the values shown in the table above meet its financial liabilities, e.g. for the settlement of its finan­reflects the one-sided scenario of cash outflows only. Obligacial debt or for ongoing cash requirements from operating and tions under finance leases, trade payables and other financial SFS financing activities, dividend payments, pension plan fundliabilities mainly originate from the financing of a ­ ssets used in ing and portfolio activities. In addition to having implemented Siemens’ ongoing operations such as property, plant, equipeffective working capital and cash management, Siemens mitiment and investments in working capital – e.g. inventories gates liquidity risk by arranged credit facilities with highly and trade receivables. These ­assets are considered in the ­ rated financial institutions, via a debt issuance program and via ­Company ’s overall liquidity risk management. A considerable a global multi-currency commercial paper program. Liquidity portion of the irrevocable loan commitments result from asset-­ risk may also be mitigated by the Siemens Bank GmbH, which based lending transactions meaning that the respective loans increases the flexibility of depositing cash or refinancing by can only be drawn after sufficient collateral has been provided ­using European Central Bank accounts. by the borrower. The amounts included for credit guarantees 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 304 are the maximum amounts Siemens could be required to settle s­ ystems for its financing activities. There are also a number of in the event of default or non-payment by the primary debtor. decentralized tools used for management of individual credit For additional information regarding credit guarantees see risks within the operating units. A central IT application proNOTE 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES . To monitor existing cesses data from the operating units together with rating and financial a­ ssets and liabilities as well as to enable an effective default information and calculates an estimate which may be controlling of future risks, Siemens has established a compreused as a basis for individual bad debt provisions. In addition to hensive risk reporting covering its worldwide business units. this automated process, qualitative information is considered, in particular to incorporate the latest developments. CREDIT RISK Credit risk is defined as an unexpected loss in cash and earnTo increase transparency with regard to credit risk Corporate ings if the customer is unable to pay its obligations in full and Treasury has established the Siemens Credit Warehouse to on time or if the value of collateral declines. which numerous operating units from the Siemens Group regularly transfer business partner data as a basis for a centralized Siemens provides its customers with various forms of direct rating process. In addition, numerous operating units transfer and indirect financing particularly in connection with large their trade receivables with a remaining term up to one year projects. Siemens finances a large number of smaller customer along with the inherent credit risk to the Siemens Credit orders, for example the leasing of medical equipment, in part Warehouse, but remain responsible for servicing activities ­ through SFS. SFS is also exposed to credit risk by financing such as collections and receivables management. The Siemens third-party equipment or by taking direct or indirect participaCredit Warehouse actively identifies, quantifies and manages tions in financings, such as syndicated loans. In part, Siemens the credit risk in its portfolio, such as by hedging exposure takes a security interest in the ­assets Siemens finances or to specific customers, countries and industries. In addition to Siemens receives additional collateral. Siemens may incur an ­ increased transparency with regard to credit risk, the losses if the credit quality of its customers deteriorates or if Siemens Credit Warehouse may provide Siemens with an addithey default on their payment obligations to Siemens, such as tional source of liquidity and strengthens Siemens’ funding a consequence of a financial or political crisis and a global ­flexibility. downturn. The maximum exposure to credit risk of financial ­assets, withThe effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a core out taking account of any collateral, is represented by their carcompetency of our risk management system. Siemens has imrying amount. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 the collateral plemented a binding credit policy for all entities. Hence, credit for financial instruments classified as financial a ­ ssets measured evaluations and ratings are performed for all customers with an at fair value in the form of netting agreements for derivatives exposure or requiring credit beyond centrally defined limits. in the event of insolvency of the respective counterparty amounted to € 955 million and € 587 million, respectively. As of Customer ratings, analyzed and defined by SFS, and individual September 30, 2014 and 2013 the collateral held for financial customer limits are based on generally accepted rating methinstruments classified as receivables from finance leases odologies, with the input consisting of information obtained amounted to € 2,072 million and € 1,902 million, respectively, from the customer, external rating agencies, data service promainly in the form of the leased equipment. As of Septemviders and Siemens’ customer default experiences. Ratings and ber 30, 2014 and 2013 the collateral held for financial instrucredit limits are carefully considered in determining the condiments classified as financial a ­ ssets measured at cost or amortions under which direct or indirect financing will be offered to tized cost amounted to € 2,425 million and € 2,141 million, customers. As part of the process, internal risk assessment sperespectively. The collateral mainly consisted of property, plant cialists determine and continuously update ratings and credit and equipment. In addition, for this class Siemens holds collatlimits for Siemens’ public and private customers. For public eral in the form of securities related to reverse repurchase customers our policy provides that the rating applied to individagreements that can be sold or re-pledged in absence of default ual customers cannot be better than the weakest of the soverby the owner of the collateral. As of September 30, 2014 and eign ratings provided by Moody ’s, S & P’s and Fitch for the 2013 the fair value of the collateral held amounted to € 408 mil­respective country. lion and € 103 million, respectively. In fiscal 2014 and 2013 Siemens has not exercised the right to sell or re-pledge the colCredit risk is recorded, analyzed and monitored on an ongoing lateral. Credit risks arising from irrevocable loan commitments basis applying different systems and processes dependent on are equal to the expected future pay-offs resulting from these the financial instrument. Central systems are used for ongoing commitments. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 the collateral monitoring of counterparty risk. In addition, SFS uses own held for these commitments amounted to € 1,646 million and 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 305 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows € 1,320 million, respectively, mainly in the form of inventories awards may occur in newly issued shares of capital stock of and receivables. Credit risks arising from credit guarantees are Siemens AG, treasury shares or in cash. The settlement method described in NOTE 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES . There will be determined by the Managing Board and the Supervisory were no significant concentrations of credit risk as of SeptemBoard. Each fiscal year, the Company decides whether or not ber 30, 2014 and 2013. to grant stock awards. The Supervisory Board decides about the number of stock awards to the Managing Board and the Concerning trade receivables and other receivables, as well as ­Managing Board decides about the number of stock awards loans or receivables included in line item Other financial a ­ ssets to members of the senior management and other eligible that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no indica­employees. tions as of September 30, 2014, that defaults in payment obligations will occur, which lead to a decrease in the net ­assets of Since fiscal 2012, the allocation of stock awards as a shareSiemens. Overdue financial instruments are generally impaired based payment has been increasingly tied to corporate perforon a portfolio basis in order to reflect losses incurred within mance criteria. The target attainment for the performance the respective portfolios. When substantial expected payment ­criteria ranges between 0 % and 200 %. delays become evident, overdue financial instruments are ­assessed individually for additional impairment and are further Half of the annual target amount for stock awards is based on allowed for as appropriate. the average of earnings per share (EPS, basic) of the past three fiscal years. The target attainment determines the number of stock awards upon allocation. Settlement of these stock awards NOTE 32 Share-based payment is in shares following the four-year restriction ­period. Share-based payment awards at Siemens, including Bonus The other half of the annual target amount for stock awards Awards, Stock Awards, the Share Matching Program and its is based on the share price performance of Siemens shares under­lying plans as well as the Jubilee Share Program are pre­relative to the share price performance of five important dominately designed as equity-settled plans and to a limited Siemens competitors (ABB, General Electric, Philips, Rockwell, extent as cash-settled plans. If participating Siemens compaSchneider) ­during the four-year restriction p ­ eriod. The target nies cease to be part of the Siemens Group, they are no longer attainment is determined during the four-year restriction eligible to participate in future share-based payment awards at ­period for the stock awards and accordingly, determines the Siemens. In such cases the participating Siemens companies number of Siemens shares ultimately transferred following have the right to settle the share-based payment awards pre­ the restriction ­period. If the target attainment is up to 100 %, maturely. ­Total pretax expense for share-based payment recogsettlement is in shares. If the target attainment exceeds 100 % nized in line item Income from continuing operations (up to 200 %) an additional cash payment corresponding to the amounted to € 184 million and € 181 million for the years ended outperformance results. September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and refers primarily to equity-­settled awards, including the Company ’s Base Additionally one portion of the variable compensation com­ Share ­Program. ponent (bonus) for members of the Managing Board is granted in the form of non-forfeitable awards of Siemens stock (Bonus STOCK AWARDS Awards). The Company grants stock awards as a means for providing share-based compensation to members of the Managing Commitments to members of the Managing Board Board, members of the senior management of Siemens AG The remuneration system for the Managing Board was revised and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries and other eligible by the Supervisory Board, effective as of fiscal 2014, which ­employees. Stock awards are subject to a restriction ­period of is explained in detail in the Compensation Report within the about four years and entitle the beneficiary to Siemens shares Corporate Governance Report. without payment of consideration following the restriction ­period. Stock awards granted in fiscal 2008 to 2011 were generIn fiscal 2014 and 2013, agreements were entered into which ally subject to a restriction p ­ eriod of three years. In principle, entitle members of the Managing Board to stock awards continstock awards forfeit if the beneficiary ’s employment with the gent upon attaining an EPS-based target. The fair value of these Company terminates prior to the expiration of the restriction entitlements amounting to € 5 million and € 6 million, respec­period. During the restriction p ­ eriod, beneficiaries are not tively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013, was determined by calculating ­entitled to dividends. Stock awards may not be transferred, the present value of the target amount. sold, pledged or otherwise encumbered. Settlement of stock 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 306 In fiscal 2014 and 2013, agreements were entered into which 24 %, respectively, and a market price of € 95.62 and € 79.70 per entitle members of the Managing Board to stock awards continSiemens share. Expected volatility was determined by reference gent upon attaining a prospective performance-based target of to historic volatilities. The model applies a risk-free interest rate Siemens stock relative to five competitors (for fiscal 2014 Philips of up to 0.9 % in fiscal 2014 and up to 0.6 % in fiscal 2013 and an was replaced by Alstom). The fair value of these entitlements expected dividend yield of 3.1 % in fiscal 2014 and 3.8 % in fiscal amounting to € 5 million and € 7 million, respectively, in fiscal 2013. Assumptions concerning share price correlations were 2014 and 2013, was calculated by applying a valuation model. determined by reference to historic correlations. Compensation Inputs to that model include an expected weighted volatility of expense related to these stock awards is recognized over four Siemens shares of 22 % in fiscal 2014 and 24 % in fiscal 2013 and years until they vest. a market price of € 98.36 in fiscal 2014 and € 78.94 in fiscal 2013 per Siemens share. Expected volatility was determined by referThe following table shows the changes in the stock awards ence to historic volatilities. The model applies a risk-free interheld by members of the senior management and other eligible est rate of up to 1.0 % in fiscal 2014 and up to 0.8 % in fiscal 2013 employees: and an expected dividend yield of 3.1 % in fiscal 2014 and 3.8 % in fiscal 2013. Assumptions concerning share price correlations were determined by reference to historic correlations. Year ended September 30, 2014 2013 Compensation expense related to stock awards is generally recAwards Awards ognized over five years until they vest, including a restriction Non-vested, beginning of period 4,876,455 4,217,588 ­period of four years. Granted 1,421,211 2,158,079 Vested and transferred (1,041,376) (1,073,355) In fiscal 2014 and 2013, agreements were entered into which Forfeited (120,350) (101,192) entitle members of the Managing Board to Bonus Awards conSettled (149,942) (324,665) Non-vested, end of period 4,985,998 4,876,455 tingent upon the target attainment. The fair value of these entitlements amounting to € 2 million and € 5 million, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013, was determined by calculating the present value of the target amount. Compensation expense related to Bonus Awards is generally recognized over the vestSHARE MATCHING PROGRAM ing ­period of one year. Beneficiaries will receive one Siemens AND ITS UNDERLYING PLANS share without payment of consideration for each Bonus Award, 1. Share Matching Plan following an additional waiting ­period of four years. In fiscal 2014 and 2013, the Company issued a new tranche under the Share Matching Plan. Senior managers of Siemens AG Commitments to members of the senior and participating Siemens companies may invest a specified ­management and other eligible employees percentage of their compensation in Siemens shares. Within a In fiscal 2014 and 2013, 769,049 and 1,308,171 stock awards, repredetermined p ­ eriod in the first quarter of each fiscal year, spectively, were granted to members of the senior manageplan participants decide on their investment amount for which ment and other eligible employees contingent upon attaining investment shares are purchased. The shares are purchased at an EPS-based target. The fair value of these stock awards the market price at a predetermined date in the second quarter. amounts to € 62 million and € 85 million, respectively, in fiscal Plan participants receive the right to one Siemens share with2014 and 2013 and corresponds to the target amount representout payment of consideration (matching share) for every three ing the EPS target attainment. investment shares continuously held over a p ­ eriod of three years (vesting p ­ eriod) provided the plan participant has been In fiscal 2014 and 2013, 652,162 and 849,908 stock awards, recontinuously employed by Siemens AG or another Siemens spectively, were granted to members of the senior managecompany until the end of the vesting p ­ eriod. During the vesting ment and other eligible employees contingent upon attaining a ­period, matching shares are not entitled to dividends. The right prospective performance-based target of the Siemens stock to receive matching shares forfeits if the underlying investment relative to five competitors. The fair value of these stock awards shares are transferred, sold, pledged or otherwise encumbered. amounting to € 56 million and € 53 million, respectively, in fisMatching shares may be settled in newly issued shares of capical 2014 and 2013, of which € 40 million and € 41 million relate tal stock of Siemens AG, treasury shares or in cash. The settleto equity instruments, was calculated by applying a valuation ment method will be determined by the Managing Board. Each model. In fiscal 2014 and 2013, inputs to that model include an fiscal year, the Managing Board decides whether or not to issue expected weighted volatility of Siemens shares of 23 % and a new tranche under the Share Matching Plan. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 307 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 2. Monthly Investment Plan 4. Resulting Matching Shares In fiscal 2014 and 2013, the Company issued a new tranche ­under the Monthly Investment Plan that is a further component of the Share Matching Plan and which is available for Year ended September 30, ­employees – other than senior managers – of Siemens AG and 2014 2013 participating Siemens companies. Plan participants may invest Entitlements Entitlements to Matching to Matching a specified percentage of their compensation in Siemens shares Shares Shares on a monthly basis over a p ­ eriod of twelve months. The shares Outstanding, beginning of period 1,733,497 1,545,582 are purchased at market price at a predetermined date once a Granted 609,758 713,245 month. The Managing Board of the Company will decide annuVested and transferred (437,989) (351,548) ally, whether shares acquired under the Monthly Investment Forfeited (92,035) (140,307) Plan (investment shares) may be transferred to the Share Settled (63,055) (33,475) Matching Plan the following year. If the Managing Board Outstanding, end of period 1,750,176 1,733,497 ­decides that shares acquired under the Monthly Investment Plan are transferred to the Share Matching Plan, plan participants will receive the right to matching shares under the same conditions applying to the Share Matching Plan described Fair value was determined as the market price of Siemens above. Each fiscal year the Managing Board decides, whether shares less the present value of expected dividends during the or not to issue a new tranche under the Monthly Investvesting ­period as matching shares do not carry dividend rights ment Plan. during the vesting p ­ eriod. Non-vesting conditions, i.e. the condition neither to transfer, sell, pledge nor otherwise encumber The Managing Board decided that shares acquired under the the underlying shares, were considered in determining the fair tranches issued in fiscal 2013 and 2012 are transferred to the value. In fiscal 2014 and 2013, the weighted average grantShare Matching Plan as of February 2014 and February 2013, date fair value of the resulting matching shares is € 73.00 and respectively. € 57.77 per share respectively, based on the number of instruments granted. 3. Base Share Program In fiscal 2014 and 2013, the Company issued a new tranche JUBILEE SHARE PROGRAM ­under the Base Share Program. Employees of Siemens AG and Under the Jubilee Share Program, eligible employees of participating domestic Siemens companies can invest a fixed Siemens AG and participating domestic Siemens companies amount of their compensation into Siemens shares, sponsored receive jubilee shares after having been continuously emby Siemens with a tax beneficial allowance. The shares are ployed by the Company for 25 and 40 years (vesting ­period), bought at market price at a predetermined date in the second respectively. Generally, settlement of jubilee grants is in shares. quarter and grant the right to receive matching shares under Jubilee shares are measured at fair value considering bio­ the same conditions applying to the Share Matching Plan metrical factors. The fair value is determined as the market ­described above. Each fiscal year, the Managing Board decides price of Siemens shares at grant date less the present value of whether or not to issue a new tranche under the Base Share dividends expected to be paid during the vesting ­period for Program. The fair value of the base share program equals the which the employees are not entitled to. The weighted average amount of the tax beneficial allowance sponsored by Siemens. fair value of each jubilee share granted in fiscal 2014 for the 25th In fiscal 2014 and 2013, the Company incurred pretax expense and the 40th anniversary is € 49.36 and € 32.86, respectively, from continuing operations of € 32 million and € 30 million, based on the number of shares granted. The weighted average ­respectively. fair value of each jubilee share granted adjusted by biometrical factors (considering fluctuation) is € 31.58 and € 18.97, respectively, in fiscal 2014. The weighted average fair value of each jubilee share granted in fiscal 2013 for the 25th and the 40th ­anniversary is € 36.92 and € 24.55 respectively, based on the number of shares granted. The weighted average fair value of each jubilee share granted adjusted by biometrical factors (­considering fluctuation) is € 18.24 and € 9.99 respectively, in fiscal 2013. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 308 In fiscal 2014 and 2013, 0.22 million and 0.29 million jubilee The average number of employees in fiscal years 2014 and 2013 shares were granted; 0.20 million and 0.18 million were transis 359.2 thousand and 394.9 thousand, respectively (based on ferred, 0.14 million and 0.12 million forfeited, resulting in an continuing and discontinued operations). Thereof, in fiscal outstanding balance of 4.56 million and 4.68 million jubilee 2014 and 2013, 223.7 and 248.3 thousand employees were shares as of September 30, 2014 and 2013. Considering bio­ ­engaged in manufacturing and services, 71.2 thousand and metrical factors as of September 30, 2014 and 2013, 3.60 million 78.2 thousand were engaged in sales and marketing, 30.4 thouand 3.28 million jubilee shares were expected to vest. sand and 31.8 thousand employees were in research and development and 34.0 thousand and 36.6 thousand employees were in administration and general services, respectively. NOTE 33 Personnel costs NOTE 34 Earnings per share Year ended September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Wages and salaries 20,142 20,988 Year ended September 30, Statutory social welfare contributions and (shares in thousands; earnings per share in €) 2014 2013 ­expenses for optional support payments 3,220 3,228 Income from continuing operations 5,400 4,179 Expenses relating to post-employment benefits 1,044 1,114 Less: Portion attributable to non-controlling 24,406 25,330 ­interest (133) (120) Income from continuing operations ­attributable to shareholders of Siemens AG 5,267 4,059 Weighted average shares outstanding – basic 843,449 843,819 Item Expenses relating to post-employment benefits includes Effect of dilutive share-based payment 8,485 8,433 service costs for the ­period. Interest from post-employment Weighted average shares outstanding – diluted 851,934 852,252 benefits is included in line items interest income (expenses). Basic earnings per share (from continuing operations) 6.24 4.81 Wages and salaries, statutory social welfare contributions Diluted earnings per share (from continuing operations) 6.18 4.76 and expenses for optional support payments as well as expenses relating to post-employment benefits for continuing and ­discontinued operations amounts to € 25,533 million and € 28,163 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. The dilutive earnings per share computation in fiscal 2014 and The average number of employees in fiscal years 2014 and 2013 2013 does not contain 21,674 thousand shares relating to warwas 344.4 thousand and 348.7 thousand, respectively (based rants issued with bonds. The inclusion of those shares would on continuing operations). Part-time employees are included have been antidilutive in the years presented. In the future, the on a proportionate basis. The employees were engaged in the warrants could potentially dilute basic earnings per share. following activities: Year ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Manufacturing and services 213.6 215.0 Sales and marketing 68.6 71.1 Research and development 28.8 28.1 Administration and general services 33.5 34.4 344.4 348.7 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 309 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NOTE 35 Segment information Segment information is presented for continuing operations. As of and for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 Orders 1 External revenue Intersegment revenue Total revenue (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sectors Energy 28,646 28,797 24,380 26,425 251 212 24,631 26,638 Healthcare 12,819 13,004 12,401 12,626 29 22 12,429 12,649 Industry 17,103 16,688 15,346 15,256 1,718 1,640 17,064 16,896 Infrastructure & Cities 21,001 21,894 18,291 17,149 643 730 18,934 17,879 Total Sectors 79,569 80,382 70,418 71,456 2,641 2,605 73,059 74,061 Equity Investments – – – – – – – – Financial Services (SFS) 937 1,072 746 961 191 111 937 1,072 Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements Centrally managed portfolio activities 302 296 297 386 9 10 306 396 Siemens Real Estate (SRE) 2,405 2,490 270 332 2,136 2,159 2,405 2,491 Corporate items and pensions 305 471 190 309 120 163 310 472 Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling items (5,169) (4,956) – – (5,098) (5,048) (5,098) (5,048) Siemens 78,350 79,755 71,920 73,445 – – 71,920 73,445 1 This supplementary information on Orders is provided on a voluntary basis. It is not part of the Consolidated Financial Statements subject to the audit opinion. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 310 Profit Assets Free cash flow Additions to intangible Amortization, depreciation ­assets and property, plant and impairments and equipment 2014 2013 09/30/2014 09/30/2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 1,569 1,955 1,680 1,621 1,591 1,595 449 425 507 610 2,027 2,033 11,126 10,732 2,067 2,227 303 241 553 577 2,252 1,563 6,661 6,410 2,170 2,280 358 384 544 638 1,487 291 5,180 4,973 1,280 372 247 239 296 379 7,335 5,842 24,646 23,736 7,108 6,473 1,356 1,289 1,900 2,204 328 411 2,571 2,488 81 126 – – – – 465 409 21,970 18,661 522 857 31 69 194 230 44 (113) (154) (234) (37) (142) 6 7 4 4 241 168 4,697 4,747 (170) (112) 370 364 264 309 (938) (836) (1,859) (1,987) (675) (422) 70 83 78 91 (48) (70) 53,009 54,525 (1,430) (1,403) (3) (4) (29) (34) 7,427 5,813 104,879 101,936 5,399 5,378 1,831 1,808 2,411 2,804 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 311 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows DESCRIPTION OF REPORTABLE SEGMENTS RECONCILIATION The four Sectors comprise manufacturing, industrial and comTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS mercial goods, solutions and services in areas more or less Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements contains ­related to Siemens’ origins in the electrical business field. businesses and items not directly related to Siemens’ reportable segments: Energy – offers a wide spectrum of products, solutions and services for generating and transmitting power, and for extractCentrally managed portfolio activities – generally includes ing, converting and transporting oil and gas. activities intended for divestment or closure as well as activities remaining from divestments and discontinued operations. Healthcare – offers customers a comprehensive portfolio of medical solutions across the treatment chain – from prevenSiemens Real Estate (SRE) – is the real estate service protion and early detection to diagnosis, treatment and follow-up vider at Siemens, who manages the Group’s entire real estate care. Healthcare also provides technical maintenance, profesbusiness portfolio, operates the properties, and is responsible sional and consulting services, and, together with Financial for building projects and the purchase and sale of real estate. Services (SFS), financing to assist customers in purchasing our products. Corporate items and pensions – includes corporate charges such as personnel costs for corporate headquarters, corporate Industry – a supplier of innovative and environmentally projects and non-operating investments or results of corpofriendly products and solutions for industrial companies, parrate-related derivative activities and costs for carve out activiticularly those in the process and manufacturing industries. ties managed by corporate, which are charged to the respective Industry ’s end-to-end automation solutions, drive technolosegment when the disposal gain or loss is realized or when the gies, industrial IT and industry software, in-depth industry activities are classified as discontinued operations. Pensions ­expertise and technology-based services help Industry ’s cusincludes the Company’s pension related income (expense) not tomers use resources and energy more efficiently, improve allocated to the segments, SRE or Centrally managed portfolio ­productivity, and increase flexibility. activities. Infrastructure & Cities – offers a wide range of technologies Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling that increase the functionality and sustainability of metropoliitems – comprise consolidation of transactions within the segtan centers and urban infrastructures worldwide, such as intements, certain reconciliation and reclassification items and the grated mobility solutions, building and security systems, power activities of the Company’s Corporate Treasury. It also includes distribution equipment, grid automation and control products interest income and expense, such as, for example, interest not and solutions, smart grid applications and low and medium-­ allocated to segments or Centrally managed portfolio activities voltage products. (referred to as financing interest), interest related to Corporate Treasury activities or resulting consolidation and reconciliation Equity Investments – in general, comprises equity stakes effects on interest. held by Siemens that are accounted for by the equity method or as available-for-sale financial a­ ssets and that for strategic reaMEASUREMENT – SEGMENTS sons are not allocated to a Sector or a Division, respectively, Accounting policies for Segment information are generally SFS, Centrally managed portfolio activities, Siemens Real Estate the same as those used for Siemens, described in NOTE 2 (SRE), Corporate items or Corporate Treasury. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES . Lease transactions, however, are classified as operating leases for internal and segFinancial Services (SFS) – provides business-to-business ment reporting purposes. Intersegment transactions are based finan­cial solutions. With its specialist financing and technology on market prices. expertise in the areas of Siemens businesses, SFS supports customer investments with leasing solutions and equipment, projProfit of the Sectors and of Equity Investments: ect and structured financing. SFS provides capital for Siemens Siemens’ Managing Board is responsible for assessing the percustomers as well as other companies and manages financial formance of the segments. The Company ’s profitability mearisks of Siemens. sure of the Sectors and Equity Investments is earnings before financing interest, certain pension costs, and income taxes as determined by the chief operating decision maker (Profit). Profit excludes various categories of items, not allocated to the 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 312 Sectors and Equity Investments, which management does not (loss) from the sale of interests in investments, impairment of regard as indicative of their performance. Profit represents a investments and reversals of impairments. It also includes performance measure focused on operational success exclud­interest and impairments as well as reversals of impairments ing the effects of capital market financing issues; for financing on long-term loans granted to investments reported in Equity issues regarding Equity Investments see paragraph below. Investments. The major categories of items excluded from Profit are presented below. Profit of the segment SFS: Profit of the segment SFS is Income before income taxes. In Financing interest, excluded from Profit, is any interest income contrast to performance measurement principles applied to the or expense other than interest income related to receivables Sectors and Equity Investments interest income and expenses from customers, from cash allocated to the Sectors and Equity is an important source of revenue and expense of SFS. Investments and interest expenses on payables to suppliers. Borrowing costs capitalized as part of qualifying long-term Asset measurement principles: projects are not part of financing interest. Financing interest is Management determined Assets as a measure to assess capital excluded from Profit because decision-making regarding finan­ intensity of the Sectors and Equity Investments (Net capital cing is typically made at the corporate level. Equity Investemployed). Its definition corresponds to the Profit measure. It ments include interest and impairments as well as reversals is based on Total ­assets of the Consolidated Statements of of impairments on long-term loans granted to investments Finan­cial Position, primarily excluding intragroup financing ­reported in Equity Investments. ­ receivables, tax related ­ assets and ­ assets of discontinued ­operations, since the corresponding ­positions are excluded Similarly, decision-making regarding essential pension items is from Profit. A Division of Infrastructure & Cities includes the done centrally. Accordingly, Profit primarily includes amounts project-specific intercompany financing of a long-term project. related to service cost of pension plans only, while all other regThe remaining ­ assets are reduced by non-interest-bearing ularly recurring pension related costs – including charges for ­liabilities other than tax related liabilities, e.g. trade payables, the German pension insurance association and plan administo derive Assets. In contrast, Assets of SFS is Total ­assets. tration costs – are included in line item Corporate items and pensions. Curtailments are a partial payback with regard to past Orders: service cost that affect Segment Profit. Orders are determined principally as estimated revenue of ­accepted purchase orders and order value changes and adjustFurthermore, income taxes are excluded from Profit since ments, excluding letters of intent. New orders are supplemen­income tax is subject to legal structures, which typically do not tary information, provided on a voluntary basis. It is not part of correspond to the structure of the segments. the audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The effect of certain litigation and compliance issues is Free cash flow definition: ­excluded from Profit, if such items are not indicative of the Segment information discloses Free cash flow and Additions ­ Sectors’ and Equity Investments’ performance, since their to property, plant and equipment and intangible ­assets. Free ­related results of operations may be distorted by the amount cash flow of the Sectors and Equity Investments constitutes and the irregular nature of such events. This may also be the cash flows from operating activities less additions to intangicase for items that refer to more than one reportable segment, ble ­assets and property, plant and equipment. It excludes SRE and (or) Centrally managed portfolio activities or have a ­Financing interest, except for cases where interest on qualifycorporate or central character. ing ­assets is capitalized or classified as contract costs and it also excludes non-cash income tax as well as certain other Central infrastructure costs are primarily allocated to the payments and proceeds. Free cash flow of Equity Investments ­Sectors. The total amount to be allocated is determined at the includes interest from shareholder loans granted to investbeginning of the fiscal year and is charged in installments in all ments reported in Equity Investments. Pension curtailments four quarters. are a partial payback with regard to past service cost that ­affect segment Free cash flow. Free cash flow of SFS, a finanProfit of Equity Investments mainly comprises income (loss) cial services business, includes related financing interest payfrom investments presented in Equity Investments, such as the ments and proceeds; income tax payments and proceeds of share in the earnings of associates or dividends from investSFS are excluded. ments not accounted for under the equity method, income 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 313 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Amortization, depreciation and impairments: In fiscal 2014 and 2013, Corporate items and pensions in column Amortization, depreciation and impairments presented in SegProfit includes €(545) million and €(419) million related to Corment information includes depreciation and impairments of porate items, as well as €(393) million and €(416) million related property, plant and equipment, net of reversals of impairments to Pensions, respectively. Corporate items include effects from as well as amortization and impairments of intangible a ­ ssets, legal and regulatory matters. In fiscal 2014, column Profit innet of reversals of impairment. cludes a one-time effect of € 186 million regarding insurance matters, which were mainly included in Eliminations. MEASUREMENT – ­C ENTRALLY ­M ANAGED ­P ORTFOLIO ­ACTIVITIES AND SRE: ADDITIONAL SEGMENT INFORMATION Centrally managed portfolio activities follow the measureIn fiscal 2014 and 2013, Profit of SFS includes interest income ment principles of the Sectors. SRE applies the measurement of € 966 million and € 873 million, respectively and interest ­principles of SFS; Total ­assets of SRE nets certain intercom­expenses of € 336 million and € 317 million, respectively. pany ­finance receivables with certain intercompany finance ­liabilities. NOTE 36 Information about geographies RECONCILIATION TO SIEMENS’ CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table reconciles total Assets of the Sectors, Revenue by location Revenue by location of customer of companies ­Equity Investments and SFS to Total a ­ ssets of Siemens’ Con­ Year ended Year ended solidated Statements of Financial Position: September 30, September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, ­Middle East 38,732 39,390 42,383 43,426 September 30, (in millions of €) 2014 2013 Americas 18,756 19,644 18,425 19,555 Assets of Sectors 24,646 23,736 Asia, Australia 14,433 14,411 11,112 10,463 Assets of Equity Investments 2,571 2,488 Siemens 71,920 73,445 71,920 73,445 Assets of SFS 21,970 18,661 thereof Germany 10,857 10,652 18,602 18,944 Total Segment Assets 49,187 44,884 thereof foreign countries 61,063 62,792 53,318 54,501 Reconciliation: thereof U.S. 12,876 13,110 13,793 14,887 Assets Centrally managed portfolio activities (154) (234) Assets SRE 4,697 4,747 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. Assets of Corporate items and pensions 1 (1,859) (1,987) Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and other reconciling items of Segment information: Non-current assets Asset-based adjustments: September 30, Intragroup financing receivables (in millions of €) 2014 2013 and ­investments 42,037 40,850 Tax-related assets 3,782 3,924 Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East 17,053 17,404 Liability-based adjustments: Americas 12,175 12,598 Liabilities 39,232 39,244 Asia, Australia 2,753 2,752 Eliminations, Corporate Treasury, other items 1 (32,043) (29,492) Siemens 31,981 32,755 Total Eliminations, Corporate Treasury and thereof Germany 6,497 6,510 ­other reconciling items of Segment information 53,009 54,525 thereof foreign countries 25,484 26,245 Total assets in Siemens’ Consolidated thereof U.S. 10,861 11,205 ­ tatements of Financial Position S 104,879 101,936 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. 1 Includes assets and liabilities reclassified in connection with discontinued ­operations. Non-current ­assets consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible ­assets. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 314 NOTE 37 Related party transactions As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, loans given to joint ventures and associates amounted to € 21 million and € 17 million, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES respectively. In the normal course of business the Company Siemens has relationships with many joint ventures and assoregularly reviews loans and receivables associated with joint ciates in the ordinary course of business whereby Siemens ventures and associates. In fiscal 2014 and 2013, the review buys and sells a wide variety of products and services generally ­resulted in net gains related to valuation allowances totaling on arm’s length terms. For information regarding our subsidiar€ 13 million and net losses related to valuation allowances ies, joint ventures and associated in fiscal 2014 see NOTE 5 ­totaling € 27 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2014 and INTERESTS IN OTHER ENTITIES and NOTE 41 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES 2013, valuation allowances amounted to € 26 million and AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES PURSUANT TO SECTION 313 PARA. 2 OF THE € 42 million, respectively. ­G ERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE . Information regarding our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates for fiscal 2013 are presented As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, guarantees to joint ­ventures in the List of subsidiaries and associated companies published and associates amounted to € 2,904 million and € 2,789 million, separately in the German Electronic Federal Gazette (elektro­ respectively, including the HERKULES obligations of € 1,490 milnischer Bundesanzeiger). lion and € 1,890 million, respectively. For additional information regarding the HERKULES obligations as well as for information Sales of goods and services and other income from trans­ regarding guarantees in connection with the contribution of actions with joint ventures and associates as well as purchase the SEN operations into Unify (EN) see NOTE 27 COMMITMENTS of goods and services and other expenses from transactions AND CONTINGENCIES . As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, guaranwith joint ventures and associates are as follows: tees to joint ventures amounted to € 593 million and € 431 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013, the ­Company had commitments to make capital contributions of Sales of goods and services Purchases of goods and € 107 million and € 187 million to its joint ventures and asso­ and other income ­services and other ­expenses ciates, therein € 56 million and € 107 million related to joint venYear ended Year ended September 30, September 30, tures, respectively. For a loan raised by a joint venture, which is (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014 2013 secured by a Siemens guarantee, Siemens granted an addiJoint ventures 230 336 23 12 tional collateral. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 the outAssociates 747 1,008 165 214 standing amount totaled to € 129 million and € 134 million, re977 1,345 188 226 spectively. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 there were loan commitments to joint ventures and associates amounting to € 81 million and € 90 million, respectively, therein € 81 million and € 90 million, respectively related to joint ventures. Receivables from joint ventures and associates and liabilities PENSION ENTITIES to joint ventures and associates are as follows: For information regarding the funding of our pension plans ­refer to NOTE 22 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS . Receivables Liabilities RELATED INDIVIDUALS September 30, September 30, Related individuals include the members of the Managing (in millions of €) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Board and Supervisory Board. Joint ventures 198 54 72 12 Associates 82 222 255 121 In fiscal 2014 and 2013 members of the Managing Board 280 276 327 133 ­received cash compensation of € 17.9 million and € 17.0 million. The fair value of stock-based compensation amounted to € 10.7 million and € 17.6 million for 170,444 and 213,394 Stock Awards, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013. In fiscal 2014 and 2013 the Company granted contributions under the BSAV to members of the Managing Board totaling € 5.1 million and € 6.4 million. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 315 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Therefore in fiscal 2014 and 2013, compensation and benefits, long-term stock-based compensation (8,126 Stock Awards) for attributable to members of the Managing Board amounted to fiscal 2014 will be calculated once the actual target attainment is € 33.7 million and € 41.0 million in total, respectively. available, and will be granted at the usual date. The 46,399 Stock Awards already granted in the past and those for fiscal 2014, for In compensation for the forfeiture of stock, pension benefits, which the restriction period is still running, will be absolutely health benefits and transitional remuneration from her former maintained (54,525 Stock Awards), in accordance with the terms employer, the Supervisory Board granted Ms. Davis a one-time of his contract with the Company, and will be settled in cash in amount of € 5.5 million. This amount will be provided 20 % in September 2015 at the closing price of Siemens stock in Xetra cash, 30 % in the form of Siemens Stock Awards and the retrading on May 6, 2014 (€93.91). The respective fair value of the maining 50 % as a special contribution to the pension plan. Stock Awards already granted in the past at grant date amounted to €3.16 million. The Stock Awards for fiscal 2014 are included in In fiscal 2014, the following settlements have been agreed in the above mentioned stock-based compensation amount. Dr. Süß connection with termination of Managing Board memberships: agreed not to take up activities for any of significant competitor of Siemens for a period of one year after the end of his employAs Barbara Kux’s appointment to the Managing Board expired ment contract ‒ that is, until September 30, 2015. For this regularly on November 16, 2013, no compensatory payments post-contractual non-compete commitment, he will be paid a were agreed upon. The 51,582 Stock Awards already granted in monthly total of gross €65,000. the past for fiscal 2011, 2012 and 2013, for which the restriction period is still running, will be absolutely maintained, in accorIn fiscal 2013, in connection with termination of Managing dance with the terms of her contract with the Company. The Board membership, compensatory payments amounting to respective fair value of these Stock Awards at grant date €20.4 million (gross) and one-time special contributions amount­ amounted to € 3.47 million. ing to € 3.1 million to the BSAV were agreed. It was also agreed that these members of the Managing Board receive their longIn connection with the mutually agreed termination of Peter Y. term stock-based compensation for fiscal 2013 (41,554 Stock Solmssen’s activity on the Managing Board as of December 31, Awards), which will be settled in cash, and is included in the 2013, it was agreed that his contract with the Company would above mentioned stock-based compensation amount. The remain in effect until March 31, 2015. The entitlements agreed Company has furthermore agreed to reimburse out-of-pocket under the contract will remain in effect until that date. These expenses up to a maximum of € 130,000 plus v ­ alue-added tax. will not include the fringe benefits under the contract, partic­ The 175,382 Stock Awards that were granted in the past and for ularly the Company car and contributions toward the cost of which the restriction period is still in effect, will be absolutely insurance, which will be covered until the contract ends by maintained. The respective fair value of these Stock Awards at a monthly lump-sum payment of € 11,500. The 51,582 Stock grant date amounted to € 11.5 million. Awards already granted in the past for fiscal 2011, 2012 and 2013, for which the restriction period is still in progress, will be In fiscal 2014 and 2013, expense related to share-based payabsolutely maintained. The respective fair value of these Stock ment and to the Share Matching Program amounted to € 16.1 Awards at grant date amounted to € 3.47 million. Mr. Solmssen million (including the above mentioned Stock Awards in conwas also reimbursed for relocation costs, in accordance nection with the departure from members of the Managing with the commitment he received when he took office. The Board) and € 23.2 million (including the above mentioned ­ Company furthermore reimbursed Mr. Solmssen for out-ofStock Awards in connection with the departure from members pocket expenses of € 100,000 plus value-added tax. of the Managing Board), respectively. For additional information r­egarding the Share Matching Program see NOTE 32 In connection with the mutually agreed termination of Dr. Michael SHARE-BASED PAYMENT . ­Süß’s activity on the Managing Board as of May 6, 2014, it was agreed that his current contract with the Company would termiFormer members of the Managing Board and their surviving nate as of September 30, 2014. The entitlements agreed under dependents received emoluments within the meaning of Secthe contract remained in effect until that date. Dr. Süß received a tion 314 para. 1 No. 6 b of the German Commercial Code totaling compensatory payment in the gross amount of €4.3 million in € 24.2 million (including € 7.9 million in connection with the connection with the mutually agreed premature termination of above mentioned departure from members of the Managing his activity as a member of the Managing Board, together with a Board) and € 33.1 million (including € 18.2 million in connection one-time special contribution of €0.8 million to the BSAV, to be with the above mentioned departure from a member of the credited in January 2015. It was also agreed with Dr. Süß that the ­Managing Board) in fiscal 2014 and 2013. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 316 The defined benefit obligation (DBO) of all pension commitIn fiscal 2014 and 2013, 44 % and 50 %, respectively, of the ­total ments to former members of the Managing Board and their fees related to Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungssurvivors as of September 30, 2014 and 2013 amounted to gesellschaft, Germany. € 234.4 million and € 192.5 million. For additional information see NOTE 22 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS . Audit Services relate primarily to services provided by EY for auditing Siemens’ Consolidated Financial Statements and for Compensation attributable to members of the Supervisory Board auditing the statutory financial statements of Siemens AG and comprises in fiscal 2014 and 2013 of a base compensation and its subsidiaries. Other Attestation Services include primarily additional compensation for committee work and amounted ­audits of financial statements in connection with M & A activito € 5.1 million and € 4.9 million (including meeting fees), ties, comfort letters and other attestation services required ­respectively. ­under regulatory requirements, agreements or requested on a voluntary basis. Tax Services are primarily for transitional supNo loans and advances from the Company are provided to memport, where EY was the historical tax service provider, with tax bers of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. audits and other follow-up tax compliance services. Other services in fiscal 2013 consist of advisory services provided by EY Information regarding the remuneration of the members of the for a transitional ­period after they acquired one of Siemens’ Managing Board and Supervisory Board is disclosed on an indiIT-suppliers in the area of supply chain management in vidual basis in the Compensation Report, which is part of the June 2013. Combined Management Report. The chapter B.4 COMPEN­ SATION REPORT is presented within the chapter B. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE . NOTE 39 Corporate Governance In fiscal 2014 and 2013, no other major transactions took place The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of Siemens between the Company and the other members of the ManagAktiengesellschaft provided the declaration required by ­ ing Board and the Supervisory Board. ­Section 161 of the German stock corporation law (AktG) as of October 1, 2014, which is available on the Company ’s website Some of our board members hold, or in the last year have held, at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/GCG-CODE . positions of significant responsibility with other entities. We have relationships with almost all of these entities in the ordinary course of our business whereby we buy and sell a wide NOTE 40 Subsequent events variety of products and services on arm’s length terms. In November 2014, Siemens announced the sale of its hearing aid business to the investment company EQT and the German NOTE 38 Principal accountant fees entrepreneurial family Strüngmann as co-investors. The transand services action volume is € 2.15 billion plus an earn-out component and includes that the new owners will also be allowed to continue Fees related to professional services rendered by the Com­ using the Siemens product brand for the hearing aid business pany’s principal accountant, EY, for fiscal 2014 and 2013 were as over the medium term. The hearing aid business so far rep­follows: resents a Business Unit within Healthcare. The transaction is subject to approval by the regulatory authorities. Closing is ­expected in the first quarter of calendar year 2015. The hearing Year ended September 30, aid business is presented as held for disposal and discontinued (in millions of €) 2014 2013 operations since the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Type of fees Audit Services 43.5 45.6 Other Attestation Services 5.9 10.2 Tax Services 0.2 0.1 Other services – 0.4 Total 49.6 56.3 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 317 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NOTE 41 List of subsidiaries and associated companies pursuant to Section 313 September 30, 2014 Equity interest in % para. 2 of the German Commercial Code messMa GmbH, Irxleben 100 Omnetric GmbH, Munich 51 OPTIO Grundstücks-Vermietungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Objekt Tübingen KG, Grünwald 100 10 Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % Partikeltherapiezentrum Kiel Holding GmbH, Erlangen 100 11 Subsidiaries Project Ventures Butendiek Holding GmbH, Erlangen 100 11 Germany (115 companies) Projektbau-Arena-Berlin GmbH, Grünwald 100 11 Airport Munich Logistics and Services GmbH, Hallbergmoos 100 R & S Restaurant Services GmbH, Munich 100 Alpha Verteilertechnik GmbH, Cham 100 11 REMECH Systemtechnik GmbH, Kamsdorf 100 11 Anlagenund Rohrleitungsbau Ratingen GmbH, Ratingen 100 8 RHG Vermögensverwaltung GmbH, Berlin 100 11 AS AUDIO-SERVICE Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, RISICOM Rückversicherung AG, Grünwald 100 Herford 100 Samtech Deutschland GmbH, Hamburg 100 Atecs Mannesmann GmbH, Erlangen 100 Siemens Audiologische Technik GmbH, Erlangen 100 Berliner Vermögensverwaltung GmbH, Berlin 100 11 Siemens Bank GmbH, Munich 100 Blitz 14-658 GmbH, Munich 100 8 Siemens Beteiligungen Inland GmbH, Munich 100 11 Blitz 14-660 GmbH, Munich 100 8 Siemens Beteiligungen Management GmbH, Grünwald 100 8 Blitz 14-661 GmbH, Munich 100 8 Siemens Beteiligungen USA GmbH, Berlin 100 11 BWI Services GmbH, Meckenheim 100 11 Siemens Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHG, Grünwald 100 10 CAPTA Grundstücksgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG i.L., Grünwald 100 10 Siemens Campus Erlangen Grundstücks-GmbH & Co. KG, Capta Grundstücks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Grünwald 100 ­Grünwald 100 10 DA Creative GmbH, Munich 100 Siemens Campus Erlangen Objekt 1 GmbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 10 Dade Behring Beteiligungs GmbH, Eschborn 100 Siemens Campus Erlangen Objektmanagement GmbH, Dade Behring Grundstücks GmbH, Marburg 100 ­Grünwald 100 8 EDI – USS Umsatzsteuersammelrechnungen und Signaturen Siemens Campus Erlangen Verwaltungs-GmbH, Grünwald 100 8 GmbH & Co. KG, Munich 100 10 Siemens Convergence Creators GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg 100 10 EDI – USS Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Munich 100 8 Siemens Convergence Creators Management GmbH, Hamburg 100 8 evosoft GmbH, Nuremberg 100 11 Siemens Energy Automation GmbH, Erlangen 100 FACTA Grundstücks-Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, Siemens Finance & Leasing GmbH, Munich 100 11 Munich 100 10 Siemens Financial Services GmbH, Munich 100 11 HanseCom Gesellschaft für Informationsund Siemens Fonds Invest GmbH, Munich 100 11 ­Kommunikationsdienstleistungen mbH, Hamburg 74 Siemens Fuel Gasification Technology GmbH & Co. KG, HSP Hochspannungsgeräte GmbH, Troisdorf 100 11 Freiberg 100 10 IBS Aktiengesellschaft excellence, collaboration, Siemens Fuel Gasification Technology Verwaltungs GmbH, ­manufacturing, Höhr-Grenzhausen 100 11 Freiberg 100 8 ILLIT Grundstücks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG i.L., Siemens Global Innovation Partners Management GmbH, Grünwald 100 10 Munich 100 8 ILLIT Grundstücksverwaltungs-Management GmbH, Grünwald 85 Siemens Grundstücksmanagement GmbH & Co. OHG, IPGD Grundstücksverwaltungs-Gesellschaft mbH, Grünwald 100 ­Grünwald 100 10 Jawa Power Holding GmbH, Erlangen 100 11 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics GmbH, Eschborn 100 KompTime GmbH, Munich 100 11 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Holding GmbH, Eschborn 100 Kyros 46 Verwaltungs GmbH, Constance 100 8 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Products GmbH, Marburg 100 Lincas Electro Vertriebsgesellschaft mbH, Hamburg 100 Siemens Immobilien Chemnitz-Voerde GmbH, Grünwald 100 Mannesmann Demag Krauss-Maffei GmbH, Munich 100 Siemens Industriegetriebe GmbH, Penig 100 11 Mechanik Center Erlangen GmbH, Erlangen 100 11 Siemens Industriepark Karlsruhe GmbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 10 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 318 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % Siemens Industry Automation Holding AG, Munich 100 11 Verwaltung SeaRenergy Offshore Projects GmbH i.L., Hamburg 100 Siemens Industry Software GmbH & Co. KG, Cologne 100 10 VIB Verkehrsinformationsagentur Bayern GmbH, Munich 51 Siemens Industry Software Management GmbH, Cologne 100 8 VMZ Berlin Betreibergesellschaft mbH, Berlin 100 Siemens Insulation Center GmbH & Co. KG, Zwönitz 100 10 VR-LEASING IKANA GmbH & Co. Immobilien KG, Eschborn 94 3 Siemens Insulation Center Verwaltungs-GmbH, Zwönitz 100 8 VVK Versicherungsvermittlungsund Verkehrskontor GmbH, Siemens Medical Solutions Health Services GmbH, Erlangen 100 Munich 100 11 Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme GmbH, Grünwald 100 Weiss Spindeltechnologie GmbH, Schweinfurt 100 Siemens Novel Businesses GmbH, Munich 100 11 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics GmbH, Constance 100 8 Europe, Commonwealth of Independent States (C.I.S.), Siemens Power Control GmbH, Langen 100 11 ­Africa, Middle East (without Germany) (260 companies) Siemens Private Finance Versicherungsund ESTEL Rail Automation SPA, Algiers / Algeria 51 ­Kapitalanlagenvermittlungs-GmbH, Munich 100 11 Siemens Spa, Algiers / Algeria 100 Siemens Project Ventures GmbH, Erlangen 100 11 Siemens S.A., Luanda / Angola 51 Siemens Real Estate GmbH & Co. OHG, Grünwald 100 10 ETM professional control GmbH, Eisenstadt / Austria 100 Siemens Real Estate Management GmbH, Grünwald 100 8 Hochquellstrom-Vertriebs GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Spezial-Investmentaktiengesellschaft mit TGV, Munich 100 ITH icoserve technology for healthcare GmbH, Siemens Technology Accelerator GmbH, Munich 100 11 Innsbruck / Austria 69 Siemens Technopark Mülheim GmbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 10 KDAG Beteiligungen GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Technopark Mülheim Verwaltungs GmbH, Grünwald 100 Landis & Staefa (Österreich) GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Technopark Nürnberg GmbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 10 Landis & Staefa GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Technopark Nürnberg Verwaltungs GmbH, Grünwald 100 Omnetric GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens Treasury GmbH, Munich 100 11 Saudi VOEST-ALPINE GmbH, Linz / Austria 100 Siemens Turbomachinery Equipment GmbH, Frankenthal 100 11 Siemens Aktiengesellschaft Österreich, Vienna / Austria 100 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies GmbH, Willstätt-Legelshurst 100 Siemens Convergence Creators GmbH, Eisenstadt / Austria 100 Siemens Venture Capital GmbH, Munich 100 11 Siemens Convergence Creators GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SILLIT Grundstücks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Munich 100 Siemens Convergence Creators Holding GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SIM 16. Grundstücksverwaltungsund -beteiligungs-­ Siemens Gebäudemanagement & -Services G.m.b.H., GmbH & Co. KG, Munich 100 10 Vienna / Austria 100 SIM 2. Grundstücks-GmbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 10 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SIMAR Nordost Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 11 Siemens Industry Software GmbH, Linz / Austria 100 SIMAR Nordwest Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 11 Siemens Konzernbeteiligungen GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SIMAR Ost Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 11 Siemens Liegenschaftsverwaltung GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SIMAR Süd Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 11 Siemens Personaldienstleistungen GmbH, Vienna / Austria 100 SIMAR West Grundstücks-GmbH, Grünwald 100 11 Siemens Urban Rail Technologies Holding GmbH, SIMOS Real Estate GmbH, Munich 100 11 Vienna / Austria 75 SKAG Fonds C1, Munich 100 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies GmbH, Linz / Austria 100 SKAG Fonds S7, Munich 100 Steiermärkische Medizinarchiv GesmbH, Graz / Austria 52 SKAG Fonds S8, Munich 100 Trench Austria GmbH, Leonding / Austria 100 SKAG Principals, Munich 100 VVK Versicherungs-Vermittlungsund Verkehrs-Kontor GmbH, Sky Eye Transportation Systems GmbH i.L., Braunschweig 100 8 Vienna / Austria 100 SYKATEC Systeme, Komponenten, Anwendungstechnologie Siemens W.L.L., Manama / Bahrain 51 GmbH, Erlangen 100 11 Samtech SA, Angleur / Belgium 79 Trench Germany GmbH, Bamberg 100 11 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics SA, Brussels / Belgium 100 Turbine Airfoil Coating and Repair GmbH, Berlin 100 Siemens Industry Software NV, Leuven / Belgium 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 319 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software II (BE) BVBA, Siemens VAI Metals Technologies SAS, Savigneux / France 100 Anderlecht / Belgium 100 Trench France S.A.S., Saint-Louis / France 100 Siemens S.A./N.V., Beersel / Belgium 100 Tecnomatix Technologies (Gibraltar) Limited, Siemens VAI Metal Technologies S.A/N.V, Beersel / Belgium 100 8 Gibraltar/Gibraltar 100 Siemens d.o.o., Banja Luka / Bosnia and Herzegovina 100 Siemens A.E., Elektrotechnische Projekte und Erzeugnisse, Siemens d.o.o. Sarajevo, Sarajevo / Bosnia and Herzegovina 100 ­Athens / Greece 100 Siemens Pty. Ltd., Gaborone / Botswana 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics ABEE, Athens / Greece 100 Siemens EOOD, Sofia / Bulgaria 100 evosoft Hungary Szamitastechnikai Kft., Budapest / Hungary 100 Koncar Power Transformers d.o.o., Zagreb / Croatia 51 Siemens Audiológiai Technika Kereskedelmi és Szolgáltató Siemens Convergence Creators d.o.o., Zagreb / Croatia 100 Korlátolt Felelösségü Társaság, Budapest / Hungary 100 Siemens d.d., Zagreb / Croatia 100 Siemens PSE Programés Rendszerfejlesztö Kft., J. N. Kelly Security Holding Limited, Larnaka / Cyprus 100 Budapest / Hungary 100 OEZ s.r.o., Letohrad / Czech Republic 100 Siemens Zrt., Budapest / Hungary 100 Siemens Audiologická Technika s.r.o., Prague / Czech Republic 100 Siemens Sherkate Sahami (Khass), Teheran / Iran, Siemens Convergence Creators, s.r.o., Prague / Czech Republic 100 Islamic Republic of 97 Siemens Electric Machines s.r.o., Drasov / Czech Republic 100 Europlex Technologies (Ireland) Limited, Dublin / Ireland 100 Siemens Industry Software, s.r.o., Prague / Czech Republic 100 iMetrex Technologies Limited, Dublin / Ireland 100 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies, s.r.o., Siemens Limited, Dublin / Ireland 100 Ostrava / Czech Republic 100 8 Robcad Limited, Airport City / Israel 100 Siemens, s.r.o., Prague / Czech Republic 100 Siemens Concentrated Solar Power Ltd., Rosh HaAyin / Israel 100 Siemens A/S, Ballerup / Denmark 100 Siemens Industry Software Ltd., Airport City / Israel 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics ApS, Ballerup / Denmark 100 Siemens Israel Ltd., Tel Aviv / Israel 100 Siemens Höreapparater A/S, Ballerup / Denmark 100 Siemens Israel Projects Ltd., Rosh HaAyin / Israel 100 8 Siemens Industry Software A/S, Ballerup / Denmark 100 Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software 2 (IL) Ltd., Siemens Wind Power A/S, Brande / Denmark 100 Airport City / Israel 100 NEM Energy Egypt LLC, Alexandria / Egypt 100 UGS Israeli Holdings (Israel) Ltd., Airport City / Israel 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.A.E, Cairo / Egypt 100 HV-Turbo Italia S.r.l., Mornago / Italy 100 Siemens Ltd. for Trading, Cairo / Egypt 100 Samtech Italia S.r.l., Milan / Italy 100 Siemens Technologies S.A.E., Cairo / Egypt 90 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.r.l., Milan / Italy 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics OY, Espoo / Finland 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments S.r.l., Milan / Italy 100 Siemens Osakeyhtiö, Espoo / Finland 100 Siemens Industry Software S.r.l., Milan / Italy 100 Flender-Graffenstaden SAS, Illkirch-Graffenstaden / France 100 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics S.r.L., Milan / Italy 100 LMS France S.A.R.L, Vélizy-Villacoublay / France 100 Siemens Renting S.p.A. in Liquidazione, Milan / Italy 100 LMS Imagine, Roanne / France 100 Siemens S.p.A., Milan / Italy 100 PETNET Solutions SAS, Saint-Denis / France 100 Siemens Transformers S.p.A., Trento / Italy 100 Samtech France, Massy / France 100 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies S.r.l., Marnate / Italy 100 8 Siemens Audiologie S.A.S., Saint-Denis / France 100 Trench Italia S.r.l., Savona / Italy 100 Siemens Financial Services SAS, Saint-Denis / France 100 Siemens TOO, Almaty / Kazakhstan 100 Siemens France Holding, Saint-Denis / France 100 Siemens Kenya Ltd., Nairobi / Kenya 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.A.S., Saint-Denis / France 100 Siemens Electrical & Electronic Services K.S.C.C., Siemens Industry Software SAS, Vélizy-Villacoublay / France 100 Kuwait City / Kuwait 49 2 Siemens Lease Services SAS, Saint-Denis / France 100 Tecnomatix Technologies SARL, Luxembourg / Luxembourg 100 SIEMENS Postal Parcel Airport Logistics S.A.S., Paris / France 100 8 TFM International S.A. i.L., Luxembourg / Luxembourg 100 Siemens S.A.S., Saint-Denis / France 100 Siemens d.o.o. Podgorica, Podgorica / Montenegro 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 320 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % SCIENTIFIC MEDICAL SOLUTION DIAGNOSTICS S.A.R.L., SIEMENS (AUSTRIA) PROIECT SPITAL COLTEA SRL, ­Casablanca / Morocco 100 Bucharest / Romania 100 Siemens Plant Operations Tahaddart SARL, Tanger / Morocco 100 Siemens Convergence Creators S.R.L., Brasov / Romania 100 Siemens S.A., Casablanca / Morocco 100 Siemens Industry Software S.R.L., Brasov / Romania 100 Siemens Lda., Maputo / Mozambique 100 Siemens S.R.L., Bucharest / Romania 100 Siemens Pty. Ltd., Windhoek / Namibia 100 SIMEA SIBIU S.R.L., Sibiu / Romania 100 Castor III B.V., Amsterdam / Netherlands 100 OOO Legion II, Moscow / Russian Federation 100 LMS Instruments BV, Breda / Netherlands 100 OOO Russian Turbo Machinery, Perm / Russian Federation 100 NEM Energy B.V., Leiden / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens, Moscow / Russian Federation 100 NEM Energy Holding B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens Elektroprivod, St. Petersburg / Russian Federation 66 Omnetric B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens Gas Turbine Technologies, Novoe Pollux III B.V., Amsterdam / Netherlands 100 ­Devyatkino / Russian Federation 100 Siemens Audiologie Techniek B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens High Voltage Products, Ufimsky Siemens Diagnostics Holding II B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 ­District / ­Russian Federation 100 Siemens Finance B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens Industry Software, Moscow / Russian Federation 100 Siemens Financieringsmaatschappij N.V., OOO Siemens Transformers, Voronezh / Russian Federation 100 The Hague / Netherlands 100 OOO Siemens Urban Rail Technologies, Moscow / Russian Siemens Gas Turbine Technologies Holding B.V., Federation 100 The Hague / Netherlands 65 OOO Siemens VAI Metals Technologies, Moscow / Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics B.V., Breda / Netherlands 100 Russian Federation 100 8 Siemens Industry Software B.V., ’s-Hertogenbosch / Siemens Finance LLC, Vladivostok / Russian Federation 100 Netherlands 100 Siemens Research Center Limited Liability Company, Siemens International Holding B.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 ­Moscow / Russian Federation 100 Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics Holding I B.V., Arabia Electric Ltd. (Equipment), Jeddah / Saudi Arabia 51 The Hague / Netherlands 100 ISCOSA Industries and Maintenance Ltd., Riyadh / Saudi Arabia 51 Siemens Nederland N.V., The Hague / Netherlands 100 Siemens Ltd., Riyadh / Saudi Arabia 51 Siemens Ltd., Lagos / Nigeria 100 VA TECH T & D Co. Ltd., Riyadh / Saudi Arabia 51 Siemens AS, Oslo / Norway 100 Westinghouse Saudi Arabia Ltd., Riyadh / Saudi Arabia 100 8 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics AS, Oslo / Norway 100 Siemens d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade / Serbia 100 Siemens Höreapparater AS, Oslo / Norway 100 OEZ Slovakia, spol. s r.o., Bratislava / Slovakia 100 Siemens L.L.C., Muscat / Oman 51 SAT Systémy automatizacnej techniky spol. s.r.o., Siemens Pakistan Engineering Co. Ltd., Karachi / Pakistan 75 Bratislava / Slovakia 60 Audio SAT Sp. z o.o., Poznan / Poland 100 Siemens Program and System Engineering s.r.o., Siemens Finance Sp. z o.o., Warsaw / Poland 100 Bratislava / Slovakia 100 Siemens Industry Software Sp. z o.o., Warsaw / Poland 100 Siemens s.r.o., Bratislava / Slovakia 100 Siemens Sp. z o.o., Warsaw / Poland 100 SIPRIN s.r.o., Bratislava / Slovakia 100 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies Spólka z ograniczona Siemens d.o.o., Ljubljana / Slovenia 100 ­odpowiedzialnoscia, Cracow / Poland 100 8 Linacre Investments (Pty) Ltd., Kenilworth / South Africa 03 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Unipessoal Lda., Marqott (Proprietory) Limited, Pretoria / South Africa 100 Amadora / Portugal 100 Marqott Holdings (Pty.) Ltd., Pretoria / South Africa 100 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics, Unipessoal Lda, Siemens (Proprietary) Limited, Midrand / South Africa 70 ­Lisbon / Portugal 100 Siemens Building Technologies (Pty) Ltd., Midrand/South Africa 100 Siemens S.A., Amadora / Portugal 100 Siemens Employee Share Ownership Trust, Siemens W.L.L., Doha / Qatar 40 2 Johannesburg / South Africa 03 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 321 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics (Pty.) Limited, Siemens VAI Metal Teknolojileri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Isando / South Africa 100 ­Istanbul / Turkey 100 8 Siemens Hearing Solution (Pty.) Ltd., Randburg / South Africa 100 100% foreign owned subsidiary “Siemens Ukraine”, Siemens IT Solutions and Services (Pty) Ltd., Kiev / Ukraine 100 Johannesburg / South Africa 100 LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY “SIEMENS VAI METALS Fábrica Electrotécnica Josa, S.A., Barcelona / Spain 100 ­TECHNOLOGIES”, Kiev / Ukraine 100 8 Petnet Soluciones, S.L., Sociedad Unipersonal, Gulf Steam Generators L.L.C., Dubai / United Arab Emirates 100 Madrid / Spain 100 SD (Middle East) LLC, Dubai / United Arab Emirates 49 2 Samtech Iberica Engineering & Software Services S.L., Siemens LLC, Abu Dhabi / United Arab Emirates 49 2 Barcelona / Spain 100 Siemens Middle East Limited, Masdar City/ Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.L., Barcelona / Spain 100 United Arab Emirates 100 Siemens Holding S.L., Madrid / Spain 100 Electrium Sales Limited, Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Industry Software S.L., Barcelona / Spain 100 GyM Renewables Limited, Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 SIEMENS POSTAL, PARCEL & AIRPORT LOGISTICS, S.L. Sociedad GyM Renewables ONE Limited, Frimley, Surrey/United Kingdom 100 Unipersonal, Madrid / Spain 100 Leuven Measurement & Systems UK Limited, Frimley, Siemens Rail Automation Holding S.A., Madrid / Spain 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Rail Automation S.A.U., Madrid / Spain 100 Marine Current Turbines Limited, Frimley, Surrey/United Kingdom 100 Siemens Renting S.A., Madrid / Spain 100 Preactor International Limited, Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens S.A., Madrid / Spain 100 Project Ventures Rail Investments I Limited, Frimley, Telecomunicación, Electrónica y Conmutación S.A., Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Madrid / Spain 100 Samtech UK Limited, Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens AB, Upplands Väsby / Sweden 100 SBS Pension Funding (Scotland) Limited Partnership, Siemens Financial Services AB, Stockholm / Sweden 100 ­Edinburgh / United Kingdom 57 3 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics AB, Södertälje / Sweden 100 Sea Generation (Brough Ness) Limited, Frimley, Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery AB, Finspång / Sweden 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Industry Software AB, Kista / Sweden 100 Sea Generation (Kyle Rhea) Limited, Frimley, Huba Control AG, Würenlos / Switzerland 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Audiologie AG, Adliswil / Switzerland 100 Sea Generation (Wales) Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Fuel Gasification Technology Holding AG, Sea Generation Limited, Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Zug / Switzerland 100 Siemens Financial Services Holdings Ltd., Stoke Poges, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics AG, Zurich / Switzerland 100 ­Buckinghamshire / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Industry Software AG, Zurich / Switzerland 100 Siemens Financial Services Ltd., Stoke Poges, ­ Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics AG, Buckinghamshire / United Kingdom 100 Zurich / Switzerland 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Ltd., Frimley, Siemens Power Holding AG, Zug / Switzerland 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Schweiz AG, Zurich / Switzerland 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Manufacturing Ltd, Frimley, Stadt/Land Immobilien AG, Zurich / Switzerland 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Tanzania Ltd., Dar es Salaam / Tanzania, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Products Ltd, Frimley, United Republic of 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens S.A., Tunis / Tunisia 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments Ltd., Crawley, Siemens Finansal Kiralama A.S., Istanbul / Turkey 100 West Sussex / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Isitme Cihazlari Sanayi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi, Siemens Holdings plc, Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Istanbul / Turkey 100 Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery Ltd., Frimley, Siemens Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Istanbul / Turkey 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 322 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % Siemens Industry Software Limited, Frimley, Siemens Eletroeletronica Limitada, Manaus / Brazil 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnósticos Ltda., São Paulo / Brazil 100 Siemens Pension Funding (General) Limited, Frimley, Siemens Industry Software Ltda., São Caetano do Sul / Brazil 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Ltda., São Paulo / Brazil 100 Siemens Pension Funding Limited, Frimley, Siemens Rail Automation Ltda., São Paulo / Brazil 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens VAI Metals Services Ltda., Volta Redonda / Brazil 100 Siemens plc, Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 VAI – INGDESI Automation Ltda., Belo Horizonte / Brazil 100 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics Limited, Frimley, Hearcanada Inc., Oakville / Canada 100 ­Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Canada Ltd., Ontario / Canada 100 Siemens Protection Devices Limited, Frimley, Siemens Financial Ltd., Oakville / Canada 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments Inc., Ontario / Canada 100 Siemens Rail Automation Holdings Limited, Frimley, Siemens Industry Software Ltd., Ontario / Canada 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics Ltd., Oakville / Canada 100 Siemens Rail Automation Limited, Frimley, Siemens Transformers Canada Inc., Trois-Rivières / Canada 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Trench Ltd., Saint John / Canada 100 Siemens Rail Systems Project Holdings Limited, Frimley, Wheelabrator Air Pollution Control (Canada) Inc., Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Ontario / Canada 100 Siemens Rail Systems Project Limited, Frimley, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Manufacturing Limited, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 George Town / Cayman Islands 100 Siemens Transmission & Distribution Limited, Frimley, Siemens S.A., Santiago de Chile / Chile 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Manufacturing S.A., Bogotá / Colombia 100 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies Limited, Frimley, Siemens S.A., Costado Sur – Tenjo / Colombia 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics S.A., San José / Costa Rica 100 The Preactor Group Limited, Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens S.A., San José / Costa Rica 100 Tronic Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens, S.R.L., Santo Domingo / Dominican Republic 100 VA TECH (UK) Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 Siemens S.A., Quito / Ecuador 100 VA Tech Reyrolle Distribution Ltd., Frimley, Siemens S.A., San Salvador / El Salvador 100 Surrey / United Kingdom 100 SIEMENS HEALTHCARE DIAGNOSTICS GUATEMALA, S.A., VA TECH T & D UK Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 100 ­Guatemala / Guatemala 100 VTW Anlagen UK Ltd., Banbury, Oxfordshire / United Kingdom 100 Siemens S.A., Guatemala / Guatemala 100 Siemens S.A., Tegucigalpa / Honduras 100 Americas (96 companies) Dade Behring, S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Siemens IT Services S.A., Buenos Aires / Argentina 100 Grupo Siemens S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Siemens S.A., Buenos Aires / Argentina 100 Indústria de Trabajos Eléctricos S.A. de C.V., Ciudad VA TECH International Argentina SA, Buenos Aires / Argentina 100 Juárez / Mexico 100 Siemens Soluciones Tecnologicas S.A., Santa Cruz de la Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, S. de R.L. de C.V., México, ­Sierra / Bolivia, Plurinational State of 100 D.F. / Mexico 100 Chemtech Servicos de Engenharia e Software Ltda., Siemens Industry Software, SA de CV, México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Rio de Janeiro / Brazil 100 Siemens Inmobiliaria S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Iriel Indústria e Cómercio de Sistemas Eléctricos Ltda., Siemens Innovaciones S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 Canoas / Brazil 100 Siemens Servicios S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 LMS da América do Sul Servicos de Engenharia Ltda, Siemens VAI Metals Technologies, S. de R.L. de C.V., São Caetano do Sul / Brazil 100 Apodaca / Mexico 100 8 Siemens Aparelhos Auditivos Ltda., São Paulo / Brazil 100 Siemens, S.A. de C.V., México, D.F. / Mexico 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 323 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % Siemens S.A., Managua / Nicaragua 100 Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc., Wilmington, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Panama, S.A., DE / United States 100 Panama City / Panama 100 Siemens Molecular Imaging, Inc., Wilmington, Siemens S.A., Panama City / Panama 100 DE / United States 100 Siemens S.A.C., Lima / Peru 100 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics LLC, Wilmington, Audiology Distribution, LLC, Wilmington, DE / United States 100 DE / United States 100 eMeter Corporation, Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Siemens Power Generation Service Company, Ltd., FCE International, LLC, Huntingdon Valley, PA / United States 100 ­Wilmington, DE / United States 100 HearUSA IPA, Inc., New York, NY / United States 100 Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software Inc., HearX West LLC, Wilmington, DE / United States 50 2 ­Wilmington, DE / United States 100 HearX West, Inc., Los Angeles, CA / United States 100 Siemens Public, Inc., Wilmington, DE / United States 100 IBS America, Inc., Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Siemens USA Holdings, Inc., Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Mannesmann Corporation, New York, NY / United States 100 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies LLC, Wilmington, NEM USA Corp., Wilmington, DE / United States 100 DE / United States 100 8 Nimbus Technologies, LLC, Bingham Farms, MI / United States 100 SMI Holding LLC, Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Omnetric Corp., Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Wheelabrator Air Pollution Control Inc., Baltimore, P.E.T.NET Houston, LLC, Austin, TX / United States 51 MD / United States 100 PETNET Indiana LLC, Indianapolis, IN / United States 50 1 Winergy Drive Systems Corporation, Wilmington, PETNET Solutions Cleveland, LLC, Wilmington, DE / United States 100 DE / United States 63 Siemens S.A., Montevideo / Uruguay 100 PETNET Solutions, Inc., Knoxville, TN / United States 100 Siemens Telecomunicaciones S.A., Montevideo / Uruguay 100 Siemens Capital Company LLC, Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Siemens Rail Automation, C.A., Caracas / Venezuela, Siemens Convergence Creators Corp., Wilmington, Bolivarian Republic of 100 DE / United States 100 Siemens S.A., Caracas / Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of 100 Siemens Corporation, Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Dade Behring Hong Kong Holdings Corporation, Siemens Credit Warehouse, Inc., Wilmington, Tortola / Virgin Islands, British 100 DE / United States 100 Siemens Demag Delaval Turbomachinery, Inc., Wilmington, Asia, Australia (133 companies) DE / United States 100 Australia Hospital Holding Pty Limited, Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Electrical, LLC, Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Exemplar Health (NBH) 2 Pty Limited, Bayswater / Australia 100 8 Siemens Energy, Inc., Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Exemplar Health (NBH) Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Siemens Financial Services, Inc., Wilmington, Bayswater / Australia 100 DE / United States 100 Exemplar Health (NBH) Trust 2, Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Financial, Inc., Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Exemplar Health (SCUH) 3 Pty Limited, Bayswater / Australia 100 8 Siemens Fossil Services, Inc., Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Exemplar Health (SCUH) 4 Pty Limited, Bayswater / Australia 100 8 Siemens Generation Services Company, Wilmington, Exemplar Health (SCUH) Holdings 3 Pty Limited, DE / United States 100 Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Government Technologies, Inc., Wilmington, Exemplar Health (SCUH) Holdings 4 Pty Limited, DE / United States 100 Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc., Los Angeles, Exemplar Health (SCUH) Trust 3, Bayswater / Australia 100 CA / United States 100 Exemplar Health (SCUH) Trust 4, Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments, Inc., Wilmington, Memcor Australia Pty. Ltd., South Windsor / Australia 100 DE / United States 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments Pty. Ltd., Bayswater / Australia 100 Siemens Industry, Inc., Wilmington, DE / United States 100 Siemens Ltd., Bayswater / Australia 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 324 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % Siemens Rail Automation Holding Pty. Ltd., Clayton / Australia 100 Siemens Manufacturing and Engineering Centre Ltd., SIEMENS RAIL AUTOMATION INVESTMENT PTY. LTD., Shanghai / China 51 Clayton / Australia 100 Siemens Mechanical Drive Systems (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., SIEMENS RAIL AUTOMATION PTY. LTD., Clayton / Australia 100 Tianjin / China 100 Westinghouse McKenzie-Holland Pty Ltd, Clayton / Australia 100 Siemens Medium Voltage Switching Technologies (Wuxi) Ltd., Siemens Bangladesh Ltd., Dhaka / Bangladesh 100 Wuxi / China 85 Beijing Siemens Cerberus Electronics Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens Numerical Control Ltd., Nanjing, Nanjing / China 80 DPC (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., Tianjin / China 100 Siemens PLM Software (Shenzhen) Limited, Shenzhen / China 100 GIS Steel & Aluminum Products Co., Ltd. Hangzhou, Siemens Power Automation Ltd., Nanjing / China 100 Hangzhou / China 51 Siemens Power Equipment Packages Co. Ltd., Shanghai, IBS Industrial Business Software (Shanghai), Ltd., Shanghai / China 65 Shanghai / China 100 Siemens Power Plant Automation Ltd., Nanjing / China 100 MWB (Shanghai) Co Ltd., Shanghai / China 65 Siemens Rail Automation Technical Consulting Services Siemens Building Technologies (Tianjin) Ltd., Tianjin / China 70 (Beijing) Co. Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens Business Information Consulting Co., Ltd, Beijing/China 100 Siemens Real Estate Management (Beijing) Ltd., Co., Siemens Circuit Protection Systems Ltd., Shanghai, Beijing / China 100 Shanghai / China 75 Siemens Sensors & Communication Ltd., Dalian / China 100 Siemens Eco-City Innovation Technologies (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., Siemens Shanghai Medical Equipment Ltd., Shanghai / China 100 Tianjin / China 60 Siemens Shenzhen Magnetic Resonance Ltd., Siemens Electrical Apparatus Ltd., Suzhou, Suzhou / China 100 Shenzhen / China 100 Siemens Electrical Drives (Shanghai) Ltd., Shanghai / China 100 Siemens Signalling Co. Ltd., Xi’an, Xi’an / China 70 Siemens Electrical Drives Ltd., Tianjin / China 85 Siemens Special Electrical Machines Co. Ltd., Changzhi / China 77 Siemens Factory Automation Engineering Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens Standard Motors Ltd., Yizheng / China 100 Siemens Finance and Leasing Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens Surge Arresters Ltd., Wuxi / China 100 Siemens Financial Services Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens Switchgear Ltd., Shanghai, Shanghai / China 55 Siemens Gas Turbine Parts Ltd., Shanghai, Shanghai / China 51 Siemens Technology Development Co., Ltd. of Beijing, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Beijing / China 90 Shanghai / China 100 Siemens Transformer (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd., Siemens Hearing Instruments (Suzhou) Co. Ltd., Suzhou / China 100 Guangzhou / China 63 Siemens High Voltage Circuit Breaker Co., Ltd., Hangzhou, Siemens Transformer (Jinan) Co., Ltd, Jinan / China 90 Hangzhou / China 51 Siemens Transformer (Wuhan) Company Ltd., Siemens High Voltage Switchgear Co., Ltd. Shanghai, Wuhan City / China 100 Shanghai / China 51 Siemens VAI International Trading Co., Ltd., Shanghai, Siemens High Voltage Switchgear Guangzhou Ltd., ­Shanghai / China 100 8 Guangzhou / China 94 Siemens VAI Manufacturing (Taicang) Co., Ltd., Taicang / China 100 Siemens Industrial Automation Ltd., Shanghai, Shanghai / China 100 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies Co., Ltd., Shanghai, Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery (Huludao) Co. Ltd., ­Shanghai / China 100 Huludao / China 84 Siemens Venture Capital Co., Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens Industry Software (Beijing) Co., Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens Water Technologies Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Siemens Industry Software (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Siemens Wind Power Blades (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai / China 100 Shanghai / China 100 Siemens International Trading Ltd., Shanghai, Shanghai / China 100 Siemens Wind Power Turbines (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Siemens Investment Consulting Co., Ltd., Beijing / China 100 Shanghai / China 49 2 Siemens Ltd., China, Beijing / China 100 Siemens Wiring Accessories Shandong Ltd., Zibo / China 100 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 325 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % Siemens X-Ray Vacuum Technology Ltd.,Wuxi, Wuxi / China 100 Siemens Ltd. Seoul, Seoul / Korea, Republic of 100 Smart Metering Solutions (Changsha) Co. Ltd., Changsha/China 60 Siemens PETNET Korea Co. Ltd., Seoul / Korea, Republic of 100 Trench High Voltage Products Ltd., Shenyang, Shenyang / China 65 Siemens VAI Metals Technologies Limited, Seoul / Korea, Winergy Drive Systems (Tianjin) Co. Ltd., Tianjin / China 100 ­Republic of 100 8 Yangtze Delta Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Hangzhou, HRSG Systems (Malaysia) SDN. BHD., Kuala Lumpur / Malaysia 100 Hangzhou / China 51 Reyrolle (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Kuala Lumpur / Malaysia 100 Asia Care Holding Limited, Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 8 Siemens Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya / Malaysia 100 SAMTECH HK Ltd, Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 Siemens Subsea Systems SDN. BHD, Kuala Lumpur / Malaysia 100 Siemens Industry Software Limited, Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 VA TECH Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., Kuala Lumpur / Malaysia 100 Siemens Ltd., Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 Siemens (N.Z.) Limited, Auckland / New Zealand 100 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics Limited, Siemens Power Operations, Inc., Manila / Philippines 100 Hong Kong / Hong Kong 100 Siemens, Inc., Manila / Philippines 100 LMS India Engineering Solutions Pvt Ltd, Chennai / India 100 PETNET Solutions Private Limited, Singapore / Singapore 100 PETNET Radiopharmaceutical Solutions Pvt. Ltd., Siemens Industry Software Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 New Delhi / India 100 Siemens Medical Instruments Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 Powerplant Performance Improvement Ltd., New Delhi / India 50 1 Siemens Postal, Parcel & Airport Logistics PTE. LTD., Preactor Software India Private Limited, Bangalore / India 100 Singapore / Singapore 100 Siemens Convergence Creators Private Limited, Mumbai / India 100 Siemens Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 Siemens Financial Services Private Limited, Mumbai / India 100 Siemens Rail Automation Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 100 Siemens Hearing Instruments Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore / India 100 Siemens Industry Software (TW) Co., Ltd., Taipei / Taiwan, Siemens Industry Software (India) Private Limited, ­Province of China 100 New Delhi / India 100 Siemens Ltd., Taipei / Taiwan, Province of China 100 Siemens Ltd., Mumbai / India 75 Siemens Limited, Bangkok / Thailand 99 Siemens Postal and Parcel Logistics Technologies Private Siemens Ltd., Ho Chi Minh City / Viet Nam 100 ­Limited, Mumbai / India 100 8 Siemens Postal Parcel & Airport Logistics Private Limited, Associated companies and joint ventures ­Mumbai / India 100 Germany (30 companies) Siemens Rail Automation Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore / India 100 Advanced Power AG und Siemens Project Ventures GmbH Siemens Technology and Services Private Limited, in GbR, Hamburg 50 Mumbai / India 100 ATS Projekt Grevenbroich GmbH, Schüttorf, Schüttorf 25 9 P.T. Siemens Indonesia, Jakarta / Indonesia 100 BELLIS GmbH, Braunschweig 49 9 PT. Siemens Industrial Power, Kota Bandung / Indonesia 60 BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH, Munich 50 Siemens Hearing Instruments Batam, PT, Batam / Indonesia 100 BWI Informationstechnik GmbH, Meckenheim 50 5 Acrorad Co., Ltd., Okinawa / Japan 57 Caterva GmbH, Pullach i. Isartal 50 Best Sound K.K., Sagamihara / Japan 100 DKS Dienstleistungsgesellschaft f. Kommunikationsanlagen Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 des Stadtund Regionalverkehrs mbH, Cologne 49 9 Siemens Hearing Instruments K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 EMIS Electrics GmbH, Lübbenau / Spreewald 49 Siemens Industry Software K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 FEAG Fertigungscenter für Elektrische Anlagen GmbH, Erlangen 49 9 Siemens Industry Software Simulation and Test K.K., HANSATON Akustik GmbH, Hamburg 50 9 Kanagawa / Japan 100 IFTEC GmbH & Co. KG, Leipzig 50 Siemens Japan Holding K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 Infineon Technologies Bipolar GmbH & Co. KG, Warstein 40 Siemens Japan K.K., Tokyo / Japan 100 Infineon Technologies Bipolar Verwaltungs-GmbH, Warstein 40 9 Siemens Energy Solutions Limited, Seoul / Korea, Republic of 100 Innovative Wind Concepts GmbH, Husum 50 Siemens Industry Software Ltd., Seoul / Korea, Republic of 100 LIB Verwaltungs-GmbH, Leipzig 50 9 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 326 Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % Maschinenfabrik Reinhausen GmbH, Regensburg 26 Energie Electrique de Tahaddart S.A., Tanger / Morocco 20 MeVis BreastCare GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen 49 Buitengaats C.V., Amsterdam / Netherlands 20 7 MeVis BreastCare Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Bremen 49 9 Buitengaats Management B.V., Eemshaven / Netherlands 20 9 OWP Butendiek GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen 23 Infraspeed Maintainance B.V., Zoetermeer / Netherlands 46 Power Vermögensbeteiligungsgesellschaft mbH Die Erste, Unify Holdings B.V., Amsterdam / Netherlands 49 Hamburg 50 9 Ural Locomotives Holding Besloten Vennootschap, PTZ Partikeltherapiezentrum Kiel Management GmbH, The Hague / Netherlands 50 ­Wiesbaden 50 9 ZeeEnergie C.V., Amsterdam / Netherlands 20 7 Siemens Venture Capital Fund 1 GmbH, Munich 100 5, 9 ZeeEnergie Management B.V., Eemshaven / Netherlands 20 9 Siemens-Electrogeräte GmbH, Munich 100 5, 9 VOEST-ALPINE Technical Services Ltd., Abuja / Nigeria 40 9 Siemens EuroCash, Munich 87 Wirescan AS, Torp / Norway 33 9 Siemens Qualität & Dividende Europa, Munich 97 Rousch (Pakistan) Power Ltd., Lahore / Pakistan 26 Symeo GmbH, Neubiberg 65 5, 9 Windfarm Polska II Sp. z o.o., Koszalin / Poland 50 9 Transrapid International Verwaltungsgesellschaft OOO Transconverter, Moscow / Russian Federation 35 9 mbH i.L., Berlin 50 9 OOO UniPower Transmission Solutions, Region Moskau ubimake GmbH, Berlin 50 ­Krasnogorsky District / Russian Federation 50 Voith Hydro Holding GmbH & Co. KG, Heidenheim 35 OOO VIS Automation mit Zusatz “Ein Gemeinschaftsunter­ Voith Hydro Holding Verwaltungs GmbH, Heidenheim 35 9 nehmen von VIS und Siemens”, Moscow / Russian Federation 49 ZAO Interautomatika, Moscow / Russian Federation 46 Europe, Commonwealth of Independent States (C.I.S.), ZAO Nuclearcontrol, Moscow / Russian Federation 40 9 ­Africa, Middle East (without Germany) (61 companies) ZAO Systema-Service, St. Petersburg / Russian Federation 26 Arelion GmbH, Pasching b. Linz / Austria 25 9 Impilo Consortium (Pty.) Ltd., La Lucia / South Africa 31 Aspern Smart City Research GmbH, Vienna / Austria 44 9 Nertus Mantenimiento Ferroviario y Servicios S.A., Aspern Smart City Research GmbH & Co KG, Vienna / Austria 44 Barcelona / Spain 51 5 E-Mobility Provider Austria GmbH, Vienna / Austria 50 9 Soleval Renovables S.L., Sevilla / Spain 50 E-Mobility Provider Austria GmbH & Co KG, Vienna / Austria 50 Solucia Renovables 1, S.L., Lebrija / Spain 50 Oil and Gas ProServ LLC, Baku / Azerbaijan 25 9 Termica AFAP S.A., Villacanas / Spain 23 9 T-Power NV, Brussels / Belgium 20 Certas AG, Zurich / Switzerland 50 Meomed s.r.o., Prerov / Czech Republic 47 9 Interessengemeinschaft TUS, Männedorf / Switzerland 50 A2SEA A/S, Fredericia / Denmark 49 Breesea Limited, London / United Kingdom 50 Noliac A/S, Kvistgaard / Denmark 24 9 Cross London Trains Holdco 2 Limited, Compagnie Electrique de Bretagne, S.A.S., Paris / France 40 London/United Kingdom 33 TRIXELL S.A.S., Moirans / France 25 Ethos Energy Group Limited, Aberdeen / United Kingdom 49 Eviop-Tempo A.E. Electrical Equipment Manufacturers, Heron Wind Limited, London / United Kingdom 33 ­Vassiliko / Greece 48 Lincs Renewable Energy Holdings Limited, Metropolitan Transportation Solutions Ltd., London / United Kingdom 50 Rosh HaAyin / Israel 20 9 Njord Limited, London / United Kingdom 33 Transfima GEIE, Milan / Italy 42 9 Odos Imaging Ltd., Edinburgh / United Kingdom 50 9 Transfima S.p.A., Milan / Italy 49 9 Optimus Wind Limited, London / United Kingdom 50 VAL 208 Torino GEIE, Milan / Italy 86 5, 9 Plessey Holdings Ltd., Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 50 9 Temir Zhol Electrification LLP, Astana / Kazakhstan 49 Pyreos Limited, Edinburgh / United Kingdom 34 9 Electrogas Malta Limited, St. Julian’s / Malta 20 9 Sesmos Limited, Edinburgh / United Kingdom 50 9 Solutions & Infrastructure Services Limited, SMart Wind Limited, London / United Kingdom 50 Gzira / Malta 50 SMart Wind SPC 5 Limited, London / United Kingdom 50 9 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 327 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Equity interest Equity interest September 30, 2014 in % September 30, 2014 in % SMart Wind SPC 6 Limited, London / United Kingdom 50 9 FCE (Beijing) Heat Treatment Technology Co., Ltd., SMart Wind SPC 7 Limited, London / United Kingdom 50 9 Beijing / China 30 9 SMart Wind SPC 8 Limited, London / United Kingdom 50 9 GSP China Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing / China 50 ROSE Power Transmission Technology Co., Ltd, Americas (10 companies) Anshan / China 50 Cia Técnica de Engenheria Eletrica Sucursal Argentina Saitong Railway Electrification (Nanjing) Co., Ltd., VA TECH ARGENTINA S.A. Union transitoria de Empresas, Nanjing / China 50 9 Buenos Aires / Argentina 30 9 Shanghai Electric Power Generation Equipment Co., Ltd., Brockton Power Company LLC, Boston, MA / United States 23 Shanghai / China 40 Brockton Power Holdings Inc., Boston, MA / United States 25 9 Shanghai Electric Wind Energy Co., Ltd., Shanghai / China 49 Brockton Power Properties, Inc., Boston, MA / United States 25 9 Siemens Traction Equipment Ltd., Zhuzhou, Cyclos Semiconductor, Inc., Wilmington, DE / United States 32 Zhuzhou / China 50 PhSiTh LLC, New Castle, DE / United States 33 Xi’An X-Ray Target Ltd., Xi’an / China 43 Power Properties Inc., Boston, MA / United States 25 9 Zhenjiang Siemens Busbar Trunking Systems Co. Ltd., Rether networks, Inc., Berkeley, CA / United States 30 ­Yangzhong / China 50 Siemens First Capital Commercial Finance, LLC, Oklahoma City, Bangalore International Airport Ltd., Bangalore / India 26 OK / United States 51 5 Transparent Energy Systems Private Limited, Innovex Capital En Tecnologia, C.A., Caracas / Venezuela, Pune / India 25 9 ­Bolivarian Republic of 20 7, 9 P.T. Jawa Power, Jakarta / Indonesia 50 PT Asia Care Indonesia, Jakarta / Indonesia 40 Asia, Australia (24 companies) Kanto Hochouki Co., Ltd., Ibaragi / Japan 25 9 Exemplar Health (NBH) Partnership, Melbourne / Australia 50 Kikoeno Soudanshitsu Co., Ltd., Tochigi / Japan 50 9 Exemplar Health (SCUH) Partnership, Sydney / Australia 50 Koden Co., Ltd., Hiroshima / Japan 43 9 Magellan Technology Pty. Ltd., Annandale / Australia 21 9 Yaskawa Siemens Automation & Drives Corp., ChinaInvent (Shanghai) Instrument Co., Ltd, Kitakyushu / Japan 50 Shanghai / China 30 9 Power Automation Pte. Ltd., Singapore / Singapore 49 DBEST (Beijing) Facility Technology Management Co., Ltd., Modern Engineering and Consultants Co. Ltd., ­Beijing / China 25 Bangkok / Thailand 40 9 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. ­management personnel. 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. of the relevant activities. 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 328 Equity Net income Equity ­interest in millions of in millions of September 30, 2014 in % € € Other investments 13 Germany (9 companies) Ausbildungszentrum für Technik, Informationsverarbeitung und Wirtschaft gemeinnützige GmbH (ATIW), Paderborn 100 5, 6 0 1 BOMA Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 100 5, 6 2 (42) BSAV Kapitalbeteiligungen und Vermögensverwaltungs Management GmbH, Grünwald 100 5, 6 1 66 Kyros Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH, Grünwald 100 5, 6 1 66 MAENA Grundstücks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, Grünwald 97 5, 6 3 (98) OSRAM Licht AG, Munich 20 6, 12 24 2,268 Siemens Global Innovation Partners I GmbH & Co. KG, Munich 50 6 1 61 Siemens Pensionsfonds AG, Grünwald 100 5, 6 0 8 SIM 9. Grundstücksverwaltungsund -beteiligungs-GmbH, Munich 100 5, 6 0 8 Europe, Commonwealth of Independent States (C.I.S.), Africa, Middle East (without Germany) (5 companies) Dils Energie NV, Hasselt / Belgium 50 6 (1) (1) Atos SE, Bezons / France 12 260 2,939 Medical Systems S.p.A., Genoa / Italy 45 6 5 84 Corporate XII S.A. (SICAV-FIS), Luxembourg / Luxembourg 100 5, 6 88 6,800 Siemens Benefits Scheme Limited, Frimley, Surrey / United Kingdom 74 4, 6 0 0 Americas (2 companies) iBAHN Corporation, South Jordan, UT / United States 9 (3) 34 Longview Intermediate Holdings B, LLC, Wilmington, DE / United States 7 (36) 810 1 Control due to a majority of voting rights. 7 Significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 2 Control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key 8 Not consolidated due to immateriality. ­management personnel. 9 Not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality. 3 Control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction 10 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 b German Commercial Code. of the relevant activities. 11 Exemption pursuant to Section 264 (3) German Commercial Code. 4 No control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties. 12 Interests in the capital of 2.5 % are held by Siemens Pension Trust e.V. 5 No control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. 13 Values according to the latest available local GAAP financial statements; 6 No significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances. the underlying fiscal year may differ from the Siemens fiscal year. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 329 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board D.7.1 Supervisory Board Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. Werner Wenning Gerd von Brandenstein Hans Michael Gaul, Dr. iur. Chairman Second Deputy Chairman Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Chairman of the Supervisory Chairman of the Supervisory Date of birth: April 6, 1942 Date of birth: March 2, 1942 Board of Siemens AG Boards of Bayer AG and E.ON SE Member since: January 24, 2008 Member since: January 24, 2008 Date of birth: February 25, 1943 Date of birth: October 21, 1946 External positions Member since: January 23, 2003 Member since: January 23, 2013 German supervisory board Michael Diekmann External positions ­positions: Chairman of the Board of German supervisory board >> BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungs­ Berthold Huber* ­Management of Allianz SE ­positions: gesellschaft, Hamburg First Deputy Chairman Date of birth: December 23, 1954 (­Deputy Chairman) >> Bayer AG, Leverkusen President of IndustriALL Member since: January 24, 2008 >> HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG, (­Chairman) ­Global Union >> E.ON SE, Düsseldorf (Chairman) External positions Düsseldorf Date of birth: February 15, 1950 >> Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, German supervisory board Member since: July 1, 2004 ­Düsseldorf 1 ­positions: >> Henkel Management AG, Peter Gruss, Prof. Dr. rer. nat. External positions >> Allianz Asset Management AG, ­Düsseldorf Munich (Chairman) Scientific Member of the German supervisory board Max Planck Society >> Allianz Deutschland AG, Munich ­positions: >> BASF SE, Ludwigshafen am Date of birth: June 28, 1949 >> Audi AG, Ingolstadt Lothar Adler* Rhein (Deputy Chairman) Member since: January 24, 2008 (Deputy Chairman) (until May 31, 2014) >> Linde AG, Munich (Deputy >> Porsche Automobil Holding SE, External positions Supervisory Board Member Chairman) Stuttgart German supervisory board Date of birth: February 22, 1949 Positions outside Germany: >> Volkswagen AG, Wolfsburg ­positions: (Deputy Chairman) Member since: January 23, 2003 >> Allianz France S.A., France >> Münchener Rückversicherungs-­ (Deputy Chairman) Gesellschaft ­Aktiengesellschaft >> Allianz S.p.A., Italy in München, Munich Olaf Bolduan* Positions outside Germany: (since July 11, 2014) >> Actelion Ltd., Switzerland Chairman of the Works Council of Siemens Dynamowerk, ­Berlin, Germany Bettina Haller* Date of birth: July 24, 1952 Chairwoman of the Combine Member since: July 11, 2014 Works Council of Siemens AG Date of birth: March 14, 1959 Member since: April 1, 2007 Hans-Jürgen Hartung* Chairman of the Works Council of Siemens Erlangen Süd, ­Germany Date of birth: March 10, 1952 Member since: January 27, 2009 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 330 Robert Kensbock* Nicola Leibinger-­ Güler Sabancı Jim Hagemann Snabe Deputy Chairman of the Central Kammüller, Dr. phil. Chairwoman and Managing Supervisory Board Member Works Council of Siemens AG President and Chairwoman of Director of Hacı Ömer Sabancı Date of birth: October 27, 1965 Date of birth: March 13, 1971 the Managing Board of TRUMPF Holding A.Ş. Member since: October 1, 2013 Member since: January 23, 2013 GmbH + Co. KG Date of birth: August 14, 1955 External positions Date of birth: December 15, 1959 Member since: January 23, 2013 German supervisory board Member since: January 24, 2008 Harald Kern* ­positions: External positions Rainer Sieg, Prof. Dr. iur.* >> Allianz SE, Munich Chairman of the Siemens Europe German supervisory board (until February 28, 2014) >> SAP SE, Walldorf Committee ­positions: Positions outside Germany: Date of birth: March 16, 1960 Supervisory Board Member >> Axel Springer SE, Berlin >> Bang & Olufsen A / S, Denmark Member since: January 24, 2008 Date of birth: December 20, 1948 >> Deutsche Lufthansa AG, (Deputy Chairman) Cologne Member since: January 24, 2008 >> Danske Bank A / S, Denmark >> Voith GmbH, Heidenheim Jürgen Kerner* Executive Managing Board Michael Sigmund* Birgit Steinborn* Member of IG Metall Gérard Mestrallet (since March 1, 2014) Chairwoman of the Central Date of birth: January 22, 1969 Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Committee of Works Council of Siemens AG Member since: January 25, 2012 Chief Executive Officer of Spokespersons of the Siemens Date of birth: March 26, 1960 External positions GDF SUEZ S.A. Group; Chairman of the Central Member since: January 24, 2008 ­Committee of Spokespersons German supervisory board Date of birth: April 1, 1949 of Siemens AG ­positions: Member since: January 23, 2013 >> Airbus Operations GmbH, External positions Date of birth: September 13, 1957 Sibylle Wankel* Member since: March 1, 2014 ­Hamburg Positions outside Germany: Attorney, Bavarian Regional >> MAN SE, Munich Headquarters of IG Metall >> Compagnie de Saint-Gobain (Deputy Chairman) Date of birth: March 3, 1964 S.A., France >> Premium Aerotec GmbH, Member since: April 1, 2009 >> Electrabel S.A., Belgium ­Augsburg (Deputy Chairman) (­Chairman) External positions >> GDF Suez Energy Management German supervisory board Trading CVBA, Belgium ­positions: (­Chairman) >> GDF Suez Energie Services S.A., >> Audi AG, Ingolstadt France (Chairman) >> Vaillant GmbH, Remscheid >> GDF Suez Rassembleurs ­d’Energies SAS, France (­Chairman) >> International Power Ltd., U.K. >> Sociedad General de Aguas de Barcelona S.A., Spain (­Deputy Chairman) >> Suez Environnement Company S.A., France (Chairman) The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has 20 members. As stipulated by the German Codetermination Act (­ Mitbestimmungsgesetz), half of the members represent Company shareholders, and half represent Company employees. The shareholder represen­tatives were elected at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, ­2013 (or in a by-­election at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on January 28, 2014). The employee representatives, whose names are marked with an asterisk (*), either were elected in accordance with the provisions of the German Codetermination ­Act on September 25, 2012, effective as of the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on ­January 23, 2013, or replaced an employee r­ epresentative, who had resigned / retired. The present Supervisory Board’s term of office will expire at the conclusion of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in 2018. 1 Shareholdersʼ Committee. As of September 30, 2014. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 331 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.7.1.1 SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has established seven standing committees. Information on their activities in fiscal 2014 is provided in A.3 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD on pages 118 125 of this Annual Report. Committees Meetings in Duties and responsibilities Members as of fiscal 2014 ­September 30, 2014 Chairman’s 7 The Chairman’s Committee makes proposals, in particular, regarding the Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. ­Committee 1 decision appointment and dismissal of Managing Board members and handles (Chairman) by notational ­contracts with members of the Managing Board. In preparing recommen­ Berthold Huber voting using dations on the appointment of Managing Board members, the Chairman’s Birgit Steinborn written Committee takes into account the candidates’ professional qualifications, Werner Wenning ­circulations international experience and leadership qualities, the age limit specified for Managing Board members, the Managing Board’s long-range plans for suc­ cession as well as its diversity and, in particular, the appropriate consider­ ation of women. The Chairman’s Committee concerns itself with questions regarding the Company’s corporate governance and prepares the resolu­ tions to be approved by the Supervisory Board regarding the Declaration of Conformity with the Code ‒ including the explanation of deviations from the Code ‒ and regarding the approval of the Corporate Governance Report as well as the Report of the Supervisory Board to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Furthermore, the Chairman’s Committee submits recommenda­ tions to the Supervisory Board regarding the com­position of the Supervisory Board committees and decides whether to approve contracts and business transactions with Managing Board members and parties related to them. Compensation 6 The Compensation Committee prepares, in particular, the proposals for Werner Wenning Committee decisions by the Supervisory Board’s plenary meetings regarding the system (Chairman) of Managing Board compensation, including the implementation of this Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. system in the Managing Board contracts, the definition of the targets for Michael Diekmann variable Managing Board compensation, the determination and review Berthold Huber of the appropriateness of the total compensation of individual Managing Robert Kensbock Board members and the approval of the annual Compensation Report. Birgit Steinborn Audit 6 The Audit Committee oversees, in particular, the accounting process and Hans Michael Gaul, ­Committee conducts a preliminary review of the Annual Financial Statements of Dr. iur. (Chairman) 1 Siemens AG, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Group Gerd von Brandenstein and the Combined Management Report. On the basis of the independent Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. auditors’ report on their audit of the annual financial statements, the Audit Bettina Haller Committee makes, after its preliminary review, recommendations regard­ ing Supervisory Board approval of the Annual Financial Statements of Robert Kensbock Siemens AG and the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Siemens Jürgen Kerner Group. In addition to the work performed by the independent auditors, the Jim Hagemann Snabe Audit Committee discusses the Company’s quarterly financial statements Birgit Steinborn and half-year financial reports, which are prepared by the Managing Board, as well as the report on the auditors’ review of the quarterly financial state­ ments and the half-year financial report (condensed financial statements and interim management report). It concerns itself with the Company’s risk monitoring system and oversees the effectiveness of the internal control system as this relates, in particular, to financial reporting, the risk manage­ ment system and the internal audit system. The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Internal Audit Department. It prepares the Super­ visory Board’s recommendation to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting con­ cerning the election of the independent auditors and submits the corre­ sponding proposal to the Supervisory Board. It awards the audit contract to the independent auditors elected by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and monitors the independent audit of the financial statements – including, in particular, the auditors’ independence, professional expertise and services. 1 Fulfills the requirements of Section 100 para. 5 and Section 107 para. 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz). 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 332 Committees Meetings in Duties and responsibilities Members as of fiscal 2014 S ­ eptember 30, 2014 Compliance 5 The Compliance Committee concerns itself, in particular, with the Com­ Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. ­Committee pany’s adherence to statutory provisions, official regulations and internal (Chairman) Company policies. Gerd von Brandenstein Hans Michael Gaul, Dr. iur. Bettina Haller Harald Kern Jim Hagemann Snabe Birgit Steinborn Sibylle Wankel Innovation 4 Based on the Company ’s overall strategy, the Innovation and Finance Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. and Finance 1 decision Com­mittee discusses, in particular, the Company ’s focuses of innovation (Chairman) Committee by notational and ­prepares the Supervisory Board’s discussions and resolutions regard­ Peter Gruss, Prof. Dr. rer. nat. voting using ing questions relating to the Company’s financial situation and structure ‒ Robert Kensbock written including annual planning (budget) ‒ as well as the Company’s fixed asset Harald Kern ­circulations investments and its financial measures. In addition, the Innovation and Jürgen Kerner Finance Committee has been authorized by the Supervisory Board to decide on the approval of transactions and measures that require Super­ Jim Hagemann Snabe visory Board approval and have a value of less than € 600 million. Birgit Steinborn Werner Wenning Nominating 1 The Nominating Committee is responsible for making recommendations Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. Committee 1 decision to the Supervisory Board on suitable candidates for election as shareholder (Chairman) by notational representatives on the Supervisory Board by the Annual Shareholders’ Hans Michael Gaul, Dr. iur. voting using Meeting. Nicola Leibinger-­ written Kammüller, Dr. phil. ­circulations Werner Wenning Mediation 0 The Mediation Committee submits proposals to the Supervisory Board in Gerhard Cromme, Dr. iur. ­Committee, the event that the Supervisory Board cannot reach the two-thirds majority (Chairman) ­under Section required for the appointment or dismissal of a Managing Board member. Berthold Huber 27 para. 3 and Birgit Steinborn ­Section 31 Werner Wenning para. 3 and 5 of the German Codetermination Act Further information on corporate governance at Siemens is available at WWW.SIEMENS.DE/CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 333 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows D.7.2 Managing Board Joe Kaeser Klaus Helmrich Hermann Requardt, Peter Y. Solmssen President and Chief Executive Date of birth: May 24, 1958 Prof. Dr. phil. nat. (until December 31, 2013) Officer of Siemens AG First appointed: April 1, 2011 Date of birth: February 11, 1955 Date of birth: January 24, 1955 Date of birth: June 23, 1957 Term expires: March 31, 2016 First appointed: May 1, 2006 First appointed: October 1, 2007 First appointed: May 1, 2006 External positions Term expires: March 31, 2016 Term originally to have expired: Term expires: July 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 German supervisory board External positions External positions ­positions: German supervisory board German supervisory board >> EOS Holding AG, Krailling ­positions: Michael Süß, Dr. rer. pol. ­positions: >> inpro Innovationsgesellschaft >> Software AG, Darmstadt für fortgeschrittene Produk­ (until May 6, 2014) >> Allianz Deutschland AG, Munich Group Company positions >> Daimler AG, Stuttgart tionssysteme in der Fahrzeug­ Date of birth: December 25, 1963 industrie mbH, Berlin Positions outside Germany: First appointed: April 1, 2011 Positions outside Germany: >> Siemens Japan Holding K.K., Term originally to have expired: >> NXP Semiconductors B.V., Group Company positions Japan (Chairman) March 31, 2016 Netherlands German supervisory board >> Siemens Japan K.K., Japan ­positions: External positions 2 Group Company positions (Chairman) >> BSH Bosch und Siemens >> Siemens S.A., Colombia German supervisory board Positions outside Germany: ­positions: ­Hausgeräte GmbH, Munich (Chairman) >> Siemens Ltd., India >> Herrenknecht AG, Schwanau Barbara Kux Siegfried Russwurm, Roland Busch, Dr. rer. nat. Ralf P. Thomas, Dr. rer. pol. (until November 16, 2013) Prof. Dr.-Ing. Date of birth: November 22, 1964 Date of birth: March 7, 1961 Date of birth: February 26, 1954 Date of birth: June 27, 1963 First appointed: April 1, 2011 First appointed: September 18, 2013 First appointed: November 17, 2008 First appointed: January 1, 2008 Term expires: March 31, 2016 Term expires: September 17, 2018 Term expired: November 16, 2013 Term expires: March 31, 2017 External positions Group Company positions External positions 1 External positions German supervisory board German supervisory board German supervisory board German supervisory board ­positions: ­positions: ­positions: ­positions: >> OSRAM Licht AG, Munich >> BSH Bosch und Siemens >> Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, >> Deutsche Messe AG, Hanover (Deputy Chairman) ­Hausgeräte GmbH, Munich ­Düsseldorf >> Osram GmbH, Munich Group Company positions (Deputy Chairman) (Deputy Chairman) Positions outside Germany: German supervisory board Positions outside Germany: Positions outside Germany: >> Firmenich International SA, ­positions: >> Siemens Aktiengesellschaft Switzerland >> Atos SE, France >> BSH Bosch und Siemens Österreich, Austria >> Total S.A., France Group Company positions ­Hausgeräte GmbH, Munich >> Siemens Corp., USA Positions outside Germany: Positions outside Germany: (­Deputy Chairman) >> Siemens Ltd., China (Chairman) >> Siemens AB, Sweden >> Siemens Ltd., India (Chairman) >> Siemens Schweiz AG, >> Siemens Aktiengesellschaft ­Switzerland (Chairman) Österreich, Austria (Chairman) >> Siemens Holdings plc, U.K. (Chairman) Lisa Davis >> Siemens Ltd., South Africa (Chairman) Date of birth: October 15, 1963 >> Siemens Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., First appointed: August 1, 2014 Turkey Term expires: July 31, 2019 >> Siemens VAI Metals External positions ­Technologies GmbH, Austria Positions outside Germany: >> Siemens W.L.L., Qatar >> Spectris plc, U.K. Group Company positions Positions outside Germany: >> Siemens Corp., USA (Chairwoman) 1 As of November 16, 2013. 2 As of May 6, 2014. As of September 30, 2014. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate ­Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 334 D.7.2.1 MANAGING BOARD COMMITTEES Committee Meetings in Duties and responsibilities Members as of fiscal 2014 S ­ eptember 30, 2014 Equity and 6 decisions The Equity and Employee Stock Committee oversees, in particular, the Joe Kaeser ­Employee Stock by notational ­utilization of authorized capital in connection with the issuance of employee (Chairman) Committee voting using stock as well as the implementation of certain capital measures. It also Klaus Helmrich 1 written determines the scope and conditions of the share-based compensation Siegfried Russwurm, ­circulations components and / or compensation programs for employees and managers Prof. Dr.-Ing. 2 (with the exception of the Managing Board). Ralf P. T ­ homas, Dr. rer. pol. 1 Until September 30, 2014. 2 Since October 1, 2014. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 335 248 D.1 Consolidated Statements of Income 252 D.5 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 249 D.2 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 254 D.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 250 D.3 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 330 D.7 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 251 D.4 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows How have the Company’s key business figures developed over the past five years? What are the key financial dates for the next twelve months? How is the Company structured? All this information is available here. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/AR/ADDITIONAL-INFORMATION 336 E. Additional Information 338 E.1 Responsibility Statement 339 E.2 Independent Auditor’s Report 341 E.3 Statement of the Managing Board 342 E.4 Company structure 344 E.5 Five-year summary 345 E.6 Notes and forward-­looking ­statements 346 E.7 Further information and ­information resources 347 E.8 Financial calendar E. Additional Information 337 E.1 Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the appliReport for Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, includes a fair review cable reporting principles, the Consolidated Financial Stateof the development and performance of the business and the ments give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial ­position of the Group, together with a description of the ma­ position and profit or loss of the Group, and the Group Manageterial opportunities and risks associated with the expected ment Report, which has been combined with the Management devel­opment of the Group. Munich, November 26, 2014 Siemens Aktiengesellschaft The Managing Board Joe Kaeser Dr. Roland Busch Lisa Davis Klaus Helmrich Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 338 E.2 Independent Auditor’s Report To Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and Munich ­ nd plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable a a ­ ssurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED from material misstatement. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial An audit involves performing audit procedures to obtain audit statements of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and Munich, evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consoliand its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statedated financial statements. The selection of audit procedures ments of income, comprehensive income, financial position, depends on the auditor’s professional judgment. This includes cash flow and changes in equity, and notes to the consolidated the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements for the business year from October 1, 2013 consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or to September 30, 2014. ­error. In assessing those risks, the auditor considers the internal control system relevant to the entity ’s preparation of the Management’s Responsibility for the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view. ­Consolidated Financial Statements The aim of this is to plan and perform audit procedures that are The management of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft is responsible appropriate in the given circumstances, but not for the purpose for the preparation of these consolidated financial statements. of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s This responsibility includes preparing these consolidated finaninternal control system. An audit also includes evaluating the cial statements in accordance with International Financial appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reason­Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union ableness of accounting estimates made by management, as (EU), the supplementary requirements of German law pursuant well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated to Sec. 315a (1) HGB [“Handelsgesetzbuch“: German Commerfinancial statements. cial Code] and full IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), to give a true and fair view of the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffinet assets, financial position and results of operations of the cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. group in accordance with these requirements. The company’s management is also responsible for the internal controls that Audit Opinion management determines are necessary to enable the prepaPursuant to Sec. 322 (3) Sentence 1 HGB, we state that our audit ration of consolidated financial statements that are free from of the consolidated financial statements has not led to any ­material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. ­reservations. Auditor’s Responsibility In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolOur responsibility is to express an opinion on these consoliidated financial statements comply in all material respects dated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the supplementary requireour audit in accordance with Sec. 317 HGB and German generments of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315a (1) ally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements HGB and full IFRS as issued by the IASB and give a true and promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of fair view of the net assets and financial position of the Group Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW) as well as in supplementary as at September 30, 2014 as well as the results of operations compliance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA). for the business year then ended, in accordance with these ­Accordingly, we are required to comply with ethical requirements requirements. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 339 338 E.1 Responsibility Statement 344 E.5 Five-year summary 339 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs Report 345 E.6 Notes and forward-­looking ­statements 341 E.3 Statement of the M­ anaging Board 346 E.7 Further information and information resources 342 E.4 Company structure 347 E.8 Financial calendar REPORT ON THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Pursuant to Sec. 322 (3) Sentence 1 HGB, we state that our audit We have audited the accompanying group management report, of the group management report has not led to any reservations. which is combined with the management report of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, for the business year from October 1, 2013 In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit of the consoli­ to September 30, 2014. The management of the company is dated financial statements and group management report, the ­ responsible for the preparation of the group management group management report is consistent with the consolidated ­ report in compliance with the applicable requirements of financial statements, and as a whole provides a suitable view of ­German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315a (1) HGB. We are the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities required to conduct our audit in accordance with Sec. 317 (2) and risks of future development. HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of the group management report promulgated by the IDW. Munich, November 26, 2014 ­Accordingly, we are required to plan and perform the audit of the group management report to obtain reasonable assurance Ernst & Young GmbH about whether the group management report is consistent Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft with the consolidated financial statements and the audit ­findings, and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Spannagl Prof. Dr. Hayn Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 340 E.3 Statement of the Managing Board The Managing Board of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft is respon­ Siemens’ corporate headquarters and the effectiveness of the sible for preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements and related control systems. Compliance with the guidelines as well the Group Management Report. The Consolidated Financial as the reliability and effectiveness of the control systems are Statements have been prepared in accordance with Interna­ continuously examined by Internal Corporate Audit throughout tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the the Siemens Group. Our risk management system complies European Union as well as with the additional requirements set with the requirements of the German Stock Corporation Act forth in Section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (Han­ (Aktien­gesetz). Our risk management system is designed to delsgesetzbuch). The financial statements are also in accor­ ­enable the Managing Board to recognize potential risks early dance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Stan­ on and initiate timely countermeasures. dards Board (IASB). The Group Management Report is consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements and is combined In accordance with the resolution adopted at the Annual Share­ with the Management Report of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft. holders’ Meeting, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungs­ gesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements Siemens employs extensive internal controls, company-wide and Group Management Report, which is combined with the uniform reporting guidelines and additional measures, includ­ Management Report of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, and issued ing employee training and continuing education, with the an unqualified opinion. Together with the independent audi­ ­intention that the Consolidated Financial Statements and the tors, the Supervisory Board has thoroughly examined the Group Management Report are conducted correctly and in ­Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group Management ­accordance with the applicable legal requirements. Members Report, and the Independent Auditors’ Report. The result of this of the management of the Company Units have confirmed to us examination is included in the Report of the Supervisory Board the correctness of the financial data they have reported to ( A.3 OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT ). Munich, December 3, 2014 The Managing Board Joe Kaeser Dr. Roland Busch Lisa Davis Klaus Helmrich Prof. Dr. Hermann Requardt Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 341 338 E.1 Responsibility Statement 344 E.5 Five-year summary 339 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs Report 345 E.6 Notes and forward-­looking ­statements 341 E.3 Statement of the ­Managing Board 346 E.7 Further information and information resources 342 E.4 Company structure 347 E.8 Financial calendar E.4 Company structure Managing Board Joe Kaeser Roland Busch Lisa Davis of Siemens AG President and Chief Executive Officer Corporate Core Corporate ­Development Joe Kaeser Governance & Markets Mariel von Schumann Communications and Government Affairs Stephan Heimbach Legal and Compliance Andreas Christian Hoffmann Corporate Services Regions Asia, Australia Americas Australia I Jeffery Connolly Brazil I Paulo Ricardo Stark China I Lothar Herrmann Canada I Robert Hardt India I Sunil Mathur Colombia I Daniel Fernández Indonesia I Josef Winter Mexico I Louise Koopman Goeser Japan I Junichi Obata United States I Eric Spiegel Republic of Korea I JongKap Kim Singapore I Armin Bruck Divisions, Energy Management Power and Gas Separately managed Ralf Christian I Jan Mrosik Roland Fischer business Building Technologies Wind Power Matthias Rebellius and Renewables Markus Tacke Mobility Jochen Eickholt Power Generation Services Randy Zwirn As of January 1, 2015. The members of the Supervisory Board are listed in D.7 SUPERVISORY BOARD AND MANAGING BOARD , pages 330 331. 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 342 Klaus Helmrich Hermann Requardt Siegfried Russwurm Ralf P. Thomas Labor Director Human Resources Controlling and Finance Siegfried Russwurm Ralf P. Thomas Corporate Technology Siegfried Russwurm Global Services Hannes Apitzsch Europe, Africa Commonwealth of Independent States, Austria I Wolfgang Hesoun Middle East Belgium I André Bouffioux Czech Republic I Eduard Palisek Russian Federation I Dietrich Möller France I Christophe de Maistre Saudi Arabia I Arja Talakar Germany I Rudolf Martin Siegers United Arab Emirates I Italy I Federico Vilfredo Golla Dietmar Siersdorfer Netherlands I Ab van der Touw Poland I Peter Baudrexl Portugal I Carlos Melo Ribeiro South Africa I Sabine Dall’Omo Spain I Rosa María García Sweden I Ulf Troedsson Switzerland I Siegfried Gerlach Turkey I Hüseyin Gelis United Kingdom I Jürgen Maier Digital Factory Healthcare Financial Services Anton Sebastian Huber Hermann Requardt Roland Chalons-Browne Process Industries and Drives Peter Herweck 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 343 338 E.1 Responsibility Statement 344 E.5 Five-year summary 339 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs Report 345 E.6 Notes and forward-­looking ­statements 341 E.3 Statement of the M­ anaging Board 346 E.7 Further information and information resources 342 E.4 Company structure 347 E.8 Financial calendar E.5 Five-year summary Revenue and profit 1 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Revenue in millions of € 71,920 73,445 74,734 69,607 65,067 Gross profit in millions of € 20,755 20,135 21,128 21,160 19,045 Income from continuing operations in millions of € 5,400 4,179 4,565 6,469 3,991 Net income in millions of € 5,507 4,409 4,282 5,899 3,881 Assets, liabilities and equity FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Current assets in millions of € 48,076 46,937 52,128 52,540 50,179 Current liabilities in millions of € 36,598 37,868 42,627 43,549 40,602 Debt in millions of € 20,947 20,453 20,707 17,940 19,913 Long-term debt in millions of € 19,326 18,509 16,880 14,280 17,497 Net debt 2 in millions of € 12,008 10,663 9,292 4,995 5,560 Post-employment benefits in millions of € 9,324 9,265 9,801 7,188 8,342 Equity (including non-controlling interests) in millions of € 31,514 28,625 31,424 32,271 29,222 as a percentage of total assets in % 30 28 29 31 28 Total assets in millions of € 104,879 101,936 108,251 104,210 102,791 Cash flows 1 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations in millions of € 7,230 7,186 6,992 7,979 8,640 Amortization, depreciation and impairments 3 in millions of € 2,406 2,735 2,625 2,379 2,454 Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations in millions of € (4,364) (4,759) (4,906) (2,835) (2,230) Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in millions of € (1,831) (1,808) (2,121) (2,091) (1,859) Cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations in millions of € (4,485) (3,715) (3,017) (5,591) (2,735) Change in cash and cash equivalents in millions of € (1,199) (1,717) (1,561) (1,715) 4,023 Free cash flow – continuing and discontinued operations in millions of € 5,201 5,328 4,700 5,282 7,109 Free cash flow – continuing operations in millions of € 5,399 5,378 4,871 5,889 6,781 Employees 1 – continuing operations FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Employees (September 30) in thousands 343 348 352 341 316 Stock market information FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Basic earnings per share – continuing and discontinued operations in € 6.37 5.08 4.74 6.55 4.28 Basic earnings per share – continuing operations 1 in € 6.24 4.81 5.06 7.19 4.41 Diluted earnings per share – continuing and discontinued operations in € 6.31 5.03 4.69 6.48 4.23 Diluted earnings per share – continuing operations 1 in € 6.18 4.76 5.01 7.12 4.37 Dividend per share in € 3.304 3.00 3.00 3.00 2.70 Siemens stock price (Xetra closing price) High in € 101.35 90.33 79.71 99.38 79.37 Low in € 88.71 76.00 63.06 64.45 60.20 Fiscal year-end in € 94.37 89.06 77.61 68.12 77.43 Siemens stock price performance year-over-year Compared to DAX® in %-points (0.92) 3.67 (12.57) 2.17 15.53 Compared to MSCI World in %-points (2.89) 2.55 (3.01) (5.16) 18.53 Number of shares issued (September 30) in millions 881 881 881 914 914 Market capitalization 5 in millions of € 78,823 75,078 66,455 59,554 67,351 Credit rating of long-term debt Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services A+ A+ A+ A+ A+ Moody’s Investors Service Aa3 Aa3 Aa3 A1 A1 1 Regarding activities classified as discontinued operations, comprises cash and cash equivalents as well as availableamortization and impairments of intangible assets, net prior years are presented on a comparable basis. for-sale financial assets (current). of reversals of impairment. 2 Net debt results from total debt less total liquidity. Total 3 Amortization, depreciation and impairments includes 4 To be proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. debt comprises short-term debt and current maturities of depreciation and impairments of property, plant and 5 On the basis of outstanding shares. long-term debt as well as long-term debt. Total liquidity equipment, net of reversals of impairments as well as 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 344 E.6 Notes and forward-looking statements This document contains statements related to our future busiThis document includes – in IFRS not clearly defined – suppleness and financial performance and future events or developmental financial measures that are or may be non-GAAP finanments involving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking cial measures. These supplemental financial measures should statements. These statements may be identified by words such not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of as “expect,” “look forward to,” “anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” Siemens’ net assets and financial positions or results of opera­“believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project” or words of similar tions as presented in accordance with IFRS in its Consolidated meaning. We may also make forward-looking statements in Financial Statements. Other companies that report or describe other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to sharesimilarly titled financial measures may calculate them differholders and in press releases. In addition, our representatives ently. may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the current expectations and Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other certain assumptions of Siemens’ management, of which many documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and are beyond Siemens’ control. These are subject to a number of percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. risks, uncertainties and factors, including, but not limited to those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter Risks This document is an English language translation of the in this Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or ­ German document. In case of discrepancies, the German ­uncertainties materialize, or should underlying expectations ­language document is the sole authoritative and universally not occur or assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, per­ valid version. formance or achievements of Siemens may (negatively or ­positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or For technical reasons, there may be differences between the implicitly in the relevant forward-looking statement. Siemens accounting records appearing in this document and those neither intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or ­published pursuant to legal requirements. ­revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which ­differ from those anticipated. 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 345 338 E.1 Responsibility Statement 344 E.5 Five-year summary 339 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs Report 345 E.6 Notes and forward-­looking ­statements 341 E.3 Statement of the M­ anaging Board 346 E.7 Further information and information resources 342 E.4 Company structure 347 E.8 Financial calendar E.7 Further information and information resources Further information on the contents Copies of the Annual Report can be ordered at: of this Annual Report is available from: E-mail siemens@bek-gmbh.de Address Siemens AG Fax + 49 7237 1736 Wittelsbacherplatz 2 Internet WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ORDER-ANNUALREPORT 80333 Munich Germany Siemens employees may obtain copies at: Phone + 49 89 636 33443 (Media Relations) Intranet  H T TPS://INTRANET.SIEMENS.COM/ + 49 89 636 32474 (Investor Relations) ORDER-ANNUALREPORT Fax + 49 89 636 30085 (Media Relations) English Order no. AR2014-E + 49 89 636 32830 (Investor Relations) German Order no. JB2014-D E-mail press@siemens.com investorrelations@siemens.com Employees should include their postal address and ­complete order data (Org-ID and cost center information) when ordering. Additional information The Siemens Annual Report for 2014 is available online at: Concept and coordination WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUAL-REPORT Communications and Government Affairs Dr. Johannes von Karczewski Annette Häfelinger Combined reporting The Annual Report combines our annual and sustainability Controlling and Finance reporting to provide an integrated overview of our Company ’s Dr. Marcus Mayer key topics. Further information on our commitment to ­sustainability and additional sustainability-related indicators are available at: Layout / Production WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SUSTAINABILIT Y hw.design GmbH WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SUSTAINABILIT Y-FIGURES In addition to our Annual Report at the end of each fiscal year, Copyright notice we publish quarterly consolidated financial statements in the Designations used in this document may be trademarks, form of press releases. Conference calls and press conferences the use of which by third parties for their own purposes supplement these publications, giving journalists and analysts could violate the rights of the trademark owners. further opportunities to review developments in our businesses. Financial reporting for the first three quarters is complemented by interim reports and shareholder letters for private investors, Ecofriendly production in particular. All these financial reports are available at: This Annual Report has been produced using chlorine-free WWW.SIEMENS.COM/FINANCIAL-REPORTS bleached materials and climate-neutral production processes. In accordance with the guidelines of the Forest Stewardship Further information on research, development Council (FSC), all the paper used in this Annual Report comes and innovation at Siemens is available at: from controlled sources such as sustainable forests. The mill WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INNOVATION in which the paper was produced is certified in accordance with ISO 9001, 14001 and 18001 guidelines. It uses only The Siemens publication Pictures of the Future: ­chlorine-free bleached pulps (ECF), which are subsequently The Magazine for Research and Innovation is available at: processed without the use of elemental chlorine. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/POF © 2014 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich 108 A. To our Shareholders 131 B. Corporate Governance 171 C. Combined ­Management Report 346 E.8 Financial calendar 1 27 First-quarter financial report January 2015 12 Preliminary figures for fiscal 2015 November Annual Shareholders’ 2015 Meeting for fiscal 2014 7 Second-quarter financial report May 2015 28 Ex-dividend date January 26 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting for fiscal 2015 2015 January 2016 30 Third-quarter financial report July 2015 1 Provisional. Updates will be published at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/FINANCIAL-CALENDAR 247 D. Consolidated ­Financial Statements 337 E. Additional ­Information 347 338 E.1 Responsibility Statement 344 E.5 Five-year summary 339 E.2 Independent ­Auditor ʼs Report 345 E.6 Notes and forward-­looking ­statements 341 E.3 Statement of the M­ anaging Board 346 E.7 Further information and information resources 342 E.4 Company structure 347 E.8 Financial calendar Order no. AR2014-E siemens.com /annual-report
