Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Artwork: Close-up of artist’s conception of 3D structure of an antibody. Table of Contents Table of Contents Introduction Pg # Government and Academic People Care Pg # Corporate Mind 18 Research Laboratories Overview 3 The Promega Culture 39 Investments for the Future 19 Letter from the CEO 4 Employee Health 41 Quality Process and Product 19 Corporate Mind Pg # Promoting Wellness through 42 Product Reach Healthy and Active Lifestyles Conscious Leadership 8 cGMP Manufacturing Facility 20 Corporate Purpose, Vision Investing in Employee Education, 9 Planet Aware Pg # Training and Advancement 47 and Values Responding to Climate Change 24 Corporate Governance 10 Human Rights and Diversity 48 Planet Aware Energy Consumption 24 Investments in the Future 11 Community Touch Pg # Tracking and Reducing Impacts from Supporting Education and Supply Chain Responsibility 13 28 52 Product Distribution Knowledge Product Reach Pg # Reducing Impacts from People Care 30 Community Wellness 57 Business Travel Supporting Good Science 15 Preserving Natural Capital 32 Creativity 60 Pharmaceutical and 16 Biotechnology Industries Additional Information Pg # Minimizing Waste 32 Community Touch Applied Biotechnology and 2015 Report Parameters 63 16 Water Conservation 34 Agriculture Key Indicators 64 Forensics and Paternity Laboratories 17 Connecting with Customers 35 without Paper GRI Index 65 Clinical and Molecular Diagnostics 17 Less is More with Packaging 36 Laboratories Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 2 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Artwork: Artist’s rendition of 3D cell culture. Overview The culture at Promega is woven with a vision for the long term while being mindful of how to make a tangible, lasting contribution to the world in which we live. Our work challenges us intellectually, helps us develop professionally and fulfills us personally. We believe that success is not solely measured by short-term profits but by finding lasting synergies between organiProduct Reach zational focus and the wellbeing of humanity. Together we can achieve more than any of us could individually. Our products have enabled scientists to address the challenges facing global health for over 35 years. To meet the increasing needs of Planet Aware researchers worldwide, we continue to make significant investments in innovation, facilities and capabilities that will provide a solid foundation for long into the future. People Care As we grow, we look at corporate responsibility as more than a label or a term, but as a comprehensive framework that will holistically integrate best practices into our strategic and operating fabric. We are mindful of how natural Community Touch resources are used and integrate the values of sustainability across all aspects of our business. We are also careful to consider the communities in which we work and strive to make meaningful contributions to support programs that improve wellbeing, share knowledge, and recognize the arts. With growth we look not only to improve our Additional Info business practices, but also maintain the culture, values, and vision that have made Promega successful and unique. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 3 Letter from the CEO Table of Contents As we monitor our use of resources, review the support to our constituencies and reflect on our intent for the future, we’re Corporate Mind reminded of a couple of important truths. There are more variables to measure as we consider consumption regarding short-term and long-term impact. Our customers are dealing with complex questions in science, regulatory constraints and funding limitations. Our employees are becoming more mobile, and our communities are facing challenges of support for the citizens they serve.  are also reminded of how fortunate we are at Promega. We have the opportunity to serve scientists who work at the We Product Reach forefront of their fields, to employ people who have a sincere appreciation for one another, and to work in vibrant and growing communities. This is something we appreciate now, and we realize that we are stewards of our work and living environment for those who will succeed us in generations to come. “ We realize that we are stewards of our work and living Planet Aware environment for those who will succeed us in generations ” to come. —William A. Linton, Chairman and CEO  uch like any long-living organism, we must nurture the ability to grow, respond and M People Care adapt to whatever develops in the decades ahead. Promega has set its sights on the year 2078 for our 100 year anniversary as a private, independent company. Ensuring that we will reach that milestone depends on each of us who work and support this business to continue to innovate and deliver quality products and services to our customers globally. Community Touch  ltogether, we are committed for the long term to sustainable business practices, creative A William A. Linton, and supportive work environments, and to improving the human condition through Chairman and CEO advanced scientific discoveries. Thank you for being a part of these exciting developments. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 4 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Corporate Mind 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional Info Artwork: Artist’s rendering of the components of a cell. Table of Contents Corporate Mind Corporate Mind  romega’s corporate responsibility program not only helps our life “Psciences Product Reach industry to collectively understand how to continually improve our environmental efforts, but also serves to provide additional meaning to our work. ” —Craig Christianson, General Manager, North America As a leader in the field of biotechnology, Promega Corporation Planet Aware provides innovative solutions and technical support to life sciences researchers and industry. We offer over 3,000 People Care products, allowing scientists worldwide to advance knowledge in the fields of genomics, proteomics, cellular analysis, molecular diagnostics and human identification. Founded in 1978, the company is headquartered in Madison, WI, USA, with branches in 16 countries, over 50 global distributors, and Community Touch manufacturing branches in San Luis Obispo and Sunnyvale, California, USA; Shanghai, China; and Seoul, South Korea. In 2014, revenue grew to 367 million dollars (US), the number of employees increased to 1,327, and our building footprint increased to over one million square feet globally. The Feynman Center cGMP manufacturing facility at Promega Corporation in Madison, WI. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 6 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware Promega Headquarters People Care Promega Manufacturing Facilities Branch Office Community Touch Distributor Our building footprint increased to over 1 million square feet globally. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 7 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Conscious Leadership At the heart of science is the understanding of the interdependent, Product Reach dynamic nature of systems. This complexity is increasingly true in business environments as well. In complex, rapidly changing and uncertain environments, our leadership must have the latent capacity of mind and Planet Aware heart to truly flourish. We are actively developing an organizational environment that allows deep personal connections, that creates trust in the face of ambiguity to encourage conscious and courageous action, that People Care encourages use of intuition and intelligence together in developing vision and outlook, and ultimately provides space in which everyone can have an opportunity for self-awareness and Community Touch transformation. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 8 Corporate Purpose, Vision and Values Values. Promega continues to evolve and reflect a set of Table of Contents living values that include: Purpose. Promega exists on an evolutionary frontier where • Contribution to the advancement of science and to the Corporate Mind the values of science, business and human wellbeing are improvement of life in the world community. fully integrated. Acknowledging these interdependencies, • Appreciation that we operate as an adaptable living Promega cultivates its environment for the flourishing of organism in which each element and human contribution employees, developing deep and enduring relationships is a vital part of a whole, capable of responding to the with all constituencies, and for the creation of intelligent life emerging complexities of our time. science solutions. • Personal development through inner and outer exploration Product Reach and practices of self-awareness. In complex, rapidly changing • Recognition that both work and home are places to cultivate wholeness and wholeheartedness through and uncertain environments, our learning, offering the best of ourselves, integrating new insights, and developing inner and outer qualities that leadership must have the latent Planet Aware allow each individual to be present and engaged. capacity of mind and heart to • Recognition and reward of achievement through creativity, risk taking, process improvements, and innovation. truly flourish. • Adaptability and flexibility in the workplace. People Care Vision. Promega Corporation is built on a vision where: • Innovative research tools accelerate scientific discovery. • Life Science research can lead to the cure and prevention of many diseases. Community Touch • The work environment nurtures creativity and self-discovery. • The corporation appreciates and values the contributions of each employee. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 9 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware Corporate Governance Promega is governed by a Board of Directors while daily operations are led by the Corporate Leadership Team and global Branch Managers. This diverse People Care group brings wide-ranging expertise and unique country experience to management decisions. As the guiding force of the company, these groups are responsible for setting company strategy Community Touch and providing organizational oversight. Artist’s rendering of Additional Info antibodies being internalized. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 10 Table of Contents Investments in the Future Branch Expansion. In August of 2014, Promega expanded Corporate Mind into India by opening our 16th global branch, located in New Promega embraces the philosophy that to be truly sustainable, Delhi. This expansion will provide a direct link to the Indian an organization must evolve as the world and customer needs research, development and business community, allowing us change. As such, we understand and anticipate our customer to support scientific initiatives and innovations. needs while providing an inspiring place for employees to work. We continue to be committed to building a long-term sustainable future through investments in innovation, people, Product Reach infrastructure and facilities. In 2014, our focus on investing in the future continued through scientific innovation, expansion of global facilities and advancement of technical and leadership capabilities. These investments will assure that customer needs continue Planet Aware to be met and will generate sustainable growth of Promega far into the future. Research. In 2014, continued contributions in innovative research resulted in 75 new patent filings, bringing our Promega Biotech India Private Ltd., a subsidiary of Promega People Care patent library to nearly 400 granted patents and 230 pending Corporation, became fully operational in August of 2014. patents. In addition, 18 new products were launched supporting customer needs in cellular analysis, genetic identity and integrated solutions. Community Touch ndia’s biotechnology industry is one of the fastest growing in the world. “IThe establishment of this branch gives us further appreciation into what is most helpful to customers, and it allows us to respond to any specific needs of the region. ” Additional Info —Bill Linton, President & CEO of Promega Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 11 Table of Contents Facilities Expansion. We saw continued expansion in 2014. Corporate Mind The new da Vinci Center, a state-of-the-art facility in Madison, WI, enhanced Facilities and Engineering team capabilities, optimizing system efficiencies, capacities and flexibility. Equipment and spaces allow the design, fabrication and testing of machine components, product packaging and many other needs company-wide. Ultimately, expertise acquired in the Product Reach da Vinci Center will decrease equipment downtime and shorten new product development, allowing us to better meet customer expectations. This new space is one more indication of our willingness to experiment, innovate and push the envelope toward new possibilities. Planet Aware In addition, construction of a 130,000 square foot processing center began in 2014. It is designed for efficient operations, positive employee experience and will be built with future expansion in mind, limiting operational interruptions. The center The daVinci Center, which houses facilities and engineering, opened its doors in will house customer service, logistics operations, product June of 2014. finishing and will service product distribution globally. This new People Care center will incorporate the latest technology in cold storage material handling that will assure our continued high level of customer service and shorten the lead time to customers. Completion is predicted for the fall of 2015. Community Touch This continued mindful focus on building a resilient organization, along with continued investment in infrastructure will enable Promega to meet the rapidly changing needs of the scientific community. Additional Info Construction of a processing center that will house customer service, logistics and operations began in 2014. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 12 Table of Contents Supply Chain Responsibility Corporate Mind Promega recognizes the effect and importance that our Promega values suppliers of suppliers have in the scope of our corporate responsibility and goods and services that adhere strives to work with companies that have similar commitments. Over 50% of our suppliers have sustainability or corporate to the highest social, ethical and responsibility programs established or in development. A environmental standards. focus on sourcing from local suppliers also supports local Product Reach communities and reduces effects from shipping. Our most recent supplier survey indicated that 50% of suppliers are based within 250 miles of our corporate headquarters in Madison, WI. In 2015, Promega will update qualification and selection Planet Aware processes and communications shared with suppliers to align with our principles of sustainability and corporate responsibility. People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 13 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Product Reach 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Community Touch Additional Info Artwork: Artist’s rendering of NanoLuc® and firefly luciferase reporter proteins. Table of Contents Product Reach Corporate Mind nnovation, the centerpiece of scientific achievement, merely signifies “Idesire unless implemented with relentless commitment to quality and Product Reach performance. It is the combination of these elements which are the hallmark of Promega. ” —Keith Wood, Head of Research, ATG/Sr Research Fellow Planet Aware Supporting Good Science When the first restriction endonucleases that cleaved DNA These tools have expanded greatly from DNA modifying and at discrete sequences were isolated, researchers realized cloning enzymes to reagents and systems for proteomics, People Care that they could now freely manipulate DNA and create precellular analysis, drug discovery and forensics and even dictable recombinant molecules. The biotechnology era instruments for measuring results or isolating molecules. became reality. Promega realized that providing pre-isolated, Scientists cite use of Promega products in thousands of high-quality restriction enzymes to researchers would support research, applied and translational peer-reviewed publications their scientific inquiries by allowing them to focus on their Community Touch research questions and not the tedium of preparing their own restriction enzymes. By continuing to provide high-quality, reliable “tool kits”, Promega continues to support research, giving scientists more freedom to focus on specific questions at the leading edge of scientific discovery or clinical practice. The end result is better science, using better tools, for faster answers. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 15 Additional Info that are the foundation of biochemical and cell-based assays. Table of Contents Such assays can be reliably miniaturized when throughput By continuing to provide is critical, and they are reliable when low variability and high-quality reliable “tool kits”, assay-to-assay performance is required. Corporate Mind researchers have more freedom to Applied Biotechnology and Agriculture focus on specific questions at the With the innovative bioluminescence and genomic leading edge of scientific discovery technologies that Promega is introducing in life science research, we’re also serving applied markets. In this segment, or clinical practice. Product Reach we deploy our research tools into analysis tools for safety and authenticity. each year. In addition, our scientists collaborate with their peers in academia, industry and government laboratories to develop novel research tools, protocols and technology Planet Aware platforms. Our products support many life science research areas and industries, including: Pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, forensics and paternity research, clinical and molecular diagnostics, applied biotechnology and agriculture, and academic and government basic research. People Care Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries Scientists in the pharmaceutical sector need reliable assays and reagents that allow them to query hundreds of thousands Community Touch of test compounds at a time. They need assay technologies that yield reliable data and are predictable of outcomes in vivo so that “false hits” and late development failures are For food analysis, we provide sample preparation tools in minimized. Scientists in the biotechnology sector need better combination with pathogen testing and GMO testing for analytical and functional tools to characterize large molecule nearly all food matrices. Promega DNA purification chemistry “biologics” drugs. Promega serves customers in both of is considered to be the standard in authenticity determination these segments by continually developing and improving our of meat products, and has been used by the European Union Reference Laboratory for Animal Proteins in feeding stuffs Additional Info technology platforms, including our luciferase chemistries Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 16 (EURL) to develop a Standard Operating Procedure for the exonerate those who have been wrongly convicted of a crime. Table of Contents extraction of DNA for downstream PCR-based detection Researchers and analysts need to know that they will get methods for food testing. optimal results from their valuable sample inputs. Promega Corporate Mind has worked with forensic and paternity laboratories for more In water and hygiene analysis, our ATP bioluminescence than 25 years and supports their challenging workflow by expertise is already very well adopted. Several groups have providing products from efficient DNA extraction through published methods using the BacTiter-Glo™ luminescent discriminating STR analysis. ATP-based assay chemistry for the assessment of water quality and biofilm formation, and the desalination plant at El Prat de Lobergat (Spain) used this same technology to Product Reach develop a biochemical oxygen demand protocol for seawater. The tools that we offer make microbial contamination monitoring in crude oil and heavy fuels possible, thus reducing the use of bactericidal chemicals in those processes. Planet Aware Forensics and Paternity Laboratories Forensics and paternity laboratories deal with tremendous caseloads and tight turnaround times. Dependable results, throughput and reliable product supply are critical to them. Theses labs use limited samples to develop leads from People Care crime sciences for law enforcement, help bring closure to Clinical and Molecular Diagnostics Laboratories families whose loved ones are lost in mass disasters, or help Molecular diagnostic laboratories rely on the use of highquality, consistently performing products in their assays. We manufacture the majority of our reagents that contribute to Community Touch robust and reliably performing molecular assays. We ensure our products are manufactured to the highest quality standards through maintenance of ISO 9001 & ISO 13485 certification and capabilities for cGMP manufacturing. We can provide flexible solutions with product customization options to meet a clinical laboratory or IVD manufacturers’ needs. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 17 Additional Info Government and Academic Research Laboratories Tools that Work on the Edge Table of Contents Basic researchers, whether in academic laboratories or government For a long time, researchers struggled with research centers, are often the early adopters of new technologies getting clear imagery of fast cellular events Corporate Mind or platforms that later become miniaturized or automated for use happening inside a live cell. Light microscopes in more commercial settings. One example of the willingness of could not distinguish objects closer than 200 academic researchers to adopt new technologies that allow new nanometers because of the diffraction limit. ways of exploring fundamental biological questions is illustrated by Nobel Laureate Eric Betzig solved this problem the work of Dr. Zhe Liu’s. Liu is geared toward better understanding with his novel lattice light-sheet technology. The interactions within live cells. Product Reach technology provides higher resolution imaging, allowing scientists to track a single-protein molecule in a live cell. Some Promega customers have begun to use this technology in their own research, and Promega products have complemented these Planet Aware techniques. This is the case for researcher Zhe Liu, who works with Betzig. To optimize imaging with lattice light-sheet, Liu uses the Promega HaloTag® technology. He finds HaloTag to be an important tool in his research, because it is People Care compatible with many dyes and can be easily multiplexed with any fluorescent proteins for multi-color imaging. In this application HaloTag works with lattice light-sheet to produce 3D imaging in the live cell’s nucleus. This imaging Community Touch helps to understand spatial organization and how such structures influence transcription activity. As researchers like Dr. Liu work on the Localization of Sox2 stable binding sites in 3D by lattice light-sheet, single-molecule cutting edge of science, Promega strives to stand imaging. See sidebar for more information. (Source: http://elifesciences.org/content/3/ with them. e04236/F1) Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 18 Additional Info Table of Contents Investments for the Future Quality Process and Product Corporate Mind To sustain our contribution to scientific exploration and Promega Madison was first certified to international stanapplication, we will continue to invest in the development dards for quality management systems in 1998 and, along and discovery of new technologies. In 2014, over $38 million with the Promega European distribution center, is currently (US) was invested in research and development, and 75 certified to the ISO 13485 and ISO 9001 standards. These new patent applications were filed. Because of sustained standards are required for the development, manufacture, global investment in research and development, we have testing and delivery of medical devices around the world. Product Reach an extensive intellectual property portfolio. Currently 16 Promega locations meet standards for ISO 9001, ISO 13485 or both. Patents (Issued and Pending Applications) Promega customers receive safety data sheets as well as comprehensive technical data sheets on the use of Promega Cellular Analysis 419 products. A high level of integrity is applied in all product Planet Aware Genomics 85 claims and product use information, as the incident table below demonstrates. Genetic Identity and Other 92 Proteomics 31 Product Responsibility Total 627 2014 and Non-compliance People Care Incidents regarding product health and 0 We also work with academic institutions and other entities to safety codes license and develop promising technologies. As a member of Incidents regarding product information 0 the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation Research Tool and labeling Community Touch Subscription Program, we have the opportunity to take a Incidents with marketing communication first look at new technologies from the university. 0 regulations Breaches of customer privacy and loss of 0 customer data Incidents concerning provision and use 0 of products or services Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 19 Additional Info Table of Contents cGMP Manufacturing Facility Corporate Mind The Feynman Center serves customers in need of molecular biology reagents for in vitro diagnostic (IVD) assays. It meets the strict design and regulatory requirements of today and has the flexibility to respond to future regulation as needs and requirements change. State-of-the-art construction includes failsafe redundancies to ensure uninterrupted Product Reach power and dedicated, purified water for the highest quality manufacturing processes. Dispensing Lab (Feynman Center). Planet Aware  ur people take great pride in what they are achieving daily, because “Othey People Care follow a purpose that goes beyond fulfilling job expectations. They are sensing that their work is a small but important contribution towards making our world a better place. Be it by supporting scientists Community Touch to find ways to fight diseases like cancer, be it by enabling forensic labs to identify culprits. ” —Mauro Ciglic, General Manager, Promega AG (Switzerland) Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 20 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Artwork: Artist’s rendering of cell structure. Planet Aware 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Table of Contents Planet Aware Corporate Mind “ In our manufacturing operations we continually examine current processes and look toward making lasting improvements. Working Product Reach with research on design of new products, we look for opportunities to minimize environmental impacts throughout the product life. ” —Mary Doers, Director, Bulk Production Planet Aware Over the last few years, Promega has focused on long-term office and the new Shanghai facility. It was expected that thinking and planning by building an infrastructure that will these new facilities would cause increases in gross carbon allow for longevity, resilience and growth. This investment footprint, but the degree was underestimated. However, when has resulted in a 65% increase in building footprint since comparing carbon footprint to building footprint, emissions People Care 2008. While this investment has significantly impacted our have held constant over 2010 levels. carbon footprint, it will create a solid foundation that will allow Promega to not just to sustain but to thrive long into Carbon Carbon Footprint Emissions Indexed toIndexed to Bldg Footprint the future. By making thoughtful decisions around our growth Building Footprint investment, we have seen a reduction in emissions of 4% Community Touch since 2008 as indexed to building and revenue. 34 34 35 33 23 33 28 26 Because of this intensive investment period with the addition Tons of CO2 /Ft2 of facilities and capabilities, we did not achieve our short-term 2014 global target for carbon footprint reduction of 10% as indexed to revenue. Since this original goal was set in 2010, our building footprint has grown by 50% with the addition of the Feynman Center, da Vinci, Cell West, the India Branch 13042MA Additional Info 2008 2014 Figure 1. Greenhouse gas emissions as indexed to building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 22 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Over the last few years, Community Touch Promega has focused on long-term thinking and planning by building an infrastructure that will allow for longevity, Additional Info resilience and growth. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 23 Table of Contents Responding to Climate Change Carbon Footprint Progress Toward Carbon Footprint Goal Progress Toward Goal Promega supports the move to limit anthropogenic greenhouse 98 gas emissions and actively tracks contributions to climate change SCOPE 3 93 90 Tons of C02 Per Million in Revenue 88 Corporate Mind 84 83 Goal from all operations globally. We take into account direct (scope 73 1) emissions from fuel combustion, (scope 2) emissions from SCOPE 2 purchased electricity, and indirect (scope 3) emissions from business travel, outgoing distribution, water usage and paper usage. SCOPE 1 Energy Consumption 13043MA Product Reach 2008 2014 Emissions from energy generation account for over 70% of total Figure 2. Status toward 2014 greenhouse gas emissions emissions. We look for opportunities to improve efficiency when reduction goal. building new facilities and improving existing operations, and encourage every employee to minimize energy consumption on a daily basis. Planet Aware Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emission. We employ a twoCarbonGlobal Footprint Carbon CompositionFootprint 2014 pronged approach for reducing impacts from energy consumption. First, we focus on reducing actual energy usage through improved 19% 50% Electrical Usage efficiencies in our facilities. Second, we generate electricity from rooftop Natural Gas People Care solar panels or purchase it from renewable sources where available. 0% Air Travel 2% Auto Travel Rail Travel New Promega facilities incorporate energy-minimizing systems, 7% Water but there is some usage that is unavoidable. A majority of our Paper new facilities comprise laboratory and manufacturing spaces with 13044MA 22% Distribution Community Touch specialized building systems. These facilities have caused usage to increase per building footprint. Some notable efforts to conserve Figure 3. Key contributors to the Promega carbon footprint. energy in 2014 included: • T  he incorporation of building control systems to optimize air handling, heating and cooling systems for facilities on our Madison campus. Additional Info • T  he hiring of a full-time Facilities Engineer to facilitate goals of improving energy efficiency of building systems. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 24 Table of Contents Electricity Progress Towards Goal Electricity Progress Toward Goal Thousands of kWh / Million in Revenue 71 6? 70 65 63 Goal 58 58 52 Promega France installed film on glass windows to reduce heat and 13045MA Corporate Mind 2014 energy loses and added motion detectors to lights in restrooms. 2008  Figure 4. Status toward 2014 electricity goal. Product Reach • T  he continued installation of motion sensors in office spaces, conference rooms and common areas at Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA. • P  romega Italia participation in a nationwide energy saving Planet Aware day, “M’Illumino di Meno”. • T  he opening of our da Vinci building in 2014, featuring 48 photovoltaic panels as well as use of skylights to minimize People Care energy usage. We recognize that using renewable energy eliminates greenhouse gas emissions that otherwise would have been emitted during energy production. Our use of renewable energy has increased every year Community Touch since we began measuring our usage in 2008. Locations throughout the world continue to switch to 100% renewable energy sources: • Promega GmbH since 2013 • Promega Euro Hub in Mannheim, Germany since 2011 • Promega Brazil in Sao Paulo since opening in 2011 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 25 Additional Info • Promega Italia in Milan since 2010 Table of Contents • P  romega Biotech Ibérica in Alcobendas, Spain since 2008 Corporate Mind • P  romega Biotech AB in Stockholm, Sweden, since opening in 2007 • The Aviation Operations building in Madison, Wisconsin is our largest renewable energy producer with over 250 solar panels generating over 370,000 kWh since Product Reach installation in 2010. Our use of renewable energy Solar arrays on the da Vinci building, which opened in 2014 in Madison, WI. has increased every year since Planet Aware we began measuring our usage in 2008. Locations throughout the world continue to switch to 100% renewable energy sources. People Care We invest in training that is specifically related to energy efficiency and renewable energy. A number of facilities specialists Community Touch at Promega Madison have been trained in energy efficiency through the Wisconsin, USA program ‘Focus on Energy.’ These specialists lead efforts to identify opportunities for improvements. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 26 Additional Info Table of Contents Natural Gas Progress Toward Goal Natural Gas Progress Toward Goal Natural Gas Usage. Natural gas is used primarily at manufacturing Hundreds of Therms / Million in Revenue sites for heating and production related processes, and some branch 35 6? offices use natural gas for heating. Natural gas is our largest source 31 29 Corporate Mind of direct air emissions and second in overall emissions for Promega. 25 26 Goal 23 To minimize heating requirements and related emissions, we use 19 geothermal wells and solar water heaters in many facilities. We also have incorporated heat capture technologies in our new Feynman Center to repurpose heat generated from other operations. Even with consideration of energy efficiency during design phase, the 13046MA 2008 2014 Product Reach specialized nature of new facilities has caused an increase in natural Figure 5. Natural gas usage as indexed to revenue gas usage. We evaluate all facilities for ways to improve efficiency, compared to 2014 goal. with the recent projects being results of this focus: • In fall 2014 a new heat exchange on our BTC building boiler was installed to conserve natural gas. Planet Aware • In spring 2015 new high efficiency burner replacements will also be installed at our BTC building. We expect these will drive considerable reduction in usage at this facility. Direct air emissions are monitored from combustion of fuel purchased People Care for heating and emergency generators in North America. Promega emissions fall well below the threshold levels set by local and federal organizations, and we will continue to explore further enhancements. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 27 Additional Info Table of Contents Tracking and Reducing Impacts from Product also made significant efforts in 2014 and will implement Distribution a new smaller shipping box in 2015. With these improvements by the logistics teams globally, we were Promega invests great efforts to ensure that our products get able to hold gross emissions from distribution flat over Corporate Mind to customers quickly and safely. We reduce air emissions by 2013 even with a growth of 7% in tons of product shipped. using more efficient modes of transport and decreasing the As indexed to revenue, carbon footprint from distribution has size and weight of packaging materials when possible. To decreased 15% since 2010. understand the indirect emissions from outgoing shipments, data was collected from Promega-owned global distribution Efficient Product Delivery with Our Helix® On-Site hubs on weight, distance, and mode of transportation. Stocking System. Product Reach Global Distribution Emissions Our state-of-the-art, on-site inventory management Outgoing Product Distribution Emissions as Indexed to Revenue system, Helix®, further reduces emissions from distribution. The Helix® program uses RFID technology 21 21 21 21 that tracks product use in real time and results Tons of CO2 / Million in Revenue 19 19 18 in more efficient shipping practices. Planet Aware This automated inventory management system ensures that customers have uninterrupted access to supplies while 13047MA reducing the impact 2008 2014 on our planet. People Care Figure 6. Emissions from product distribution to customers globally. Several projects in 2014 were implemented aimed at reducing environmental impacts from product distribution. In North America we reduced our standard shipment size and made Community Touch improvements to temperature-regulated packaging to reduce the amount of dry ice needed. Our European Shipping Hub As indexed to revenue, carbon footprint from distribution has Additional Info decreased 15% since 2010. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 28 Table of Contents In addition, Promega purchases carbon Corporate Mind credits to offset the greenhouse gas emissions from energy use of the Helix® System from shipment to distribution Product Reach to stocking. In 2014, Helix® offset over 780 tons of emissions worldwide by supporting the following projects: Russas-Valparaiso Forest Conservation Project in Acre, Brazil Planet Aware Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve on the island of Borneo in Indonesia To see more information and learn how to participate, please visit People Care www.promega.com/helix Community Touch Additional Info Russas Valparaiso Forest Conservation Project in Acre, Brazil. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 29 Table of Contents Reducing Impacts from Business Travel Business Business Carbon Emissions TravelTravel Footprint as Indexed to Revenue In the last year, emissions from business travel decreased by Tons of Emissions Per Million in Revenue 10 15% per revenue thanks to a gross reduction and use of more 9 9 9 Corporate Mind 8 efficient modes for travel. Business travel via air, automobile and 8 7 rail account for less than 10% of our current carbon footprint. In 2014, we saw a 4% gross reduction in air travel with more efficient rail travel used instead. 13048MA Automobile Travel. Promega actively sought out fuel-efficient 2008 2014 vehicles. Promega Benelux, Promega UK, Promega Italia, Promega Product Reach AG in Switzerland and Promega KK in Japan have Figure 7. Business travel emissions from air, automobile, and rail as indexed to revenue. moved to a more efficient and ecologically sound fleet. Since 2008, our global automobile fuel efficiency has improved by 7%. In the United States, enrollment in the Emkay GoGreen fleet program enables increased Planet Aware use of high-efficiency vehicles and also plants trees annually to compensate for unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions generated. Since our enrollment in 2009, we have offset over 1,900 tons of CO2 by planting trees to offset automobile emissions. People Care Location Emission Reduction Promega (Beijing) Biotech Co., Ltd. 77% Promega Biotech Ibérica (Spain) 42% Promega KK (Japan) 41% Community Touch Promega AG (Switzerland) 39% Table 2. Promega sales branches showing the largest emissions reduction from business travel since 2008. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 30 Additional Info Table of Contents Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint Alternative Transportation. Alternate transportation programs have been implemented in a number of locations worldwide 855 Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue to reduce environmental impacts. Employees are encouraged Corporate Mind 4 686 677 631 634 to use public transportation, ridesharing or biking-to-work. By 607 576 installing electric vehicle charging stations in parking garages 3 2 2 2 at several Madison campus facilities, we support adoption of 2 2 electric vehicles. We are currently evaluating expansion of the program to other locations. 13049MA 2008 2014 Indexed to Revenue Product Reach Figure 8. Net emissions from automobile travel and indexed Since our enrollment in 2009, we have to revenue. offset over 1,900 tons of CO2 by planting trees to offset automobile emissions. All buildings at Promega Planet Aware Madison offer bicycles for employees to use, and People Care resources to support cyclists, including pumps and bike repair kits. Many locations worldwide have similar programs in place. Promega Community Touch Biosciences in California and Promega UK have expanded their programs to encourage Promega Corporation in Madison, WI, offers bicycles for employees to use on campus. cycling or alternative transportation use by employees. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 31 Additional Info Table of Contents Preserving Natural Capital Non-Hazardous Waste Progress Toward Goal Minimizing Waste Cubic Feet in Thousands 164 Corporate Mind Promega has consistently recycled more than we send to the landfill 136 142 143 150 144 124 127 122 thanks to increased employee awareness, better recycling programs 112 104 111 99 114 and detailed evaluation of waste streams. Since 2008, overall Incineration/Landfill/Recycling/Waste 542 501 502 Goal 471 452 438 452 recycling levels have increased by 60%. Employees are reminded 403 of the mantra “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and have championed 13050MA 78 58 66 66 66 83 62 this effort through recycling at all locations, as well as composting 2008 2014 Product Reach at some branches. The continuing success of our Figure 9. Composition of non-hazardous solid waste and pipette tip box recycling progress toward 2014 goal. program diverts over 4,500 pounds of plastic from the Planet Aware landfills, which equates to roughly 20,000 pipette tip boxes annually. Segregating the trays from our automated Maxwell® Instrument also recycled over 750 pounds—roughly 26,000 People Care trays—in 2014. The continuing success of our pipette Community Touch tip box recycling program diverts over 4,500 pounds of plastic from the landfills, which equates to roughly 20,000 pipette tip boxes annually. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 32 Additional Info Table of Contents Promega encourages reuse by providing permanent ware in cafeterias Global Hazardous Waste and kitchenettes, and reusable cups for all employees. Compostable Global Hazardous Waste per Revenue and recyclable takeout containers have replaced polystyrene Pounds of Waste Per Million in Revenue TREATED/INCINERATED/RECYCLED materials. Notable global efforts to reduce waste included: 670 8 271 615 Corporate Mind • P  romega BioSystems in Sunnyvale, CA: Pilot of a composting 217 236 program in their community has seen waste reduced by 80%. 38 44 26 • P  romega France focuses on reducing waste from purchase vendors and outgoing products. As a Recylum member, they ensure that all electrical equip171 125 457 327 309 13051MA ment sold can be recycled free of charge at 2010 2014 Product Reach end of life. Figure 10. Hazardous wastes as indexed to revenue. Managing Hazardous and Infectious Wastes. In the biotech industry, manufacturing processes often require work with potentially hazardous substances. We understand the responsibility that Planet Aware comes with the use of these products, as well as the obligation to reduce waste and ensure proper disposal. Since 2010, hazardous waste as indexed to revenue has reduced by 30%. To reduce emissions associated with hazardous waste, Promega Biosciences has partnered with a hazardous waste handler where 90% of waste is treated for reuse, reused as fuel or recycled. People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 33 Additional Info Table of Contents Water Conservation Water usage progress toward goal Water Usage Progress Toward Goal Promega actively measures water usage and evaluates initiatives Thousand Gallons Per Million in Revenue to save water in activities from manufacturing, landscaping and 97 daily office activity. Since 2010, water usage as indexed to revenue Corporate Mind has grown by 40%, primarily from increasing demands of our new 69 67 67 Goal 64 62 65 facilities, which include water intensive labs and cGMP manufacturing space. We are currently evaluating steps to reuse and conserve water from intensive processes like filtrations systems. W  e are seeing improvements in 13040MA 2008 2014 Product Reach several existing facilities. Promega Biosciences initiated water conserFigure 11. Water usage indexed to revenue and progress vation projects, from automatic and toward 2014 target. low-flow faucets to a custom water recirculating system for distilled water. Since 2008, water usage has Planet Aware decreased by 39% at this facility. In 2014, the PBI ‘Grrreen’ Team planted an herb garden that uses Rain gardens in the Prairie Swale at reclaimed water and has a solar Promega Corporation in Madison, WI. powered irrigation system. People Care Many of Promega’s global locations incorporate design features to conserve and ensure proper disposal of water. Our offices in Sydney, Australia, use rain water collected for cleaning, toilets, and irrigation of plants. Similarly, our Madison-based global headquarters uses rainwater collection and rain Community Touch gardens for natural filtration. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 34 Additional Info Table of Contents Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal Connecting with Customers without Paper Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal By using modern technologies and emerging media channels, we have enhanced communication with our customers and reduced Reams per Million in Revenue 576 Corporate Mind the need for printed materials. Using iPhone®/iPad® and Android™ 87% Reduction mobile applications, blogs, electronic catalogs or online support Since 2008 communications reduces paper needs and allows real-time connections with customers. 107 Goal 98 88 13041MA 65 48 68 2008 2014 Product Reach Since 2008, paper usage has decreased Figure 12. Global paper usage indexed to revenue since 2008. by over 80%. In 2008, we committed to moving away from printing. With significant Planet Aware efforts and investment, Promega transitioned most paper catalogs, instruction manuals, print marketing, and a majority of other corporate communications to electronic formats. As a result, since 2008, paper usage has decreased by over 80%. Additional efforts to reduce paper and its effects include: People Care Recycled Paper and Duplex Printing: Many global locations have transitioned to using recycled paper and duplex printing. Promega Italia uses Community Touch recycled paper and participates in a campaign sponsored by Group Portucel that plants trees for all paper needs. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 35 Additional Info Table of Contents Electronic Documents: To reduce use of dry ice, in 2014 Promega incorporated new materials in shipping boxes that provide better insulation • F  ield Application Specialists in North America, along with Corporate Mind and implemented packaging that minimizes air space. Over branches in Europe and Pacific Asia integrated the use the last few years, we have also begun using unbleached of iPad®s to better serve customers while eliminating the shipping boxes, sustainably harvested materials, and biouse of printed resources. degradable and recyclable air pouches. These offer product • P  romega sends electronic copies of various documents protection with the least environmental impact. to customers that do not want a printed copy, resulting We regularly evaluate procedures for potential improvement Product Reach in a savings of over 5,000 pieces of paper a month. and recently conducted a study into the best way to handle • E  uropean branches offer electronic invoices to expanded polystyrene foam coolers. A life cycle analysis discustomers as another way to reduce covered that returning coolers by mail from outside the local unnecessary printing and paper usage. area can release more carbon than it takes to manufacture a new cooler. In light of this information, Promega now asks Less is More with Packaging customers to reuse or recycle coolers locally. Planet Aware Since many of our products are temperature sensitive, we face unique challenges in packaging our products that involve using dry ice, gel ice and foam coolers. Despite these challenges, we are committed to searching for innovative ways to reduce packaging, use environmentally friendly materials and design People Care for recycling or reuse. Environmental sustainability, product protection, and quality are all key priorities for our packaging. Community Touch To reduce use of dry ice, in 2014 Promega incorporated new materials in shipping boxes that New Promega shipping box (on the right) promotes local recycling to reduce environmental impacts. provide better insulation and implemented packaging that Additional Info minimizes air space. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 36 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Artwork: Artist’s rendering of 3D cells. People Care 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Table of Contents People Care Corporate Mind “ Ithinking,  find it no small thing that Promega, where people are trained for systems scientific innovation, precision, and quality, is also a place where the Product Reach grounds are cultivated to support the expansive and dynamic and personal Planet Aware work of human flourishing. Call it right brain, left brain integration, yin and yang balance…it is a healthy sign of a business and culture poised to thrive and grow through complexity. ” —Malynn Utzinger, Director, Integrative Practices At Promega, we believe that work should be more than People Care simply a job; it should be an avenue for employees to grow and find personal fulfillment. When there is an alignment of Community Touch individual strengths, interests and overall company vision, a synergetic relationship can be nurtured between employees and the company in which each party responds to and supports the other. We take pride in how our work helps to improve the lives of others, which would not be possible without the Additional Info dedication and commitment of our employees. We value the contributions employees make and heavily invest in supporting their well-being and growth. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 38 Our 19 worldwide locations embrace the relationship Table of Contents between employee and company to provide support in ways that meet individual needs in each region. Employees are given flexibility in how they work and the freedom to act in Corporate Mind an environment where individual differences are respected. We strive to provide a work environment where employees can be challenged and innovative. We support the passion and creativity employees bring to their work, their personal interests and their community involvement. This makes Promega a healthy place to grow ourselves, our families, Product Reach and our business and cultural spaces. The Promega Culture This video discusses our commitments to employees and what makes Promega a unique employer. As with all activities in a business, the overarching principles that guide the culture and daily values must be clearly Planet Aware d. A capital structure that supports the primary organiarticulated and actualized to provide context for decision zational goals and values. Economic metrics give us making. Our organization strives to be as unique as its guidance on sustainable business practice, but are people, with respect for different personalities, values and not the primary drivers for business decisions direction. The psychology of the organization—the “cultural DNA”—provides a critical foundation through which all other e. Selection and support of employees entering the People Care company principles and operations are shaped. For Promega, organization that reflect our values these principles include: 3. The nature of the work is based on the premise that life science research and related discoveries have been 1. The organization supports the personal aspirations of and will continue to be important to society and human employees and others who work with us in meeting our development. Our contribution to this field is to design and goals. Community Touch supply products, systems and procedures that simplify 2. Underlying structures reinforce the primary goal of personal this research and give more reliable and accurate results. development, including: Employee feedback has indicated that their greatest satisa Organizational reporting and decision-making faction comes from the people they work with and the nature b. Physical work environments, including design, lighting, of the work they are doing. The organizational core values communication systems and access to information support the central role of purpose in employees’ satisfaction. Additional Info c. Priority for the things people need to do their best work Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 39 Table of Contents Work Environment. To inspire and Corporate Mind support our employees, we create unique workspaces with features such Product Reach as original and rotating art exhibits— including art created by employees themselves, third spaces to evolve thinking, ample natural lighting, space to exercise and meditate, and local healthy dining options. Employees also Planet Aware work in a nonhierarchical space to foster collaboration and teamwork. We strive to bring the outside into our buildings and encourage an appreciation of the natural beauty. This was accomplished in the Feynman Center by incorporating People Care native plants and materials from the surrounding prairie, and a winter garden with thousands of plants inhabiting a living wall, adding life and warmth to the building. Locations globally use Community Touch natural lighting, local resources and art to provide unique and comfortable work environments at all of our branches. We continue to invest in providing an environment with an attention to detail that is inspiring, flexible and aligned with the needs of employees. Additional Info The Living Wall of the Cross Roads inside the Feynman cGMP Manufacturing Center. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 40 Table of Contents At Promega, well-being programs incorporate the many facets of an Corporate Mind employee’s life, including work, family and personal growth. Employee Health •  romega Corporate P Product Reach Headquarters and our At Promega, well-being programs incorporate the many office in Sunnyvale, facets of an employee’s life, including work, family and California are tobaccopersonal growth. free campuses to prevent the health Benefits. We offer comprehensive benefit programs at hazards associated with Planet Aware all global locations based on country standards. Benefit secondhand smoke. programs generally include medical, dental and vision coverage available to full-time employees and their families. Employee Safety. Employees are also offered shortand long-term disability Promega Environmental insurance, life insurance, tuition assistance and paid time Health and Safety programs off. These benefits are a significant investment to ensure the are committed to establishing, maintaining and improving People Care well-being of our employees and their families. work environments for the safety and well-being of our employees and the communities in which we operate. Wellness Center. An on-site Wellness Center at our Accident rates are below the industry average and we have Corporate Headquarters staffed by a nurse practitioner and been recognized for our commitment to safety. integrative physician offers convenient care services and Community Touch wellness consultations to Promega employees, spouses, and partners. In 2014, the Wellness Center received over 2,350 patient visits and administered 460 flu vaccines in Madison, WI, and at our office in Sunnyvale, California. Branch locations use benefit programs and local medical facilities to provide health care that is convenient and affordable. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 41 Additional Info for children, snacking smart, healthy recipes, smoking Table of Contents cessation, financial planning, stress relief, back care, Ayuvedic Mental and physical wellness medicine, novel treatments for depression, knowing your pet, Corporate Mind are equally important, with and trigger point therapy. Over 700 employees completed Health Risk Assessments in 2014 to better understand their facilities provided at our headbody and health status. The annual Promega Wellness & Safety Fair in Madison brought together 27 vendors and quarters for meditation, yoga, 200 employees. exercise and other activities to Product Reach meet individual needs. Promoting Wellness through Healthy and Planet Aware Active Lifestyles Promega strives to create a culture of wellness for a healthy and engaged workforce. Mental and physical wellness are equally important, with facilities provided at our headquarters for meditation, yoga, exercise and other activities to meet People Care individual needs. Wellness Education. The Promega Wellness Team regularly offers programs Community Touch and campaigns throughout the year to encourage Participation in wellness and education programs offered by active and healthy lifestyles. Promega can have a dramatic impact on the quality of life of Campaigns in 2014 aimed our employees. The story on the next page shows a personal to educate employees and account of an employee who experienced positive and lasting promote actions such as life style changes from the wellness program at Promega. nutritious eating, increased Additional Info physical activity and mindfulness. Past communications have covered topics such as advanced directives, nutrition Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 42 Table of Contents My Wellness Journey My wellness journey started when the ‘Know Your Numbers’, campaign started a few years ago. I signed up because Promega was offering  nnual Promega Fun 5K Walk/Run. Each fall Promega A a $50 gift card for signing up. Finding out at only 30 years old, and Corporate Mind sponsors a fun walk/run for employees and their families. In believing I was in good shape, that all my numbers were borderline high-risk came as a big surprise. I, along with my manager signed addition to promoting healthy and active lifestyles, food and up for Weight Watchers, which was Promega’s weight loss program monetary donations are provided to The Second Harvest at the time. I did very well in this program losing 40 pounds in 6 Food Pantry. months bringing me back to my ideal weight and achieving the lifetime member status. That status would not stick around. After only a few weeks I began Product Reach to gain the weight back and by the time ‘Know Your Numbers, came around the next year I had only managed to lose about 7 pounds from the previous year, and my numbers showed little improvement. Over the next couple of years I tried various exercise programs but didn’t pay much attention to my diet and although I was getting a little stronger I was still getting concerning numbers. Planet Aware In 2014, I signed up for Promega’s weight management program again. This time it was run by a registered dietician. This program taught me how to make permanent lifestyle changes regarding diet that were easy to follow and easy to understand. One of the most important points of the program was to increase exercise. With People Care Annual Promega Fun 5K Walk/Run the new Feynman workout facility so convenient, my manager and I started using the elliptical machines a few times a week during the lunch hour. One day just prior to starting on elliptical, Supporting Employee Teams. Promega supports employee a co-worker asked my manager and I to join her noon hour class, sports teams and running/walking teams globally. At our Barbells. That first class punished me, and left me sore for days. Madison campus, 42 individuals participated in events that But I was hooked. I started coming to more of her classes, and then Community Touch supported charitable causes in 2014. taking all the classes. The instructors at Promega are amazing! They push each individual to their full potential by showing all different levels of intensity, and make you want to come back each day and work hard for them. My ‘Know Your Numbers’, results this year have all improved. My weight has been consistently down over 20 pounds for 6 months now, and I feel fantastic. My wellness journey is far from over, Additional Info but with the tools I now have my confidence is at an all-time high. J.J. (Promega Employee) Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 43 ‘Race of the Companies’. Promega Biotech Ibérica Relaxed Body and Mind. The Promega branch Table of Contents employees participated in the ‘Race of the Companies’ and distribution hub in Mannheim, Germany (Carrera de las Empresas) in Madrid, Spain. This offer free massages to employees each month. annual event brings together 9,000 participants Promega Sweden and Promega Benelux have Corporate Mind in either a 6km or a 10km run. massage chairs on-site for employees. B  ike to Work. Promega supports employee Bike-to-Work Fitness Facilities. All North American locations offer on-site groups worldwide, from Wisconsin to the United Kingdom. Bike facilities and programs to support employee wellness. Global racks and repair kits are available at every building in Madison locations offer health club reimbursements and financial and at several branch locations. Additionally, Promega offers support for participation in sports if the facility does not Product Reach bicycle commuter benefits, offering $20 per month tax free offer an on-site fitness room. for cycling related expenses in the United States. The Madison campus offers basketball and volleyball courts, fully-equipped fitness rooms, walking, jogging and biking trails, and cross-country skiing trails in the winter. A Promega Health Promotion Specialist serves as a resource to provide Planet Aware exercise plans and help employees develop fitness goals. To promote health in body, mind and spirit, the Zen Zone is available on the Madison campus with a steeping pool, steam room, and sauna. People Care Promega France employees participate in skiing days. Community Touch Team Building Activities. Many locations hold social events outdoors to encourage an appreciation of the natural world and active lifestyles. In 2014, Promega Korea, Korea The on-site exercise facility in the Feynman Center at the Madison campus. Biosystems and Promega France had a skiing days for employees. Promega Biosciences in California celebrated their 15-year anniversary with an afternoon of paintball. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 44 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Local Produce and On-Site Garden. By serving fresh and local produce from our on-site community garden in Madison, Wisconsin, we promote a culture of wellness. With over 3,000 pounds of vegetables Planet Aware harvested from our garden in 2014 and produce from a network of over three dozen local farms, we were able to serve healthy, organic menus across our campus throughout the People Care year. Promega offers plots in the community garden for employees to use as their own, and provides starter plants to help promote the sharing of gardening skills. Community Touch Additional Info Many herbs, spices and seasonal vegetables are produced for the Madison campus from an on-site garden. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 45 Table of Contents Produce Swap. Promega Biosciences in California, Work-Life Balance. We recognize the significant role of USA, has a “Produce Swap” program for employees to family and encourage the strengthening of these connections. Corporate Mind share excess produce from their home garden with other From on-site child care in Madison to social gatherings tailored employees. All funds from this program are donated to the toward children, Promega appreciates the fulfilment families local food bank, as well as the produce grown from fruit provide and the importance in supporting future generations. trees on the Promega Biosciences property. Take-Home Family Meals. In Madison, employees may Product Reach now enjoy a weekly “take-home family meal” prepared by our chefs using locally sourced foods. These dinners have allowed busy employees to eat a nutritious, savory “homecooked” meal with their families without having to get out a pot! Many employees report that it has brought their families together in a new way. We recognize the significant Planet Aware role of family and encourage People Care the strengthening of these connections. Promega France employees and their families celebrate the holidays. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 46 Additional Info Investing in Employee Education, Quality Systems Training. Many trainings are focused on Table of Contents Training and Advancement maintaining high standards in Quality-System-Regulated (QSR) areas. This has provided automated and just-in-time Career training and development programs are designed Corporate Mind visibility into the training status by individual employee, as to keep employees abreast of the latest technologies, well as by training requirements. scientific trends and customer needs. We are committed to the personal and professional growth of all employees throughout the many phases of their career, and work to foster the skills, competencies and talent in our workforce. Our services include programs, resources, workshops, Product Reach and tools. Professional development courses such as the Coaching for Leaders and The Emerging Leader and Management Essentials programs support supervisor and senior leaders. Customized training for departments is available, as well as organizational development services that include talent management resources and consulting. Planet Aware Additionally, individually targeted leadership development is available either on campus or with external academic or training partners. In 2014, $1.2 million dollars were invested in external training and advancement. This number does not truly capture the entire value invested in training as informal People Care and internal training investments are difficult to track.  Promega  “ honest with enthusiasm for individual work and for broader team work is very unique as a company. The environment is warm and Community Touch where projects can easily exist and grow. Dimensions to make big and honorable things happen are real at Promega. —Maria Drees, General Manager, Promega Italia, S.r.l. (Italy) ” Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 47 Additional Info Scientific Training. The Scientific Training team designs, Human Rights and Diversity Table of Contents develops and implements product and sales trainings for employees around the globe, which are delivered in live and Respecting Human Rights. As a member to the UN Global Compact, Promega follows all regulations regarding Corporate Mind virtual classrooms. In 2014 there were over 2,400 attendees of 36 webcast courses, and 8 live classroom courses. Live employment and has zero tolerance for violations of human courses were offered at facilities in Madison, WI, and Lyon, rights. We are committed to upholding and advancing France, at the Promega Europe Training and Applications The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in how our Laboratory (PETAL). PETAL training addresses the training business develops productive relationships around the world needs of European, Middle Eastern and African employees. to continue working cooperatively among different customs PETAL helps reduce travel due to its central and cultures. Issues that we take very seriously include: Product Reach location in Europe, and with video conferencing • Protection of children from exploitation equipment, scientists and trainers are able to participate from off-site locations. • Protection of all workers from compulsory labor • Payment of at least minimum wages Language Training. English lessons are provided at Promega KK in Japan and at Promega offices in Korea to • Safe working conditions Planet Aware help employees improve communication with international Promega complies with all local workplace regulations and customers, colleagues, and host guests from different ensures that our employees and community members are countries. With dedicated training departments and treated with respect and dignity. We hold the same expectations comprehensive training facilities in the United States, for our suppliers and look to align with organizations that meet Europe, and branch offices in Asia, we make or exceed international human rights and labor standards. People Care every effort to provide all employees with the resources they need to advance their career. We pledge ourselves to creating and maintaining an environment Community Touch that respects diverse traditions, heritages and experiences. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 48 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware General Managers from all Promega branches gather in Madison, WI. Valuing Diversity. As a global company, we believe in and pracPromega Biotech Ibérica in People Care Spain has been recognized tice equal opportunity and affirmative action. We acknowledge by the city of Alcobendas and honor the fundamental value and dignity of all individuals. We with the Municipal Award Community Touch pledge ourselves to creating and maintaining an environment that for Reconciliation and respects diverse traditions, heritages and experiences. With offices Equal Opportunities. in 16 culturally diverse locations, the organization benefits from the unique cultures and experiences of all employees. Women represent approximately 48% of employees worldwide and occupy 42% of management positions in the United States. Promega Biotech Ibérica was again recognized for the commitment to human rights and equal Additional Info opportunity employment being awarded “Alcobendas Concilia”. Employees at Promega headquarters fill the Cross Roads area of the Feynman Center. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 49 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Community Touch 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional Info Artwork: Artist’s rendering of red blood cell. Table of Contents Community Touch Corporate Mind “ Based responsibility on the belief that a corporation’s global philosophy of social Product Reach will lead to long term business and community sustainability, we put forth our utmost effort to become one of the most respected life science companies. ” —JeungA Na, General Manager, Promega Korea, Ltd. (South Korea) Science tells us that any action has a reaction. As such, we As a life sciences company, we are fortunate. It is our job Planet Aware recognize Promega’s growth is not self-contained but has to investigate and help others investigate the workings of become possible due to the action and reaction from our life. While we may see life at the molecular level, life lessons People Care surrounding communities. We value the support of these seem to hold true at any size. The community of a cell communities, and make it our business to cultivate give includes both group and individual dynamics. Cells exhibit back and foster the inspiration and energy that only comes both flexibility and continuity. We include this understanding with community. in the values that encourage community engagement and support. Promega incorporates a level of internal autonomy Community Touch that allows meaningful support at a local level around the world. In working to make a substantial contribution to the community each year, Promega has established community organizations as well as contributed to additional groups and initiatives. By focusing on engagement and support in education, community wellness, and creativity we can make strides in enriching the lives of those around us, and our own. Additional Info The Fitchberg Center Farmers’ Market brings Promega employees and community members together in Madison, WI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 51 Table of Contents Conscious Evolution: The Awakening was the theme of the 2015 International Forum on Consciousness, held in Madison, WI. Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Supporting Education and Knowledge Promega embraces the perspective that shared knowledge across global networks ensures that scientists and science Education brings growth, can fulfill their potential. Education brings growth, discovery Community Touch and rich context for the future. Over 20 years ago Promega discovery and rich context helped to found and continues to provide significant support for the future. to two cornerstone organizations for community and future scientists: The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute and Woods Hollow Children’s Center. We take a hands-on approach in our communities with over 1,000 hours volunteered teaching classes with an emphasis on molecular Additional Info biology. Locations globally support various initiatives focused on expanding knowledge. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 52 The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute. Caring for Future Innovators at Woods Hollow Table of Contents The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute (BTC Children’s Center. Promega is a substantial supporter of Institute), Promega Corporation and other sponsors work the Woods Hollow Children’s Center, which was developed to Corporate Mind together to coordinate the annual International Consciousness provide early childhood education and care for the Madison, Forum, formerly known as the International Bioethics Forum. WI, community. Woods Hollow is located on the Promega The event is geared towards the general public and focuses Madison campus and is available to community and Promega on sharing information from the worlds of natural and social employees. With gold-standard accreditation, Woods Hollow sciences, as well as leading discussions on related social offers a rich experience with diverse curriculum in a setting issues. The forum attracts over 300 participants, and that allows children to explore and create. Product Reach scholarship registrations are awarded annually to around 30 attendees. We take a hands-on approach Planet Aware in our communities with over 1,000 hours volunteered teaching classes with an emphasis on molecular biology. People Care In addition to the Consciousness Forum, the BTC Institute offers a variety of educational opportunities, including Community Touch programs for upper elementary through high school students, teacher trainings, graduate level advanced scientific courses, and high level symposia that feature talks from world-renowned researchers. Educational efforts include the “Biotechnology Field Trip Program,” which provided over 3,000 middle and high school students from Wisconsin and Illinois with hands-on, molecular biology-based laboratory Additional Info experiences during the 2013–2014 academic year. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 53 Table of Contents Corporate Mind José Carreras Foundation for Leukemia Research. The José Product Reach Carreras Foundation is a global leader for leukemia research, established after the famous Spanish tenor recovered from the disease. In 2014, the Promega team learned the foundation was building Planet Aware a state-of-the-art research facility in Barcelona and decided to contribute to the foundation’s efforts. Promega Biotech Ibérica in Madrid donated the Maxwell® RSC, an automated nucleic acid purification system that People Care will help the researchers work more efficiently on finding a cure for leukemia. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 54 Additional Info Table of Contents Collaborating with the Marine Biological Laboratory. Promega continues to work with the awardees by sharing To advance educational and research efforts in the areas scientific knowledge to promote continued collaboration. of molecular biology, cellular biology, biomedicine and The sponsorship was first announced in 2012 and is part of Corporate Mind ecology, Promega established a Discovery Fund to benefit a five-year collaboration. In 2015, Promega will sponsor the the Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL). The MBL is one same award for the Chinese Society of Cell Biology (CSCB). of the largest nonprofit biological laboratories in the world and is an international center for research, education and Sportivamente Insieme per la Ricerca. Promega Italia training. Their offerings include highly competitive summer supported the Laboratory of Molecular Genetics UOC courses and research programs that attract thousands of Medical Genetics, Giannina Gaslini Institute of Genoa by Product Reach scientists and students from a variety of institutions across organizing the first charitable event with youth sports, games the globe. The Promega Discovery Fund provides financial and music to raise funds. Donations were used to purchase support to the MBL and also explores how Promega tools equipment necessary for researching rare genetic diseases and technologies can be used for MBL course instructors. such as Cystic fibrosis, Hirschsprung disease, Alexander disease, and others. Planet Aware Promega Award for Biochemistry Partnership. In recognition of important collaborations from innovative researchers in China, Promega partnered with the Chinese Society of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (CSBMB) to Promega Italia supported the first grant The Promega Award for Biochemistry to two scientists charitable event to raise funds for whose ground-breaking work continually advances life People Care science research. the purchase of equipment necessary for researching The 2014 recipients were: rare genetic diseases. • D  r. Feng Shao, a Research Investigator Community Touch from National Institute for Biological Science, China • D  r. Nieng Yan, a Professor from Tsinghua University, China Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 55 Additional Info Table of Contents Supporting Students in China. In 2014, Promega Beijing • The  Promega branch in Spain also awarded four scholarships to students pursuing life received the “2014 Voluntades Award” science majors at Anhui University in China. The program from FENIN (Federation of Healthcare Corporate Mind was established to fund tuition for students from rural Technology Companies) for the “P3” provinces. In addition program that supports young scientists. to their studies, the • P  romega GmbH in Germany created workshops for scholarship recipients journalists from regional newspapers to discuss new take part in volunteer information and current trends in bioscience with the work throughout the Product Reach aim of promoting transparency in the field between school year. Promega scientists and readers. will continue to support the education of up to Promega Beijing scholarships contribute to • five students every year. the education of rural Chinese students. • • Planet Aware Presenting Lorne Genome Meeting Awards in Australia. • Promega Australia has been giving awards to student scientists for over 20 years at the Lorne Genome Meeting. The recipients • receive a monetary prize and the opportunity to • present in front of local scientific delegates. The award session has been very popular, making • People Care the exposure and opportunity valuable to the • winners. • T  he Technical Service Outreach Program in Promega Supporting an Interest in Science. Promega locations Madison impacted 20 schools and 700 students in the worldwide strive to support education and reinforce an interest Wisconsin area in 2014. Community Touch in science. A few examples of efforts in 2014 include: • P  romega Australia supported The Smith Family “Learning for Life” program that aids disadvantaged • P  romega Biotech Ibérica sponsored a children by helping them develop vital life skills and YouTube video and made donations for stay engaged in education. each view it received. Funds went to the scientists at Barcelona’s Institute for • P  romega Biosciences chemists frequently made Research in Biomedicine whose work presentations at schools and provided on-site tours of Additional Info focused on research and development in oncology, the organic chemistry labs and manufacturing facilities Alzheimer disease, and diabetes. at San Luis Obispo, California, USA. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 56 Table of Contents Supporting Instructors. Promega offers educational Community Wellness resources such as complimentary lectures and lab teaching guides for teachers looking to enhance their curricula. Topics Promega defines community wellness in a broad sense, Corporate Mind of interest have ranged from DNA purification to emerging from strengthening the physical and mental needs of an infectious diseases. Our Training Support Program offers individual to addressing a multitude of social needs in the instructors at the high school, undergraduate, and graduate community. In an effort to support our employee’s charitable levels who teach courses using DNA, RNA, protein or cellgiving and the various needs of the community, Promega based techniques the opportunity to receive up to $2,000 matches donations to the United Way and Community Shares in discounts off Promega products to supplement their campaign of Madison, WI, each year. Similar programs that Product Reach classrooms. For more information, please visit promote contribution and volunteering include: http://www.promega.com/products/pm/na/trainingsupport-program/ Innovative Health and Wellness Programs. In support of wellness programs that advance healing and preventative Sharing Knowledge through the Promega Webinar health, Promega sponsored the Madison Symphony Series. The Promega Webinar Series is a program that Orchestra’s HeartStrings program. HeartStrings brings Planet Aware provides noncommercial live webinars to scientists around live, interactive musical performances into healthcare and the world free of charge. Scientific topics range from basic residential facilities. Sessions reached over 3,400 people science concepts to highly technical research presentations. in Wisconsin and have demonstrated physical, emotional, This communication channel allows unique interactions cognitive and social benefits to residents. between young and senior scientists in the areas of genomics, People Care proteomics, genetic identity and cellular analysis. Promega defines community wellness in a broad sense, from strengthening the physical and Community Touch mental needs of an individual to addressing a multitude of social needs in the community. Additional Info A HeartStrings session at MTILP, Inc. (Mobility Training & Independent Living Program) in Madison, WI. Photo Credit: Brody Kidd. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 57 Global Citizenship with California Schools. WE Day is Community Action Team. At Promega Biosciences in Table of Contents a movement empowering young people to make the world San Luis Obispo, CA, an employee-led “Community Action a better place. The WE Act Program offers educational Team” supported local organizations by involving employees Corporate Mind resources and campaigns to help young people turn in fundraising activities, matching donations and encouraging inspiration into sustained action. Promega Biosystems in volunteering. In 2014 fundraisers benefited 15 different Sunnyvale, California, sponsored the “Green Teams” at five organizations, including the United Way, Pacific Wildlife Sunnyvale schools and assisted with transportation costs Care, Movember and the SLO Food Bank. Additionally, the for WE Day. The students earned their admission to the team adopted a local road and organizes cleanups quarterly. 2015 WE Day event by taking initiative on one local and one global cause. Product Reach Encouraging Student Efforts to Improve Quality of Life. The Promega International Scientific Scholarship, developed in collaboration with the University of WisconsinMadison, supports undergraduate science students pursuing unpaid international internships that focus on improving Planet Aware quality of life in developing nations. This award aims to propel students’ professional advancement in the fields of science and to simultaneously help them develop cross-cultural skills. To date, Promega has awarded this scholarship to seven students. People Care The Promega Biosciences Community Action Team supported local organizations with fundraising, donations and volunteering. Community Touch Additional Info Recipients of the Promega International Scientific Internship Award and Penny Patterson, Director of Communications at Promega Corporation. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 58 Table of Contents Supporting Individuals with Special Needs. In Global Philanthropy and Volunteerism. Mannheim, Germany, the Promega EuroHub works with • In 2014, Promega Australia supported disadvantaged ATW Mannheim, a company that supports psychologically children through World Vision Australia, The Leukemia handicapped people offering employment opportunities Corporate Mind Foundation and The Salvation Army. in a stable working environment. Similar arrangements are implemented in Wisconsin and in the United Kingdom • P  romega UK operates an annual program providing jobs for individuals with disabilities in assembling to support local charities which recently and reusing packaging. included Barnardos Children’s Hospital, Friends of the Earth Bee Cause, and Macmillan’s Cancer Research. Product Reach • In the past year, Terso Solutions employees volunIn Mannheim, Germany, teered to support Habit for Humanity, The Road Home the Promega EuroHub and also provided additional contributions to the Boys and Girls Club. supports psychologically Planet Aware handicapped people by providing employment opportunities. People Care Promega Madison also supports an in-house aluminum can recycling program that benefits young adults with special needs in Wisconsin. Adam Can Recycling is a start-up business that enables young adults to be self-employed and active members of the community. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 59 Additional Info Creativity Table of Contents The ability to think creatively has always been a cornerstone Corporate Mind for scientific experimentation. At Promega, we have a long history of leveraging innovation to support creativity within the company and in our surrounding communities. Spotlight on Wisconsin Visual Artists. Quarterly public art exhibits on the Promega corporate campus serve a dual purpose of sharing creativity of featured artists Product Reach while introducing the community to diverse perspectives. Throughout the years, exhibits have featured the work of local and international artists. In 2014, Promega presented a mixed-media group show featuring the South Central Chapter of Wisconsin Visual Planet Aware Artists (WVA). Through the use of imagery, color, shape, and texture, approximately 60 artists interpreted the ‘Vital Signs’ theme beyond the prominent medical meaning—pulse, temperature, blood pressure, respiratory rate. People Care The Life of the Party by Susan Y. Hoffman of Wisconsin Visual Artists (WVA). Community Touch The ability to think creatively has always been a cornerstone for scientific experimentation. Additional Info Promega Quarterly Art Showcases, open to the community, feature the work of local and international artists. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 60 Showcasing Beauty in Science. Scientific images are a Backing Established Creative Venues. Promega supTable of Contents critical form of data and in many ways provide insight into ports numerous cultural venues in the community, such as nature’s mysteries and help us understand the way the world the Madison Contemporary Art Museum and the nationally Corporate Mind works. While they provide valuable information to research, recognized American Players Theatre (APT). As a partner scientific images can also be inherently beautiful, an aspect with APT, Promega supports their educational program in that nonscientists often do not have the opportunity to which the actors travel to schools around the state, bringing experience. The appreciation of beauty in detail and science the theater experience to thousands of students. is what compelled Promega to sponsor the “Cool Science Image Contest” hosted by The Why Files at the University of Product Reach Wisconsin-Madison. From 94 submissions, 10 were selected as winners. Promega plans to continue sponsorship for the contest in 2015 to encourage appreciation of aesthetic beauty within science. Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info The above image shows a piece of rat brain cortex cultured in a petri dish. It was one of the entries in the 2014 Cool Science Image Contest. Submitted by Brian Jenkins, Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Biochemistry. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 61 Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional Info Artwork: Artist’s rendering of enzymes modifying a protein. Additional Information Table of Contents 2015 Report Parameters Corporate Mind Reporting on Promega Corporate Responsibility progress is Carbon footprint calculations have been made using the completed on a calendar year basis with information in this emission factors provided by the World Resources Institute report sharing results and actions from January 1, 2014 to Greenhouse Gas Protocol on energy and business travel. The December 31, 2014. This is the seventh Promega report in this reported emissions from distribution were calculated with the area following the initial report released in July of 2009. This conversion factors provided by DEFRA’s 2014 Greenhouse Gas process of reporting will continue on an annual basis. Corporate Conversion Factors and have incorporated the new methodProduct Reach Responsibility reporting attempts to focus on the environmental ology for emissions for air freight report that include radiative and social impacts of Promega operations worldwide using forcing. Emission from product distribution for previous years the framework established by the Global Reporting Initiative’s have been recalculated to factor in radiative forcing. Lastly, the G3.1 Guidelines and the principles of the United Nations Global Environmental Defense Fund’s Paper Calculator has been used Compact. We will transition to the GRI G4 Guidelines in the for calculating the life cycle impacts due to paper usage. Current upcoming reporting cycle. and previous years’ carbon footprints have been calculated Planet Aware using the most updated information and emission factors from With more timely processes for gathering information worldwide, the resources above. Promega has seen improved accuracy and transparency in its key indicators for environmental and social impacts. Increases Some sections of the GRI that were not covered in the report in the scope, materiality, and comprehensiveness have been will be addressed below. In 2014 we had no incidents or issues experienced but Promega recognizes that there is still signifiin the following areas: cant room for growth. Information has been gathered from all People Care • Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and Promega branch and subsidiary locations worldwide. In some regulations (EN 28) instances, additional or more accurate information was gathered • Incidents of discrimination and action taken. (HR 4) for previous periods resulting in slight variations from reported indicators in previous reports. Estimations for previous years’ • Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people indicators has been made where information was unavailable and actions taken. (HR 9) Community Touch using revenue as a factor. • Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices ant their outcome. (SO 7) Areas that have not been measured in this report due to lack of • Fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with current information are: laws and regulations. (SO 8) • Packaging Material Usage: By implementing a new system Please contact sustainability@promega.com with any questions for gathering and tracking data, Promega will have a better on the Promega Corporate Responsibility Report. understanding of gross packaging material usage by type Additional Info and the impacts from these activities. Please contact sustainability@promega.com with any • Staff Commute Artist’s rendering • Effluents to Water questions on the Promega Corporate Responsibility Report. of enzymes • Supply Chain Analysis modifying a protein. 63 Table of Contents Key Indicators Business 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of Employees 958 972 1,117 1,197 1,223 1,285 1,327 Corporate Mind Building Footprint (Sq. Feet) 631,589 631,589 708,387 709,977 738,459 1,009,254 1,036,408 Number of Global Locations 16 17 17 17 18 18 19 Environmental 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 20,684 19,575 21,179 21,684 21,289 26,171 34,351 Product Reach (Tons of CO2) Emissions Per Million in Revenue 93.3 83.7 81.4 76.2 66.8 75.6 93.6 (Tons of CO2/Dollars) Emissions Per Building Footprint 32.7 31 29.9 30.5 28.8 26 33.1 Planet Aware (Tons of CO2/Sq Ft) Energy Consumption: Electricity (kWh) 15,742,438 15,255,183 16,363,009 16,363,009 16,647,068 20,127,561 25,559,188 Natural Gas (Therms) 589,034 573,652 564,715 570,723 508,964 821,733 1,269,553 People Care Water Consumption 14,241,376 13,678,029 17,104,304 18,235,195 19,850,170 23,080,018 35,502,263 (Gallons) Total Paper (Reams) 127,631 22,894 27,798 18,522 28,141 16,488 24,968 Solid Non-Hazardous Waste 223,642 215,826 245,078 270,357 270,490 301,417 313,715 Community Touch (Cubic Feet) Incinerated (Cubic Feet) 7,854 5,797 6,556 6,632 6,623 8,326 6,185 Land filled (Cubic Feet) 112,227 111,336 124,178 127,396 122,025 143,330 144,021 Recycled (Cubic Feet) 103,561 98,693 114,344 136,329 141,842 149,762 163,508 Chemical Waste (Pounds) 145,395 144,449 177,238 165,679 154,083 138,229 167,784 Additional Info Infectious Waste (Pounds) 9,316 9,431 9,261 9,164 12,779 13,749 14,483 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 64 Table of Contents GRI Index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is the world’s most widely recognized sustainability framework for organizations to use when measuring and reporting on economic, environmental and social performance. The 2015 Promega Corporate ResponCorporate Mind sibility Report is based on the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, and the following table has been developed to help users locate specific information in the report. Content GRI Section # Page # Overview 1.2 3 Product Reach Letter from the CEO 1.1 4 Corporate Mind GRI Section # Page # Overview 2.1, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, EC 1 6 Planet Aware Corporate Purpose, Vision and Values 4.8 9 Corporate Governance 2.3, 4.1, 4.2, 4.5, LA 13 10 Investments in the Future 2.10 11 People Care Supply Chain Responsibility EC 6 13 Product Reach GRI Section # Page # Supporting Good Science 2.2, 2.7 15 Community Touch Investments for the Future 19 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 65 Additional Info GRI Index (Continued) Table of Contents Product Reach GRI Section # Page # Corporate Mind Quality Process and Product PR 2, PR 4, PR 5, PR 7, PR 8, PR 9 19 cGMP Manufacturing Facility 20 Planet Aware GRI Section # Page # Product Reach Overview 22 Responding to Climate Change EN 16, EN 17, EN 18 24 Energy Consumption EN 3, EN 4, EN 5 24 Planet Aware Tracking and Reducing Impacts from 2.10, EN 26, EN 29 28 Product Distribution Reducing Impacts from Business Travel 30 Preserving Natural Capital EN 13 32 People Care Minimizing Waste 2.10, EN 22 32 Water Conservation EN 8 34 Community Touch Connecting with Customers without Paper 35 Less is More with Packaging EN 27 36 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 66 Additional Info Table of Contents GRI Index (Continued) People Care GRI Section # Page # Corporate Mind The Promega Culture 39 Work Environment 40 Employee Health EC 3, LA 3 41 Product Reach Employee Safety 41 Promoting Wellness through Healthy and Active Lifestyles 42 Investing in Employee Education, Training and Advancement LA 11, LA 12 47 Planet Aware Human Rights and Diversity 4.12, LA 13, HR 6, HR7, LA 13 48 Community Touch GRI Section # Page # Overview SO 1 51 People Care Supporting Education and Knowledge 52 Community Wellness 57 Creativity 60 Community Touch Additional Information GRI Section # Page # 2015 Report Parameters 2.8, 2.9, 3.1-3.11 63 Key Indicators 64 Additional Info Index 3.12 65 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 67 GRI Index (Continued) Table of Contents Some sections of the GRI that were not covered in the report will be addressed below. In 2014, we had no incidents or issues Corporate Mind in the following areas: • F  ines for non-compliance with environmental laws and • L  egal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, regulations (EN 28) and monopoly practices ant their outcome. (SO 7) • Incidents of discrimination and action taken. (HR 4) • F  ines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. (SO 8) • Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Product Reach people and actions taken. (HR 9) Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 68 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Carbon Emissions Indexed to Bldg Footprint Carbon Footprint Indexed to Building Footprint Product Reach 34 34 35 33 23 33 28 26 Tons of CO2 /Ft2 Planet Aware People Care 13042MA Community Touch 2008 2014 Figure 1. Greenhouse gas emissions as indexed to building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 69 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Carbon Footprint Progress Toward Goal Carbon Footprint Progress Toward Goal 98 Product Reach SCOPE 3 93 90 Tons of C02 Per Million in Revenue 88 84 83 Goal Planet Aware 73 SCOPE 2 People Care SCOPE 1 Community Touch 13043MA 2008 2014 Figure 2. Status toward 2014 greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 70 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Global Carbon Footprint 2014 Carbon Footprint Composition Product Reach 19% 50% Electrical Usage Natural Gas Planet Aware 0% Air Travel 2% Auto Travel Rail Travel People Care 7% Water Paper 13044MA 22% Community Touch Distribution Figure 3. Key contributors to the Promega carbon footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 71 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Electricity Progress Towards Goal Electricity Progress Toward Goal Product Reach Thousands of kWh / Million in Revenue 71 6? 70 65 63 Planet Aware Goal 58 58 52 People Care Community Touch 13045MA 2008 2014 Figure 4. Status toward 2014 electricity goal. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 72 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Natural GasProgress Natural Gas Progress Toward Toward Goal Goal Product Reach Hundreds of Therms / Million in Revenue 35 31 6? 29 26 Planet Aware 25 Goal 23 19 People Care 13046MA Community Touch 2008 2014 Figure 5. Natural gas usage as indexed to revenue compared to 2014 goal. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 73 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Global Distribution Outgoing ProductEmissions Distribution Corporate Mind Emissions as Indexed to Revenue 21 21 21 21 Product Reach Tons of CO2 / Million in Revenue 19 19 18 Planet Aware People Care 13047MA 2014 Community Touch 2008 Figure 6. Emissions from product distribution to customers globally. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 74 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Business Travel Emissions Corporate Mind Business Travel Carbon Footprint as Indexed to Revenue Product Reach Tons of Emissions Per Million in Revenue 10 9 9 8 9 8 Planet Aware 7 People Care 13048MA Community Touch 2008 2014 Figure 7. Business travel emissions from air, automobile, and rail as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 75 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint 855 Product Reach Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue 4 686 677 631 634 Planet Aware 607 576 3 2 2 2 2 2 People Care 13049MA 2008 2014 Community Touch Indexed to Revenue Figure 8. Net emissions from automobile travel and indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 76 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Non-Hazardous Waste Progress Toward Goal Product Reach Cubic Feet in Thousands 164 136 142 143 150 144 124 127 122 Planet Aware 112 114 104 111 99 Incineration/Landfill/Recycling/Waste 542 501 502 Goal 471 452 438 452 403 People Care 13050MA 78 58 66 66 66 83 62 Community Touch 2008 2014 Figure 9. Composition of non-hazardous solid waste and progress toward 2014 goal. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 77 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Global Hazardous Waste Global Hazardous Waste per Revenue Product Reach Pounds of Waste Per Million in Revenue TREATED/INCINERATED/RECYCLED 670 8 271 615 217 Planet Aware 236 38 44 26 People Care 171 125 457 327 309 13051MA 2010 2014 Figure 10. Hazardous wastes as indexed to revenue. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 78 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Water usage progress toward goal Corporate Mind Water Usage Progress Toward Goal Product Reach Thousand Gallons Per Million in Revenue 97 69 Planet Aware 67 65 67 Goal 64 62 People Care 13040MA Community Touch 2008 2014 Figure 11. Water usage indexed to revenue and progress toward 2014 target. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 79 Additional Info BACK Table of Contents Corporate Mind Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal Product Reach Reams per Million in Revenue 576 Planet Aware 87% Reduction Since 2008 People Care Goal 98 107 88 13041MA 65 48 68 2008 2014 Community Touch Figure 12. Global paper usage indexed to revenue since 2008. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 80 Additional Info Table of Contents Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info PROMEGA CORPORATION • 2800 WOODS HOLLOW ROAD • MADISON, WI 53711-5399 USA • TELEPHONE 608-274-4330 www.promega.com • © 2015 PROMEGA CORPORATION • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED • PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE • 05/15 • 21551355
