CSR Report 2014/2015 Table of contents 4 egetæpper is growing – and so are its CSR activities 6 Profile 11 Stakeholders say YES to more CSR 12 CSR policy 16 From yarns to finished carpets 18 Flow in tufting production 20 Management excellence 21 Human rights 22 Labour practices 24 Environmental issues 27 Fair operating practices 28 Consumer issues 30 Community involvement and development 32 CSR in the future Data 35 GRI indicators 49 Total inputs/outputs for carpet production in Herning and Gram 50 Consumption statements 51 Status of objectives and targets for 2014/2015 56 Objectives and targets for 2015/2016 and thereafter Appendices 61 Appendix 1: EMAS-declaration 62 Appendix 2: Index of G4 Content 65 Appendix 3: Index of EMAS Content 66 Appendix 4: Significant environmental impacts and effects 67 Appendix 5: Calculation basis and data sources for CO2 calculations ABOUT THE CSR REPORT It is our pleasure to present the new Corporate Social Responsia comprehensive insight into egetæpper's CSR activities during bility (CSR) Report from egetæpper. The report is structured acthe financial year from 1 May 2014 to 30 April 2015.2 cording to the CSR standard DS 49001, under which our factory in Herning achieved certification last year. The report describes The report is primarily based on our two factories in Herning our work on behalf of the nature, people and society that create and Gram in Denmark3. Data for CO2 emissions includes our the framework for our production and products. factories in Herning and Gram, as well as Bentzon Carpets, Litspin and our subsidiaries. In due time the entire Group will be For egetæpper, CSR concerns how we as a company take reincluded in full in the report. sponsibility for our impact on the world around us. CSR is about finding the right balance between high quality and design, on All environmental data concerning EMAS verification in Herning the one hand, and respect for the world we live and work in, on and Gram is verified by Bureau Veritas Certification, but the CSR the other. Through our CSR activities, we seek to conduct our Report is not verified in its entirety by a third party. Nonetheless, business activities on a responsible basis and to preserve our a lot of internal work is devoted to the verification of all of the world for future generations. report's data. To ensure uniformity and transparency in relation to previous reIf you have any questions concerning the content of this report, ports, we follow the guidelines in the Global Reporting Initiative please contact: (G4). This is a common standard for CSR reporting that makes CSR Manager Jan Ladefoged, E-mail: jlj@ege.dk, high demands of the report's content and data basis. There are, Tel.: (+45) 97 11 88 11 however, individual deviations from the guidelines due to the CSR Project Manager Dorthe Aaboe Kallestrup, requirement concerning the degree of detail1. The report gives E-mail: dak@ege.dk, Tel.: (+45) 97 11 88 11 1 This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 2 The previous CSR Report was published on 3 July 2014. The next report will be published and submitted to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in June 2016. 3 These factories are registered in accordance with the EU's environmental regulation, EMAS (Eco Management and Audit Scheme), under registration number DK000012. The EMAS verification is undertaken by Bureau Veritas Certification. ”The world needs companies to take responsibility for their impact on the Earth's resources. We wish to be at the forefront in this area, since we believe that this is the right thing to do.” CEO Svend Aage Færch Nielsen EGETÆPPER IS GROWING – AND SO ARE ITS CSR ACTIVITIES The two most noteworthy events at egetæpper in 2014/2015 creasing opportunities relating to employee conditions. The HR were the acquisition of Hammer Tæpper A/S, opposite our head area is a jungle of rules and opportunities and as egetæpper office in Herning, and our launch on the American market. With has expanded, we have seen a need to establish an HR functhe acquisition of Hammer Tæpper we have strengthened our tion. In 2014 we therefore appointed an HR Manager who is now activities within fourand five-star hotels and cruise ships, and available to employees and managers to handle questions and in the USA we hope to win business in the world's largest carpet issues relating to working practices, colleagues, maternity/pamarket. We are pleased to welcome the skilled new employees ternity leave, illness, etc. from Hammer Tæpper and the USA to the Group. We have also focused on employee well-being by drawing up a Business expansion also means increasing our focus on CSR set of guidelines to make it easier to help colleagues to regain activities, which is what we are doing at egetæpper. In the last their job satisfaction. This idea came from our own liaison comfew years our focus has been on implementing a number of inimittee, and it is wonderful to see how their input can lead to tiatives at the factory in Herning, in order to achieve the extennew practices within the organisation. sive DS 49001 CSR certification. Currently, we are developing and expanding these initiatives to include our other factories – This year, via an e-learning program we have tested 169 Danand many more projects have been launched. It is exciting to ish and foreign employees' knowledge of our anti-corruption see the CSR initiatives unfold, making both the world and our guidelines, to give them an even better understanding of where business more sustainable. the boundary lies between what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. Anti-corruption is an important parameter for We work with CSR in accordance with the UN Global Compact egetæpper, among other things since under the UN Global and the trade association Dansk Fashion & Textile's Code of Compact we are dedicated to combating corruption. We are Conduct, which we endorsed in 2010. We focus on the seven not aware of any episodes where the guidelines have been infocus areas in the DS 49001 standard. These are Management fringed, but we consider it important that employees are wellexcellence, Human rights, Labour practices, Environmental isprepared, should such a situation arise. sues, Fair operating practices, Consumer issues and Community involvement and development. We have always maintained a good dialogue with our stakeholders and this year we have expanded the dialogue with a New initiatives – new opportunities major survey in which 61 different stakeholders have stated how Internally within the Group, we have focused especially on two important it is to them that egetæpper performs well for the key areas this year: strengthening our HR activities and preparseven focus areas. The survey shows that the stakeholders ating employees to tackle any challenges relating to bribery and tach great importance to CSR. When we know what they expect corruption. of us, this helps us to improve. Yet it also means that we must make greater requirements of ourselves and our business partRequirements are becoming more stringent, and there are inners. We are therefore developing an audit programme for the 4 suppliers that originate from countries where the risks of corees a number of services and benefits that help make egetæpruption, infringement of human rights, poor working conditions per an attractive workplace. and environmental impacts are greatest. The first five suppliers are expected to be audited by Bureau Veritas in the summer of Our efforts are recognised 2015. On an annual basis, Økonomisk Ugebrev for bestyrelser publishes a Top 100 CSR rating, in which the 100 largest Danish listA completely new aspect is that this year charitable donations ed companies are ranked according to their CSR activities. The have become part of egetæpper's core business. Previously, we first Top 100 CSR rating was published last year, and egetæpper have primarily donated funds to KidsAid via an employee-driven ranked 11th. This year, we were proud to learn that egetæpper project, but now we have taken this a step further by linking has risen quickly to a shared first place, with 20 out of 20 poscharitable causes directly to our sales results. In the USA, 1% of sible points. This ranks us far ahead of a number of other large revenue goes to DIFFA (Design Industries Foundations Fighting Danish companies that we normally consider to be highly proAIDS), and in the rest of the world we follow suit by donating 1% ficient in CSR matters. This recognition of our efforts confirms of the sales of the ege Couture collection to DIFFA. We also cothat we are doing the right things. operate with UNICEF, so that whenever a customer completes a satisfaction survey, we donate EUR 10 to UNICEF. This money is Reaching for the stars … spent directly on malaria drugs. One completed survey results Our objective to be the carpet manufacturer in the world with in medicine for 16 seriously ill children. the best CSR record means that we have plenty of work to do. Yet it is good to have this demanding objective, since it ensures We take care of the environment and the working environment that we keep up the momentum – on a sustained basis. We Many environmental initiatives are still underway. ISO 14001 can see that it pays to do the right things, and this also helps certification and EMAS, which was launched in 1996 for impleto ensure a better world for the generations to come. We look mentation first in Herning and then in Gram, have now also been forward to presenting our results in this year's CSR Report and implemented at the wool spinning mill in Lithuania and are beto being part of the solution to the coming years' major CSR ing introduced at Bentzon Carpets. The stringent environmental challenges. management system requirements are helping us to reduce our environmental impacts. Herning, 25 June 2015 We have added one more Cradle to Cradle product to the family: our Ecotrust tile backing, and we currently have 29 other products in the certification pipeline. The purpose of Cradle to Cradle certification is to ensure that the product causes minimum pollution, spillage and waste. We are proud that most of Svend Aage Færch Nielsen our products are approved in accordance with numerous other CEO certification schemes, such as LEED and BREEAM. The working environment also takes high priority at egetæpper, so that in 2006 we implemented the DS/OHSAS 18001 management system, to ensure that we at all times fully control John Vestergaard and minimise health and safety risks. We also offer our employCFO 5 PROFILE In 1938, Mads Eg Damgaard founded egetæpper, which today is one of Europe's largest manufacturers of textile flooring. Mads Eg Damgaard was a visionary. His philosophy was uncompromising: he used only the latest and most advanced technology in carpet production and he was not afraid to challenge convention. This philosophy still prevails at egetæpper. We still believe that quality and the ability to supply ground-breaking design are the way ahead. Mission Vision Values We design quality carpets with respect We wish to be the trendsetting supplier Design. Quality. Respect. for people and the environment. to the most demanding sectors of the market. Taking the lead are the production and sale of tufted carpets for the contract egetæpper is one of Europe's leading companies when it and domestic markets. We have 35 standard carpets and 20 comes to the design, development and production of unique, standard carpet tiles for the contract market, and 21 standard high-quality carpets with respect for the environment. egetæphome products. We use advanced technology to dye the carper became listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange in 1985 pets, like painting a canvas. Anything is possible – the sky is the under the egetæpper a/s name. The Group's primary activities limit when it comes to different colours and patterns. This year, Herning Gram Development, production Production of tufted and woand sale of tufted and woven ven carpets5. Here, this year's carpets4. Here, this year's proproduction totalled 2,149,771 duction totalled 3,503,286 m2 carpets. m2 carpets. we produced 5,653,057 m2 at our production sites in Herning In Lithuania, we produce woollen yarns at our factory UAB Litand Gram in Denmark. spin. We purchase synthetic yarns via external suppliers. egetæpper also exploits the benefits of outsourcing individual Besides our own production, we purchase non-dyed flat-woven maintenance tasks, such as cleaning and facilities maintenance ground tissue from Bentzon Carpets, which we then dye, add (outdoor areas and office plants). backing to and resell. 4 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej Nord 25, DK-7400 Herning, Denmark. The facility is located in an industrial park under District Plan no. 6.14.1 and within the limits for the Section 15 area. The facility site comprises Title nos. 3e, 4bf and 5a Birk By. The site area is approximately 36 hectares, of which approximately 45,500 m2 are developed. 5 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej 3, DK-6510 Gram, Denmark. The facility is located in an industrial park under Title nos. 1153 and 1505 Gram Ejerlav. The site area is approximately 7.2 hectares, of which approximately 24,000 m2 have been developed. 6 EGE WORLDWIDE In addition to the factories in Denmark and Lithuania, the ege with the head office in Herning. egetæpper also holds majority Group comprises subsidiaries in 11 countries that are our priinterests in Bentzon Carpets and Hammer Tæpper. Worldwide, mary markets, as well as agents and distributors in 57 countries. egetæpper has 564 employees.6 Most of our employees, 253 The subsidiaries function as sales offices on an equal footing people, work in Herning. The factory in Gram has 63 employees. 6 This includes all employees at all factories and in subsidiaries. 8 ege group – 11 countries ege agencies/importers 9 The five segments Hotels Offices Healthcare sector Institutions Transport We have the greatest potential in the contract market, where we ten principles concerning human rights, environmental issues, sell to five different segments. labour practices and anti-corruption. Within these segments the typical customers are hotels, restauAt the strategic level, we are involved in a number of external rants, shops, offices, airports, schools and institutions, hospitals committees and associations, including: and nursing homes, shipyards and train factories. In the domes• Bæredygtig Erhverv (the Business Council for Sustainable tic carpets market, egetæpper concentrates its efforts in DenDevelopment – Denmark) mark. The customers are mainly retail chains. • European Carpet and Rug Association (ECRA) • CEN TC 134 (European technical committee for standardiWe also undertake outsourced production for other suppliers sation in the floor industry) in the industry. • Danish Standards • Gulvbranchen (the Floor Industry/the Danish Construction Supply chain management Association) egetæpper is actively engaged in supply chain management • Carpet Recycling UK of the 89 key suppliers of components for our products. Our • Dansk Fashion & Textile (trade association) suppliers, mostly European, provide the following components: • Latex And the winner is ... • Fillers In April, our two executive directors Svend Aage Færch Nielsen • Auxiliary chemicals and John Vestergaard received Erhvervsrådets Initiativpris (the • Dyes Business Development Centre's Initiative Award) 2015. This • Yarns award is made by Erhvervsrådet Herning og Ikast-Brande (the • Backing Business Development Centre Herning & Ikast-Brande) and • Packaging since 1960 has been awarded to business executives of out• Transport standing companies that have also made an extraordinary contribution. In his speech to the award recipients, the BusiAll suppliers are risk-assessed according to internationally reness Development Centre's chairman, Søren Skræddergaard, cognised country indexes for anti-corruption measures, protecgave special emphasis to egetæpper's CSR profile, which he tion of human rights, environmental issues and labour practices. described as the best in Denmark. egetæpper's founder Mads We keep an extra vigilant eye on suppliers in high-risk countries. Eg Damgaard received the same initiative award in 1977 for his All suppliers have received egetæpper's Code of Conduct for pioneering activities. acceptance and signature. Significant changes Influence via involvement On 1 October 2014, we acquired 51% of the shares in Hammer egetæpper applies a precautionary approach to environmental Tæpper A/S. challenges and works very actively to minimise environmental impacts, which is e.g. documented by our DS 49001 and ISO For more information concerning egetæpper's organisation 14001 certifications. Since 1996 we have been registered unstructure and financial results, please see egetæpper's Annual der EMAS, which is a voluntary EU regulation to promote enviReport for 2014/2015. The Annual Report is available on our ronmental initiatives. In 2010, we endorsed the UN Global Comwebsite: www.egecarpets.com. pact, as our commitment to work to ensure the observance of 10 STAKEHOLDERS SAY YES TO MORE CSR egetæpper attaches importance to maintaining a good dialogue with its stakeholders. It is essential to know their requirements and expectations, if we are to continue to grow. It is also a requirement under DS 49001 that we work actively to involve our stakeholders in our prioritisation of the CSR focus areas. egetæpper's stakeholders Definition of ege's stakeholders • Shareholders/owners Parties that affect or are affected by egetæpper's decisions • Employees and actions. Stakeholders are groups, e.g. customers, employ• Customers ees and local communities, who are directly affected by our • Suppliers business activities. Stakeholders may also be parties that make • Architects/designers requirements on behalf of other groups, or the environment, • Municipalities that are not able to protect their own interests. In 2012, for the first time, we undertook a detailed inventory 61 stakeholders completed the survey, and the results are clear. of egetæpper's stakeholders, with subsequent personal interIt is no longer sufficient to focus on four out of seven areas, views in order to map the relevance of egetæpper's work with a since all of the areas are relevant! This means that this year we large number of different CSR topics. The analysis was the basis can add three new focus areas to egetæpper's CSR work, which for our subsequent decision to focus on four out of seven focus are management excellence, human rights and community inareas in the CSR standard: environmental issues, labour pracvolvement and development. We have drawn up objectives and tices, consumer issues and fair operating practices. action plans to ensure that we are moving in the right direction within all of the focus areas This year, we performed a much broader analysis, involving far more stakeholders, and it is now clear that both the focus on The analysis also showed that egetæpper is actually assessed and expectations of CSR have increased. very positively by the stakeholders. For the majority of the questions, more than 70% believe that we handle the individual foThis year's analysis took place as an online survey in which 96 cus areas well or very well. stakeholders in Denmark and abroad (but primarily Danish) were asked how they believed that egetæpper handles a number of different topics, such as sustainable use of resources, and how far egetæpper's prioritisation of the topic is of significance to their decisions and activities. 11 CSR POLICY egetæpper wishes to demonstrate active and long-term rewhere there is a risk of human rights violations, we will seek to sponsibility for our impact on the world around us. In our CSR take steps to avoid any violations of human rights that affect the work, we aim to ensure that our business model, production people with whom we work in a business relationship. processes and carpet products help create a sustainable society both now and in the future. 1.2 Employees and labour practices We will ensure good employment conditions for our employees For egetæpper, CSR is a means to attract and retain employees, and we will observe the current collective agreements in our areas. customers and end-users, stakeholders and suppliers, as well as a framework for the development of cooperation throughout We will promote diversity in the workplace and work to increase the entire value chain. CSR also reflects the wish to develop new the number of women in managerial positions. We will ensure and even more sustainable products and production methods, that our employees can use their competences in the best as well as new methods for the use and disposal of our carpets. possible way, regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, political views, age, disability, sexual orientation, etc. The fundamental basis for our CSR policy is that we comply with all of the legislative requirements, regulations and standards to We will defend our employees' right of association and right to which we are subject, and also with the relevant fair operating collective bargaining. If independent trade unions are discourpractices and customs within our industry. We will also respect aged or prohibited in an area in which we operate, we will seek and promote the ten principles for social responsibility in the to promote alternative opportunities for the employees to meet UN Global Compact, as well as Dansk Fashion & Textile's Code freely to discuss work-related issues. of Conduct. We will ensure a healthy and positive working environment for Our CSR policy comprises the seven DS 49001 focus areas, as our employees and we will constantly seek to improve working well as quality management. environment conditions. We will recognise each other's differences and qualifications, and will speak to and about each other 1. Focus areas with respect. We will work for inclusion and health-promoting activities. Our working environment management system holds 1.1 Human rights certification in accordance with DS/OHSAS 18001. We will operate a policy of non-discrimination and equal opportunities. This applies internally within the company towards our We will ensure that our employees have opportunities to develop employees and externally in our value chain. in their work, for example via further education and training. We respect and support human rights: civil and political rights, 1.3 Environment and climate as well as economic, social and cultural rights. In countries Via focused activities and by setting environmental objectives, 12 we will work to prevent and reduce the environmental impacts buildings in which our carpets are fitted, thereby protecting the of our production activities and the use and disposal of our health and safety of our end-users. products, and continue to improve our efforts in the environmental area. We will promote sustainable use of our products by means of labelling schemes and certification, and via product informaThis applies to the external environment around us, the worktion and product declarations describing our products' impact ing environment at our factories, and the indoor climate in the on the environment in connection with the fitting, use, mainteenvironments in which our carpets are used. Our environmental nance and disposal of these products. Furthermore, we will promanagement system holds certification in accordance with ISO mote sustainable consumption via the development of cradle14001. to-cradle products, which, rather than becoming waste, can be transformed into nutrients or reused. We will reduce our company's CO2 emissions and thereby reduce our climate impacts. We will support the Renewable En1.6 Community involvement and development ergy Certificate System (RECS) via our climate partnership with We will become involved in the local communities where our DONG Energy. products are manufactured. We will seek to work with relevant organisations, educational institutions and public authorities 1.4 Fair operating practices on local business development, job creation and skills developWe aim to run every aspect of our business on an honest and ment, as well as the development of modern technologies. ethical basis. We will prevent and combat corruption and bribery, and are committed to a zero-tolerance approach to corrup1.7 Organisational governance tion and bribery. An open dialogue with the company's stakeholders is one of the cornerstones of egetæpper's management philosophy. We will suppress illegal conduct and irregularities within and We will therefore engage actively in dialogue with employees, in relation to our activities, including non-compliance with customers, architects/designers, municipalities, suppliers and this CSR policy. We therefore give employees and other stakeour owners on topics and activities that fall within and which are holders the opportunity to submit anonymous reports via our of significance to CSR. We will also ensure that our CSR work is whistleblower scheme. made available to the general public and to everyone who works for or on behalf of egetæpper. We will promote social responsibility throughout our value chain. egetæpper's Executive Management Board holds the overall responsibility for egetæpper's CSR policy and strategy. A CSR 1.5 Consumer issues: health and safety of our end-users steering group consisting of the CFO, CSR Manager, CSR Project We will promote a safe and healthy indoor climate in the Manager, HR Manager, Supply Chain Manager, Product Develop13 ment Manager, Marketing Manager and Factory Manager meets social, environmental and economic impact on our surroundings. four times a year to follow up on the CSR work and settle comWe present relevant CSR data in our annual CSR Report and a plex CSR issues. The CSR department develops and implements CSR summary is included in egetæpper's Annual Report. All reegetæpper's CSR targets and activities. The work of the CSR deports and briefings are publicly available via our website. partment is regularly reported to the egetæpper strategy group, which consists of members of egetæpper's Executive ManageTo ensure transparency and comparability, our reports follow the ment Board and management group, as well as key employees. international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard. We have decided not to have our CSR Report verified by a third party. 2. Quality egetæpper's quality management system is certified in accor5. Revising the CSR policy dance with ISO 9001 and is an integral element of egetæpper's The CSR policy will be reviewed annually by the CSR departCSR management system (DS 49001), reflecting egetæpper's ment. The CSR department intends to continuously assess and values, which are Quality, Respect and Design. ensure that our CSR policy is appropriate in our current circumstances and for the foreseeable future. The revised CSR policy Quality is the keyword for all of our products and services. We will be approved by the strategy group. define quality as the sense of security that is created when we achieve a balance between the customer’s expectations of our 6. Labelling and certification products and services, and how they are actually experienced. All of egetæpper's products carry the CE label and selected A certified quality management system supports us in achieving products are certified/qualified within a number of different proour quality objectives and in ensuring that we persistently degrammes, including LEED, BRE and Danish Indoor Climate Labelvelop and deliver products and services at a uniform high quality ling. All in all, our certifications cover a very wide range of issues, level. including safety, health, indoor climate and environment, life cycle analyses, sustainable architecture, construction products 3. Communication and building declarations, cleaning quality and maritime safety. We wish to maintain a high level of information to our employees and external stakeholders concerning egetæpper's develop7. Internal guidelines ment and activities. We will therefore ensure that the CSR policy egetæpper has established a series of internal guidelines that is available to all of our stakeholders. In particular, we will work to apply to employees and other parties acting on egetæpper's ensure sustained ownership of the CSR policy among egetæpbehalf. The purpose of the guidelines is to ensure the achieveper's employees. ment of the CSR policy in egetæpper's day-to-day activities. 4. Monitoring and reporting We also have a supplier Code of Conduct to ensure that We seek to document all important conditions applying to our suppliers live up to the requirements we make of them. 14 FROM YARN TO FINISHED CARPETS 1. Yarns 2. Dyes 5. Tufting 7. Backing machine 8. Tile system 16 3. Carpet base 4. Backing 6. Millitron dyeing 9. Stock 17 FLOW IN TUFTING PRODUCTION The pile side consists of: Carpets are tufted Yarn, pre-dyed or natural white, The yarn is tufted (sewn) into a thin together with auxiliary chemicals carpet base in a width of 4 or 5 for anti-soil impregnation of the pile. metres. This semi-finished product is Dyestuffs for dyeing of natural white called ground tissue and is available yarns, as well as auxiliary chemicals either as pre-dyed or natural white and acid for pH adjustment of the for subsequent dyeing. colour blends. Backing is glued on Distribution The dyed ground tissue is coated egetæpper produces mainly to with a latex compound that is a order, so that most of the finished liquid, water-based rubber, after carpets are distributed directly to the which the backing is attached. customer after the backing has been Rubber or textile backing may be attached. used (glued on with the latex compound). 18 Fine-cutting with a top shearer Dyeing the carpets The fine tissue is top-sheared to The natural white ground tissue is even out the surface (only for cut pile either dyed via an advanced carpets). computer-controlled dye system called the Millitron, or by continuous dyeing. Tiling machine Warehouse When tiles are manufactured, the Products in stock are transferred to backing of the finished carpet matethe warehouse after backing has rial is impregnated using a patented been added, after which they are system, after which the machine distributed to customers. automatically cuts out or laser cuts the tiles and packs them in boxes. 19 MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE CSR is part of egetæpper's business strategy and our mission and values both include the word respect . Our CSR strategy also incorporates our wish to demonstrate a high level of responsibility in the development and operation of our activities, in order to contribute to sustainability in the entire value chain, while maintaining a high level of respect within our company and in all our activities. We maintain an open and active dialogue with employees, cusCSR activities. The CSR Report is communicated to everyone tomers, end users, suppliers, etc., so that all of egetæpper's CSR working for or on behalf of egetæpper, and naturally also to activities are available to the general public. other selected stakeholder groups. Openness promotes trust All reports and briefings are available to the general public via In general, egetæpper has a declared intention to maintain a our website: www.egecarpets.com. high level of information for stakeholders and employees concerning the Group's development and activities. We therefore Internally, information on our CSR work is published in CSR publish quarterly financial statements, as well as interim and News, our monthly newsletter, and various information annual reports. The 2014/2015 Annual Report provides informaterial has been developed for employees concerning our mation on egetæpper's management organisation, financial objectives and plans for the future. In addition, annual inforresults, assets, ownership, net sales and net capital value, etc. mation meetings are held for the entire Group to update all In addition we publish this annual, statutory CSR Report, conemployees on developments and future objectives. taining comprehensive factual data relating to the Group's ”egetæpper's entire organisation is based on management systems that ensure positive development and risk management. This applies to quality, the environment, working environment and CSR. This means that we can openly present the company's development – which is an important factor if we are to maintain a leading market position” CFO John Vestergaard 20 HUMAN RIGHTS egetæpper wishes to respect human rights, as stated in our CSR policy. We have therefore endorsed the UN Global Compact, while our Code of Conduct requires suppliers to respect human rights. We have one supplier in a country that is considered to reduring the coming year. In the meantime, any person related present a high risk in terms of lack of respect for human rights, to egetæpper has the opportunity to report any suspected inand four suppliers in countries that are considered to present fringements of human rights via our whistleblower system. a medium risk. All five suppliers have signed our Code of Conduct. We are also planning a third-party audit of these suppliers, Women in management whereby Bureau Veritas will control their compliance with the Since 1 April 2013, egetæpper has been subject to a Danish requirements in egetæpper's Code of Conduct. Act that requires companies to consider how far they have an equal distribution of men and women within their management. Internally, we primarily work with human rights in relation to On this basis, egetæpper has drawn up a set of guidelines to Danish legislation and by creating good and secure working achieve more women in management. We currently have 28% conditions. Yet we also have individual initiatives that lie beyond female managers at Group level. The objective is to achieve this, such as our work with vulnerable young people. 30% female managers by 2017.7 The stakeholder analysis showed that there is generally a high To ensure that all employees have the opportunity to express level of confidence in egetæpper's handling of human rights. any career progression requirements, this is a fixed item of any Yet the analysis also showed that this topic has become more employee appraisal interview. Via the intranet, all employees important to stakeholders than in our previous surveys. The can see how much supplementary training they are entitled to. Danish government has also increased its focus on this area, The Executive Management Board has also stated openly in a with the requirement to report on human rights in annual renewsletter to all employees that egetæpper wishes to see more ports, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human female managers, emphasising that it is possible to successfully Rights are linked to the UN Global Compact, which we endorsed combine a management role at egetæpper with a sound workin 2010. We are thus under increased pressure to begin identilife balance. Over time, these measures will hopefully lead to an fying any risks of human rights infringements and to draw up a increase in the ratio of female managers. plan for prevention and for remediation for the affected parties, should any infringements occur. We expect to begin this work ”We offer special practical training programmes for young lower secondary school pupils with diagnoses such as ADHD, Asperger's and autism. It is very challenging for these young people to adjust to a practical training company, so we adjust the company to their needs. We have very good experience with this, and we have actually subsequently been able to offer several of them a job or training programme.” Jan Højtoft, head of warehousing and dispatch 7 A manager is either a person who is responsible for other employees or a person whose position allows so much freedom of action that he or she may act on egetæpper's behalf. 21 LABOUR PRACTICES egetæpper holds a social responsibility towards the employees and wishes to be an attractive workplace. We have therefore implemented DS/OHSAS 18001, an international management system for the working environment and health and safety. DS/OHSAS 18001 helps us to control and minimise health and safety risks, and certification requires us to prove on an annual basis that egetæpper's working environment is safe and healthy. We have resolved all known significant problems related to the satisfaction survey, focusing on the psychosocial working enviworking environment and we annually set new goals in order to ronment. Work is ongoing to reduce the internal noise level. In improve these measures. Our primary focus is on resolving the the event of changes in production processes, new measurechallenges presented by the physical working environment. In ments will be made. Employees who work in noisy conditions Herning, this concerns noise, dust and climate conditions, while with a level exceeding 80 dB are offered hearing tests, as prein Gram the issues are a lack of space, time pressures, heavy lifts scribed by law. We are working to reduce the noise level in cases and noise. In future we will also focus on employees' well-being. where the level exceeds 80 dB. The HR department is working to establish a regular employee REGULATORY CONDITIONS egetæpper is a member of the trade association Dansk Fashto pay levels, maternity/paternity and parental leave, occuion & Textile. In Herning and Gram, the company is subject to pational injury insurance, liability and accident insurance, terms the collective bargaining agreements between the Confederaof notice, etc. We offer all employee groups a 12% labourtion of Danish Employers (DA) and 3F (the United Federation of market pension scheme, whereby egetæpper pays contriDanish Workers), Danish Metal (Danish Metalworkers' Union), butions equivalent to 8% of the employee's salary and the HK Privat (commercial and clerical workers' union) and Teknisk employee pays 4%. The individual employee can elect to make Landsforbund (the Danish Association of Professional Techniadditional pension contributions. cians). We adhere to these collective agreements with regard TRAINING AND EDUCATION – also for existing employees On an annual basis egetæpper offers the employees suppledivided into two modules: one for 3 x 2 days, and the other for mentary internal training during working hours, on full pay. In 2 x 2 days. The ambition is for all sales staff, all over the world, Herning we have previously offered courses in IT, mathematics to take the full programme. So far, 50 sales representatives have and Danish, as well as courses for the dyslectic. This year, howcompleted the first part. ever, no one has registered for the courses. New courses are offered in the new budget year. Besides these internal courses, we also send many employees on external supplementary training courses, where relevant for Our ambitious sales training programme, ege Academy, prethe individual employees. In total, this year 165 employees from pares our sales staff to have the same focus and handle their Herning and Gram have attended external courses, while 170 tasks on the best possible basis, in their capacity as egetæpemployees have taken internal courses. In total, supplementary per's image vis-à-vis its customers. The training programme is education and training of employees run to 3,823 hours. 22 THERE MUST BE ROOM FOR EVERYONE egetæpper wishes to be an inclusive workplace where emtraining programme, and it is worthwhile for us as a workplace to ployees who become ill or less capable can retain their jobs as expand our horizon and find out how these pupils' competences far as possible, or be offered a job on more flexible terms. We can be used in the company. Young people are generally a valucurrently have employees in flexible jobs with lighter duties in able resource that we would like to focus more on at egetæpper, both Herning and Gram, just as several employees are hired unincluding by taking on a higher number of apprentices. der Section 56 of the Danish Sick Leave Benefits Act.8 The sick leave frequency at egetæpper is generally reasonably Our practical training programme for lower secondary school low. The Group's objective is less than 4% other than long-term pupils with ADHD, Asperger's or autism also contributes to absence, Section 56 and accidents. This year, the sick leave making egetæpper a more inclusive workplace. This is a great rates were 2.6% in Herning and 3.7% in Gram. This amounts to help for young people who cannot cope with a normal practical 2.8% overall. EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT STRENGTHENING INITIATIVES The employees are involved in ensuring a good working enTo enhance employee safety, both Herning and Gram have vironment. We have set up an interdisciplinary Occupational established internal safety teams which consist of a fire fightHealth and Safety Committee which regularly investigates and ing team and first aid teams. Safety team members receive the assesses the need for activities that can help to safeguard our necessary training and refresher courses. There are defibrillaemployees' health and well-being. For example, employees are tors at both factories, which are part of the Danish Defibrillator offered weekly physiotherapy at the workplace, and in Herning Network: www.Hjertestarter.dk. we offer healthy and nutritional meals in the canteen and a massage chair which employees can use as required. Health and safety work is undertaken by a number of Occupational Health and Safety Groups within the respective areas. ”I have been a health and safety representative for nine years, and I do everything from refilling the first aid cabinet with plasters to ensuring that eye rinsing fluid is available at the factory, and displaying information on accidents, lectures and courses. Employees can also contact me if their workplace needs better health and safety measures. We take a look at things and get the problems solved” Millitron operator Henrik Birch 8 Section 56 means that workplaces employing people at risk of increased absence due to illness as a consequence of long-term or chronic illness may achieve reimbursement of their sick leave costs from the municipality as from the employee's first day of absence. 23 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES Environmental issues were a key factor at egetæpper many years before CSR became a buzzword. ”As a company, we wish to make a difference in the environmental area by doing something that no other company does. We are therefore working hard to live up to the stringent EMAS requirements. We are the only EMASregistered carpet manufacturer in the world.” Jørgen Kring Jensen, factory manager in Gram Keeping track of the environment with ISO 14001 environmental initiatives in all types of enterprise. EMAS goes Back in 1996, we implemented ISO 14001 in Herning, because a step further than ISO 14001 in terms of its requirements of we believe that our environmental obligations extend beyond improved environmental activities, employee involvement, and the statutory requirements. Gram followed in 1997, and last year communication with stakeholders. EMAS is a direct response the factory in Lithuania also achieved this certification. to some of the key principles in the EU's environmental action plans and to the challenges we face in terms of ensuring suISO 14001 is a recognised environmental management stanstainable development. egetæpper achieved EMAS registration dard. To achieve certification, the company must fulfil a number in 1996. of different requirements, including drawing up an environmental policy, together with planning, implementation and execuWe stay within the framework tion, inspection and remedial action, as well as management The factories in Herning and Gram hold environmental authorireview. The system thus obliges us to closely monitor all areas sation from their municipalities9. In Herning, we also hold enviin which our activities have an impact on the environment, and ronmental approval of a CHP station and a Twistset system for this helps us achieve continuous improvement and prevention, post-treatment of woollen yarns. The factories in Herning and by setting objectives and drawing up action plans. Gram are both categorised as Level 1 enterprises.10 egetæpper's most significant environmental impacts and effects are EMAS facilitates continuous improvement stated in Appendix 4. The scope of egetæpper's environmenEMAS is an EU regulation of which the objective is to promote tal and working environment management systems covers all 9 On 11.12.2013, Herning Municipality issued a new connection permit for the entire factory. On 24.03.2014, a new environmental permit was also issued. In both cases, additional self-monitoring requirements as well as additional reporting requirements have been set by Herning Municipality. These have been incorporated into environmental procedures/instructions. Environmental approval, Gram: 29 June 1998 Discharge permit, Haderslev Municipality, permission to discharge surface water: 9 January 2009 Connection permit, Haderslev Municipality: 6 September 2006 10 Municipalities categorise companies on the basis of the company's own systems for its environmental work, as well as the company's observance of statutory requirements. Companies that work to protect the environment are rewarded with less intensive control and fewer environmental inspections. Level 1 companies are companies that have put themselves at the forefront in their environmental work. 24 of the Group's activities in connection with the development, errors from occurring again. All operators working around the production and sale of tufted carpets at the factories in Herndye tanks have received thorough instruction in the use of the ing and Gram. This year, the factory in Herning has undergone tanks, and the instructions for working with dyes have been eminspection, and Herning Municipality confirms that we have no phasised. outstanding matters with them. In Gram, the last inspection took place in 2013, and Haderslev Municipality confirms that Non-conformances there are no outstanding matters with them either. We have reLast year, there was a non-conformance in Gram, where the ceived no enquiries concerning environmental complaints. municipality discovered that an organic substance in the wastewater exceeded the statutory level. This non-conformance did Accidents happen … not have any serious environmental consequences. During Unfortunately, an environmental accident occurred in Hern2014/2015 an agreement was concluded with Haderslev Muing. Due to a human error, 3,200 litres of dye were discharged nicipality concerning a Supplement to the Connection Agreeto our outlet basin. In agreement with Herning Municipality ment concerning discharges of wastewater. According to this we emptied the outlet basin and transported it to the municiagreement, the content of the organic substance and the vopality wastewater treatment plant. Subsequently we have eslume of wastewater fulfil the statutory requirements in Hadertablished a number of mechanical safeguards to prevent similar slev Municipality. CRADLE TO CRADLE IS THE OBJECTIVE egetæpper is one of the few carpet manufacturers to have tification, even though the product's content is unchanged. We achieved Cradle to Cradle certification of several products.11 have currently submitted 29 new products for Cradle to Cradle The certificate concerns our Barcode Ecotrust carpet tiles and certification. our patented Ecotrust tile backing. Both products hold bronze certification. Barcode Ecotrust originally held silver certificaWe wish to incorporate the Cradle to Cradle principles into tion, but increasing certification requirements meant that on every aspect of the design, development and production of our re-certification this year the product only achieved bronze cercarpets. We therefore focus on the five Cradle to Cradle areas: Materials in Environmentally Energy Water Social products sound design consumption consumption responsibility 11 Cradle to Cradle CertificationCM is a certificate licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Product Innovation Institute. 25 TACKLING EMISSIONS Since 2009, egetæpper has presented greenhouse gas acis an average of the years 2006-2008. If there is extraordinary counts for the entire Group. Greenhouse gas accounting activity, e.g. due to the expansion of production, the emissions compiles the company's total CO2 emissions – also called our related to the extraordinary activities are accounted for sepaCarbon Footprint. By accounting for emissions, we can target rately and added to or deducted from the base year's greeninitiatives to minimise emissions and thereby consistently rehouse gas account, so that the greenhouse gas accounts still duce our carbon footprint. Greenhouse gas accounting docupresent a reliable picture compared to the base year. This year, ments how much our activities contribute to global warming the base year has been adjusted so as not to include the suband climate change.12 sidiaries' consumption of electricity and natural gas, since the subsidiaries are not owned by egetæpper. When you walk the talk, In the base year, we emitted 2.66 kg of CO2 per m2 of carpet be sure to leave the right footprints produced. In 2014/2015, we emitted 2.52 kg of CO2 per m2 of carpet produced. It is important that the greenhouse gas accounts show the ongoing development in the company's greenhouse gas emisIn 2014/2015, egetæpper emitted a total of 14,254.1 tonnes of sions. The annual emissions are therefore always compared CO2. There are more details of the greenhouse gas accounts in with the emissions in a fixed base year. egetæpper's base year G4 indicators on pages 37-39.13 CLIMATE ISSUES ON THE AGENDA Since 2011, we have cooperated with DONG Energy as a Cliincrease is significantly lower than last year, however, when the mate Partner. The hub is a climate strategy to ensure a reducincrease was 54%. tion of our energy consumption and CO2 emissions. The original objective was to reduce CO2 emissions by 20% of the direct CO2 emissions are reduced via various different energy and indirect emissions (scope 1 and 2) before 2015, measured saving projects, which include a higher degree of heat recovery from the base year. We already exceeded this objective last in production and the promotion of the greater use of renewyear – and today we have reduced direct emissions by 29% and able energy sources. indirect emissions by 38%. This gives a total reduction of 32% for CO2 emissions since the base year. Last year, however, we In 2011, an agreement was concluded for the purchase of redecided to raise the target to a 50% reduction of CO2 emissions newable energy over a five-year period. The investments are before 2020, so we still have some way to go. made by purchasing RECS certificates from DONG Energy's wind farm, Horns Rev II. This year, RECS certificates were purFor other indirect emissions (scope 3) there has been an inchased for 6,752 MWh, which is equivalent to 82% of the eleccrease of 15% from the base year. This is due to new markets tricity consumption in Herning and Gram during the financial in the Far East, and the fact that, as required by customers, a year. The objective is to purchase 100% renewable energy, larger volume of carpets are transported overseas by air. A 15% based on electricity consumption, by 2020. 12 CO2 emissions are calculated in CEMAsys, which is an electronic database for energy and climate reporting that is used to calculate the company's CO2 emissions. 13 The greenhouse gas accounts are compiled according to the instructions in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GGP), which is the closest equivalent of an international standard for this area. GGP is in line with the basic criteria of the ISO 14064 standard. This method ensures uniform and systematic figures. 26 CONSUMER ISSUES ”At egetæpper we really mean it when we say that our carpets are Cradle to Cradle certified, or that we manage them throughout their life cycle and know how they impact the indoor climate. It is vital that we can document to the customers exactly what the carpets contain and their impact on the environment and indoor climate” CSR-Manager, Jan Ladefoged Carpets from egetæpper must help promote a safe and healthy highest quality and environmental requirements. Overall, our indoor climate. This is one of our most important objectives. certifications cover a very wide range of issues, including safeWe therefore hold a large number of product certifications to ty, health, indoor climate and environment, life cycle analyses, ensure that the carpets can in no way compromise consumsustainable construction, construction product declarations, ers' health and safety. We also make a large number of product cleaning quality and maritime safety. details available, as well as product and environmental declarations, with information on correct installation, use, maintenance Well-informed consumers are good customers and disposal. The year's stakeholder analysis showed that more than 80% of those asked generally believe that we are good at handling variVital documentation ous consumer issues. We are naturally pleased with this, since We have strong focus on product characteristics and we work this is something that we devote a lot of resources to. It also incontinuously to reduce any negative impacts our carpets may dicates that Pure Respect, the communication strategy we crehave. Each of our carpets is certified according to a wide range ated last year, is having an effect. The communication strategy of standards, to ensure that the carpets at all times meet the aims to simplify the messages for consumers. 27 FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES egetæpper wishes to be a model for other companies to follow. Our overall approach to our business reflects that CSR is a key element of how we devise, develop, produce and sell carpets. Yet we can only be a responsible company if our trading and collaboration partners also conduct themselves responsibly. We therefore take various approaches to ensure that we have a positive impact on the world around us. You have to do the right thing! work to prevent corruption and bribery. We therefore have a zeWe have developed a supplier Code of Conduct, which is a set ro-tolerance policy in this area. This applies to every employee of ethical rules that our suppliers are required to endorse as part and anyone else attached to egetæpper. of our commercial agreement. The Code of Conduct ensures that our suppliers and their subsuppliers comply with the same All egetæpper managers, agents and distributors have conguidelines as we do – and is also a strong incentive for them to firmed by their signatures that they do not use or accept any take a more sustainable approach in their business models. The form of bribery or corruption. Since these concepts can be difCode of Conduct has been sent to 89 suppliers for acceptance ficult to grasp, we have developed an e-learning programme and signature. So far, 75% have signed it. Interested parties can to increase awareness of the many forms of corruption and download the Code of Conduct from our website: www.egebribery, and to test employees' knowledge of this area. Via 20 carpets.com. different scenarios their understanding of when corruption and bribery may arise is tested. As a result, they are better able We are currently planning onsite audits of the suppliers that to understand the background to the right and wrong way to operate from countries with a high risk of corruption, infringeact. ment of human rights, poor labour practices and/or environmental impacts. All of these suppliers have signed our Code of 169 employees in Denmark and abroad took the test this year. Conduct, and the purpose of the audit is to check whether they The overall conclusion is that employees generally have a good comply with the requirements we set. understanding of our guidelines, even though some areas give room for improvement. The test was followed up with a review Zero tolerance of the results for each department, focusing on why it is imporWe wish to conduct our business activities on an honest and tant to know and comply with the rules. The plan is to hold the ethical basis, in every way. Our CSR policy states that we will test again at a later time. ”Even though corruption is not very prevalent in Denmark, we see more and more cases in the media where leading companies are in disrepute because certain individuals have accepted gifts or tickets to events that lie beyond a reasonable level. We wish to avoid this at egetæpper – and this is why we are helping our employees to understand what is proper and reasonable” CSR Projekt Manager Dorthe Aaboe Kallestrup 28 Whistleblower scheme To achieve our long-term financial objective of growth in Fairplay is not just a question of playing by the rules. It is also revenue and earnings before income tax (EBIT), we have a straa matter of opposing any infringement of the rules. egetæptegic objective to increase our geographical market coverage per will combat illegal activities and irregularities in relation to and focus on value-creating sub-segments. We primarily conour own activities, and we therefore make it possible for both sider the business opportunities in the geographical markets in employees and other stakeholders to report any experienced which we wish to operate and give less emphasis to the tax liaor suspected illegal activities or irregularities within the Group bility in the respective countries. We adhere to the international anonymously, via a whistleblower scheme. transfer pricing rules, which entail that tax is paid in the country in which the revenue is generated.14 The whistleblower scheme has been approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency and the system behind the scheme enWe wish to ensure that the Group's tax planning takes place on sures that all data is encrypted, so that sensitive personal data the basis of responsible commercial transactions and activities. is protected 100%. The whistleblower scheme is a clear signal This includes that: to employees and the surrounding world that we do not tolerate • We will handle all matters concerning taxation in accorunethical business practices at egetæpper. We have not yet had dance with current legislation. any cases under the whistleblower system. • We will pay tax on a correct basis in the countries in which we operate. There is access to egetæpper's whistleblower scheme via our website: www.egecarpets.com. egetæpper's Executive Management Board and Board of Directors approve overall strategies and policies, and monitor comTax policy in a business-driven perspective pliance. Procedures are amended as required on the basis of At egetæpper respect is a key value, including in relation to fulamended statutory requirements. filment and compliance with every aspect of legislation. This also applies to taxation. 14 egetæpper is represented in a number of European countries, as well as Singapore and the USA with subsidiaries. We trade with subsidiaries on the basis of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. The set-up for trading with subsidiaries has been prepared in collaboration with the firms of auditors KPMG and EY. This ensures that we act in accordance with both Danish and local foreign legislation. 29 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT At egetæpper, we become involved in the local communities where our products are manufactured. We work with local organisations, educational institutions and public authorities to create development, opportunities and sustainable environmental conditions. We are involved in many different projects, from the development of sustainable technology, to employee development and charitable activities in the local community. SCHOOL TRAINEESHIPS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE WITH BEHAVIOURAL DIAGNOSES egetæpper in Herning cooperates with the local lower secona successful programme that would not be available to them dary school, Gjellerup School, to offer school traineeships for under an ordinary school traineeship. Read more about this unyoung people with the diagnoses ADHD, Asperger's and autism. der Human rights, page 21. These tailored five-week traineeships ensure the young people YOUNG PEOPLE HOLD THE KEY TO THE FUTURE egetæpper collaborates with various higher educational institumaster's theses using egetæpper as a case. We are also happy tions since they are a source of the best manpower in the futo present egetæpper's work on design, CSR, etc. at various ture, and because the students can help resolve issues and ineducational institutions and to the business community in crease our insights for example by a practical traineeships and general. 30 ”Many of us exercise in one way or the other. So we are well aware of its beneficial effects: a more positive mood, loss of weight and higher energy levels. Participating in the KidsAid campaign gives three extra benefits: community and fellowship while helping sick children enjoy some good experiences.” Controller and ambassador for RunAid, Berit Vesterlund Meldgaard KIDSAID SUPPORTING UNDERPRIVILEGED CHILDREN Every year, egetæpper makes a donation to the while cause. egetæpper donates DKK 1 for each kilometre that KidsAid Foundation whose main objective is employees exercise within the following categories: WalkAid, to support sick and underprivileged children in RunAid, CycleAid, GolfAid and OtherExerciseAid. Once again this Denmark. Physical fitness campaigns for emyear, the funds raised by the KidsAid campaign were donated to ployees are used to collect money for this worthDanish Hospital Clowns. The total sum raised was DKK 93,500. EGETÆPPER SUPPORTS ART AND CULTURE Extraordinary inspiration and experiences have always been of egetæpper shares. This year, the Ege Foundation has e.g. part of the pattern behind egetæpper's philosophy, so donated DKK 2.5 million for the re-establishment of a sculpture that egetæpper has also always supported art and culture. park in Birk, close to the head office in Herning. This re-estabegetæpper's longstanding cooperation with and support for lishment will preserve the history and cultural heritage related to various cultural institutions and artists contribute to developing the unique gardens in Birk, and we view this as a signature proegetæpper's product range, as well as cultural experiences for ject for egetæpper. The Ege Foundation has also donated funds society in general. to e.g. the Heart art museum, the International School, Museum Midtjylland, FOF Course Centre and Herning Swimming Club. Every year, the Ege Foundation – the Vibeke and Mads Eg DamA total of 35 donations have been made, for a total amount of gaard Foundation donates funds for cultural and charitable DKK 5,362,090. purposes. The funds originate from the profits from the sale 31 CSR IN THE FUTURE During the last five years egetæpper's initiatives have gained an entire value chain acts responsibly. In the future we will expand extraordinary amount of ground. Especially the DS 49001 certiour CSR certification to cover the Group's other factories, to enfication last year got things moving, and during the past year we sure that the good efforts do not stop at the town limits in Hernhave focused on implementing and further developing many of ing. We will naturally also continue to disseminate the Cradle to the initiatives that have been launched. In future, we must have Cradle philosophy throughout the company. These are all excitspecial focus on supply chain management. Onsite audits and ing, but also demanding, tasks that we are looking forward to. more extensive management will help ensure that egetæpper's 1992 1996 1998 2002 2006 2007 2008 2009 ISO 9001 quality ISO 14001 EN 1307 product INSTA 800 DS/OHSAS BRE Life Cycle LEED sustainable BVD3 certification environmental classification cleaning quality occupational analysis construction construction management health and products BASTA harmful certification safety declaration substances certification First official requirements First Greenhouse workplace CE marking Gas Account assessment First Environmental Report EMAS Ecomanagement certification 32 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Future objectives BVB construction Climate EPD EnvironmenCradle to CradleAdoption of the Cradle to CraAudit of selected products assesspartnership with tal Declaration CM Silver certifi2020 Strategy dleCM Bronze suppliers ments DONG Energy in ISO 14025 cate awarded to Sustainable certification of Inclusion of Barcode Ecoline Carpet Design the Ecotrust Endorsed the UN Trans-Q, Achilles other factories Modular backing Global Compact approval in DS 49001 CSR policy Materials Health certification First CSR Report CSR department Declaration for set up EPD, Environthe Ecotrust mental Product backing Declaration on 6 products Code of Conduct Supply chain management launched CSR certification according to DS 49001 33 DATA G4-INDICATORS Consumption of materials Direct energy consumption Herning: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.02 kg of materials per m² Herning: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.19 MJ per m² of carpet Gram: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.40 kg of materials per m² Gram: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.91 MJ per m² of carpet Indirect energy consumption Water discharge Herning: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.72 MJ per m² of carpet Herning: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.84 litres of water per m² of carpet Gram: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.47 MJ per m² of carpet Gram: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.20 litres of water per m² of carpet Global Reporting Initiative (G4) is a set of reporting guidelines sessed to be significant for egetæpper, based on the following to ensure that companies that use them report the same types three questions: of data every year. This makes it possible to draw parallels and • Why is the indicator important for egetæpper? compare companies' performance. • How do we handle the indicator at egetæpper (management approach)? This year, we are reporting on 42 indicators. All indicators are as• How do we evaluate/assess the result?15 Economy G4-EC1: Direct economic value For information concerning egetæpper's financial results, The Annual Report is available on our website: reference is made to egetæpper's Annual Report for 2014/2015. www.egecarpets.com 15 We have not published the analysis of the indicators' significance in this report. Interested parties are welcome to contact egetæpper for further information on how the individual indicators are handled at egetæpper. 35 Environment G4-EN1: Consumption of materials in kg The breakdown of renewable and non-renewable materials in renewable materials are everything else. Associated process our overall consumption of materials is presented below. Rematerials are materials for operation and maintenance, primarily newable materials are materials that the world is not expected chemicals. to be depleted of. In our case this is cardboard and wool. NonHerning Gram Non-renewable Renewable materials Non-renewable Renewable materials materials materials Associated process 108,051 kg 12,186 kg materials Packaging materials 220,725 kg 272,115 kg 230,984 kg Semi-manufactures Raw materials 10,050,763 kg 519,126 kg 5,127,560 kg 28,307 kg G4-EN2: Recycled input materials In Herning, we recycle selected types of yarn, felt and This accounts for 12% of Herning's total consumption of materibacking, and in Gram we recycle felt and backing. In 2014/2015 als. In Gram we recycled 159,400 kg of input materials. This corwe used 1,290,383 kg of recycled input materials in Herning. responds to 3% of the total consumption of materials in Gram. G4-EN3: Internal energy consumption Total energy consumption is the total consumption of eleccalculated separately. Since 1996, the CHP plant in Herning has tricity, truck gas, hydrogen and natural gas. Natural gas is used generated electricity that is sold to the local power station. The primarily to produce heating and steam for industrial processes, CHP plant in Herning itself generated 1,061,242 kWh during the and to heat buildings. Natural gas for electricity production is financial year. Herning Gram From renewable From nonFor own From renewable From For own sources renewable generation of sources non-renewable generation of sources electricity sources electricity Electricity 16,437 GJ 3,618 GJ 7,870 GJ 1,732 GJ consumption Consumption of district heating Gas 63,723 GJ 7,056 GJ 40,662 GJ consumption Hydrogen for 52 GJ trucks G4-EN5: Energy intensity We produced 5,653,057 m2 of carpets in 2014/2015. This required 6.59 kWh per m2 produced. 36 G4-EN6: Energy savings No energy savings projects were run in Herning this year. In • Frequency converters and temperature monitoring have Gram, the following energy saving projects have taken place: been used to establish automatic adjustment of the cooling • Automated speed control of the output fans from the vulfans at the output from the vulcanisation furnace. canisation furnace. • New hydraulic station with accumulators installed on the Overall, this has estimated yielded energy savings of 1,692 GJ vulcanisation furnace. in Gram. G4-EN8: Water discharge We use large quantities of water in our production. In both Herand buildings. ning and Gram the water comes from the municipal water sup• Water discharge Herning: 62,490 m3 ply. There is no shortage of water in either of these areas. The • Water discharge Gram: 26,177 m3 total water consumption includes consumption for production G4-EN10: Water reuse The table below shows the proportion of the water discharge we have reused. Water reuse m3 % of total water discharge Herning 8,052 m3 12.9% Gram 11,303 m3 43.2% Total 19,355 m3 21.8% G4-EN15: Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Direct emissions of greenhouse gas from sources owned or Tonnes of CO2 Natural gas, fuel oil and LPG controlled by egetæpper. This concerns: Vehicles, diesel and petrol • Combustion of natural gas to produce heat 12,000 Our total consumption is calculated, including the element 10,000 used for production and electricity that is sold externally. • Combustion of fuel oil for generation of heat. 8,000 This includes emissions of greenhouse gases from our processes. 6,000 • Consumption of petrol, diesel and LPG in vehicles owned by egetæpper. 4,000 This includes consumption for the means of transport 2,000 owned or controlled by egetæpper. Internal transport within and between the production facilities, as well as the propor0 tion of passenger transport that takes place in egetæpper's Base year 2014/2015 own vehicles, is included. These calculations also include fuel extraction. Transport in leased vehicles is included under scope 3. The total volume of CO2 emissions under scope 1 is 6,879 tonnes. The chart shows an overall decrease of 2,837 tonnes of CO2 since the base year, corresponding to a decline of 29%.16 16 Minor changes have been made to the reporting for scope 1 and 2, since energy for heating and electricity is no longer included for sites that are not owned by egetæpper a/s. A correction in the base year has therefore been made. 37 G4-EN16: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Indirect emissions are defined as the emissions related to purchased electricity. At egetæpper this concerns electricity conTonnes of CO2 Electricity sumption in Denmark (production units, office buildings and District heating sales offices). 6,000 5,000 The scope 2 calculations of electricity consumption also include fuel extraction, since the data sources used solely include 4,000 the overall figure. • Consumption of district heating in Denmark, and electricity 3,000 in our production units. 2,000 The total volume of CO2 emissions under scope 2 is 3,207 1,000 tonnes. This is a decrease by 1,947 tonnes of CO2 since the base year, corresponding to a decline of 38%. 0 Base year 2014/2015 We have, however, purchased renewable energy equivalent to 2,059 tonnes of CO2 emissions, which can be deducted from the 3,205 tonnes of CO2 for electricity consumption in scope 2. This reduces the net emission to 1,146 tonnes of CO2, as shown in the graph. G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) Other indirect emissions comprise a wide range of activities that can be included. At egetæpper we have decided to include Tonnes of CO2 Air, rail and ferry the following activities: Goods transportation • Transport in leased vehicles Vehicles, diesel and petrol • Travel by air, train and ferry 6,000 • Freight transport 5,000 The total volume of CO2 emissions under scope 3 is 4,168 4,000 tonnes. This is an increase by 15% from the base year. The increase is due to new markets in the Far East and a larger 3,000 volume of carpets transported overseas by air, as required by customers. The increase by 15% is significantly lower than last 2,000 year, however, when there was an increase by 54% in scope 3, 1,000 in relation to the base year. This means that significantly fewer carpets were transported overseas by air this year compared 0 to last year. Base year 2014/2015 38 G4-EN18: Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions Compilation of CO2 emissions per m2 of carpet shows a reduction in CO2 per m2 with regard to direct emissions (scope 1). We have achieved a reduction from 1.29 kg of CO2 per m2 to 1.13 kg. Indirect emissions (scope 2) have been reduced from 0.60 kg of CO2 per m2 to 0.45 kg. On the other hand, other indirect emissions (scope 3) have increased from 0.51 kg of CO2 per m2 to 0.72 kg. CO2 pr. m2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 1.50 1.25 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 0 Base year 2014/2015 G4-EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Under G4-EN6, various energy saving projects are described. These projects have contributed to reducing CO2 emissions by 16.4 tonnes compared to the base year. This is not very much compared to last year, when the reduction was by 1,039 tonnes of CO2. This is partly because there have been no energy saving projects in Herning this year, and also because the energy saving projects in Gram have been smaller projects. There are new and larger projects in the pipeline for the coming years. G4-EN21: NOx, SO2 and other significant elements • In Herning, our emissions totalled 2,514 kg of NOx. • In Gram, the figure is 2,249 kg of NOx. We do not currently measure SO2 and other significant emissions. G4-EN22: Water discharge All processed water from our factories is piped to the local water purification plant, while sanitary water is piped into the sewers. Wastewater is cleaned and neutralised internally before discharge. • In Herning, 50,628 m3 of water was discharged via the purification plant and sewers. • In Gram, 13,395 m3 of water was discharged via the purification plant and sewers. 39 G4-EN23: Weight of waste and disposal method Waste is sorted and disposed of in the following main categonot recyclable. The volumes of the various waste fractions ries: are registered as a single figure. • Recycling: Waste that can be recycled, either for new pro• Deposit as land fill: Non-flammable waste and the waste that duction or as a component in another product, e.g. yarns or cannot be handled in the incineration plant. packaging. • Destruction: Waste for destruction includes waste oil, • Thermal recovery: All waste that can be incinerated, such chemical and raw material residues, batteries and fluoresas yarn residues, cardboard bobbins, carpet residue, sludge cent tubes. from the glueing and dyeing works, and packaging that is Disposal method Waste in kg Herning Waste in kg Gram Land fill Destruction 19,624 kg 940 kg Reuse Recycling 180,532 kg 254,886 kg Thermal recovery 1,177,377 kg 483,200 kg This year a large increase in recycling in Gram was registered, been changed to recycling and constitutes 132,207 kg of the which is primarily due to how cardboard bobbins from yarns total weight. There has also been an increase in the volume of were previously classed as thermal recovery. This year, this has recycled yarns. G4-EN25: Weight of transported waste All of our hazardous waste is transported away for destruction. • From Herning, 19,624 kg of hazardous waste was transporAn approved external carrier is used for this. The term hazarted for destruction. dous waste covers solid waste containing oil, waste oil, organic • From Gram, 940 kg of hazardous waste was transported for solvents, salts (inorganic), dye and paint containers, varnish/ destruction. paint (water-based), light sources containing mercury, coolants, oxidised waste, pesticides and spray cans. G4-EN27: Initiatives to limit hazardous impacts The water purification plant in the dyeworks in Herning and In connection with Material Health Assessment of our products Gram was subject to commissioning and optimisation last year. for Cradle to Cradle certification, a better overview has been creThis plant purifies the water, which can then be reused in the ated of the opportunities to substitute constituent substances dyeing process. The dye and auxiliary chemicals that are filtered in the raw materials used. In cooperation with our suppliers we off can also be reused to a great extent. The plant now seems have therefore used substitution to ensure more environmentally to be functioning as intended and the water consumption has friendly constituent substances. We are working continuously to been reduced by 23% in Herning and 32% in Gram. substitute all of the constituent substances, where appropriate. G4-EN29: Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental legislation egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for non-compliance with environmental legislation. 40 G4-EN31: Investments in environmental protection Under G4-EN6, various energy savings projects in Gram are deall investment totals DKK 467,113. In Herning we have had no scribed. These projects can all be regarded as investments in energy savings projects this year, so that we cannot compile the environmental protection, primarily under emissions. The overyear's investment in environmental protection in Herning. G4-EN34: Grievances concerning non-compliance with environmental legislation egetæpper has not received any grievances concerning noncompliance with environmental legislation. 41 Labour practices G4-LA1: Workforce and staff turnover Below is an overview of the workforce and staff turnover in Herning and Gram. Salaried Salaried HourlyHourlyNewlyNew Men who Women employees employees paid paid employed employed have left who have men women men women men women ege left ege Herning < 30 years 7 8 11 6 8 3 7 5 31-40 years 8 22 19 5 3 5 1 1 41-50 years 15 26 18 1 1 3 1 0 51-60 years 8 11 47 10 1 2 4 0 61-70 years 6 2 21 2 0 0 2 1 >70 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Total 44 69 116 24 13 13 16 7 Gram < 30 years 0 0 5 2 4 2 3 0 31-40 years 0 1 8 1 0 0 0 0 41-50 years 2 3 10 2 2 2 3 0 51-60 years 3 1 14 3 1 0 1 0 61-70 years 1 2 5 0 0 0 1 0 >70 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 6 7 42 8 7 4 8 0 Employees' terms of employment are as follows. Number Herning Gram Permanent employees 252 63 Fixed-term employees 1 0 Full-time employees 247 61 Part-time employees 6 2 G4-LA2: Staff benefits All employees are offered the following staff benefits: • Employee club (after three months' probationary period) • Health insurance • Opportunity to lend a summer cottage • Canteen scheme (only in Herning) • Employee discount schemes for e.g. gym subscriptions and • Bonus (after three months' probationary period) consumer goods • Physiotherapy scheme and massage chair G4-LA5: Employee involvement in the Occupational Health and Safety Committees At egetæpper we have both Occupational Health and Safety Safety Committee comprises four managers and two working (OHS) Committees and Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) environment representatives. In Gram, the Occupational Health groups. Some employees are members of both. Occupational and Safety Committee comprises four managers and three Health and Safety Committees are decision-makers that set working environment representatives. out guidelines for the working environment and occupational health and safety. In Herning, the Occupational Health and Occupational Health and Safety groups are engaged in the day42 to-day health and safety and working environment activities in In Herning, 4.7% of the total workforce are involved in the formal the area they represent. In Herning, there are five OHS groups, OHS groups and OHS committee. In Gram, this is 12.9% of the comprising five managers and seven employees. In Gram, there total workforce. All employees are represented via both union are three OHS groups, comprising a total of five managers and representatives and working environment representatives, dethree working environment representatives. pending on the area. G4-LA6: Occupational injuries, accidents and absence, and the physical and psychosocial working environment The table below shows the number of occupational injuries in Herning and Gram by gender. Herning Gram Women Men Women Men Cutting injuries 0 2 0 0 Joint injuries 0 5 1 4 Eye injuries 1 2 0 0 Fall injuries 2 1 0 1 Other injuries 0 4 0 3 Occupational injuries resulting in absence 2 3 1 5 Lost working hours due to occupational 37 hours 89 hours 237 hours 703 hours injuries Deaths 0 0 0 0 Near misses 5 17 0 2 The many hours of absence in Gram are due to three individual it okay to ask each other how we are doing and set up a frameinjuries: a broken bone on the upper hand, a broken wrist and a work for how to intervene if an employee needs help to get back injury. Preventive measures have been taken to ensure that through a difficult period. these injuries do not occur again. In Herning, we have minimised lifting and pulling in three deInitiatives to improve the physical and psychosocial partments by installing auxiliary equipment. The noise level has working environment been reduced in two departments. In Gram, the expansion and We have drawn up a set of guidelines to make it easier to help improvement of office workplaces is underway. colleagues to regain their job satisfaction. The guidelines make Absence due to illness egetæpper's overall objective is maximum 4% absence due to absence and accidents. The table below presents sick leave illness for the Group, excluding long-term absence, Section 56 rates in Herning and Gram, first by function and then by gender. Absence in Herning Absence in Gram Total absence Salaried Hourly-paid Total Salaried Hourly-paid Total employees employees employees employees Absence in % 2.3% 2.8% 2.6% 0.3% 4.0% 3.7% 2.8% Absence in Herning Absence in Gram Total absence Men Women Total Men Women Total Absence in % 2.1% 3.5% 2.6% 3.7% 3.8% 3.7% 2.8% 43 G4-LA10: Employee development egetæpper attaches great importance to employee developemployees. Each year we therefore devote a lot of resources ment. Skilled employees are vital to achieving a successful comto the training and supplementary education of our employees. pany, and also contribute to attracting and retaining competent Herning Gram External training paid Internal training External training paid Internal training for by egetæpper for by egetæpper Number of employees 120 employees 69 employees 45 employees 101 employees* Number of hours 1,418 hours 967 hours 364 hours 1,074 hours Other Five of the employees have taken diploma programmes, for which the number of hours is not stated. * A number of employees attended several courses during the year. The number is therefore 101, even though there are only 63 employees. G4-LA11: Employee appraisal interviews The table shows, by gender and function, how many employees in Herning and Gram have attended employee appraisal interviews. Herning Gram Women Men Women Men Salaried employees 69 44 7 6 Hourly-paid employees 24 116 8 42 G4-LA12: Breakdown of employees by gender, function and age The tables below show employees' work functions, first by gender and then by age. Herning Gram Total Women Men Women Men Managers 6 25 5 7 43 Salaried employees 64 19 2 0 85 Hourly-paid 23 116 8 41 188 employees Herning Gram Management Salaried Hourly-paid Management Salaried Hourly-paid employees employees employees employees < 30 years 1 14 17 0 0 7 31-40 years 5 25 24 1 0 9 41-50 years 11 30 19 4 1 12 51-60 years 6 13 57 4 0 17 61-70 years 4 5 22 3 1 4 >70 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 44 Human rights G4-HR3: Cases of discrimination egetæpper is not aware of any cases of discrimination. G4-HR4: Risk of lack of respect for the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining There is not assessed to be any risk of a lack of respect for the rights. This review is based on international indexes, ranking right to exercise freedom of association and collective barall countries by their performance in the area. The supplier is gaining at egetæpper. It is up to employees themselves to assessed on the basis of the country in which the company is decide whether they wish to join a trade union. egetæpper located. We have suppliers in individual countries where a lack adheres to the collective agreements between the Confederaof respect for human rights and labour rights may present chaltion of Danish Employers (DA) and, respectively, 3F (the United lenges. This concerns five suppliers. Federation of Danish Workers), Danish Metal (Danish Metalworkers' Union), HK Privat (commercial and clerical workers' union) We are not aware of any infringements in these areas that acand Teknisk Landsforbund (the Danish Association of Profestually affect our suppliers. The suppliers in question have all sional Technicians). signed our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes the requirement that they acknowledge employees' right to exercise We have reviewed all key suppliers of our products in order to freedom of association and collective bargaining. assess the risk of infringement of e.g. human rights and labour G4-HR5: Risk of child labour There is no risk of child labour at egetæpper. We have a total We are not aware of any non-compliance with this requirement. of seven young people employed, but none of them work in If we become aware of child labour or young people required hazardous conditions or at night. to work in hazardous conditions, egetæpper has clear contingency measures to interrupt cooperation with the supplier imAs G4-HR4 shows, our five high-risk suppliers have signed our mediately, until the situation has been resolved. egetæpper is Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes the requirement that also subject to an obligation to alleviate negative consequences egetæpper's suppliers may not employ child labour (under 15 for the children/young people concerned. years of age) and that young people aged under 18 may not undertake work in hazardous conditions or at night. G4-HR6: Risk of forced or compulsory labour There is no risk of forced or compulsory labour at egetæpper. or other types of personal documents from their employees. We are not aware of any non-compliance with this requirement. As G4-HR4 shows, our five high-risk suppliers have signed our If we become aware of forced or compulsory labour, egetæpSupplier Code of Conduct, which includes the requirement that per has clear contingency measures to interrupt cooperation the suppliers must not take part in or benefit from any type of with the supplier immediately, until the situation has been reforced or compulsory labour. Furthermore, the suppliers are exsolved. egetæpper is also subject to an obligation to alleviate pected not to withhold identification papers, travel documents negative consequences for the persons concerned. G4-HR12: Grievances concerning human rights impacts egetæpper has not been notified of any grievances concerning human rights impacts. 45 Society G4-SO3: Risk of corruption and bribery egetæpper does not assess that there is any risk of corruption at our Danish factories or in Lithuania. G4-SO4: Implementation of anti-corruption and bribery guidelines All managers and employees at egetæpper have received good understanding of the guidelines, even though there was information on our anti-corruption and bribery guidelines. room for improvement in a few respects. It is expected that the Besides verbal information, a small leaflet has been issued to all test has contributed to increasing understanding and awareemployees worldwide, with a brief and simple review of egetæpness of anti-corruption issues, and that employees are now per's guidelines, including what is permitted and what is prohibeven better prepared to handle any issues correctly. ited, and what employees should do if they experience anything suspicious or illegal. The guidelines and the leaflet are available The following numbers of parties have received information to all employees on egetæpper's intranet. on egetæpper's guidelines and/or anti-corruption and bribery policy: Furthermore, this year 169 employees in Denmark and abroad • 89 suppliers have completed a major test of their understanding of our anti• 57 countries with agents/distributors corruption guidelines. The test shows that there is generally a • 11 subsidiaries G4-SO5: Incidents of corruption and bribery egetæpper has not registered any incidents of corruption or bribery. G4-SO8: Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 46 Product responsibility G4-PR1: Assessment of products All of our carpets for the contract market have been assessed used to fix carpets. The recommendation weights these adhefor their health improvement qualities in conjunction with certisives by their impact on the indoor environment. There are 25 fication in Norway and Finland. The backing recipes have been low-emission floor adhesives on the list of 30 floor adhesives customised and adjusted in order to fulfil the criteria. egetæpin total. per's services include recommendations for the floor adhesive G4-PR2: Sanctions for non-compliance with product health and safety legislation egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for non-compliance with product health and safety legislation. G4-PR3: Product information According to egetæpper's own internal procedures for product • Procurement (sourcing) of components in products and information concerning products and services, the following inservices. formation is required: • Safe use of products and services. • Disposal of the product • Content (especially where there is a risk of hazardous enviAll products and services comply with these requirements and ronmental and social impacts). procedures. G4-PR4: Sanctions for non-compliance with legislation concerning labelling schemes egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for non-compliance with legislation concerning labelling schemes. G4-PR7: Sanctions for non-compliance with marketing legislation egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for noncompliance with marketing legislation or voluntary marketing regulations/codes. 47 Dansk Fashion & Textile's Code of Conduct Principle 11 – Animal welfare In New Zealand, from where we import most of our wool, sheep During 2011 we wrote to our wool suppliers in New Zealand breeders operate according to the regulations in Best Manageto ensure that they meet the requirements stipulated in Dansk ment Practices Applicable to New Zealand Wool (abbreviated Fashion & Textile's Code of Conduct, principle no. 11, which BMP), which sets out the New Zealand wool industry's best requires that sheep are fed, reared and put down with dignity practices and standards for wool production. According to BMP, and respect. All of the suppliers signed a declaration that they 90% of the sheep breeders are part of a nationwide programme fulfil these requirements. We have furthermore incorporated an to safeguard quality in a large number of areas, including animal obligation to protect and respect animals in our own Supplier welfare, feed and water, stock keeping and the environment. Code of Conduct. Principle 12 – Charity Via the Ege Foundation the Vibeke and Mads Eg Damgaard A new aspect is that egetæpper will now be supporting DIFFA Foundation annual donations to deserving causes are made (Design Industries Foundations Fighting AIDS). In the USA, 1% of from the yields on egetæpper a/s shares. The funds are primarily revenue goes to this private non-profit organisation, and in the donated to non-profit making activities. This year, the Ege Founrest of the world, 1% of the sales of the ege Couture collection dation donated DKK 5,362,090 to 35 different causes. goes to DIFFA. As this is a completely new initiative, we have not yet in practice donated funds to this organisation. In addition, since 2011 egetæpper has worked with the KidsAid Foundation whose main objective is to support sick and underWe also collaborate with UNICEF concerning our customer privileged children in Denmark. Via fitness campaigns for our satisfaction surveys. This means that whenever a customer comemployees, money for charitable causes is raised. This year, the pletes a satisfaction survey, we donate EUR 10 to UNICEF. This funds raised were donated to Danish Hospital Clowns. A total of money is spent directly on malaria drugs. A completed survey DKK 93,500 was collected via this year's employee campaign. results in medicine for 16 seriously ill children. This project is still egetæpper has also donated an additional DKK 50,000 to the in the start-up phase, so that we have not yet made any donaKidsAid Foundation via cooperation with Jysk, to which we suptions to them. ply carpets. Principle 13 – Monitoring egetæpper is not subject to an external audit in connection with can be communicated to egetæpper's senior management, inthe monitoring of compliance with Dansk Fashion & Textile's cluding any failure on the part of suppliers to comply with legal Code of Conduct. We manage our supply chain via DS 49001. requirements. Third-party audits of our five high-risk suppliers We have sent egetæpper's supplier Code of Conduct to 89 supare planned to take place during 2015. pliers. Our whistleblower system ensures that serious anomalies 48 TOTAL INPUT/OUTPUT FOR CARPET PRODUCTION IN HERNING AND GRAM In Herning, consumption of electricity, gas and water is comvoiced quantities and volumes. In Herning, the consumption of piled on the basis of suppliers' invoices. In Gram, consumption oil and chemicals for operation and maintenance is equivalent is read from the meters. The quantities of goods purchased via to the purchased quantities. In Gram, however, this is equivapurchase orders are registered in the warehouse management lent to purchased goods less stocks. Wastewater discharges in system. The remaining figures are compiled manually. QuantiHerning and Gram are compiled on the basis of internal registraties and volumes of other goods and waste are based on intion of discharges from production. Input 2014/2015 2013/2014 2012/2013 Energy consumption MWh kWh/m2 MWh kWh/m2 MWh kWh/m2 Energy 37,248 6.59 38,822 6.58 37,575 6.78 Gas used to produce electricity 1,960 2,417 2,596 Renewable energy1 6,752 1.19 4,790 0.86 4,790 0.86 Water consumption m³ Litres/m2 m³ Litres/m2 m³ Litres/m2 88,667 15.68 91,046 16.27 94,753 17.11 Consumption of materials Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² Total consumption of materials 16,570 2.93 16,609 2.97 16,677 3.01 For carpet production 15,726 2.78 15,806 2.82 15,924 2.88 Packaging 724 0.13 700 0.13 667 0.12 Operation and maintenance 120 0.02 103 0.02 86 0.02 Waste Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² Recycling 435 0.08 220 0.04 155 0.03 Thermal recovery 1,661 0.29 1,654 0.30 1,587 0.29 Land fill 0 0.00 8 0.00 17 0.00 Destruction, hazardous waste 21 0.00 18 0.00 10 0.00 Discharge m3 Litres/m2 m3 Litres/m2 m3 Litres/m2 Wastewater 64,023 11.33 68,543 12.25 72,056 13.01 Emissions Tonnes Kg/m2 Tonnes Kg/m2 Tonnes Kg/m2 Greenhouse gases2: CO2 emissions 6,362 1.13 6,250 1.12 6,545 1.18 Emissions to air3: NOX 5 6 5 SO2, PM Biodiversity m2 m2/prod.m2 m2 m2/prod.m2 m2 m2/prod.m2 Developed area 69,500 0.01 69,500 0.01 69,500 0.01 Output m2 m2 m2 Carpet products 5,653,057 5,597,593 5,538,786 All input/output data applies to Herning and Gram together, although energy used to produce electricity, apply solely to Herning. The consumption of materials for carpet production includes materials for pile, dyeing, backing and Twistset. The consumption of materials for operation and maintenance includes oil and various chemicals. The wastewater volume in Herning and Gram is measured directly. In 2014/2015, the CHP plant's consumption totalled 178,175 m3 of natural gas, resulting in electricity generation of 1,061,242 kWh. Water consumption: In Herning, the dyeing plant uses 85% of the total water consumption. In Gram this amounts to 91%. Note 1. Purchased renewable energy is a share of the total energy consumption. Note 2. In order to calculate greenhouse gases, CO2-e, as from 2014/2015 we have used the CEMAsys system, and thereby used the same conversion factor as in the greenhouse gas accounts. For 2014/2015 this gives a plus of 182 tonnes of CO2-e compared to previous calculation methods, where a conversion factor of 2,185 g CO2-e/ m2 was applied. In the last three financial years, CO2-e includes contributions for UHC (including Methane) and amounts to 39 tonnes, 36 tonnes and 29 tonnes of CO2-e, respectively. Note 3. Air emissions, NOX: Emissions from motor systems and boilers are based on measurements at the plants. Air emissions, SO2 & PM: Not relevant for egetæpper's production. 49 CONSUMPTION FIGURES Energyconsumption in Herning Electricity Energyconsumption in Gram Electricity kWh per m2 Natural gas kWh per m2 Natural gas 12 12 10 10 8 8 6 6 4 4 2 2 0 0 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 Waterconsumption in Herning Waterconsumption in Gram Litres per m2 Litres per m2 24 24 20 20 16 16 12 12 8 8 4 4 0 0 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 50 OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS Each year, we set up a number of targets for our CSR work. Last The targets are based on our aim of continuous improvement, year, the targets solely concerned the focus areas under DS to make egetæpper an even more sustainable company and at49001 to which we had given high priority. They are presented tractive workplace. The targets set are based on our CSR policy below, including their current status. This is followed by a list of and the improvement opportunities available to us. Each facnew future targets. In future there will be targets for all focus tory defines objectives with related targets, after which action areas under DS 49001. plans are prepared to ensure that these targets are achieved. Objectives and targets for 2014/2015 Environment Objective Target(s) Status Prevention of pollution and promotion The ratio of renewable energy, which Ongoing. of cleaner technology in Herning amounted to 70% of electricity We are adhering to plan. This year the 100% renewable energy consumption in Herning and Gram in renewable energy ratio is 82%. 2013, must be increased to 100% by 2020 at the latest. Sustainable use of resources in Establishment of a return system for First phase completed Herning used carpets and carpet tiles. Suitable The first phase of the return system for Reuse and recycling of used carpets carpet tiles are cleaned and sold for used carpet tiles has been established, reuse, while the rest of the returned and the webshop for resales is up and products are recycled as alternative running. The second phase has been fuel in the cement industry, or by other launched and will run during the coming means. years, with focus on recycling. Combating and adapting to climate By 2020 at the latest, energy savings Ongoing. change in Herning projects will reduce CO2 emissions by Via a climate partnership with DONG 50% reduction of CO2 emissions 50% from the base year, 2007. projects have been determined that will lead to the final target in 2020. We have currently reduced total emissions by 32% in scope 1 and 2. Reduction of water and chemicals Following on from an earlier pilot project, Completed. consumption in Herning we will install a purification plant to purify The project was established in 2013, wastewater from the washing section but due to running-in problems it has of the dye house. This installation is not been possible to calculate the expected to achieve savings of 20% savings for a full year. The plant has run of the total water consumption in the efficiently from March 2015, so that dyeing plant in 2012/2013, compared calculations have been made for March to 2010/2011. The installation will also and April 2015 and compared to March help to save 20% of the consumption of and April 2011. thickening agent. Calculations for March and April: Water: 23% savings Thickening agent: 29% savings Use of surplus heat in Herning Before the close of the 2014/2015 Ongoing. financial year, opportunities must be A pilot project was run in Gram, and in investigated to use the surplus heat and April 2015 a similar project took place sell it for use as district heating. in Herning. The final assessment of Calculations from DONG show that the project has been deferred until approximately 4,900 MWh/year can 2015/2016. be used, on optimum utilisation. This will give energy savings for the district heating plant. 51 Objective Target(s) Status Improve wastewater purification in Since 2009/2010 we have worked to Completed. Gram improve wastewater purification in order The target has not been achieved – to significantly reduce the COD content. and it is today considered unrealistic The target is to reduce the wastewater's to achieve this with the available COD content by more than 50% to 2,000 technology. A new and more realistic mg/l in 2012/2013, from an average COD target will be set for next year. content of 5,500 mg/l in 2009/2010. The target has not been achieved. Trials are The status for the objective is as therefore now taking place to establish follows: Establishment of own biological biological COD purification. This will purification and rootzone deferred commence in 2014/2015. indefinitely, since the project is not currently profitable. On 14.01.2015 a supplement to the connection permit was received which eases the COD value from 6,500 mg/l to 9,000 mg/l, with a permitted overstepping by 50% for individual values. The average value for COD is currently 7,525 mg/l for the calendar year, so that we fulfil the requirements. The increased concentration is due to how we can now clean and reuse our wastewater in production via reverse osmosis, resulting in a higher concentration of COD. The total emission has decreased, however, since the water is reused instead of being discharged. The project is continuing with a new objective for e.g. precipitation and flocculation, in collaboration with the University of Southern Denmark (SDU) and two chemicals suppliers. Reuse of surplus heat in Gram Reuse of surplus heat from furnaces is Ongoing. expected to reduce energy consumption The opportunities have been by 10% in 2012/2013, compared to investigated. Surplus heat is partly 2009/2010. Calculations from DONG reused. The rest of the surplus heat can show that approximately 2,500 be sold to Gram district heating. The MWh/year can be used, on optimum project and tendering have not yet been utilisation. Equipment is expected to completed, so that the target is deferred be established in 2014/2015, and the until 2016/2017. project is expected to be completed by 2015/2016. Recovery of dye bath residue for Recovery using flocculation chemicals Ongoing. thermal recovery in Gram is not possible. Biological purification Trials to recover dye bath residue in a is therefore being investigated. Trials pilot plant using adjuvants are under way. and the establishment of biological Recovery using chemicals is resumed, purification will commence in in collaboration with SDU. Biological 2014/2015. The project is expected to be purification has been postponed completed in 2015/2016. indefinitely. Energy reduction and capacity Energy reduction by 10% and a Completed. increase at the adhesive furnace in capacity increase of 10% in 2012/2013, The energy reduction is calculated at Gram compared to 2010/2011. This has not 22.2%, which means that 22.2% less gas yet been achieved. The conversion and per m2 of carpet was used during the implementation of new equipment will 2014/2015 financial year compared to take place in 2013/2014. The project is 2010/2011. A capacity increase has been expected to be completed in 2014/2015. noted for the line speed. Previously, e.g. 6 metres per minute were produced, but now >6.6 metres per minute are produced. 52 Labour practices Objective Target(s) Status Labour practices Board of Directors Ongoing. More women in managerial positions Maintain the Board of Directors' current Board of Directors composition of 25% women and 75% Completed. As the target of 25% women men during the next four years. On the was achieved before the expiry of the expiry of the four-year period with the four-year period, a new target is set. target of 25% female members, we will Managers set a new target for female members of In 2014/2015 an HR department was ege's Board of Directors. established that will provide recruitment Managers advice and also help to develop 30% of all newly appointed managers initiatives to ensure a higher ratio of must in future be women. female managers in the future. By 2017, 30% of all managers must be There are currently 28% female women. managers in the Group. In the longer term, we wish the Potential female managers breakdown between men and women at Career development has been integrated management level to reflect the general as a fixed element of employee appraisal breakdown between men and women in interviews in order to ensure that the company. potential managers are developing in the Potential female managers right direction. We will identify potential female Present female managers management talent and draw up a new, A few female managers in Herning have targeted career development plan in attended basic management training cooperation with each employee. courses, and relevant supplementary Present female managers education has been agreed with the Draw up a plan for the present female other female managers in Herning. managers can work with personal leadership and career development. Labour practices and social protection Based on interviews, the problems with Completed. in Herning taking breaks in production are being Investigation has been completed. Scheduled breaks must be taken investigated. The conclusion is that there is no need Then any action areas to improve for any changes since this problem is conditions will be determined. encountered by very few employees, and always in relation to machine failures or human factors that are difficult to take into account. Social dialogue in Herning Based on interviews, the problems with Completed. Employees with union representative union representatives' time to perform Investigation has been completed. It is and similar duties must have sufficient these duties are being investigated. recommended that the health and safety time to perform these duties Then any action areas to improve the representatives exchange experience on conditions will be determined. how they can best manage to complete their tasks, as there is great variation in how much time they feel is available for this. The practice for health and safety inspection rounds has also been optimised. Improve ergonomic conditions at Before the end of the 2014/2015 Ongoing. Millitron and the adhesive furnace in financial year, an auxiliary tool must be Lifting equipment has been installed Herning installed to minimise lifting and dragging at the Millitron, and instructions given Minimise lifting and dragging in in conjunction with tufting at Millitron to the relevant employees. Similar conjunction with tufting and the adhesive furnace. lifting equipment will be installed at the adhesive furnace in mid-2015. Improve ergonomic conditions at the Before the end of the 2014/2015 Completed. tip shearer in Herning financial year, an auxiliary tool must be Lifting equipment has been installed Minimise lifting and dragging in installed to minimise lifting and dragging and instructions have been given to the conjunction with tufting in conjunction with tufting at the tip relevant employees. shearer. 53 Objectives Target(s) Status Minimise the noise level at the Before the end of 2014 the noise level Ongoing. Millitron/washing section in Herning at the new wastewater plant must be Noise measurements were performed investigated. in September 2014 and showed a noise level exceeding 80 dB, which meant that new initiatives were launched. Enclosure of parts of the equipment is assessed to be the best solution. A noise cabinet has been set up around the pumps, but changes still need to be made to the pipes, so as to reduce the noise from them. Subsequently, new noise measurement will take place. Expansion and improvement of office Expansion and improvement, including Completed. workspace in the glueing works in a larger, height-adjustable desk, noise Temperature regulating and noise Gram reduction, temperature and daylight dampening measures have been regulation. Expected to be completed established. Daylight has been achieved during 2014. by adding a window. Desk functions have been improved with a heightadjustable desk. Improve office workspace in the Improvements to office workspace in the Ongoing. maintenance department in Gram maintenance department are expected The project has been launched and to be made in 2014/2015 many initiatives have taken place. Expected to be completed in 2015. Automatic control of chemical Automatic addition of chemicals will be Due to the priority given to investment addition in Gram established in the glueing works. This in various other projects, the project has will significantly improve the working not yet been launched and is postponed environment and raise the quality level. until the beginning of 2016/2017. Investigate opportunities for automatic addition in 2014/2015. The establishment target is expected to be in 2015/2016. Reduce the noise level at Overlock in Improve the working environment by Completed. Herning reducing the noise level from pneumatic Frequency converters have been operations. installed for noise level adjustment, which has significantly reduced the noise level. 54 Fair operation practices Objectives Target(s) Status Anti-corruption All employees and people attached Completed. Documentation of compliance with the to egetæpper have been informed of All senior managers, managers and anti-corruption guidelines egetæpper's zero-tolerance approach to agents have signed. corruption and bribery. In this respect, all countries/agents/distributors must confirm by their signatures that they will work in accordance with our anticorruption and bribery guidelines. Signatures from a few countries are still outstanding. Anti-corruption An E-learning tool must be developed Completed. Training in anti-corruption guidelines to train employees and other people The e-learning tool has been developed. attached to egetæpper in our anti169 employees in Denmark and abroad corruption and bribery guidelines. The have taken the test, making them even e-learning tool must include a test to better able to distinguish between what assess and check that the user has is acceptable and what is not. understood the guidelines. Promoting social responsibility in the Send egetæpper's Supplier Code of Ongoing. value chain Conduct to key product suppliers, as well Code of Conduct sent to 89 suppliers. Implementation of the Code of Conduct as our transport suppliers, and require We are still awaiting acceptance from 14 their signed confirmation that they will suppliers. Six suppliers have preferred work in accordance with this Code of not to sign and have instead submitted Conduct, and at the same time collect other forms of documentation. information on their labelling schemes and management systems. Consumer issues Objectives Target(s) Status Responsible marketing, information Development of a communication Completed. and agreement terms strategy that will make it easier for The Pure Respect communication More information to our customers on our customers to understand and strategy has been completed and the importance of CSR initiatives to communicate why egetæpper's CSR implemented. stakeholders initiatives are important and why they are of benefit to consumers. Sustainable consumption Develop production processes Ongoing. Implement the Cradle to Cradle and product design that expand We currently have two products principles throughout the company opportunities to recirculate all materials with Cradle to Cradle certification. A in a closed cycle. further 29 products have been sent for assessment. Engage in cooperation with companies We have established a return system for that can reuse carpet waste in new ways. used carpet tiles, which are cleaned and resold via a webshop. Apply the Cradle to Cradle principles in We are in dialogue with an external internal and external communication partner concerning opportunities for so that employees can take ownership deconstruction and reuse of carpet of the concept and understand the elements. philosophy. Towards 2020 we are continuing our work to implement the Cradle to Cradle principles throughout the company. Protection of consumers' health and Cradle to Cradle certification of all Ongoing. safety & Ecoline products and all tile products. We currently have two products with sustainable consumption Cradle to Cradle certification of all Cradle to Cradle certification. A further Cradle to Cradle certification of Ecotrust backings. 29 products have been submitted for additional products Ecoline for all Epoca flat-woven carpets assessment. and Epoca tiles. 55 Objectives and targets for 2015/2016 and thereafter Environment Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Prevention of pollution and promotion The ratio of renewable energy, which 2020 of cleaner technology amounted to 70% of electricity 100% renewable energy consumption in Herning and Gram in 2013, must be increased to 100% by 2020 at the latest. Combating and adapting to climate By 2020 at the latest, energy savings 2020 change projects will reduce CO2 emissions in 50% reduction of CO2 emissions scope 1 and scope 2 by 50% from the base year, 2007. Sustainable use of resources Establishment of a return system for 2020 Reuse and recycling of used carpets in used carpets and carpet tiles. Suitable Herning carpet tiles are cleaned and sold for reuse, while the rest of the returned products are recycled as alternative fuel in the cement industry, or by other means. The first phase has been completed. The second phase to break down carpet residues for reuse by other means has been launched. Sustainable use of resources In Herning and Gram, by 2020 at the 2020 50% reduction of water consumption latest water consumption per m2 of carpet must be reduced by 50% in relation to the base year, 2007. Prevention of pollution and promotion In collaboration with DONG, a data 2015/2016 of cleaner technology collection program is being prepared More valid water and energy data for water, electricity and gas, which will be implemented before the end of the 2015/2016 financial year. Prevention of pollution and promotion Since 2009/2010 we have worked to 2019/2020 of cleaner technology improve wastewater purification in Improve waste water purification in Gram order to significantly reduce the COD content. We currently have permission to discharge 9,000 mg/l COD with permitted 50% overstepping for individual values. In cooperation with the University of Southern Denmark (SDU) and two chemicals suppliers, the aim is to reduce the COD content to 6,000 mg/l via precipitation, flocculation, electrochemistry, evaporation and pure chemistry. Sustainable use of resources Recovery of surplus heat from 2016/2017 Recovery of surplus heat in Gram furnaces is expected to reduce energy consumption by 10% in 2012/2013, compared to 2009/2010. Calculations from DONG show that approximately 2,500 MWh/year can be used, on optimum utilisation. Equipment is expected to be established in 2014/2015, and the project is expected to be completed by 2015/2016. The project's completion has been deferred until 2016/2017. 56 Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Sustainable use of resources Before the close of the 2014/2015 2015/2016 Recovery of surplus heat in Herning financial year, opportunities to use the surplus heat must be investigated. Calculations from DONG show that approximately 4,900 MWh/year can be used, on optimum utilisation. This will give energy savings for the district heating plant. Prevention of pollution and promotion Recovery using flocculation chemicals 2019/2020 of cleaner technology is not possible. Trials with and the Recovery of dye bath residue for thermal establishment of biological purification recovery in Gram were launched in 2014/2015, but have now been postponed indefinitely. The development of improved purification methods is taking place in cooperation with SDU. Purification methods are being developed within precipitation, flocculation, electrochemistry, evaporation and pure chemistry. The project is expected to be completed in 2019/2020. Labour practices Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Workplace health and safety Replacement of shelves is continuing 2015 Replacement of shelves in Herning until they have all been replaced. In the meantime, there is ongoing external inspection, to ensure that all shelves are safe. Workplace health and safety Alarms must be signposted in order to 2015 Alarm overview in Herning display the significance of the various alarms. The project must be performed before the end of August 2015. Workplace health and safety To follow up on the temperature 2015 Better air control in the tile department problems at the tiling machine, in Herning before the end of the 2015 calender year, changes must be made to the ventilation. Workplace health and safety Before the end of the 2014/2015 2015 Improved safety on changing the cutting financial year, changing the cutting iron at the tile machine in Herning iron must be made safer by purchasing and using a crane instead of a truck. Expected to be completed in June 2015. Workplace health and safety Improvements to office workspaces 2015 Improve office workspaces in the in the maintenance department are maintenance department in Gram expected to be made in 2014/2015. Expected to be completed during 2015. Workplace health and safety Before the end of the 2014/2015 2015 Improve ergonomic conditions at financial year, an auxiliary tool must be Millitron and the adhesive furnace in installed to minimise lifting and dragging Herning in conjunction with tufting at Millitron and the adhesive furnace. An auxiliary tool has been installed at the Millitron and is expected to be installed at the adhesive furnace in mid-2015. 57 Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Workplace health and safety Before the end of 2014 the noise level 2015/2016 Minimise the noise level at the Millitron/ at the new wastewater plant must be washing section in Herning investigated. Noise measurements have been performed and due to a noise level exceeding 80 dB, several initiatives have been launched. Adjustment of the pipe column and subsequent new noise measurement are still outstanding. Workplace health and safety Automatic addition of chemicals will be 2017 Automatic control of chemicals addition established in the glueing works. This in Gram will significantly improve the working environment and raise the quality level. Investigate opportunities for automatic addition in 2014/2015. The establishment target is expected to be in 2015/2016. Establishment has been postponed to 2016/2017 with expected completion in 2017. Workplace health and safety Purchase or development of tools to 2016 Focus on employee well-being ensure greater focus on employee wellbeing via regular job satisfaction surveys, as well as follow-up on any issues revealed by the surveys. The process will be launched during 2015 and is expected to be implemented before the end of 2016. Workplace health and safety Measures must be taken to ensure 2020 Adverse incidents and accidents that there are no adverse incidents and accidents in Herning and Gram. The target is 0 adverse incidents and accidents by 2020 at the latest. Workplace development opportunities In Herning, employees are offered 2017 Supplementary training offered to voluntary supplementary training in employees in Gram Danish, Mathematics and IT during working hours, at full pay. A similar scheme will be established in Gram before 2017. Fair operation practices Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Promoting social responsibility in the Send egetæpper's Supplier Code of 2015/2016 value chain Conduct to key product suppliers, as well Implementation of the Code of Conduct as our transport suppliers, and require their signed confirmation that they will work in accordance with this Code of Conduct, and at the same time collect information on their labelling schemes and management systems. We are still awaiting the signatures of a number of suppliers. The target has been deferred until 2015/2016. Promotion of social responsibility in As the Group's other factories are 2016/2017 the value chain included in the scope of DS 49001, Centralised supplier management centralised supplier management will be established in an IT system. A fixed procedure is also being developed for the inclusion of the Code of Conduct in new collaboration agreements. Centralised supplier management is expected to be implemented in 2016/2017. 58 Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Promotion of social responsibility in Develop a Code of Conduct for agents 2015/2016 the value chain to ensure that they fulfil the requirements Development of a Code of Conduct for made by egetæpper concerning agents protection of human rights, labour practices, environmental issues and anticorruption. The target is implementation in 2015/2016. Promotion of social responsibility in Prepare a contractual obligation for 2015/2016 the value chain egetæpper's sub suppliers to ensure Information to external manpower decent employment conditions and working conditions for their employees. Initially the focus is on cleaning companies and external tradesmen. The target is implementation in 2015/2016. Management excellence Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Decision-making processes and Implementation of DS 49001 so that 2020 structure the factory in Gram, Bentzon Carpets, 100% implementation of DS 49001 Hammer Tæpper and Litspin in Lithuania are included in the certification scope by no later than 2020. Decision-making processes and Board of Directors Board of Directors: 2019 structure Within the next four years (measured Managers: 2017/2018 More women in management from 2015) increase the ratio of female Board members from 25% to minimum 40% of the members of the Board of Directors elected by the AGM, currently four members. Managers 30% of all newly appointed managers must in future be women. By 2017, 30% of all managers must be women. In the longer term, we wish the breakdown between men and women at management level to reflect the general breakdown between men and women in the company. The targets are Group targets, but the adopted initiatives will be implemented with Herning as the starting point, and subsequently at the other locations. Decision-making processes and Before the end of 2017 an overview must 2017 structure be achieved of all employees' functions, Mapping of employees in order to competences and training plans. This will achieve more women in management contribute to identifying potential new managers and ensure relevant follow-up. 59 Consumer issues Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Sustainable consumption: By 2020 at the latest, develop production 2020 Implement the Cradle to Cradle processes and product design that principles throughout the company expand opportunities to recirculate all materials in a closed cycle. Engage in cooperation with companies that can reuse carpet waste in new ways. Apply the Cradle to Cradle principles in internal and external communication, so that employees can take ownership of the concept and understand the philosophy. Protection of consumers' health and Cradle to Cradle certification of all 2020 safety & Ecoline products and all tile products by sustainable consumption: 2020 at the latest. Cradle to Cradle certification of Cradle to Cradle certification of all additional products Ecotrust backings. Ecoline for all Epoca flat-woven carpets and Epoca tiles. Human rights Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Fundamental employee rights (et al.) Phase 1: Perform a risk assessment of all Phase 1: 2015/2016 Implement the UN Guiding Principles human rights and implement preventive Phase 2: 2017/2018 measures. Expected to be completed in Phase 3: 2020 2015/2016. Phase 2: Influence first-line suppliers to implement the UN Guiding Principles and undertake the due diligence process. Expected to be completed in 2017/2018. Phase 3: Influence first-line suppliers to undertake the due diligence process for their subsuppliers. Expected to be completed in 2020. Community involvement and development Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Job creation and development of Hold at least two practical training Ongoing competences courses per year with 9th grade lower Practical training schemes for young secondary school pupils (or similar people with behavioural diagnoses schools) with diagnoses such as ADHD, Asperger's, autism, etc. The practical training will be adapted to the young people's opportunities, aiming to give them an enjoyable practical training experience. Job creation and development of egetæpper in Herning and Gram 2020 competences currently employs ten apprentices/ Establishment of apprenticeships trainees. By 2020 at the latest there must be 70% more, which is equivalent to 17 apprentices/trainees in total. 60 APPENDIX 1: EMAS DECLARATION 61 APPENDIX 2: INDEX OF G4 CONTENT No. Topic Section Page G4-1 Management endorsement egetæpper is growing – and so are its CSR 4 activities Organisation profile G4-3 Organisation name Profile/Taking the lead 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Profile/Taking the lead 6 G4-5 The organisation's head office Profile/ege worldwide 8 G4-6 No. of countries in which the organisation Profile/ege worldwide 8 operates G4-7 Ownership structure Reference to the 2014/2015 Annual Report 10 G4-8 Markets Profile/ege worldwide 8 G4-9 Key figures for the organisation Profile/ege worldwide 8 Reference to the 2014/2015 Annual Report 10 G4-10 Workforce G4-indicators/G4-LA1: Workforce and staff 42 turnover G4-11 Employees covered by a collective agreement Working conditions/Regulatory conditions 22 G4-12 Supply chain Profile/Supply chain management 10 G4-13 Significant changes Profile/Significant changes 10 G4-14 Precautionary approach Profile/Influence via involvement 10 G4-15 External obligations Profile/Influence via involvement 10 G4-16 Committees and associations Profile/Influence via involvement 10 Significance G4-17 Financial results Reference to the 2014/2015 Annual Report 10 G4-18 Significance analysis G4 indicators 35 G4 indicators, note 10 35 Stakeholders G4-24 Stakeholder involvement Stakeholders say YES to more CSR 11 G4-25 Selection of stakeholders Stakeholders say YES to more CSR 11 G4-26 Dialogue with stakeholders Stakeholders say YES to more CSR 11 G4-27 Key topics, according to stakeholders Stakeholders say YES to more CSR 11 Report structure G4-28 Reporting period About the CSR Report 3 G4-29 Date of the most recent report About the CSR Report, note 1 3 G4-30 Reporting frequency Management excellence 20 G4-31 Contact us About the CSR Report 3 G4-33 External verification of the report About the CSR Report 3 G4-34 Organisation structure Reference to the 2014/2015 Annual Report 10 G4-56 Values Profile 6 CSR policy CSR policy 12 Code of Conduct CSR policy 14 Fair operating practices/You have to do the right 28 thing! Finance G4-EC1 Direct financial value Reference to the 2014/2015 Annual Report 10 G4 indicators/G4-EC1 35 62 No. Topic Section Page Environment G4-EN1 Materials distributed by weight G4 indicators/G4-EN1 36 G4-EN2 Reused materials G4 indicators/G4-EN2 36 G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption G4 indicators/G4-EN3 36 G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4 indicators/G4-EN5 36 G4-EN6 Energy savings G4 indicators/G4-EN6 37 G4-EN8 Water withdrawal G4 indicators/G4-EN8 37 G4-EN10 Water recovery G4 indicators/G4-EN10 37 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN15 37 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN16 38 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN17 38 G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN18 39 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN19 39 G4-EN21 NOX, SO2 and other significant emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN21 39 G4-EN22 Water discharge G4 indicators/G4-EN22 39 G4-EN23 Weight of waste and method of disposal G4 indicators/G4-EN23 40 G4-EN25 Weight of transported hazardous waste G4 indicators/G4-EN25 40 G4-EN27 Initiatives to limit hazardous effects G4 indicators/G4-EN27 40 G4-EN29 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental G4 indicators/G4-EN29 40 legislation G4-EN31 Investments in environmental protection 41 measures G4-EN34 Grievances due to non-compliance with G4-indicators/G4-LA1 41 environmental legislation Employee conditions G4-LA1 Workforce and staff turnover G4 indicators/G4-LA1 42 G4-LA2 Employee benefits G4 indicators/G4-LA2 42 G4-LA5 Employees serving on working environment G4 indicators/G4-LA5 42 committees G4-LA6 Occupational injuries, accidents, absence, and the G4 indicators/G4-LA6 43 physical and psychosocial working environment G4-LA10 Employee development G4 indicators/G4-LA10 44 G4-LA11 Employee development interviews G4 indicators/G4-LA11 44 G4-LA12 Employee breakdown by gender and function G4 indicators/G4-LA12 44 Human rights G4-HR3 Discrimination cases G4 indicators/G4-HR3 45 G4-HR4 Risk of lack of respect for freedom of association G4 indicators/G4-HR4 45 and collective bargaining G4-HR5 Risk of child labour G4 indicators/G4-HR5 45 G4-HR6 Risk of forced or compulsory labour G4 indicators/G4-HR6 45 G4-HR12 Grievances concerning human rights violations G4 indicators/G4-HR12 45 Society G4-SO3 Risk of corruption and bribery G4 indicators/G4-SO3 46 G4-SO4 Implementation of anti-corruption and bribery G4 indicators/G4-SO4 46 guidelines G4-SO5 Incidents of corruption and bribery G4 indicators/G4-SO5 46 G4-SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with legislation in G4 indicators/G4-SO8 46 general 63 Product responsibility G4-PR1 Product assessment G4 indicators/G4-PR1 47 G4-PR2 Sanctions for non-compliance with product health G4 indicators/G4-PR2 47 and safety legislation G4-PR3 Product information G4 indicators/G4-PR3 47 G4-PR4 Sanctions for non-compliance with labelling G4 indicators/G4-PR4 47 legislation G4-PR7 Sanctions for non-compliance with marketing G4 indicators/G4-PR7 47 legislation Dansk Fashion & Textile Principle Animal welfare G4 indicators/Animal welfare 48 11 Principle Charitable work G4 indicators/Charitable work 48 12 Principle Monitoring G4 indicators/Monitoring 48 13 64 APPENDIX 3: INDEX OF EMAS CONTENT Topic Section Page Reporting period About the CSR Report 3 EMAS registration About the CSR Report, note 2 3 Environmental verifier and validation Appendix 1: EMAS declaration 61 date Communication Stakeholders say YES to more CSR 10 Management excellence/Openness promoting trust 20 Next verification About the CSR Report, note 1 3 Declaration Appendix 1: EMAS declaration 61 The ege Group/company profile Profile 6 Significant changes Profile/Significant changes 10 Management Statement egetæpper is growing – and so are its CSR activities 4 Product description Profile/Taking the lead 6 Company location Profile, note 4 and note 5 6 Employee involvement Working conditions/Employee involvement strengthening initiatives 23 Process description From yarn to finished carpet 16 Flow in tufting production 18 The organisation's environmental policy CSR policy 12 The organisation's OHS policy CSR policy 12 Climate policy CSR policy 12 Scope Environmental issues/We stay within the framework 24 Environmental approvals Environmental issues/We stay within the framework + note 9 24 Reference to applicable statutory CSR policy 12 environmental requirements Current environmental cases Environmental issues/Accidents happen... 25 Non-conformances Environmental issues/Non-conformances 25 Enquiries Environmental issues/We stay within the framework 24 Environmental objectives and targets Objectives and targets (environment) 51 Description of the environmental Environmental issues/Keeping track of environment with ISO 14001 24 management system and EMAS Environmental issues/EMAS facilitates continuous improvement 24 Significant environmental impacts and Appendix 3: Significant environmental impacts and effects 66 effects Consumption statements/Statement About the CSR Report 3 period and form Overall input/output table 49 Energy consumption G4 indicators/G4-EN3: Direct energy consumption 36 Overall input/output table 49 Energy production G4 indicators/G4-EN3: Direct energy consumption 36 Overall input/output table 49 Renewable energy Results/Environmental issues/Climate strategy 26 Overall input/output table 49 Water consumption G4 indicators/G4-EN8: Water withdrawal 37 Overall input/output table 49 Waste G4 indicators/G4-EN23: Weight of waste and disposal method 40 Overall input/output table 49 Wastewater G4 indicators/G4-EN22: Water discharge 39 Overall input/output table 49 Emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN21: NOx, SO2 mm 39 Overall input/output table 49 Appendix 3: Significant environmental impacts and effects 66 Noise Appendix 3: Significant environmental impacts and effects 66 Total input/output Overall input/output table 49 65 APPENDIX 4: SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND EFFECTS17 Development, raw materials, production and emissions eration plants, where the incineration process is most efficient We evaluate the raw materials used in carpet production not and therefore has the least possible impact on the environment. only when we develop new products, but also in the purchasing The packaging we use is cardboard or plastic. Plastic packaging phase. Strict requirements are made, which are well in excess of is made from polyethylene and polypropylene and is therefore the statutory requirements, and we undertake thorough market considered to have a significant environmental impact, as these investigations in order to select products with low environmenplastic products are produced from oil, which is a non-renewatal impacts. As yarns, carpet bases, backing materials and packble resource. aging primarily consist of synthetic materials, they are considered to have a significant environmental impact. The dyes and Working environment chemicals that are considered to be toxic are likewise viewed as The working environment is assessed continuously on the basis significant impacts. Based on this assessment, we seek to influof workplace evaluations (APV), safety inspections, accidents ence the supplier to show greater environmental responsibility. and near-misses. APV take place every third year, and took place in Herning in 2014. Noise is considered to be significant if it is As a production company, we consume a lot of resources. This covered by statutory provisions or grievances are raised. makes it all the more important to systematically reduce our consumption of electricity, gas and water. Our atmosphere is Transport affected by emissions of CO2 and NOx, and our water consumpTransport of products is associated with certain environmental tion affects groundwater levels. impacts, e.g. CO2 emissions. In connection with production we seek to optimise the utilisaProduct information, fitting and applications tion of resources in order to reduce the total consumption of The environmental management system ensures that our prodresources and the total volume of waste. Before purchase, new ucts are subject to extensive testing and subsequent declaraproduction equipment is assessed to ensure that, as far as postions in terms of quality and environmental characteristics. sible, the most environmentally-sound technology is used. egetæpper recommends that only floor adhesives with the The production processes discharge dust, odours and emislowest possible emissions are used to glue carpets. These are sions to the surrounding environment. These impacts primarily called the EC1-classified floor adhesives. Other types of floor affect neighbours to egetæpper's factories. Emissions from proadhesive are considered to contribute significantly higher envicess plant where processing temperatures are equivalent to or ronmental impacts. exceed 75°C, and if such emissions are subject to current statutory provisions, are considered to be significant. Emissions from Other environmental impacts dyeing, glueing and fixation plant at egetæpper are considered In cooperation with the local municipalities, it has been asto be significant. sessed that the external noise from egetæpper in Herning does not exceed the requirement in the environmental permit from Wastewater and waste are also environmental impacts that are Herning Municipality. In Gram, the external noise from egetæpsubject to statutory requirements and which are evaluated anper does not exceed the requirement from Haderslev Municinually with a view to improving and/or minimising them. pality. We therefore optimise waste for recycling on a regular basis. In general concerning egetæpper's emissions, the values for Where thermal recovery is concerned, the external environorganic and inorganic substances comply with all of the limit ment is affected by greenhouse gases and acidification, bevalues laid down in guideline no. 2/2001 from the Danish Envicause CO2, NOx and SO2 are given off during the incineration ronmental Protection Agency. process. However, we choose to incinerate waste at large incin17 Environmental impacts and effects are related to the factories in Herning and Gram. 66 APPENDIX 5: CALCULATION BASIS AND DATA SOURCES FOR CO2 CALCULATIONS The Greenhouse Gas Account is based on a number of data emissions. With the exception of electricity and district heating, sources that make it possible to convert our energy consumpthe same emission factors are used for all of the different countion to CO2 emissions. tries. In some areas, however, a distinction is made between international and national transport (applicable to air and train The CEMAsys calculation method is generally applied. CEtravel). VIA Egencia supplies egetæpper with greenhouse gas MAsys complies with international standards and meets the accounts for CO2 emissions from air travel ordered via the head requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For electricity, office in Herning. To calculate goods transport, we have applied the Energinet.dk declaration and the 125% method are used the Climate Compass, which is an Internet-based calculation to calculate Danish emissions. The district heating plants' own model developed by the Confederation of Danish Industry, the emissions are used to calculate egetæpper's district heating Danish Business Authority and FORCE.18 18 It was not possible, before the deadline for the CSR Report, to obtain data for transport consumption (petrol and diesel) in April for Shanghai/Singapore, Herning and Gram. The last month of the financial year is thus an estimate based on the preceding 11 months' consumption. 67 THE URGE TO EXPLORE SPACE Head Office egetæpper a/s • Industrivej Nord 25 • DK-7400 Herning Tel. +45 97 11 88 11 • Fax: +45 97 11 95 80 E-mail: ege@ege.dk • www.egecarpets.com
