Net Positive Report 2014/15 Delivering our strategy sustainably Kingfisher exists to help and inspire millions of people to improve their homes. We believe that because people’s homes are so central to their lives, improving their homes means improving their lives. We operate 1,200 stores in 11 countries in Europe and Asia. Our main retail brands are B&Q, Castorama, Brico Dépôt and Screwfix and we operate the Koçtaş brand, a 50% joint venture in Turkey with the Koç Group. Our core focus is to deliver value for customers, by improving our offer and developing innovative new products that meet their needs, in formats that are convenient, easy and relevant. As we create value for our customers, we will create growth for our business, which in turn will create value for our employees, communities and shareholders – we are completely committed to achieving growth in a sustainable way. Net Positive is our restorative ambition to fully integrate sustainability into our business to create value – financially, socially and environmentally. Our journey has begun. This report summarises our progress to date. There is still much to do. In this report From our Chief Executive From our Group Sustainability In store p08 Officer p02 Director p03 Progress on Foreword from Véronique Laury. Update from Richard Gillies. sustainability for our customers. In business p12 Progress on sustainability in Sustainability and Becoming Net Positive p07 our operations. our business p04 Our priorities and our commercial Sustainability is increasingly integrated model for delivering on our Net into our strategy and business model. Positive targets. Performance summary p16 An update on progress against our targets during 2014/15. Contents 08 In Store 38 Suppliers & partners 01 Kingfisher at a glance 12 In Business 41 Environment 02 From our Chief Executive Officer 15 In Perspective 46 Governance & management 03 From our Group Sustainability Director 16 Performance summary 2014/15 50 About our reporting 04 Sustainability and our business 18 Timber 51 Operating company 05 Our business model 22 Energy performance summary 06 Our commercial model for Net Positive 27 Innovation 52 Assurance Report 07 Becoming Net Positive 30 Communities 54 United Nations Global Compact Index 33 Employees At a glance France UK & Ireland Other International Store numbers Market brands Employees* Countries Countries Store numbers 217 25,392 230 Employees* Country Employees* 18,328 22,953 Market brands Store numbers 755 Market brands * Full time equivalent Our key figures Total sales Employees Adjusted pre tax profit £11.0bn 79,415 £675m Stores Eco product sales Responsibly sourced timber in products 1,202 £2.4bn 92% Property (at market value)* Group sales Group retail profit France £1.3bn 41% France £4.1bn 38% France £349m 48% UK £0.8bn 24% UK £4.6bn 42% UK £276m 37% Other £1.1bn 35% Other £2.3bn 20% Other £108m 15% * On a sale and leaseback basis with Kingfisher in occupancy www.kingfisher.com 1 From our Chief Executive Officer “Emerging trends, such as the sharing economy, are revolutionising the retail landscape.” Our business is built on a passion there is a rise in single person to address associated sustainability for helping people improve their homes households, and growing inequality. impacts. Standardising our store formats, and through doing so to improve their People and businesses everywhere channels and processes enables us to lives. Sustainability is core to our are increasingly feeling the impact of roll out best practice to maximise the purpose because homes cannot be environmental changes, especially the sustainability of our operations. better without being more sustainable. scarcity of precious resources and the We have begun on that journey but there consequences of climate change. We need to understand the reality of is still much to do. That’s why we are how our customers live today and how To grow, we need to be grounded in committed to inspiring and developing changes in the world will affect how we the reality of our customers’ needs. our people to sustainably grow our live in the future. And we need to recognise how these business and, as we do so, to help global trends will affect their lives and change homes and lives for the better. Technology is fundamentally altering our businesses across our geographies. the way we live, shop and work. Many established businesses have been Our long-term ambition is to create a positive impact in the wider world. We Véronique Laury disrupted and emerging trends, want to play our part in creating a society Chief Executive Officer such as the sharing economy, are revolutionising the retail landscape. that is better for all. We can only do this Technology is enabling people to run by making sustainability part of every their homes smarter, using less energy business decision we take. It is a great and creating less waste. endeavour and I’m confident our new strategic direction for Kingfisher will At the same time other global enable us to achieve that. megatrends, such as changing demographics, increasing demand for Focusing on our customers’ needs resources and accelerating urbanisation, means we will create a unique, leading are having an impact on how we live. and effective offer, which is sustainable. In many cities, housing is getting more It also gives us the opportunity to expensive and smaller. In some integrate and make our supply chains countries, the population is ageing, more efficient and transparent, in order Awards and Partners CR INDEX 2014 2 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 From our Group Sustainability Director “Net Positive is already generating business value from efficiency, productivity gains and new revenue streams.” We firmly believe that by integrating our customers are now saving an area to ensure we address the specific sustainability across our business, we estimated £600 million a year through safety and ethical challenges associated can create a more innovative, resilient the energy efficient products and services with manufacturing in the apparel and successful company, one that they’ve purchased from us since industry. We have made a number creates value socially, environmentally 2011/12. Altogether, sales of products of significant acquisitions in recent and financially. with a lower environmental impact were years, and we are taking steps to worth a significant £2.4 billion to the embed sustainability into their policies As we work towards our Net Positive business this year. and processes. goals we need to look to the long term and focus on the detail of implementation To help make sustainability part of daily Net Positive is already generating today. This will enable us to take decision-making, we established our business value from efficiency, advantage of new opportunities created Group Sustainability Committee, productivity gains and new revenue by a changing business environment. with representatives from the Group streams, while reducing our This year has been one of practical action Executive and senior leadership from environmental impact and benefiting and we have taken important steps to every operating company board, and customers and communities. further integrate sustainability into our we rolled out our executive education We need to keep our focus as we must processes and decision-making. module on Net Positive to over 100 of increase our rate of change to reach our our most senior leaders. We are taking a systematic approach, 2020 targets. Doing so will enable us to tackling issues in our operations and We aim to strike a balance between bring customers the innovative solutions by working with external partners and standardisation and local relevance. they need to create homes which are suppliers. For example, we use timber To speed up progress in key areas we more comfortable, more affordable and in around 40% of our products. We are developing common standards and ultimately more sustainable, and help updated our timber sourcing standards, policy frameworks. We now have global make our communities better places introducing a global policy this year. We policies on timber, waste and packaging, to live. worked with suppliers to increase the and are looking to unify our approach volumes of responsibly sourced timber, to areas such as ethical sourcing. At and collaborated with businesses and the same time we are developing local Richard Gillies NGOs to advocate for structural change implementation plans that will bring Net Group Sustainability Director beyond our business. This included a Positive to life across our markets and new partnership to assess the impact of make it meaningful and relevant to our certification on forests and biodiversity. people at the local level. This joined-up approach is having an We are pleased that our efforts to impact – we reached 92% responsibly ensure transparency in reporting were sourced timber in our products, with recognised at the Building Public Trust B&Q UK at 100%. awards, where we topped the FTSE 100 We continue to develop our energy for best sustainability reporting. efficiency offer for customers, while As our business evolves, we need to investing in renewable energy generation ensure we respond to any new social for our operations and tackling the small and environmental impacts. For example, inefficiencies around the business that work wear is a relatively new and growing together can have a big impact. We have category for us. We are developing our reduced our energy intensity by 17% and approach and sourcing standards in this www.kingfisher.com 3 Sustainability and our business Home. It’s a hub for family and friends, the place where we belong. We believe that because people’s homes are so central to their lives, improving their homes means improving their lives. Our business exists to help and inspire millions of people to do just that. Our core focus is to deliver value for our customers – improving our offer by A new leadership team and sustainability developing innovative new products that Under the leadership of our new Chief They provided a strategic update and meet their needs, in formats that make Executive Officer, Véronique Laury, set of guiding principles. Read more it convenient, easy and relevant for them. who took up post in December 2014, on our strategic update in our more As we create value for our customers, we the senior management team reviewed integrated Annual Report and will create growth for our business, which Kingfisher’s business and strategy. Accounts 2014/15. will benefit our employees, communities and shareholders. We are completely committed to that and to creating growth in a sustainable way. Strategic update: Guiding principles: • Home improvement is a great market 1. Customer needs come first We must understand the reality of how with great potential our customers live so we can develop the 2. Create unique and leading offer products and services that really meet • We are right to focus on Europe+ 3. Same products across Europe their needs. That means we have to look • We can achieve significant benefits presented to customers in the at external trends and understand the from developing a more unified, same way impact they are having on our customers unique and effective offer and our business so we can seize 4. Limited number of formats new opportunities – that includes the • There is no one, clear winning format and omnichannel everywhere significant trends around sustainability or channel in our market today 5. Low cost always and our stewardship of the environment. • We can achieve significant benefits 6. One company culture Urbanisation means living space is from unifying activities and smaller, the population is ageing and standardising processes single households are growing. The cost of housing is increasing, with the young How we’re integrating sustainability staying at home longer and homes being Our business model (page 5) shows to the economies in which we operate used not only for living but working. how our business creates value for through taxes paid and collected. We Digital technology is enabling smart society, shareholders and customers. aim to do more than minimise our homes and connecting people, with We help people to have better homes impact; instead we aspire to have a information anytime anywhere, and for themselves and their families and positive one. We call this sustainable trends like the sharing economy are we have a long heritage of helping ambition Net Positive and we believe changing business models. them do this in a more sustainable way. it supports our long term business Increasingly, a better home is more success and ‘licence to operate’. We operate in the heart of local sustainable: one that is easier and communities, supporting local In 2014/15 we developed a commercial healthier to live in; that is adaptable projects, positively impacting the model to help us deliver Net Positive to our changing lifestyles and family environment and, importantly, in a way that creates value for our needs; and that is less wasteful and providing local employment. business. Our companies are using more energy efficient. When we asked this to establish implementation plans 17,000 householders across Europe Over 79,000 people work in our for delivering on our targets in a locally last year about their homes, we businesses and many more work relevant way. Our commercial model discovered their biggest fear is high for our suppliers. In addition, we is shown on page 6. energy bills. People are now eight times contributed £1.7 billion in 2014/15 more likely to prioritise energy efficiency projects than they were just two years ago. This insight, coupled with our energy efficiency innovations, is helping people make their homes warmer and more affordable to run. It’s an example of how we’re embedding sustainability into our strategy. 4 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Our business model Customers People Non-professionals: Recruitment, Who do home improvement retention, jobs themselves. training, development, Professionals: diversity Who do jobs for others Offer Formats/Channels Innovation, Stores, affordability, quality, online, mobile, Ge own unique brands, call centres, ne r sourcing, sustainability catalogues, direct ates Re inv es t Maximising sales Value for the business: Brand preference Cash retained for a strong balance sheet ‘Licence to operate’ long term Better Homes, Better Lives Minimising costs Sourcing, cost productivity ne Ge ra te s es r at ne Ge Value Value for society: Value for shareholders: Value for customers: Creating employment and a brighter Healthy annual dividend & Relevant, better, sustainable and future for our people, the environment commitment to return surplus affordable products and services and wider communities capital when appropriate Creating brand preference Creating a ‘licence to operate’ long term To view and download the business model go to http://annualreport.kingfisher. com/2014-15/strategic-report/ our-business-model.html www.kingfisher.com www.kingfisher.com 5 Our commercial model for Net Positive We have a commercial model for delivering Net Positive. Our companies are using this to develop implementation plans which will integrate sustainability into their core business in a locally relevant way – and contribute to our Net Positive targets overall. Each company’s local implementation plan identifies how integrating sustainability In store Actions that are visible and valuable for customers will generate value for the business in four areas: • Revenue opportunities Revenue opportunities Customer preference Our strategy is to generate new revenues by We want to build long-term customer • Customer preference developing products and services that meet preference and brand loyalty – and believe • Supply chain resilience evolving customer needs and expectations – we can differentiate Kingfisher through • Efficiency and productivity giving us the opportunity to help customers our commitment to sustainability and make their homes and lives more sustainable. our ambition to become Net Positive. For example, B&Q’s sustainable easyGrow For example, Castorama France is piloting bedding plant innovation is easier and less a new in-home energy efficiency service at its messy for gardeners and virtually eliminates Hénin-Beaumont store with specially trained peat and polystyrene. advisors helping customers to reduce their energy costs and access government subsidies. Cus l tom tai er Re Us & Ma NEW e 2M rke & tin al pos g SERVICE Dis more easyGrow in-home energy bedding packs sold efficiency service £40K 100% saving a year sustainable Su pp s& ly C ion from PV at timber products hain rat Screwfix at B&Q UK Ope Lo & ls gis ria tic s Mate Raw Efficiency and productivity Supply chain resilience Designing waste out of the system delivers Increasing pressure on resources means we operational efficiencies and smart resource must take a long-term view of our strategic management promotes innovation and raw materials. The business benefit is building increased productivity. a more resilient supply chain and secure supplies of vital raw materials. For example, Screwfix’s head office is fitting Solar PV which will supply up to 14% of the For example, by working closely with suppliers, site’s electricity. B&Q UK has reached its timber goal. All its products containing wood and paper are now responsibly sourced. In business How we are transforming our business behind the scenes Commercial model adapted for Kingfisher from World Economic Forum 6 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Becoming Net Positive Net Positive is our sustainability ambition. It means transforming our business to have a restorative impact on the environment; Strategic Report innovating in our products and services to enable our customers to have more sustainable homes; and making a positive contribution to society and the communities in which we operate. Why we need Net Positive The successful companies of the future Our priorities The world faces unprecedented will be those who respond to these With Net Positive, we aim to: social and environmental challenges. changes positively, adapting their • Have a positive impact on people Unemployment and inequality business to meet changing customer and communities; undermine quality of life and wellbeing and societal needs with fewer resources. • Be restorative to the environment; for millions of people and pose risks for As a home improvement company, we • Become carbon positive; the resilience of communities around rely on energy and natural resources the world. • Waste nothing; and such as timber and water to serve The impacts of water scarcity, our customers. We need stable and • Create wealth. climate change and a growing and prosperous societies for our businesses We have identified four priorities. ageing population are putting pressure to flourish. We can help our customers In each area we have an aspiration on food supplies, natural resources create better homes for the future. for how we can have a positive impact and infrastructure, with the potential by 2050 and respond successfully to We have a long heritage in to disrupt supply chains and the changes affecting our customers sustainability, and for over 20 years destabilise economies. and our business. have been working to reduce our impact Technology has created a new age of on the environment. However, we know The first step is to reach the 50 transparency, enabling greater scrutiny that more is needed. challenging targets we have set for of corporate behaviour and contributing 2020. This will lay the groundwork By becoming Net Positive we want to to rising expectations of the role of but is only the beginning of our create positive change and grow our business in society. journey towards Net Positive. business so that our shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and communities will all prosper. Timber Energy Innovation Communities Aspiration Aspiration Aspiration Aspiration Kingfisher creates more forest Every Kingfisher store and Every Kingfisher product will Every Kingfisher store and than it uses customer’s home is zero carbon enable a more sustainable and location supports projects or generates more energy than ultimately Net Positive lifestyle which build local communities 2020 target it consumes or equip people with skills 100% responsibly sourced 2020 target timber and paper in all 2020 target 1,000 Kingfisher products with 2020 target our operations 38 TWh of energy saved for closed-loop credentials 4,000 community projects customers. 45% reduction in completed that deliver ‘Better energy intensity of our property Homes, Better Lives’ Why it matters Why it matters Why it matters Why it matters Timber is a vital material found 50% rise in global energy The way our customers live is Inequality, unemployment in around 40% of our products. demand by 2035.3 changing and they need new and housing shortages could Demand for timber will triple High energy bills the number types of products and services. undermine community cohesion by 2050, which could cause one concern for customers.4 9 billion global population by and the prosperity needed for significant price rises and 2050. Increased competition business growth. €70 billion market for energy even shortages.1 efficient products and services for resources means rising costs The sharing economy is 20% of global carbon emissions in Europe by 2020.5 and potential shortages. altering how people access due to deforestation.2 US$1 trillion a year could goods and services, with Energy a major business cost. benefits for communities. The protection of forests and be generated for the global Home energy use is a major economy by 2025 by creating 70% of customers say they woodlands is an issue that many source of carbon emissions. of our customers care about. circular supply chains.6 will remain loyal to a brand that demonstrates social value.7 1 WWF, Living Forests Report 3 US Energy Information Administration, 6 The Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Towards 7 RSA, Community Footprint Report, 2012 ‘International Energy Outlook’, 2010 the Circular Economy – Vol 3, 2014 2 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 4 Kingfisher European Home Report 2014 5 Boston Consulting Group report, commissioned by Kingfisher, 2011 www.kingfisher.com 7 In Store IN A changing world Demographic trends: Population growth, urbanisation, more transient populations and globalisation mean a more diverse customer base within STORE our markets but more consistency in customer needs across markets Environmental and health challenges: Home energy use a contributor to climate change; Deforestation and depletion of natural resources; Environmental impacts from waste and chemicals; Rise in the incidence of allergies A sustainable home is healthy and Social and economic impacts: Increased inequality; High energy comfortable, stylish and adaptable, efficient, and other costs; Housing shortages and smaller homes; Growth in the less wasteful and more affordable to run. sharing economy Customer needs: Everyone should be able to create and • Comfortable homes that are affordable to run afford a more sustainable home. • A healthy and more natural lifestyle Key figures We offer customers the products, services • To live in a prosperous and and information they need to improve safe community £600m their homes. We spend time with our customers to understand the reality of how Business opportunities: they live. We look at how demographic, • 31% of customers planning to estimated saving for customers this make energy efficiency changes8 social and environmental changes affect year from the energy efficient products our customers and what this means for • 20% of customers concerned and services they’ve purchased from us their homes. We use this understanding about home pollution levels9 to innovate, developing the products and • 21% looking to improve their services that really meet customer needs. £2.4bn garden10 and 24% of people in Sustainability is part of what we do but we the UK growing their own fruit don’t ask our customers to compromise and vegetables11 revenues from sales of eco products on quality, performance or price to opt • 70% of customers will remain loyal for the sustainable choice. This can make to a brand that demonstrates £375m sustainable innovation more challenging, social value12 but in the long run it means we find • $630 billion cost saving from in sales of our most innovative solutions that are better for our customers, adopting closed loop approaches13 eco products the planet and for the business. Making it happen We are integrating sustainability into customers create more sustainable product development. For example, homes. 116 of our most senior leaders at B&Q UK we use an annual Range have completed our One Academy Net Sustainability Rating to assess and Positive executive education module. improve the sustainability performance Training such as B&Q’s One Planet of each range. This has contributed to Home modules help to integrate innovations such as B&Q’s flood range sustainability at every level of the business. and easyGrow (see page 10). Efficient, comfortable homes We use our eco product guidelines High energy prices are a concern for to improve sustainability performance householders across Europe. In fact, and measure progress. This year we our research shows that 65% of people strengthened our requirements for fear rising energy prices, even ahead best-in-class eco products to make of keeping up with rent or mortgage sure these are always industry leading. payments. Our customers are eight times more likely to prioritise energy efficiency We give our employees the information projects than they were two years ago. and expertise they need to help our 8, 9, 10 Kingfisher European Home Report 11 Which 2011 www.which.co.uk/ 12 RSA, Community Footprint Report, 2012 13 The Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Towards 2014 news/2011/07/which-survey-reveals-growa Circular Economy – Vol 1, 2012 your-own-trend-is-still-on-the-up-259281/ 8 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Efficient homes with Castorama Planning a home energy efficiency project can be complicated. Now customers at Castorama’s Hénin-Beaumont store can get help from specially trained sales advisors. The store has a dedicated energy efficiency area featuring insulation, heating and home automation product ranges. Here customers can meet with advisors to plan their projects, prioritise improvements and understand how different products can work together. They can book an energy audit or consultation with an interior architect as well as installation services. They can also use the Prime Energie Casto service to access government subsidies. The service is being piloted at Hénin-Beaumont with a view to further roll-out. Customer benefits: • Advice, products and installation services • Easier to implement energy efficiency projects Business benefits: • Value of sales to customers implementing energy efficiency projects has been up to 82 times higher than average customer purchases since the service launched • 40 customers used the services in the first three months Sustainability benefits: • Enables more customers to improve home energy efficiency Helping householders to reduce energy use is a win-win. Our customers enjoy better homes and save money while Decorating: cutting greenhouse gas emissions and we gain access to a growing market. Cleaner air with As well as products such as low Respiréa paint energy lighting and insulation, we offer The air in our homes can be up to 10 information and advice to help customers times more polluted than the air outside, plan their projects. For example, over contributing to health conditions such 100,000 customers visited Brico Dépôt as allergies, asthma and migraines. France’s energy efficiency website Castorama is launching the Respiréa paint (www.ecoperformance-bricodepot.fr) range, which looks great and reduces indoor in 2014/15, to get advice and use its air pollution by neutralising formaldehyde. Eco Prime service, which makes it easier Formaldehyde is a major cause of internal to access government subsidies. The air pollution, found in many home furnishings positive policy environment in France, and textiles. Castorama is the first home including challenging national targets improvement retailer to stock this type of paint. on greenhouse gas reductions, is Customer benefits: supporting progress in this area. • Reduces formaldehyde levels by 70% Appliances such as fridges and washing • Ready to use, high quality, affordable machines can be major energy users and own-brand range in 50 colours and expensive to run. B&Q has integrated three finishes information into catalogues to show how much an appliance will cost to run each Sustainability benefits: year based on its electricity and water use, • Carries the Ecolabel for good performance making it easy for customers to choose and low VOC emissions www.kingfisher.com 9 In Store continued the best product for the environment This builds on our work helping customers Part of the community and their wallet. B&Q is also one of the create beautiful gardens that are better for Our stores are part of the community – first retailers to use the Water Label, wildlife, including phasing out peat in the employing local people and serving local enabling customers to choose more UK and removing pesticide products customers. By having a clear sense of water efficient products. belonging to the neonicotinoid family purpose and delivering social value to the globally ahead of legislation because they communities in which we operate, we can Wellbeing: indoors and out are thought to contribute to bee decline. improve resilience, motivate our people Across our markets we are seeing In the UK we also collaborated with and customers and increase their loyalty increased focus on personal wellbeing, Friends of the Earth to engage customers to the business. People are more likely with growing interest in natural and and government on bee decline, including to buy from, work for and promote healthy lifestyles – from the food we eat to supporting the Great British Bee Count companies they trust. the spaces we live in. There is increasing campaign and App. recognition that living closer to nature, Our companies have supported 805 whether that’s through access to public Better materials, better products community projects since 2012/13, green spaces, spending more time in our Across sectors, current business models focusing on areas such as improving own gardens, or bringing more natural mean that valuable materials are often facilities for those in need and supporting light and materials into our homes, is wasted at a product’s end of life. By young people to develop practical skills. better for our health and wellbeing. All developing closed loop systems we can For example, in Castorama Poland, our customers should be able to enjoy enable the continual reuse, repurposing 80,000 children have completed free a healthy home and garden. and recycling of raw materials, reduce DIY classes at our stores since 2012. costs, access new supply chains and For many years we’ve worked to reduce We are reviewing our communities create high performing products. the use of chemicals, including significant strategy to increase the impact of our reductions in the levels of volatile organic To do this we need to work across investment and to prioritise areas that are compounds (VOCs), chemicals that affect functions and with suppliers. For example, most relevant to our home improvement indoor air quality in our own brand paint in developing its Infinite worktop, expertise, our Net Positive ambitions and and decorating ranges. Now we can go Castorama brought together internal the core challenges facing society. even further with products like Respiréa specialists in areas such as production, The sharing economy that actually improve indoor air quality manufacturing, retail and logistics and The sharing economy, with technology (see page 9). collaborated with independent chemistry enabling people to connect and exchange research centre Certech, recycler Veolia Our gardens are an important part of our skills and resources more easily, represents and composite wood manufacturers homes, whether for outdoor entertaining a fundamental shift in society, one that Océwood. We are a founding partner to and leisure, or for growing our own fruit can benefit individuals and support more the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, which and vegetables. We are exploring the connected and resilient communities. works to catalyse the adoption of closed changing role of gardens and looking at loop approaches and we use our closed how we can help people use their outdoor loop calculator to improve the closed loop spaces to create a better family life. credentials of our products. Gardens: Peat-free innovation for Britain’s gardeners B&Q’s new formula Verve peat-free compost range was developed through a series of rigorous growing trials. It was voted a Best Buy by Which, the consumer magazine, outperforming many peat-based composts. This follows the launch of B&Q’s easyGrow in early 2014 – an innovative approach to bedding plant packaging that is 100% recyclable and better for gardeners and nature. Plants come in individual ‘tea bags’ planted in sustainable coir that is 95% peat-free. They can be lifted straight into the ground from the pack still in their bags, making planting easier and less likely to damage delicate roots. The packs, made from PET, are easily recycled with other household waste. Customer benefits: Sustainability benefits: • Verve peat-free compost is • 20,000 tonne reduction a Which Best Buy in peat-based compost • Easy-to-use bedding plants, • Eliminates polystyrene waste with less mess to landfill • No price premium for • 750 jobs created in the Sri Lankan peat-free products coir supply chain Business benefits: • Lower emissions due to fewer • 10 million packs sold in 2014/15, lorry journeys a 2 million year-on-year increase Watch the video at youtu.be/ • Reduced transport costs by sxyewXHZVEQ or see Chris Moss, B&Q’s 25% per pack marketing director, discussing easyGrow at www.sustainablebrands.com 10 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 The DIY sector can encourage the positive High performance, less waste benefits of the sharing economy. We aim to share our knowledge and help customers Castorama’s new Nods decking range looks great, performs learn skills and connect with and help well and is better for the environment. It is made from a unique each other. For example, Castorama composite material developed by Castorama using waste wood France runs Les Troc’heures, France’s from its stores and end of life home improvement products. first DIY community skill-sharing website. This follows the launch of the Infinite kitchen worktop, In 2014, we supported research by the created from the same material, which is 40% lighter than New Economics Foundation that explored similar products, making it easier to handle and install and the link between practical skills and reducing breakages. personal and community wellbeing Customer Business Sustainability (available at www.kingfisher.com/ benefits: benefits: benefits: netpositivereport). This found that as well • More water • 1,000 Infinite • 90% recycled as improving wellbeing, learning practical resistant, worktops sold in materials skills like DIY and gardening can make reducing water 2014/15 individuals more likely to help others and damage • Lower VOC contribute to stronger communities. 25% • New, reliable emissions • Lighter and source of raw of people who learnt practical skills in one easier to carry materials • Does not use study increased their social, voluntary and install formaldehyde or community involvement. • Lower eco-tax glue • Longer guarantee due to its lower Read more weight Further information on our approach • Low VOC levels will be in our full Sustainability Report – A+ rating • More efficient to transport, published in June 2015. See: meaning lower www.kingfisher.com/netpositivereport fuel costs Community: The Screwfix Foundation Many Screwfix customers and employees are active in their local communities, raising funds and volunteering. The Screwfix Foundation was set up to support these efforts by funding projects that help improve people’s lives. It works with local and national charities to repair, maintain and improve properties and community facilities for people living with sickness or disability. The charity raises money from customer donations made via Pennies, the electronic charity box and employee fundraising events in and around its stores. Screwfix now match funds all the money raised by employees. Find out more at www.screwfixfoundation.com Customer benefits: Business benefits: • Benefits projects in the • Volunteering areas where our opportunities customers live for employees • Makes it easy to donate • Supports our reputation money to good causes with customers and when shopping at communities Screwfix Sustainability benefits: • £300,000 raised since launch in April 2013 www.kingfisher.com 11 In Business IN BUSINESS To become a sustainable business we must change how we source our goods and services and how we build and run our stores, offices and logistics. We need to collaborate more between businesses and functions as well as with external partners, and to increase workforce diversity and engagement. This will reduce costs, create more resilient supply chains and help us to attract and retain the best people. Key figures We are focusing on strategic raw materials A changing world and areas of significant cost to the 17% business. We aim to take a systematic Economic trends: Growing competition approach and find solutions that benefit cut in energy intensity for resources could mean rising energy the business while reducing our since 2010/11 and materials costs over the long term environmental impact. Social trends: The communities we Better, greener buildings operate in are affected by challenges We are adopting sustainable design 92% such as rising inequality and youth unemployment principles and investing in renewable energy. This helps us to create stores of timber and paper products Environmental challenges: Energy use that are more attractive and comfortable responsibly sourced from fossil fuels a major contributor to climate change; Deforestation for our customers and colleagues. and depletion of natural resources; We test out sustainable approaches Environmental impacts from waste 21% to building design, construction and and chemicals operation at ‘learning stores’ in each of senior managers Business opportunities: of our businesses. All new building are women • Savings from energy efficiency and refurbishment projects must show and waste management a tangible improvement in carbon intensity • Access to new and more resilient against our blueprint baselines. We focus supply chains of responsibly on areas where we can have the biggest sourced and recycled materials impact. For example, lighting typically accounts for over half of store energy • Investing in people and recruiting use. We can make significant reductions a diverse workforce gives us access by rolling out LED technology which is to a wider talent pool approximately 40% more efficient than the 12 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 next best solution. To date we have installed Apprenticeships LED lighting in 15% of the estate. This is delivering £3 million in savings per annum. for all at Brico Alternative energy Dépôt France We established a renewable energy strategy for the business this year, which Brico Dépôt France’s work identifies opportunities to reduce costs experience and apprenticeship and emissions while improving energy programme enables students to security. We are focusing initially on gain valuable business experience solar photovoltaic generation, but will be while completing their studies. exploring other renewable technologies Brico Dépôt reaches out to a wide to find solutions best suited to different range of schools and universities to locations and markets, including recruit its apprentices. Almost 300 biomass and ground-source heat people took part in the programme pump technologies. during 2014/15, equivalent to 4.6% of its workforce. Following our first project at Screwfix The company relaunched (see page 14), we are evaluating its recruitment materials and further projects at UK distribution website during 2014 to profile centres, data centres and stores and the diversity of its workforce and exploring opportunities in other markets. encourage job applications from more women and people of all Sustainable sourcing and waste ages and backgrounds. Working towards our targets will help us to secure affordable and reliable supplies of vital raw materials and reduce costs associated with waste. We need to work both in our business and with our partners, undertaking advocacy work to catalyse wider change. On timber, we have reached 92% responsible sourcing for our timber and paper products, and are increasingly working with suppliers to address other areas such as packaging. Our businesses Green design at Merthyr Tydfil B&Q’s new store at Merthyr Tydfil is the first retail store in the UK to use a transpiring roof, which harvests heat from the sun to warm the store’s interior. It also incorporates a green sedum roof, rainwater harvesting and LED lighting, and 100% responsibly sourced timber was used in construction. B&Q worked closely with the landlord to agree best practice sustainability targets for the building. Business benefits: • Around 50% • Lower energy, gas of water used and water bills expected to be provided Sustainability by rainwater harvesting benefits: • Designed to • 90% of significantly construction reduce gas used waste diverted for heating and from landfill CO2 emissions • Green roof will provide a habitat for plants and wildlife www.kingfisher.com 13 In Business continued are investing in projects to improve or We encourage an inclusive culture increase forested areas. This is part of our and aim to reflect the diversity of our aspiration to create more forest than we customer base. This gives us access use, and will also open up new sources of to a wide range of skills, experience, sustainable timber. Outside the business perspectives and leadership styles. we are working with partners such as the It enables us to better connect with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and customers, understand their needs WWF. To demonstrate the positive impact and deliver great products and services. of certification and to encourage more Our two priorities are improving gender businesses to source certified timber, we balance at all levels of the business and formed a new partnership with FSC, IKEA, supporting young people to develop their Tetra Pak and ISEAL in 2014, known as careers with us. VIA (Verification Impact Analysis). This To achieve balanced representation will establish a credible methodology for of men and women among our senior measuring the impact of FSC certification. leaders, we are focusing on increasing We are working towards 100% responsibly sourced timber in Our businesses are achieving results the participation of women in all our operations by 2020. In our products we have already by rethinking standard business development programmes, increasing reached 92%. Our companies are also working with partners to improve forested areas. For example, in Spain Brico Dépôt processes. For example, Screwfix has female candidates in succession has launched five projects focused on improving forest achieved zero waste to landfill from its planning and raising the visibility biodiversity and engaging communities in conservation. stores and distribution centres by of our female leaders. reorganising waste management. Waste Our companies run internships, is now sorted at stores and transported in apprenticeships and graduate Screwfix’s own delivery vehicles back to programmes to bring more young people its distribution centre. Here, recyclables into our workforce and to help them to are extracted and non-recyclables used develop their skills and capabilities and for energy-from-waste. This has saved to share their expertise and enthusiasm the business £1.26 million over two years with our customers. Brico Dépôt France’s and resulted in over 10,600 tonnes of apprenticeship and work experience materials being recycled. programme is one example, see page 13. Investing in our people Read more We employ over 79,000 people. We Further information on our approach aim to create great workplaces and to will be in our full Sustainability Report be an employer of choice in our sector. published in June 2015. See: www.kingfisher.com/netpositivereport Alternative energy at Screwfix The Screwfix head office is one of our first UK locations to tap into solar power. Its head office building is expected to generate 214,000kWh of clean energy a year, thanks to the installation of solar PV panels. The panels will supply up to 14% of the site’s overall electricity requirements and save the business £40,000 a year. We are using the lessons learned from this project to expand our renewable energy generation in the UK and other markets. Business benefits: Sustainability • £40,000 benefits: annual saving • Will reduce carbon including reduced emissions by 106 energy costs tonnes a year • Provides up to 14% of the site’s energy needs 14 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 In Perspective “Having a sustainable home should be undermining the security of timber supplies. an affordable reality for everyone.” We already have many great initiatives – we are getting close to 100% responsibly We aim to lead the market on sustainability, sourced timber in our products, and have enabling our customers to create efficient implemented projects to restore and improve and sustainable homes at the best price. forests near to our stores. But we need to In our business we want to create buildings scale these up and go further, making that are zero cost in terms of energy and sustainability more visible and relevant to waste, both financially and environmentally. our customers and drawing on the power Pascal Gil of our people to achieve our goals. CEO, Brico Dépôt Iberia Sustainability isn’t optional – it is a core business issue. Take the challenge of My priority in the year ahead is to keep raising deforestation. This is not only a potential the profile of sustainability in our business environmental and social disaster but also and to work with our partners to take our an economic threat to our business, efforts to the next level. “At Screwfix, sustainability is integral our customers, employees and suppliers to our long-term strategy of achieving exactly why sustainability is so important convenience, value and unrivalled to us. It is raising the profile of sustainability internally and helping us integrate it into product leadership for our customers.” the day-to-day running of our operations. This will support better decision making For many years we’ve been working to and help us to future proof our business. improve our environmental performance and We have a very engaged and responsive investing in our communities, and are proud workforce who are passionate about what Andrew Livingston of achievements such as reaching zero waste we do. With ‘True to our Trade’ we will harness CEO, Screwfix to landfill and launching the Screwfix their commitment to achieve our sustainability Foundation. But we want to go further. goals, feeding our people’s imagination and We launched ‘True to our Trade’ this year, inspiring us all to find inventive, creative and our implementation plan for delivering on sustainable solutions that are better for our our Net Positive targets. It makes it clear to customers, our business and the planet. “The ambition is still bold, and performance is better. That’s the top line conclusion for me in reading this Net Positive Report.” An in-coming CEO can often mean a change in attitude towards sustainability; not so in Kingfisher. Véronique Laury signals a clear commitment to make sustainability core to everything Kingfisher does, making a positive impact on people’s lives and society more broadly. And this report tells a strong story of better; better products, such as Respiréa paint, which reduces indoor air pollution; better stores, such as the new B&Q store in the UK which is the first retail store in the country to use a transpiring roof, which in turn harvests heat from the sun to heat the store’s interior; and of course better lives for the millions of Kingfisher customers; saving customers an estimated £600 million through sales of energy efficient products makes Sally Uren for better energy bills. Chief Executive, Forum for Performance in key areas, for the most part, is also better. Performance in sourcing timber the Future and Chair of our responsibly remains strong. Kingfisher uses timber in 40% of its products, which means Advisory Council sourcing 92% of its total timber from responsible sources is a significant achievement. Governance has also been strengthened with the creation of a Group Sustainability Committee, comprised of representatives of the Group Executive and senior leadership from all Kingfisher operating companies. Reducing the overall carbon footprint, however, remains a challenge; whilst carbon intensity has improved by 14% against the baseline, absolute carbon emissions increased by 3% year on year. Both these metrics need to go on a downwards trajectory. Going forward, then, to deliver the bold ambition of Net Positive, the Kingfisher narrative needs to be one of integration and innovation, as well as better. Integration of sustainability into every decision, every action is essential. And innovation is key to delivering solutions to challenges such as decoupling commercial growth from environmental footprint. Innovation is also a prerequisite for the business as it navigates a rapidly changing retail environment, where new retail models, such as the sharing economy, are gaining traction, fast, and where the pathways to value creation for a multinational look very different. However, for me, Net Positive remains the strategy for unlocking better homes and better lives, and ultimately a better business. www.kingfisher.com 15 Performance summary 2014/15 We have set challenging targets for 2020 to keep us focused on our Net Positive ambitions and stimulate innovation in our products, services and business processes. We track progress∆ at our operating companies using our Foundations Questionnaire and calculate a Group score for each target. All targets are 2020 unless otherwise stated. During 2014/15, we made progress across our Net Positive priorities. On timber, performance improved in line with our target on responsible sourcing for products but further work is needed to improve performance and data quality in areas such as packaging and construction. Our performance on customer energy saving and our own property energy efficiency improved however we need to increase the rate of change to reach our 2020 targets. Our sales of products with eco credentials increased, however more work is needed to increase the volume of sales of our most innovative eco products. In the year ahead we will also be looking to increase the rate of progress on our communities target and to address other lower scoring areas. Timber Energy Products with eco credentials To bring eco products into the Net Positive timber N/A Net Positive customer energy mainstream, by achieving 50% 100% responsibly 38 TWh of energy saved of sales from products and sourced timber and for customers across our services with eco credentials. paper in all our operations. international businesses. Range sustainability rating We do not yet have complete data to Net Positive own energy assess progress towards this target. To enhance the eco-credentials 45% reduction in the energy Products – timber of all our products by improving intensity (kWh/m2) of our 100% responsibly the sustainability rating of property portfolio from a sourced timber and every product range. 2010/11 baseline. paper in our products. Sustainability of Group Energy-using products N/A Packaging – timber All energy-using products to own-brand 100% responsibly meet ‘best practice’ standards Demonstrate leadership sourced timber and on energy efficiency. on eco-innovation across paper in our packaging. our Group own-brands. Score not allocated. Kingfisher guidelines Catalogues and GNFR to be developed. Closed loop supply chains N/A 100% responsibly sourced Sustainable lifestyles Ten closed-loop supply chains. timber and paper in our Use our global brands and Score not allocated. Kingfisher guidelines to be developed. catalogues and goods marketing to help shift our not for resale. millions of customers towards Alternative services sustainable lifestyles. Explore and trial alternative Construction – timber 100% responsibly sourced Responsible marketing business models such as timber and paper in materials All our customer product hire and repair, procured for construction communications and which encourage a perpetual and fit-out. marketing to be in line with reuse of products. our guidelines on responsible Learning stores Tropical deforestation brand management and None of our products to Every operating company to marketing by 2016/17. be sourced from materials develop at least three ‘Learning Total carbon footprint Stores’ and to have delivered, that are linked to tropical 25% reduction in our absolute or confirmed, the site for one deforestation. carbon footprint (tonnes CO2e) ‘Eco Store’. Strategic sourcing from a 2010/11 baseline. Demonstrate resilient supply Sustainability accounting Property carbon intensity Calculate and account for chain relationships that can 50% reduction in the carbon the impact and value of our guarantee the future provision intensity (CO2e/m2) of our sustainability strategy to the of responsibly sourced timber property portfolio from a business and communicate across the Group’s major 2010/11 baseline. this to investors and employees timber categories. by 2016/17. Improving forests Innovation Every operating company Net Positive closed Communities to have at least one forest loop products Community projects or woodland enhancement 1,000 Kingfisher products 4,000 community projects initiative that makes a substantial with closed loop credentials. completed by our people quantifiable step towards the Eco product innovation that deliver ‘Better Homes, Group aspiration of creating To be at the forefront of Better Lives’. more forest than we use. sustainable product innovation, Sharing skills with 10% of Group sales from Promote sharing of skills and the most innovative (best-in‘know-how’ in local communities class) eco products and services. by building online community platforms in the UK and France to help link people. 16 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 0-25% 26-50% 51-75% 76-99% 100% target achieved Employees Suppliers & Partners Green travel Demonstrate proactive Performance management Supplier ethical assessment green travel initiatives to Integrate Net Positive All suppliers of Kingfisher minimise the environmental into the performance own-brand/exclusive impact of travel by employees management systems brand products will meet and customers. for all relevant employees. or exceed our ethical and environmental standards. Water use in our operations Leadership training To understand the on Net Positive Supplier carbon water footprint of our To have a development and water footprint own operations. programme on Net Positive To define and measure the for the top 250 managers carbon and water footprint Water-using products N/A from around the Group. of our value chain and to set All water-using products a carbon reduction target. to meet ‘best practice’ Eco product training standards on water efficiency. Net Positive engagement Goods Not For Resale (GNFR) Score not allocated. Kingfisher guidelines and development programmes Key GNFR contracts to be developed. to motivate all our employees will meet or exceed our to become more sustainable sustainability standards. Chemicals N/A at work and at home. None of our own-brand or SRI indexes and CR ratings exclusive brand products Net Positive engagement Kingfisher to maintain its will contain the chemicals of Net Positive engagement leadership position in key concern we have committed and development programmes SRI indices and corporate to remove (on Kingfisher’s to motivate all our employees responsibility ratings. Chemical Action List). to become more sustainable Ethical business conduct Score not allocated. Work in progress to at work and at home. Maintain the highest standards update the Kingfisher Chemical Action List. Inclusion and diversity of ethical business conduct Packaging To be recognised as a ‘best through ongoing implementation Packaging on all own-brand practice’ company for equality of, and compliance with, the and exclusive brand products and diversity within our local Group Governance Manual to conform to Kingfisher retail markets. and Code of Conduct. packaging sustainability Employee health & safety standards. Achieve a 20% reduction in the Environment Sustainable construction employee lost-time accident Waste – waste rate from a 2010/11 baseline. Achieve zero waste to landfill. 90% of construction waste Customer and contractor recycled in new build and health & safety Direct haulage emissions major refurbishments. Develop a Group-wide – dedicated delivery fleets Biodiversity accident reporting framework Achieve a 20% reduction Enhance biodiversity for customers and onsite in CO2 emissions from our on new build projects, contractors, and set a direct transport impacts major refurbishments reduction target. from a 2010/11 baseline. and existing stores. Employee surveys Indirect haulage emissions Peat elimination Improve our employee – supplier delivery fleets All bagged growing engagement by extending Demonstrate a comprehensive media sold in the UK engagement surveys to programme of action to to be from sustainable cover all employees. reduce the overall carbon sources, ahead of the footprint of our indirect government 2020 deadline. transport impacts. ∆ The process to assess progress against our targets is within KPMG’s limited assurance scope www.kingfisher.com 17 Timber Timber Timber is an essential raw material, found in up to 40% of our products. We aim to take a restorative approach – creating more forest than we use. This is the best way to secure affordable and sustainable timber supplies for our business over the long term and will help to combat the impact of deforestation on biodiversity and climate change. We are taking a systematic approach – implementing consistent Net Positive: timber standards in our businesses while collaborating with external partners to catalyse wider change. Target 2020: 100% responsibly sourced Full Data Not Our priorities are: timber and paper in all our operations. Available • Responsible sourcing: buying our timber from proven Milestone: Achieve our 2016/17 milestones well-managed sources. on timber used in products, packaging, goods not for resale and construction. • Reducing our forest footprint: reducing unnecessary use of timber by redesigning packaging and increasing recycling. The first step on our journey is to achieve 100% responsibly • Strategic sourcing: developing partnerships with suppliers sourced timber in all our operations including products, to secure longer-term sustainable timber supplies. packaging, goods not for resale (GNFR) and construction. Our responsibly sourced timber is independently audited • Improving forests: working with partners to protect and by recognised certification schemes such as FSC and PEFC. restore forests. We are making progress across all areas of responsible • Customer communications: stimulating demand for sourcing but we do not yet have comprehensive data for responsibly sourced timber products. every operating company. We are working to address this so we can report progress against our target in future years. • Advocacy: partnering with others to influence structural change beyond our business. A consistent global approach In 2014/15 our focus has been on ensuring consistency between our companies. We updated our timber sourcing 2050 Aspiration standards, introducing a global policy that will help our Kingfisher creates more forest than it uses companies to prioritise their work on responsible timber sourcing and take a holistic approach in line with our Net 2020 target Positive aspirations. It sets clearer standards and timescales 100% responsibly sourced timber and paper in all for companies in areas such as GNFR timber. Each company our operations has developed its own implementation strategy for progressing Why it matters – external trends towards our targets at the local level. • Timber is a vital material found in around 40% of Our Net Positive team is working closely with operating our products. companies whose approach to responsible timber sourcing • Demand for timber will triple by 2050, which could is less well advanced. In 2014/15, this included carrying out cause significant price rises and even shortages.1 training on our timber standards in businesses such as Brico Dépôt Romania and Koçtaş in Turkey. Timber buyers in all our • 20% of global carbon emissions due to deforestation.2 companies complete our e-learning training on responsible • The protection of forests and woodlands is an issue timber sourcing and compliance with the EU Timber Regulation. that many of our customers care about. 1 WWF, Living Forests Report 2 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 18 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Products – timber Compliance and traceability We work with partners to make sure we comply with the EU Target 2020: 100% responsibly sourced Achieved Timber Regulation and to improve traceability in our timber timber and paper in our products. milestone supply chains. We use the FSC’s wood fibre testing programme, which helps to monitor compliance with FSC standards by cross Milestone: 90% by 2016/17. checking the species used to validate responsible sourcing claims. We now send a selection of our FSC certified products from four We reached 92% responsibly sourced timber and paper operating companies (B&Q UK, Brico Dépôt Iberia, Castorama products (by volume) in 2014/15, ahead of our 2016/17 Poland and KSO Hong Kong) for wood fibre testing spot checks. milestone. The majority of our certified timber products (by SKUs) use timber from FSC certified sources. B&Q UK Packaging introduced FSC sandpaper for both its decorative and power tool sandpaper ranges during the year, bringing it to 100% Target 2020: 100% responsibly sourced Full Data Not responsibly sourced timber and paper. A further four companies timber and paper in our packaging. have reached over 90% (Brico Dépôt France, Brico Dépôt Available Iberia, Castorama France and Screwfix). Milestone: Establish a methodology and data collection system by 2016/17. Our companies include information in our stores and catalogues and online to raise awareness of our commitment to responsible We use significant volumes of timber and paper in our product timber and to engage customers on this issue. For example, packaging. Our target is for 100% responsibly sourced packaging Brico Dépôt France has introduced labelling for PEFC certified and we also look for opportunities to reduce the volume of products in its catalogues this year. Our forest projects are also packaging used and to increase recycling. We are starting to used to engage customers, employees and local communities take a more unified approach to packaging design across our on forest conservation, see page 20. companies which will help us to achieve these goals. Responsible timber and paper sourcing for packaging are part of this work Responsibly sourced timber products and have been integrated into our company-wide packaging % of timber sold (by volume) responsibly sourced policy. Read more in the Packaging section, page 44. We are working to improve our data in this area to enable us to 100% 89% 92% 90% measure and report progress against our target in future years. 86% 87% 81% Catalogues and goods not for resale (GNFR) Target 2020: 100% responsibly sourced On Track timber and paper in our catalogues and to milestone goods not for resale. Milestone: 100% of paper used in catalogues 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* 2016 2020 and customer marketing by 2016/17. Milestone Target Timber data was collected from operating companies and joint ventures We are improving our data to measure progress on responsible which accounted for 95% of the Group turnover in 2014/15 (94% or higher in previous years). It does not cover data for Koçtaş and Castorama Russia. sourcing for GNFR timber and paper. We have reached 97% Data for Brico Depot Romania was included for the first time. responsibly sourced paper in our catalogues and marketing materials for countries where data is available1, meaning * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope we are on track to reach our milestone in these countries. Two operating companies, Brico Dépôt Iberia and Screwfix, Putting a value on responsible sourcing achieved 100% in 2014/15. We have seen for ourselves the positive impact of FSC certification on forests. We know that it can make a Construction significant contribution to maintaining current forests. It can support improvements in biodiversity and social Target 2020: 100% responsibly sourced Full Data Not value and even contribute to the expansion of forested timber and paper in materials procured Available areas. However, measuring and communicating this positive for construction and fit-out. impact can be challenging. Milestone: 90% by 2016/17. In 2014, we helped launch a new partnership, Value Impact Analysis (VIA), that will establish a credible Small volumes of timber are used in store fit-out and methodology for quantifying the benefits of FSC certification construction for items such as doors, shelving and racking for forests, their biodiversity and communities. By helping systems. A small number of construction projects also use to quantify these benefits we hope to encourage more timber for building frames. We are working with contractors businesses and people to choose responsibly sourced to improve our data collection in this area and now have data timber. It will also make it easier to measure our progress for seven operating companies covering a number of recent towards our Net Positive timber aspiration. construction projects. This shows that the majority of timber used in construction relates to the fit-out process and that VIA’s founding partners include FSC, IKEA, Tetra Pak, much of this timber is already from certified sources. However, IDH and ISEAL, the global membership association until our data is more complete we cannot report progress for sustainability standards. The initiative will build against our target, addressing this is a priority. A number of on the work previously undertaken by WWF and FSC store construction projects used 100% responsibly sourced in monitoring the value of certification. timber during 2014/15, including B&Q UK’s Merthyr Tydfil store, see page 13. 1 Data covers operating companies, which account for 85% of our Group turnover www.kingfisher.com 19 Timber continued Tropical deforestation We measure progress against our target by assessing factors such as: length of contracts and supplier relationships; use Target 2020: None of our products to be Not On of forest initiatives to help create local wood supply chains; sourced from materials that are linked to and traceability within timber supply chains. Track tropical deforestation (including tropical to milestone As part of the new strategic direction for our business, see hardwood products, palm oil and leather). page 4, we will be introducing more unified sourcing for our Milestone: All new tropical hardwood products to comply own-brand ranges, such as gardens and bathrooms. This will with Kingfisher’s Timber Policy Standard by 2016/17. provide opportunities to consolidate our timber sourcing and to work more closely with suppliers on our responsible sourcing Our policy is that all new tropical hardwood products should standards. be FSC certified or endorsed by schemes working towards We are exploring potential opportunities for partnerships that FSC certification. We have achieved this target for 100% of could help us to improve forest management and support new tropical hardwood products in B&Q UK, Castorama France, Brico Dépôt France, Brico Dépôt Iberia and Screwfix; however conservation efforts while providing a source of sustainable we do not yet have data for our companies outside the EU. timber for our business. Leather and palm oil production can contribute to deforestation. Improving forests We use relatively low volumes of these materials in our products, for example leather is used in boots in our work wear ranges Target 2020: Every operating company to On Track while palm oil may be present in candle products. have at least one forest or woodland to milestone enhancement initiative that makes a We are starting to work with suppliers to identify the sources substantial and quantifiable step towards the Group of the leather and palm oil we use and to implement our responsible sourcing standards. For leather, this includes aspiration of creating more forest than we use. identifying the source and type of leather used, and phasing Milestone: Every operating company to have launched out any leather sourced from areas that may be linked to tropical an initiative by 2016/17. deforestation due to cattle grazing. This work is being led in the UK where Screwfix and B&Q have reviewed their leather and Our aspiration to create more forest than we use means palm oil supply chains and agreed action plans with a number increasing the social and environmental value of a forest of suppliers. area larger than that used for our business. Strategic sourcing We are launching forest projects designed to: expand forested areas; improve forest biodiversity and ecosystems; engage Target 2020: Demonstrate resilient supply On Track our employees and local people in forest conservation; and chain relationships that can guarantee the to milestone in some cases to create new sources of sustainable timber future provision of responsibly sourced timber for our business. across the Group’s major timber categories. Four operating companies, B&Q China, B&Q UK, Brico Dépôt Milestone: At least one major timber category Iberia and Castorama Poland, have now launched projects. We by 2016/17. estimate that to date this has benefited forested areas covering over 13,000 hectares (equivalent to 19,000 full-sized football With growing global demand for timber, we must secure the pitches) across four countries, working with 255 landowners. supplies our business needs at an affordable price and in line with our responsible sourcing standards. We aim to improve the Projects during 2014/15 included Castorama Poland launching resilience of our timber supply chain through strategic sourcing its first reforestation project in partnership with the Polish – establishing long-term relationships with timber suppliers. Forestry Service. Over 60 Castorama employees took part, helping to plant 9,500 trees. Brico Dépôt Iberia launched its fifth forest project in León, working with rural communities in areas at risk from forest fires. The project involved training for local people, to help them prevent the outbreak of forest fires and to protect their homes and local forest. B&Q UK continued to support Good Woods, a partnership with Bioregional and the Sylva Foundation, which aims to improve woodland management and increase supplies of sustainably sourced UK timber products. 20 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Our experiences so far have shown us that a number of factors contribute to the success of forest improvement projects. “Our forest projects have These include: benefited forested areas • Sustainable financing: establishing a source of ongoing finance for projects is important. For example, Brico covering 13,000 acres – Dépôt Iberia funds projects using the proceeds from sales of its raffia bags. equivalent to 19,000 • Creating a link to product sourcing: selecting projects that football pitches.” can generate supplies of sustainable timber products for the business helps to increase internal engagement. The Verification Impact Analysis (VIA) Initiative: We helped • Involving local communities: projects that involve conceptualise and establish this partnership that will enable employees and members of the local community the FSC to quantify the value of its work to protect forests, often have a bigger impact. see page 19. By coordinating and disseminating business-ready impacts data, VIA has the potential to link standards schemes • Going beyond tree planting: there are many ways to make a with corporate communications and inform evidence-based meaningful difference to forests and woodlands in addition policy development. VIA’s founding partners include FSC, IKEA, to tree planting. Tetra Pak, IDH and ISEAL, the global membership association for sustainability standards. It is hoped the findings will also • Scale: we need to extend the scale of our projects and take benefit other certification schemes. a coordinated approach to increase our impact. WWF UK Forest Campaign: B&Q UK and Kingfisher have Engagement and advocacy signed up to this campaign aimed at improving the EU Timber Deforestation and unsustainable timber sourcing are Regulation to prevent illegally or unsustainably sourced wood global challenges, and addressing them requires action from entering European markets. by governments, businesses and communities. We aim to improve awareness and to encourage progress through our engagement and advocacy. In 2014/15, this included: “Our business has an important role to play in keeping CDP Forest Program: We are a founding participant in the forests standing by creating demand for sustainable CDP’s Forest Program, an investor initiative which aims to forestry and actually helping restore them. A restorative improve understanding around how companies are addressing approach is the only sensible strategy because we need their exposure to deforestation risks. In addition to disclosing more forests, not less.” our own performance via CDP, we have advised CDP on how to encourage participation of suppliers in the Forest Program. Pascal Gil, CEO of Brico Dépôt Iberia, participated in a panel discussion at the FSC General Assembly on tropical European Sustainable Tropical Timber Coalition: There is an deforestation with Kumi Naidoo, International Executive urgent need for good forest management practices in tropical Director, Greenpeace and Henri Djombo, Minister of regions. However, after initial progress, sustainable forest Sustainable Development, Forestry Economy and the management in tropical regions is lagging behind. We are an Environment, Republic of Congo. advisory board member to this coalition that aims to increase demand for timber from sustainably managed tropical forests to stimulate progress on responsible forest management. Watch the video at https://youtu.be/R9VhYeecLMk FSC: We are a founding partner of FSC via B&Q UK and a member in various countries. Kingfisher’s Timber Adviser is an elected member on the FSC’s International Board. Timber Retail Coalition (TRC): The TRC was initially established by Kingfisher with Carrefour, IKEA, and Marks & Spencer to support measures to curb illegally harvested timber and to ensure that the EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) was effective and workable. The TRC has recently been reconstituted to work on the review of the EUTR which is taking place during 2015/16. University of Cambridge: Our work with the University of Cambridge to improve understanding of business’s reliance on natural capital and to identify steps to ensure the long-term viability of timber supply chains concluded in 2014. The Natural Capital Leaders Platform explored a number of themes and published the ‘Doing Business with Nature’ report that identifies the commercial benefits of investing in natural capital. www.kingfisher.com 21 Energy Energy High energy bills are the number one concern for our customers1. We are developing our products and services to help customers save energy and create homes that are warm, comfortable and affordable to run. We are also improving energy efficiency in our stores, offices Net Positive: Customer Energy and distribution centres. This helps to cut costs and enables us to grow while reducing our impact on the environment. Target 2020: 38 TWh of energy On Track Climate change is a major long-term threat to social and saved for customers across our to milestone economic stability and we support strong government policy international businesses. that facilitates the transition to a low-carbon economy. We take Milestone: 11 TWh by 2016/17. action in our own business to reduce our carbon intensity and engage with governments, businesses and NGOs to support Our customers are now saving 8.6 TWh of energy every year, wider efforts to tackle climate change. from the energy-saving products and services they have In the longer term we aim to become carbon positive so that purchased from us since 2011/12 – enough to power three every Kingfisher store and customer’s home will be either zero quarters of the homes in Paris, almost 900,000 households, carbon or generate more energy than it consumes. This will for a year. We estimate this is equivalent to a £600 million a mean that a customer can visit any of our stores and be able year saving on customer energy bills5. We are on track to meet to purchase all the products and services they need from us our milestone for the end of financial year 2016/17 but have to create a zero carbon or carbon positive home. We still have significant work to do to reach our 2020 target. a considerable way to go to achieve this aspiration. Customer energy saving Estimated annual saving (TWh) from products 2050 Aspiration purchased from us since 2011/12 Every Kingfisher store and customer’s home is zero carbon or generates more energy than it consumes 38.0 2020 target 38 TWh of energy saved for customers. 45% reduction in energy intensity of our property Why it matters – external trends 11.0 8.6 • 50% rise in global energy demand by 20352. 5.1 7.0 2.5 • High energy bills the number one concern for customers3. 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* 2016 2020 • €70 billion market for energy-efficient products and Milestone Target * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope services in Europe by 2020 4. Our energy-saving products include insulation, draught-proofing • Energy a major business cost. and low energy lighting and appliances. We are also developing • Home energy use a major source of carbon emissions. advisory and installation services to help customers plan and complete their projects successfully and to access government subsidies where available. For example, Castorama France is trialling a new in-store energy advisory service, see page 9, and also runs Prime Energie Casto that helped 1,800 customers to implement energy efficiency projects in 2014/15, saving customers 203 GWh in home energy use. 1 Kingfisher European Home Report 2014 2 US Energy Information Administration, ‘International Energy Outlook’, 2010 3 Kingfisher European Home Report 2014 4 Boston Consulting Group report, commissioned by Kingfisher, 2011 5 Based on the average UK household energy bill 22 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 We aim to provide affordable energy-efficient products and Sustainable lifestyles services. As technology develops and economies of scale improve, this can mean prices for products come down and Target 2020: Use our global brands and On Track we can pass on these savings to customers. However, despite marketing to help shift our millions of to milestone this, home energy efficiency projects can still require customers customers towards sustainable lifestyles. to make a significant financial investment. To enable more customers to improve home energy efficiency, governments Milestone: Give customers comprehensive need to create a supportive policy framework including information and advice in-store and online subsidies and incentives. to help them with their sustainable choices by 2016/17. The positive policy environment in France, including challenging External trends such as growing and ageing populations, national targets on greenhouse gas reductions and home urbanisation, technological development and environmental energy efficiency, is supporting progress in this area. However, decline have an impact on how our customers live. Increasingly, in the UK, initiatives such as the Green Deal have proved more homes are smaller and more expensive to run, and are often challenging than anticipated with inconsistencies in policy and used as workplaces as well as for living. government support meaning growth in customer demand has been slower than expected. As a result we no longer offer our We aim to bring our customers the products and services specialist energy efficiency service in the UK, B&Q Energy they need to create a sustainable home – one that is healthy Saving. We continue to deliver the ECO programme on behalf and comfortable, stylish and adaptable, efficient, less wasteful of some energy companies, which aims to improve the ability and more affordable to run. of low income and vulnerable households to heat their homes. However, we have concerns that this programme, and so the We aim to make it easier for customers to have a more level of support the most vulnerable in society receive, will slow sustainable lifestyle by improving the performance of our down after the current obligation period finishes in 2017. product ranges (see page 28) and by providing information and advice in our stores, catalogues and online. For example, Energy-using products B&Q’s One Planet Home website includes advice and information on issues such as saving energy and water, Target 2020: All energy-using products Data Not recycling and wildlife-friendly gardens. to meet ‘best practice’ standards Available Brico Dépôt France is using a range of approaches to on energy efficiency. communicate the sustainability benefits of its products to Milestone: 50% by 2016/17. customers. It launched the Maison Brico Dépôt tool on its website this year, providing advice on 16 DIY projects for We stock a wide range of energy-using products from power completely renovating your home at an affordable price. It tools to appliances such as fridges and washing machines. aims to make it easier for customers to improve the comfort We aim for all appliances to meet best practice standards and sustainability of their homes and includes a number of on energy efficiency. We are still developing our approach projects that improve energy efficiency. Brico Dépôt also has to monitoring performance in this area and do not yet have a dedicated energy efficiency website (www.ecoperformancegroup data to report. bricodepot.fr) which was visited by over 100,000 customers in 2014/15, with many customers using its Eco Prime service Energy-using appliances can be expensive to run. By choosing which makes it easier to access government subsidies. It a more energy-efficient appliance, customers can save money has signed a partnership with PEFC, the timber certification and reduce their environmental impact, without compromising organisation, to raise customer awareness of the benefits on performance. To help customers make informed choices, of responsibly sourced timber which includes using the B&Q UK’s catalogues now include the annual running cost PEFC logo in its catalogues. for appliances such as washing machines, dishwashers, fridge freezers and tumble dryers and highlight the models that are cheapest to run. The estimated running cost for each appliance is calculated based on its electricity and water use. www.kingfisher.com 23 Energy continued Responsible marketing Property portfolio energy intensity Target 2016/17: All our customer Not On Track kWh/m2 reported floor space communications and marketing to be to target in line with our guidelines on responsible 175.1 brand management and marketing 157.9 160.4 153.5 148.8 by 2016/17. 145.5 96.3 All our marketing should be accurate and honest, particularly when it includes claims about a product’s environmental or social benefits. Our commitment is set out in our Responsible Marketing Policy and Guidelines. B&Q UK, Castorama France and Brico Dépôt France have introduced their own eco 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* 2016 2020 Milestone Target marketing guidelines which reflect our Group Guidelines; * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope however further work is needed at some operating companies. LED lighting We also have Eco Product Guidelines, developed with Lighting plays a key role in creating a great shopping experience independent sustainability experts Bioregional. These help us for our customers and is a business cost. LED lighting can to identify products with improved environmental performance significantly reduce energy use and costs, while providing the and to monitor progress in a consistent way between our right quality of light. Lighting typically accounts for over half of companies, see page 27. store electricity use. We can make significant reductions by Our companies train their marketing and communications installing LED technology which is approximately 40% more teams on responsible marketing in relation to sustainability. efficient than the next best solution. Our target is to roll out For example, this year Castorama France trained its teams on LED to all new and existing stores by 2020. We established a how to make sure that claims about responsibly sourced timber cross-company unified LED team to: work with our companies are accurate and in line with guidance from the FSC and PEFC. on LED roll-out; agree a group specification for LED; identify a global supplier; and facilitate best practice sharing. To date We are also involved in wider conversations about the role of we have installed LED lighting in 15% of the estate. This is sustainability in marketing. For example, Chris Moss, Marketing delivering £3 million in savings per annum. Director at B&Q UK addressed the Sustainable Brands conference during 2014. You can watch the video at To build on savings achieved through efficient lighting, we will www.sustainablebrands.com. now be looking at improving our heating and cooling systems and running an awareness campaign to encourage energy Net Positive: Own Energy smart behaviour. Target 2020: 45% reduction in the energy Achieved Energy monitoring intensity (kWh/m2) of our property portfolio milestone Smart metering and energy monitoring can help us to identify from a 2010/11 baseline. where energy is being wasted and to eliminate losses. B&Q UK has trialled a new system called ‘Measure-My-Energy’ at Milestone: 15% reduction by 2016/17. its Nursling store. This measures energy use down to the level of each appliance and socket and has resulted in a 7.6% We have reduced the energy intensity of our property portfolio reduction in electricity use each year. The trial is now being by 17% since 2010/11. We reduced our energy intensity this extended to further B&Q UK stores. year and have met our 2016/17 milestone. However, we believe that this reduction was due in part to mild winter weather in Europe which meant our energy use for heating was lower than “We have installed LED lighting in other years. This means we still have work to do to maintain our current performance and to reach our 2020 target. in 15% of the estate. This is We aim to cut property energy use by: reducing demand delivering £3 million in savings through energy-efficient building design and behaviour change; increasing efficiency through our use of technology per annum.” (such as LED lighting); and by identifying and eliminating inefficiencies. We are creating Energy Resilience plans for every operating company to engage employees and managers and to facilitate sharing of best practices. Read about our wider commitment to sustainable construction and property, page 44. 24 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 IT Absolute carbon footprint We are reducing energy used for IT by focusing on: thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent • Data centre efficiency: we are consolidating our data centres, reducing the number of sites overall and moving to more 460.0 426.3 445.3 438.9 450.2 460.0 energy-efficient locations. We are also reducing the number 345.0 of physical servers through virtualisation (a solution that enables servers to run more efficiently). This is avoiding an estimated £900,000 a year in energy costs. • Managed print: we are reducing the overall number of printers and installing measures such as swipe cards to 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* 2016 2020 Milestone Target reduce wastage. Managed print is now in place in most * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope of our UK locations. This has reduced UK energy use for printing by 21% compared with 2009 and means 18 million Value chain carbon emissions fewer sheets of paper are used each year for printing, despite Outside our direct operations, the most significant carbon business growth. emissions associated with our business are customer use of electricity consuming products and the sourcing and • Upgrading software and hardware: we are investing in manufacture of product categories such as non-metallic energy-efficient machines and creating shared software mineral products (for example cement and glass), tiles systems as part of a major programme to update and and building products. centralise our IT systems. New desktop devices are now in place at B&Q UK, Castorama, Kingfisher IT Services We aim to work with suppliers and others to achieve carbon and Corporate Centre that use 25% less energy than reductions in our value chain. Our focus is on helping previous devices. We are also rolling out tools to enable customers reduce their energy use and emissions through easier collaboration between locations, potentially reducing our sales of energy-saving products, see page 22. business travel. In addition, KSO, our sourcing organisation, is working with its suppliers in China to support them to reduce greenhouse Total carbon footprint gas emissions as part of WWF’s Low Carbon Manufacturing Programme (LCMP), which KSO helped develop. In total 24 Target 2020: 25% reduction in our absolute On Track suppliers to KSO took part in LCMP, collectively avoiding over carbon footprint (tonnes CO2e) from to milestone 11,740 tonnes of carbon, an estimated 11% reduction in a 2010/11 baseline. carbon emissions compared with business as usual. KSO Milestone: No increase by 2016/17. aims for its top 50 vendors in China to be participating in energy efficiency improvement initiatives by 2016. We have reduced our absolute greenhouse gas emissions Property carbon intensity from property energy use, dedicated delivery fleets and business travel by road by 2% against our 2010/11 baseline. Target 2020: 50% reduction in the carbon On Track However, emissions increased 3% year on year due to: intensity (CO2e/m2) of our property portfolio to milestone an increase in electricity consumption; updates to emission from a 2010/11 baseline. conversion factors; and the inclusion of data for our Romanian business. Milestone: 20% reduction by 2016/17. Achieving our target for a substantial reduction in our absolute greenhouse gas emissions will be very challenging as our Our property carbon emissions account for 85% of our carbon business grows. To address this, we are developing our strategy footprint. We have achieved a 15% reduction in our property for investment in renewable energy (see Alternative energy, carbon intensity (kg CO2e/m2 floor space) since 2010/11. page 26) as well as focusing on energy efficiency and reducing All new building and refurbishment projects must show a emissions associated with transport (see page 42). tangible improvement in carbon intensity against our blueprint baselines and we also have a target to reduce embodied carbon (the carbon resulting from energy used to create materials for 2014/15 carbon footprint detail* store construction) by 10%. Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent We launched a new property database during 2014/15 Property: purchased which enables our companies to review the carbon and electricity and heat 307.9 (68%) energy intensity of each of their properties, and compare Property: gas the performance of properties in different locations. This and other fuels 76.2 (17%) will help us target our efforts and to identify and learn from Haulage: dedicated store and home examples of good practice. deliveries 56.9 (13%) Business travel by road 9.2 (2%) * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope www.kingfisher.com 25 Energy continued • We were a co-funder and champion of a report by Cambridge Property portfolio carbon intensity Econometrics for E3G, ‘Building the Future: The economic kg CO2 equivalent/m reported floor space 2 and fiscal impacts of making homes energy efficient’. 57.4 This included detailed modelling on the potential economic, 50.9 51.8 50.0 48.9 45.9 fiscal, and environmental impacts of improving UK household energy efficiency. This showed a potential 2.27:1 cost benefit 28.7 ratio meaning that such an initiative would be classified as a ‘High’ Value for Money infrastructure programme according to UK government criteria. Following publication, all political parties committed to make domestic energy efficiency a 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* 2016 2020 “national infrastructure priority” for the next government. Milestone Target * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope In France the government launched a policy programme Alternative energy to oversee the country’s transition to a low carbon economy, We established a renewable energy strategy this year, which that includes plans for significant energy efficiency projects. identifies opportunities to reduce costs and emissions while We engaged with the government on two related policy areas: improving our energy security. • We supported the Certificates d’Économie d’Énergie We are focusing initially on solar photovoltaic generation, but programme through which Castorama France and Brico will be exploring other renewable technologies to find solutions Dépôt France provide vouchers to customers when they best suited to different locations and markets, including purchase energy-efficient boilers. biomass and ground-source heat pump technologies. Following • In France some subsidies for energy efficiency projects our solar PV project at Screwfix, see page 14, we are evaluating are currently only available when projects are completed further projects at UK distribution centres, data centres and by accredited suppliers. We secured government permission stores and exploring opportunities in other markets. Our for customers using our Castorama network of recommended companies are also exploring new approaches to renewable tradesmen to receive the 30% tax credit and also engaged energy generation. For example, B&Q’s Merthyr Tydfil store with governments to advocate for subsidies to be extended uses a transpiring roof to harvest heat from the sun, a first for to include DIY energy efficiency projects. the UK retail sector (see page 13). Engagement and advocacy We work with governments and NGOs on issues relating to energy and climate change, and advocate for policies that support progress on these issues at a national and international level. In 2014/15 we were a signatory to two communications from the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change: the Trillion Tonne Communiqué in support of a proactive policy response to climate change; and the Business Statement Text to Heads of State – 2030 Climate and Energy Package, urging the EU to strengthen its climate commitments. Our then Group Chief Executive, Sir Ian Cheshire, contributed an opinion piece to the Guardian newspaper in support of the Trillion Tonne Communiqué. We were also active at the UK level, for example: • We helped establish the Big Energy Vision, a campaign aimed at creating a more positive dialogue on home energy efficiency and empowering householders to take control of rising energy bills. The campaign is backed by a range of businesses and NGOs including John Lewis, Home Retail Group, National Trust, Citizens Advice, Calor, uSwitch, Energy Saving Trust, TrustMark, Energy UK, UK Green Building Council, Global Action Plan, Willmott Dixon and Groundwork. See www.energycontrol.co.uk. • B&Q UK sponsored a new energy-saving category in the Observer Ethical Awards, to identify householders finding the most innovative ways to save energy. Nine households took part in the Great Energy Race, with the winner receiving a renewable energy home makeover worth up to £10,000. The awards were covered in the press and on social networks. 26 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Innovation Innovation We want to help and inspire millions of people to improve their homes and we know that homes can’t be better if they aren’t sustainable. All our customers should be able to create a more sustainable home. We are innovating in our products and services to enable customers to live more sustainably, reducing the environmental footprint of our ranges and designing out waste. Closed loop systems, in which raw materials are continually Eco products reused and recycled, offer huge potential for innovation and could improve the sustainability of our products while reducing Target 2020: To be at the forefront of Not On Track waste and opening up new and more resilient raw material sustainable product innovation, with 10% to milestone supply chains. We are working with partners such as the of Group sales from the most innovative Ellen MacArthur Foundation, experts in the circular economy, (best-in-class) eco-products and services. to identify and adopt more closed loop approaches. Milestone: 5% by 2016/17. We need to integrate sustainable thinking into our product design, development and sourcing processes, and work more Target 2020: To bring eco-products into On Track closely with suppliers to identify sustainable innovations that the mainstream, by achieving 50% of to milestone meet customer needs and benefit our business. We have a Group sales from products and services number of tools to help us do this including: our eco product with eco credentials. guidelines, developed with sustainability experts Bioregional; Milestone: 25% by 2016/17. our range review processes that help our buyers and product developers improve the sustainability performance of product ranges; and our closed loop calculator. We are making progress on improving the sustainability credentials of our products. Eco product sales were worth Examples of recent sustainable product innovations are £2.4 billion in 2014/15, an increase from £2.3 billion the featured in the In Store section of this Report, pages 9–11. previous year. This is equivalent to 22% of total sales. Sales of best-in-class eco products, our most innovative 2050 Aspiration products and services, were worth £375 million. Every Kingfisher product will enable a more sustainable and ultimately Net Positive lifestyle Products with eco credentials 2020 target % of retail sales 1,000 Kingfisher products with closed-loop credentials 50% Why it matters – external trends 10% • The way our customers live is changing and they need new types of products and services. 25% 20% 21% 22% 20% • 9 billion global population by 2050. Increased competition 5% 3% 5% 40% 4% 5% for resources and materials means rising and fluctuating 19% 20% costs and potential shortages. 16% 15% 16% • US$1 trillion a year could be generated for the global 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* 2016 2020 economy by 2025 by creating circular supply chains1. Milestone Target Eco compliance products Best-in-class products * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope 1 The Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Towards the Circular Economy – Vol 3, 2014 www.kingfisher.com 27 Innovation continued Our eco product guidelines are intended to act as a catalyst for innovation and we regularly update them to reflect the Rooftrade Living Roof Kits latest thinking and knowledge on eco design. The Guidelines B&Q UK’s new Rooftrade living roof kits for sheds boost were completely reviewed and updated during 2014 in garden biodiversity and help extend the life of garden sheds. consultation with sustainability experts, Bioregional. This meant The kits contain a low maintenance, drought resistant, ready that some products (such as halogen light bulbs) which were to lay sedum vegetation blanket grown in the UK. This once defined as best-in-class were re-categorised as products includes sixteen varieties of sedum plants, pre-grown into a with eco credentials. This resulted in a drop in our best-in-class recycled crushed brick growing medium and a biodegradable product sales from 5% of total sales in 2013/14 to 3% of sales felt mat made from recycled British textiles. The sedum this year, and contributed to a rise in sales of eco compliance blanket has been specially designed to provide a variety products. You can read the current Eco Product Guidelines of plants throughout the year whilst enhancing biodiversity, at www.kingfisher.com/netpositiveresources. We train our and carries the RHS Perfect for Pollinators label. commercial teams on our eco product guidelines, and training took place at three operating companies during 2014/15. Our companies hold innovation days that encourage suppliers to showcase new products with improved environmental performance. For example, 250 vendors attended an innovation day at Castorama France with all the products showcased assessed against our eco products criteria, while at B&Q’s innovation day for its building category suppliers pitched many innovative product ideas with sustainability benefits. Range reviews Target 2020: To enhance the Not On Track eco credentials of all our products to milestone by improving the sustainability rating of every product range. As part of the strategic update for our business, see page 4, we Milestone: Conduct a sustainability rating are introducing more unified sourcing and product development for every product range by 2016/17. for our own brand ranges which will provide opportunities to improve sustainability performance. For example, we are Target 2020: Demonstrate leadership Not On Track exploring how we can innovate in our garden and bathroom on eco innovation across our Group to milestone ranges to better meet customers’ changing needs and our own brands. garden, bathroom and Net Positive teams are working closely Milestone: All own brands to conform together to fully embed sustainability into this review process. to minimum sustainability criteria by 2016/17. Net Positive: Closing the loop Over time we aim to improve the sustainability performance of Target 2020: 1,000 Kingfisher products Achieved every product range with a particular focus on demonstrating with closed loop credentials. milestone leadership in our own brands. Milestone: 300 by 2016/17. Our approach is most developed at our largest operating companies. For example, B&Q UK uses an annual range Adopting closed loop approaches is challenging and sustainability rating process to engage product buyers. requires close collaboration with suppliers. We are taking The process identifies the sustainability impacts and issues initial steps within our business to begin improving the associated with each product range and provides suggestions closed loop credentials of our products and to create to buyers for improving sustainability performance, as well as more circular supply chains. opportunities for increasing sales and revenue. Reviews were carried out for every buying area during 2014/15, and the We are using our closed loop calculator to assess which of process has helped B&Q reach 35% of sales from products with our products already have closed loop credentials and identify eco credentials. New products launched that contributed to the opportunities for improvement. The calculator, developed with range sustainability rating include easyGrow (page 10), B&Q’s the Ellen MacArthur Foundation and Bioregional, includes a Rooftrade living roof kits (see right) and the B&Q flood protection number of criteria such as materials used, whether a product product range. We are now exploring the best approach to can be rented or repaired and whether it can be disassembled introducing the range sustainability rating process at Screwfix. for recycling at end-of-life. Any product scoring Very Good or Excellent is considered to have closed loop credentials. We have In our French businesses we have developed the collaborative identified 562 products so far (2013/14: 170). Examples include ReMade process. This brings together internal specialists in B&Q’s easyGrow bedding plants, (see page 10) and garden areas such as production, manufacturing, engineering, retail fence supports created from recycled plastic bottles introduced and logistics as well as suppliers and external partners to at Castorama Poland. We are training buyers on the calculator. develop solutions that design out waste and enable materials reuse and recycling. This has been used in development of We are providing opportunities for employees to improve products such as Nods decking, see page 11. their understanding of the circular economy and its practical business potential. This includes places on an executive education course for senior managers and a circular economy MBA course both run by Bradford University School of 28 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Management and the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. Twelve We now have 19 learning stores and two eco stores in the employees completed the executive education course during group, with two operating companies already meeting our 2014/15 and three employees are enrolled on the MBA. target on Eco Stores and a further three on track to do so. However, progress in four companies has been slower Closed loop supply chains meaning we are not on track to reach our target by 2016/17. See pages 13 and 45 for examples of sustainable innovation Target 2020: Ten closed-loop supply chains. Data Not in our stores during 2014. Milestone: Five by 2016/17. Available Sustainability accounting We are exploring whether and how waste streams from our Target 2016/17: Calculate and account Not On Track business and our customers can be integrated into more circular for the impact and value of our to target supply chains as a source of raw materials. Our companies have sustainability strategy to the business undertaken a number of pilot projects including take-back trials and communicate this to investors for customer waste. For example, Castorama Poland’s take-back and employees. programme for waste electrical and electronic items ran at over 70 stores during 2014/15 collecting over 264 tonnes of waste, while Screwfix ran a pilot with a reverse logistics company to By becoming Net Positive we will generate new revenues and recycle materials from old and faulty power tools collected from reduce our costs through improved productivity and efficiency. its stores. However, our experience so far suggests that customer We aim to calculate the financial benefits for our business to waste streams often do not provide sufficient or consistent assist our decision-making and to help investors and employees volumes of materials and that it can be challenging to generate understand the business importance of Net Positive. a commercial return sufficient to cover the costs of collecting We already collect data in a number of areas including eco and recycling the materials. We are continuing to work with product sales (page 27) and cost savings from the installation our suppliers in this area which may include looking at of energy efficient LED lighting (page 24) and we are improving opportunities in relation to our own business waste. our data on savings in areas such as packaging. We are also We are also working with sustainability experts Bioregional trialling an approach to measuring the financial benefits of to develop a definition of a closed loop supply chain and a initiatives to reduce waste, with a view to rolling this out across methodology for monitoring performance, which will enable Kingfisher. We have incorporated sustainability considerations us to report progress against our target in future years. This into our capital expenditure processes, reflecting the value of follows an initial scoping project with the Ellen MacArthur Net Positive to the business. Foundation during 2014. The data we obtain from these processes will enable us to provide a fuller picture of the direct financial benefits of Net Alternative services Positive over time. Our focus in future will be on continuing to expand data collection in key areas such as these, rather than Target 2016/17: Explore and trial Not On Track attempting to provide an overall figure for the value of Net Positive. alternative business models such as to target product hire and repair, which encourage Engagement and advocacy a perpetual reuse of products. We are working with other businesses, NGOs and government to help stimulate innovation and encourage progress in areas Services, such as rental and repair, can replace sales of such as the circular economy. Examples include: physical products and be profitable for the business while • The European Resource Efficiency Platform – we are reducing use of resources. Since fewer products are needed founding members of this forum which is helping to shape overall and because products are easier to recycle at end-of-life, EU policy and create the right regulatory conditions for the these services can play an important role in the transition to a circular economy. circular economy. • Circular Economy 100 – we helped establish this network We already have examples of successful services such as run by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation for companies, Castorama Poland’s rental and repair services which carried innovators and regional governments. out over 205,000 repairs in 2014/15. Other services include tool repair services at our companies including Koçtaş and • Environmental Audit Committee – our former Group Chief Screwfix and rental services such as B&Q’s Rug Doctor. We will Executive, Sir Ian Cheshire, gave evidence to this committee continue to explore the potential for alternative services as well on the potential role of the UK government in supporting as opportunities relating to the sharing economy, see page 31. a circular economy and was quoted in their report ‘Growing a circular economy: Ending the throwaway society”. Learning stores • Disruptive Innovation Festival – we supported this event led Target 2016/17: Every Operating Company Not by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation which brought together On Track thought-leaders, entrepreneurs, businesses, and suppliers to develop at least three ‘learning stores’ to target and to have delivered, or confirmed, the site to explore themes relating to the circular economy, sharing for one ‘eco store’ that champions low economy and systems innovation. carbon and sustainability innovation. www.kingfisher.com 29 Communities Communities Our business exists to help people create better homes and through doing so to have better lives. As part of this, we aim to make a positive contribution in every community in which we work, supporting projects that improve community resilience and social cohesion. This benefits local people, including our employees and customers, and is good for our business too. Our community projects use our expertise as a home Community projects improvement retailer to create positive change including by helping people develop practical skills and improving Target 2020: 4,000 community projects Not On Track community facilities. completed by our people that deliver to milestone The sharing economy, with technology enabling people to ‘Better Homes, Better Lives’. connect and exchange skills and resources more easily, can Milestone: 1,500 projects by 2016/17. make it easier for people to improve their communities by helping each other. We aim to encourage these positive benefits by sharing our knowledge and creating opportunities for Our companies have supported 805 community projects customers to learn skills and connect with and help each other. since 2012/13, focusing on areas such as improving homes and facilities for those in need and supporting young people Our community projects vary from company to company to develop practical skills. This is an increase from 530 in but address common themes. To increase the impact of our 2013/14; however, at our current rate of progress we are not on community investment and to speed up the rate of progress track to reach our milestone of 1,500 by 2016/17. Our work to to meet our 2020 target, we are reviewing our communities strengthen our communities strategy will help to address this. strategy. We will establish priorities for projects across our companies that are most relevant to our home improvement The value of our investment expertise, our Net Positive ambitions and the core challenges Our total community investment was worth £2.38 million in facing society. We will continue to focus on areas such as 2014/15 (2013/14: £2.87 million), equivalent to 0.35% of building skills, renovation and forest projects. pre-tax profits. This includes cash donations, employee time and gifts in kind, with product donations valued at cost price. A number of projects were put on hold at B&Q UK during the 2050 Aspiration year as it reviewed its communities strategy and appointed a Every Kingfisher store and location supports projects new community manager. This contributed to the year-on-year which build local communities or equip people with skills drop in our total community investment and fundraising. 2020 target Our employees spent over 28,500 work hours volunteering in their 4,000 community projects completed that deliver ‘Better local communities. The total value of employee time (including Homes, Better Lives’ volunteering hours and management costs) is £540,000. Why it matters – external trends In addition to our own giving, we encourage and facilitate • Inequality, unemployment and housing shortages could customers and employees to raise money for charities. undermine community cohesion and the prosperity Examples include in-store collections, payroll giving, fundraising needed for business growth. events and using our contact centres to take pledges from the public during charity fundraising appeals such as the UK’s • The sharing economy is altering how people access goods Children in Need. In 2014/15 we helped employees and and services, with benefits for communities. customers raise £671,000 for charity (2013/14: £1.07 million). • 70% of customers say they will remain loyal to a brand We assess the impact of many of our community projects to that demonstrates social value1. help us identify opportunities for improvement and maximise the value of our investment. Examples are included in our Data Appendix, www.kingfisher.com/netpositivereport. 1 RSA, Community Footprint Report, 2012 30 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Community investment Skills sharing £ thousand Target 2016/17: Promote sharing of skills On Track and ‘know-how’ in local communities to target 1,071 by building online community platforms 1,021 in the UK and France to help link people. 671 618 626 The DIY sector can encourage the positive benefits of the 2,868 2,361 2,380 sharing economy. We aim to share the knowledge and skills 1,727 1,550 that exist within our businesses and help customers connect with and help each other. 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* For example, Castorama France is supporting a new home Company giving Value of employee and customer giving improvement wiki site – an open-source and collaborative * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope knowledge-sharing platform that will help consumers complete their DIY projects. Anyone will be able to join ‘Wiki for home’ to 2014/15 company input by category* share their expertise and experiences and learn from the collective £ thousand intelligence of a large community including fellow DIYers and home improvement enthusiasts, professional handymen, Cash donations 1,617 (68%) schools, fab labs (workshops where people can use digital Employee time 540 (23%) technology to test and implement their ideas) and maker Gifts-in-kind 223 (9%) spaces. See www.wikiforhome.org. This builds on Castorama’s experiences in launching Les Troc’heures, France’s first DIY community skill-sharing website. In the UK, B&Q established StreetClub in 2012 to encourage neighbours to share skills and come together to improve their local communities. To increase the impact of StreetClub and enable members to connect with more people, StreetClub * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope merged with community platform Streetbank during early 2015. This has created a network of 35,000 members across the UK. Some of the recent projects we have supported include: See www.streetbank.com. • B&Q China has implemented 109 community projects B&Q also encourages the sharing of DIY skills online through since 2012/13. Through its partnership with the Cherished videos and information on its YouTube and Facebook pages Dream Foundation, it has supported the opening of eight and by making many of its Kids Can Do It workshop lesson Dream Centres – multimedia classrooms in rural schools plans available for free online. Its DIY skills videos were viewed in less-developed regions of China. 7.5 million times during 2014/15. • B&Q UK is the first major UK retailer to donate 100% of the money raised from its carrier bag levy to charity. In year one the money will be donated to Children in Need. B&Q also raised over £62,000 for the Royal British Legion’s Centenary Poppy campaign through sales of poppy seeds. • Brico Dépôt France’s HOME projects get employees involved in improving social housing for people in need. In 2014/15, 160 employees took part improving three properties. • Castorama Poland has run its Majsterkowo programme since 2012, enabling 80,000 children to complete free DIY classes at its stores. • KS&O supports the ‘Left Behind Children’ programme which helps children whose parents leave home for long periods to find factory work. Left behind children face a range of challenges including being vulnerable to psychological and emotional issues, sexual abuse and other threats to their safety. So far two KS&O suppliers have taken part, benefiting 728 workers and 350 children. • Screwfix has helped raise £300,000 for charity through the Screwfix Foundation since April 2013, benefiting over 120 community facilities, see page 11. www.kingfisher.com 31 Communities continued “Learning practical skills Exploring the links between skills can make individuals more and wellbeing When people have the skills and motivation, they can likely to help others which improve their homes and their neighbourhood; that’s why many of our community projects focus on helping in turn contributes to people to acquire practical skills. Now a report by the New Economics Foundation, supported by Kingfisher, stronger communities.” has shown the positive impact of practical skills on personal and community wellbeing. Also in the UK, the Screwfix Community Forum enables The report, called Hands-on Communities, draws on tradespeople, customers and others to share DIY expertise, data from the UK Big Lottery Fund, academic research ask for advice and discuss topical issues. It has over 100,000 and expert interviews. It found that learning practical members and 1.25 million posts and averages over 240,000 skills and undertaking tasks like DIY, cooking or gardening page views a week. can have a significant impact on an individual’s wellbeing, leading to higher levels of life satisfaction. Engagement and advocacy During 2014, we supported the launch of Collectively, a new The report also shows that learning practical skills can digital platform developed to drive conversation and action make individuals more likely to help others which in turn on sustainability and make sustainable living the new normal. contributes to stronger communities. 25% of people who Collectively was launched through a coalition including Forum learnt practical skills in one study increased their social, for the Future and leading businesses such as Kingfisher, voluntary or community involvement. Other benefits Unilever, BT Group, The Coca-Cola Company, Marks & included saving money, improved employability and better Spencer, Carlsberg, Google, Facebook, Microsoft, McDonald’s, social cohesion from creating bridges between community Nike, PepsiCo and Nestlé. It is designed to encourage action members who might not otherwise interact. at the grass-roots level and to enable audiences to act To raise awareness of the research among professionals more sustainably in whatever way they can – from buying, working in the community sector, the report was launched investing and campaigning to sharing an idea they believe in. at the annual conference of Locality, the network for See www.collectively.org. community-led organisations. Read the report at www.neweconomics.org/publications/ entry/hands-on-communities. 32 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Employees Employees Retail is a people business and this is particularly true in our sector as customers often need help and advice when shopping for home improvement products and services. It is our people that make us what we are and will determine our sustained success. We want Kingfisher to be a great company to work for and an Our leaders have an important role to play in enabling the employer of choice in our sector. We aim to recruit and retain development and progression of a diverse talent pool and diverse and talented teams to serve our customers and we in embracing and cultivating different styles and approaches prioritise investment in training and development, creating within their teams. We also work with our external recruitment a pipeline of talent for our business to grow. Our ability to partners to make sure that women are well represented on engage employees and to work together across functions and recruitment lists and development programmes. companies will become even more important as we implement our new strategic approach and create a more unified ‘ONE’ Gender diversity Kingfisher business. (% female representation) 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* To achieve our Net Positive goals we need to make sustainability part of our day for everyone at Kingfisher. We are engaging our Total workforce 40 40 40 39 40 employees on our sustainability ambitions to encourage them Senior to change the way they do things so we can meet changing management 17 19 21 22 21 customer needs and drive sustainable growth. All management Inclusion and diversity positions 29 29 30 29 30 Senior management covers the Board, directors and heads of department (401 full time Target 2020: To be recognised as a Not On Track equivalent employees) ‘best practice’ company for equality to milestone * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. and diversity within our local retail markets. Ethnic diversity Milestone: All companies to have an action plan Ethnic minorities accounted for 11% of employees in the UK in place for their market by 2016/17. (2013/14: 9%). The increase reflects improvements to data quality and improved consistency in how we define ethnic minorities across our UK companies. Our definition of ethnic A workforce that reflects the diverse communities we work minorities now includes all employees who do not define in helps us to better serve our customers and encourages themselves as White British. We believe the percentage innovation and creativity in our business. We aim to recruit of ethnic minorities was under-reported in 2013/14. people of all backgrounds with a wide range of skills, experience, perspectives and leadership styles. Our current We don’t report a Group figure for ethnic diversity since focus is on improving gender balance at all levels of the definitions of what constitutes an ethnic minority vary by country business and supporting young people to develop their and in markets such as France it is illegal to ask employees to careers with us. declare their ethnicity. Gender balance During 2014/15, women made up 40% of the Kingfisher Board (2013/14: 27%) and 24% of One Team Leaders, our most senior leaders (2013/14: 18%). There was a slight decline in female representation across the wider senior management population, see table, but a small rise in female representation across all management positions. To achieve balanced representation of men and women among our senior leaders, we are focusing on increasing the participation of women in development programmes, increasing female candidates in succession planning and raising the visibility of our female leaders. The Kingfisher Women in Business network provides opportunities for female employees to build their network across the company. www.kingfisher.com 33 Employees continued Awards and recognition Learning and development Our companies have been recognised with a number We provide exciting training opportunities that enable of awards for their Human Resources practices. employees to develop their skills, better serve our customers and progress their careers with us. In total, employees • Brico Dépôt Iberia – Great Place to Work Spain, fifth completed almost 777,000 training hours (an average of best company and European Business Awards in 10 hours per employee). Training spend was £16.6 million in Spain – Employer of the Year 2014/15. Most of our operating companies conduct annual performance appraisals for employees. • Castorama France – Top Employer 2015 from the Top Employers Institute for the fifth consecutive year We provide a mixture of centrally and locally delivered training programmes for employees at every level of the business. • Castorama Poland – Reliable Employer of the year award, Examples include: DIY sector, 2014 for its approach to career development, working environment and employee benefits Apprenticeships, internships and work placements Our apprenticeship and work placement programmes help • Kingfisher – Top Retail Company for Graduates to Work young people to get started in their careers and to gain for 2014/15 from JobCrowd valuable experience while completing their studies. For example, 500 young people took part in Castorama Age diversity France’s ‘Go Alternance’ programme during 2014/15 which A workforce with employees of many different generations recruits and develops young people for a variety of career brings a range of insights and experiences that can help paths at Castorama’s stores and offices. Screwfix is working us better serve our customers. We have a focus on creating with several UK universities to provide work placements to jobs for young people as well as supporting older workers to high potential undergraduates. 26 young people have taken continue their careers with us. part to date. See page 13 for information on apprenticeships For example, Screwfix is committed to supporting efforts to at Brico Dépôt France. reduce youth unemployment and during 2014/15 created Graduate programmes over 1,350 new roles of which almost 40% were filled by Our graduate programmes such as the Kingfisher IT Graduate people under the age of 24. At B&Q UK, policies such as Programme and Kingfisher International Commercial flexible retirement have helped it achieve around a fifth of Graduate Programme help us identify and develop future employees aged over 50, compared with the Group average leaders. Participants complete international placements of 16%. and benefit from a wide range of development opportunities. 31 graduates have taken part over the last three years. Employees by age 2014/15* Percentage Store employees Our store employees have the most important jobs in the Employees 25-49 (71%) business – giving our customers the help and advice they need Employees 50 and over (16%) to chose the right products and complete their projects. Training Employees 24 and under (13%) helps store employees improve their retail skills and product knowledge and often includes opportunities to gain new qualifications. We also run talent development programmes for store staff to help them develop their careers and to ensure we have employees with the right skills and experience to fill key roles. * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope For example, Screwfix has developed its First Steps and Fast Track programmes to help store colleagues move from Service Disability Assistant right through to Store Manager. Through its Fast Track Having a disability shouldn’t be a barrier to a career at to Branch Manager Programme employees can study towards Kingfisher. We aim to create accessible workplaces and provide a Level 4 Diploma in Leadership and Management from the the right support to employees with disabilities. This also helps Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM). us to comply with legislation regarding employment of disabled people that has been introduced in a number of our markets. Closer to the customer at Castorama Russia In 2014/15, the proportion of employees with a declared We want to make home improvement easy and affordable disability was 2% (2013/14: 2%). Our companies in France for customers and to offer the products, information and are particularly focused on supporting people with disabilities support they need to complete their projects successfully. to build their careers with us, reflecting national legislation and To help and inspire employees to do this, Castorama Russia targets. Over 5.3% of employees at Castorama France have a has launched Meet the Customer, a programme of home disability and 6.1% at Brico Dépôt France. visits. Every employee is visiting five customer homes during the year to find out for themselves how customers plan and implement their home improvement projects. 34 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Management and leadership training We have a set of mandatory minimum H&S standards for use Management and leadership training gives employees by all operating companies that form the basis for store H&S opportunities to grow their careers with us. For example, B&Q audits. Each company has an action plan to address any gaps UK runs Aspire, a set of five talent programmes that support in their policies or procedures in relation to our group standards. employees to reach management and senior management To help embed a safety culture we have a Board-level Group positions. It ranges from the ‘Aspiring Trading Managers’ Safety Committee, chaired by our Group General Counsel programme for customer advisors and supervisors, to the that meets monthly. A monthly H&S Dashboard, summarising ‘Aspiring Head of’ programme for managers looking to move performance at each company and any H&S issues during to senior leadership roles. the month, is reviewed at every meeting of our Group Board Kingfisher One Academy is our executive education offer and Group Executive Committee. for our most senior leaders. The Academy has a number of A Group Safety Manager was appointed during 2014 to bespoke programmes that enable senior leaders to develop oversee our approach and drive progress in this area across a strong understanding of the Kingfisher strategy and the the business. Each of our operating company boards reviews associated challenges. Programme topics include leadership, safety performance on a monthly basis, and all operating financial and commercial strategy and Net Positive. companies have a senior management safety committee. Employee health and safety (H&S) We encourage our H&S professionals in our companies to share information and good practices with each other. Target 2020: Achieve a 20% reduction Not On Track The majority of employee accidents related to injuries from in the employee lost-time accident rate to milestone handling products in store. We carried out a review of how from a 2010/11 baseline. we safely deliver our products to stores and are focusing on Milestone: 10% reduction by 2016/17. reducing the need for employees to manually handle products. This includes looking at pallet standards and changing our delivery procedures so products are placed directly onto the Our total lost-time accident rate (number of lost-time accidents sales floor. During 2014/15 we also held National Safety Days per 100,000 full-time equivalent employees) was 3,426, an to raise safety awareness in several of our operating countries. increase on last year and on our 2010/11 baseline. We believe this is due to improvements in our data reporting and collection There was one safety prosecution during the year at B&Q UK processes, rather than a worsening in performance. This relating to an accident at its Yeading store in November 2012, reflects the work our H&S professionals have been doing to when an employee was injured while parking a forklift truck. raise awareness across our geographies of the importance B&Q was fined £65,000 plus costs. of accurate and consistent H&S reporting and in creating a culture in which managers feel confident to report accidents. Customer and contractor health and safety We expect to see further improvements in our data over the Target 2016/17: Develop a Group-wide Not On Track coming year after which point it will be possible to more accident reporting framework for customers to target accurately monitor changes in our H&S performance over time. and onsite contractors, and set a reduction target. There were no work-related fatalities (2013/14: zero fatalities). Employee accident rate We collect data on accidents in stores involving customers and Major and over three-day lost-time accidents contractors, and this is included in our monthly H&S Dashboard – number per 100,000 full-time equivalent employees and reviewed by our Group Board and Executive. 3,425 3,220 3,360 3,426 There were 4,796 accidents reported by customers during the 3,083 2,899 2,740 year (2013/14: 4,275) and 505 contractor accidents (2013/14: 387). We believe this increase reflects improvements in data quality with some countries reporting data in this area for the first time this year. The majority of customer accidents related to slips, trips and falls. We are introducing measures such as additional matting at store entrances to reduce slips and trips. 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* 2016 2020 Our data does not yet include construction contractor accidents Milestone Target (for new stores and major refurbishment projects) and we are * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope still working on developing a robust data collection process in this area. www.kingfisher.com 35 Employees continued Employee engagement: surveys Employee turnover Our employee turnover rate was 23% (2013/14: 22%). Our Target 2016/17: Improve our employee On Track companies in France have the lowest employee turnover rate engagement by extending engagement to target (8% in Castorama France and 11% in Brico Dépôt France). surveys to cover all employees. Net Positive part of our day We work hard to create an engaging environment for colleagues We aim to make sustainability part of all our business in our stores, head offices and call centres, so that every decision-making and the work our colleagues do every day. employee feels motivated in their job. Employee engagement is To achieve this we need to both improve understanding and a key driver for high performance. build capacity so people are able and motivated to start putting sustainability at the heart of what they do. We are using a We measure engagement once a year through our One Team combination of engagement, awareness raising and training Engagement Survey, run in conjunction with Gallup. The survey combined with integrating sustainability into performance gives our teams an opportunity to talk about how they feel at management systems. work and helps us to identify opportunities for improvement. The survey covers all operating companies and employees, One of the most important steps we have taken this year is to except for Koçtaş, which participates in a separate survey within support our companies to develop local implementation plans the Koç Group. A set of 12 core questions are used across each for Net Positive. These are based on our commercial model for company to help us evaluate engagement. delivering Net Positive, see page 6. They show how each part of the business will integrate sustainability into their core business There was an 86% response rate for the survey in 2014. The in a locally relevant way – and contribute to our Net Positive results show that our strengths as a Group include colleagues targets overall. Each company’s local implementation plan feeling committed to doing quality work and feeling they have identifies how integrating sustainability will generate value for someone at work they can trust and confide in. Opportunities the business in four areas: revenue opportunities; customer for improvement included making sure employees have the preference; supply chain resilience; and efficiency and materials and equipment they need to do their work right productivity. Local plans are now in place at B&Q UK, Brico and ensuring that colleagues have real clarity about their Dépôt Iberia, Kingfisher Corporate Centre, KITS and Screwfix, role and the actions they need to take every day to help the and further plans will be launched in 2015/16. business grow. Leadership training on Net Positive We achieved an overall engagement score of 4.06 out of 5, an improvement from 3.95 in 2013. This result means that Target 2016/17: To have a development On Track Kingfisher sits in the top 50% of the Gallup database of retail programme on Net Positive for the top to target companies. Individual team results are reviewed by line 250 managers from around the Group. managers, who are encouraged to have regular engagement conversations with their teams and agree one to two We developed our Kingfisher One Academy Net Positive improvement actions for the year. executive education module to inspire our leaders on sustainability, improve understanding of the business benefits and catalyse further action. The module is an interactive process through which our leaders together develop a common vision for what sustainability means in their part of the business. It explores why sustainability is important and the business benefits, and supports leaders to develop a local implementation plan. 116 of our most senior leaders completed the module in 2014/15. We have also worked with the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership to create a bespoke executive education course for members of our Group Sustainability Committee. This three-day intensive course was launched in 2015 and aims to: deepen participants’ understanding of sustainable business issues and how these relate to Kingfisher’s priorities; to promote a sense of ownership of the sustainability agenda at Kingfisher and enable participants to lead on sustainability in their part of the business; and to build confidence among participants to enable them to engage, challenge and communicate on sustainability within the business and with sustainability experts. 36 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Performance management Target 2020: Integrate Net Positive into Not On Track the performance management systems to milestone for all relevant employees. Milestone: Top 250 managers by 2016/17. Integrating sustainability into our performance management systems is one way to engage and motivate employees to achieve our Net Positive targets. During 2014/15 all members of our One Team Board (our most senior leaders) had performance objectives relating to Net Positive. A number of our companies have also integrated sustainability into performance management. For example, Castorama France has integrated objectives on Net Positive for key employees including store managers. Net Positive is being integrated into induction training so that employees understand its importance right from the start At KSO, our sourcing organisation, a number of employees have of their career with us. Five Operating Companies – B&Q Net Positive-related KPIs that are linked to their performance China, B&Q UK, Brico Dépôt France, Brico Dépôt Spain and bonuses, including General Managers and functional managers. Castorama France – have already introduced this. For example, At Brico Dépôt France logistics managers have targets relating every new starter at B&Q completes e-learning training modules to waste management, which has helped the business increase on Forest Friendly (covering B&Q’s timber programme), One its recycling rate to 74% of waste. Planet Home, B&Q’s sustainability programme and a diversity module launched in 2014. Over 30,000 people have completed Net Positive engagement the Forest Friendly and One Planet Home modules in the past two years. Target 2020: Net Positive engagement On Track and development programmes to motivate to milestone We also run more in-depth training for employees in key areas. all our employees to become more For example, Brico Dépôt Iberia has run eco product training sustainable at work and at home. for all store employees and has launched a recycling e-learning Milestone: Net Positive included in induction module that is compulsory for store employees. training for new employees by 2016/17. Our Net Positive team runs eco product ‘train the trainer’ sessions at our operating companies to raise awareness of our Target 2020: Every employee has Not On Track eco product guidelines and make sure our companies know the right skills to help customers lead to milestone how to use them to improve the sustainability performance of sustainable lifestyles. our product ranges. See page 27 for more on our eco products. Milestone: Store staff trained on eco During the year we also worked with partners to engage and products and services to help customers inspire colleagues on sustainability. This included a competition make more sustainable choices by 2016/17. for participants on our graduate programme during 2014, with the prize an opportunity to attend the One Young World All employees have a part to play in Net Positive and we aim Summit, a global forum for young leaders. Read about their to engage, inspire and involve them in our Net Positive journey. experiences at www.kingfisher.com/OneYoungWorld. The two As we work to improve the sustainability performance of our winners presented back to members of the Kingfisher Board. product ranges, we need to make sure our colleagues in store Fifty members of our Net Positive network had the opportunity have the knowledge and confidence to advise customers and to complete the leading online course on sustainable business help them make more sustainable choices. from the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Our internal magazines and TV channels keep employees Leadership. The course is an engaging, interactive programme informed and engaged on our progress. For example, designed to build managers’ understanding of the fundamentals B&Q’s internal monthly video magazine ‘In the Know’ of sustainability, its relevance to their role and its importance to included features on the journey of sustainable timber business success. https://youtu.be/HgFUZTji8nYand 25 years of responsible In addition, 12 employees took part in the executive education retailing at B&Q https://youtu.be/Y-QHzpij8_c during 2014. course for senior managers covering the circular economy run by Bradford University School of Management and the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, while three employees are enrolled on the circular economy MBA course. www.kingfisher.com 37 Suppliers & partners Suppliers and partners We work with thousands of suppliers to source our products and the goods and services we need to run our business. Our procurement spend was £7.4 billion in 2014/15. We aim to work with companies who meet standards consistent Our supplier code with our own in areas such as ethics, health and safety, human Our Code of Conduct for Factory Working Conditions includes rights and environmental practices. This is important to us as nine minimum requirements that all supplier factories must a responsible business as it reduces legal, reputational and meet and additional standards they are expected to work financial risks and helps us to meet customer expectations. towards. It incorporates the requirements of international With such a large supply chain, we need to prioritise our ethical frameworks such as those from the International Labour assessment and auditing programme and we have further work Organization and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational to do to strengthen our approach and to improve consistency Enterprises. across our group and operating company procurement. We are in the process of updating our policies and approach We are also working with suppliers on responsible timber to supplier ethical and environmental assessments and hope sourcing and to improve the environmental performance to publish a new policy standard in 2015. of our products, see pages 18 and 27. Audit programme Supplier ethical assessment New KSO supplier factories outside the EU are audited against our Code of Conduct for Factory Working Conditions and must comply with our minimum standards before any Target 2020: All suppliers of Kingfisher Not On Track orders are placed. These factories are reassessed at least own-brand/exclusive brand products to milestone will meet or exceed our ethical and once every three years. If improvements are needed, an environmental standards. action plan will be put in place and must be achieved within a required timeframe. KSO runs training for suppliers on our Milestone: High priority suppliers of own-brand/exclusive ethical and environmental standards. brand products will meet our standards by 2016/17. Our operating companies focus on first-tier suppliers who are responsible for managing standards in their own supply chains. Our ethical assessment and auditing programme is currently Some second-tier suppliers are also audited directly where focused on purchasing via KSO, our central procurement there is a higher risk of non-compliance with our standards. organisation. KSO has offices in Brazil, China, India, Poland, For an example of our work with indirect suppliers of raw Turkey and Vietnam and sources products directly from materials, see the B&Q UK case study on page 39. factories, of which most are used in our own-brand and exclusive brand ranges. KSO and Group sourcing accounted Performance in 2014/15 for around 22% of sales in our top five operating companies Own-brand and exclusive brand products in 2014/15 (Castorama France, Brico Dépôt France, B&Q UK, KSO sourced from 1,028 factories (the majority of which supply Screwfix and Castorama Poland). us with own-brand/exclusive brand products). Of these, 98% have had an on-site audit at some stage in the past three years. Our operating companies also source some own-brand The remaining 2% are factories in Europe that are considered products directly from suppliers, and are responsible for lower risk. During 2014/15, seven potential new factories were implementing our standards at the local level. not accepted as KSO suppliers because they failed to meet the required ethical and environmental standards. KSO audited a further 511 factories, of which 75% were required to implement a corrective action plan in relation to ethical or environmental 38 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 standards. No sourcing can take place until all major issues Goods not for resale have been resolved through the action plan process. Our operating companies sourced own-brand/exclusive brand Target 2020: Key GNFR contracts Not On Track products from a further 1,308 suppliers. Our companies will meet or exceed our sustainability to milestone audit suppliers on a risk basis, focusing on high-risk sectors standards. and countries. Of these suppliers, 21% have had an ethical Milestone: Process in place to apply assessment at some stage in the past three years (201 have our sustainability standards to key GNFR had an on-site assessment and a further 68 a desktop contracts by 2016/17. assessment). We have set a stretching target to audit all these suppliers by 2020. We are integrating sustainability standards in key areas such Manufacturer branded products as GNFR timber, page 19, and store construction and fit out, Our operating companies also carry out ethical assessments of see page 44 and have started making progress on some KPIs. selected suppliers of manufacturer branded products. Around For example, we reached 97% responsibly sourced paper in 8% of the 5,400 suppliers have had an ethical assessment our catalogues and marketing materials for countries where at some stage in the past three years (345 have had on-site data is available, see page 19. assessments and a further 105 a desktop assessment). Further work is needed to map our GNFR supply chain and to identify further priority categories of procurement. In line Working with direct and indirect suppliers at B&Q UK with our new strategic direction we plan to take a more B&Q UK’s supplier engagement programme focuses on its unified approach to GNFR sourcing across our companies direct suppliers and their finished goods production sites and sustainability criteria will be integrated into this work. as well as priority areas further down the supply chain. Carbon and water footprint For its direct suppliers, B&Q has integrated ethical assessments into its overall supplier assurance process Target 2016/17: To define and Not On Track which includes working with Sedex, the online supply measure the carbon and water footprint to target chain ethical data exchange, to improve oversight of of our value chain and to set a carbon suppliers. It carried out 197 desktop and on-site audits reduction target. of its direct suppliers during 2014/15 with 85% of those suppliers sharing information on their sites and finished Outside our direct operations, the most significant carbon goods production facilities via Sedex. emissions associated with our business are customer use The risk of poor ethical and human rights practices can of electricity-consuming products and the sourcing and be higher for suppliers involved in the extraction and manufacture of product categories such as non-metallic processing of raw materials. These are indirect suppliers mineral products (for example cement and glass), tiles and to B&Q, but the company works with partners to improve building products. Read more in carbon footprint, page 25. standards and working conditions in key areas. For We are also taking steps to manage the water footprint associated example, natural stone is used in B&Q’s patio paving with our operations and products, see page 43, but have not yet and kitchen worktop ranges. B&Q is a member of the assessed the wider water footprint of our value chain. TFT Responsible Stone Programme, which works to improve ethical and environmental standards in quarries SRI indices and ratings and stone processing factories in developing countries through auditing and capacity building. During 2014 Target 2016/17: Kingfisher to maintain On Track B&Q was involved in projects to improve labour conditions its leadership position in key SRI indices to target for over 600 workers in two quarries and three major stone and corporate responsibility ratings. factories in India. We are included in a number of the leading responsible Addressing supplier concerns investment indices and rankings, including: A small number of suppliers raised concerns in the UK media during early 2015 about B&Q UK’s Investment for Growth • Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) – we are included programme, an initiative through which B&Q suppliers in the DJSI and were listed in the RobecoSAM Sustainability were asked to invest to help the business reduce prices for Yearbook 2015. customers, with the opportunity to benefit from subsequent • FTSE4Good Index – we are listed in the FTSE4Good Index. growth in sales as a result of the price reduction. Our suppliers are very important to us. We aim to be an ethical retailer and • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 2014 – we received a to treat suppliers fairly. We were disappointed to hear that a score of 95A-, a significant improvement on 83B last year. small number of suppliers were unhappy with Investment for This reflects both performance on climate change (Arating) Growth. The vast majority of suppliers have seen increases in and disclosure around our climate impacts (95%). We were sales as a result of the scheme. Suppliers with genuine grounds included in the FTSE 350 Carbon Disclosure Leadership for concern were invited to meet with B&Q senior managers to Index (CDLI) of the top 10% of companies in the CDP. discuss their concerns. We are also included in the CDP Forest Programme. We will continue to work on maintaining and improving our position in these and other relevant rankings. www.kingfisher.com 39 Suppliers & partners continued Ethical business conduct We monitor compliance through our internal audit programme and our annual self-certification process through which our Target 2020: Maintain the highest standards On Track companies must confirm compliance with our Code and group of ethical business conduct through ongoing to milestone policies and explain how they are addressing any gaps. Our implementation of, and compliance with, internal audit team reviews the results of our self-certification the Group Governance Manual and Code of Conduct. process, compares these with internal audit results for each company and follows up with our companies to help them Milestone: Operating Companies to demonstrate strengthen policies or procedures where needed. In 2014 robust reporting and compliance with the Group our internal audit programme also included a group-wide Governance Manual and Code of Conduct by 2016/17. review of compliance with the UK Bribery Act. All employees whose location or role poses a potential corruption Our Code of Conduct explains our ethical principles and risk must complete our anti-bribery and corruption training minimum standards. It is supported by our Group Governance module, which has been integrated into the induction process Manual, ‘The Way We Do Business’ which contains our for relevant employees. key policies and management procedures as identified by our Board of Directors. The Code and Manual help us Employees can report any concerns via our whistle-blowing to comply with regulation such as the UK’s Bribery Act and hotline or get advice via a dedicated email address. All reports to take a consistent approach across countries while giving are investigated and if an employee is found to have breached our companies flexibility to reflect their business model and our Code of Conduct appropriate disciplinary action is taken. local circumstances. The number of open and resolved cases and the outcomes are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Code forms part of the contractual terms and conditions 221 cases were opened during 2014/15. Operating Companies for all new employees and is included in our contracts with are required to raise employee awareness of the hotline and product suppliers, who are expected to communicate its email address. requirements to their own employees. We also integrated the Code into contracts with key GNFR suppliers during 2014. We also run an online reporting system for vendors which is communicated in variety of ways including via the Code of To implement the Code, our companies have established Conduct, regular reminder letters, during annual contract reporting and compliance procedures including: the appointment negotiations and on procurement portals used by vendors. of a senior compliance officer in each company; training for relevant employees; raising awareness of our whistle-blowing Download our Code of Conduct procedures; and integration of the Code of Conduct into www.kingfisher.com/netpositiveresources employee and supplier contracts. During 2014/15 our focus has been on working with our businesses to create a ‘compliance culture’ in which everyone feels able to report concerns and companies have the confidence to identify, acknowledge and address gaps in policies or performance. This included establishing a compliance network which enables our compliance officers to regularly exchange information and best practices and discuss queries or cases of concern. 40 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Environment Environment Our aspiration is for our business to be restorative to environments, eliminating our negative impacts and creating positive change. As a first step we are working towards reducing our footprint, minimising our use of resources and tackling waste. Our approach covers key environmental issues such as waste, water, transport, packaging, chemicals and biodiversity. Waste Waste recycled % of waste recycled Target 2020: Achieve zero waste On Track to landfill. to milestone 75 68 69 70 63 65 Milestone: 75% recycling by 2016/17. We aim to reduce the waste generated by our products and operations and to recycle resources wherever possible. This includes designing out waste from products through closed loop innovation (see page 28), our work on packaging optimisation (see page 44), and our focus on reducing waste in our operations. 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* 2016 Target Our main types of operational waste are wood, paper, cardboard, * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope metal, plastic and rubble (such as broken tiles, bricks, stone Waste recycled covers our stores, offices and other buildings from 2011/12. and soil). We generated 236,731 tonnes of waste in 2014/15, Data for previous years covers stores only. an increase of 2% year-on-year (2013/14: 231,806). Our recycling rate also increased to 70%, on track for our milestone of 75% by 2016/17. A number of companies have already Waste recycling and disposal 2014/15* reached our milestone including B&Q UK and Castorama Thousand tonnes Poland. Screwfix has achieved zero waste to landfill from Waste recycled 166 (70%) its stores and distribution centre (see page 14). Waste disposed Brico Dépôt Iberia’s recycling rate is below the group average to landfill 44 (19%) and it has implemented a Zero Cost Waste project to address Waste disposed to incineration with this. Data on recycling rates at each store is now reviewed energy recovery 23 (10%) monthly and bonuses for store managers are linked to progress Waste disposed on reducing waste and increasing recycling. This has improved to incineration without the recycling rate from 28% in 2012/13 to 45% in 2014/15, energy recovery 4 (1%) and has saved the business €400,000 to date. * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope Some of our waste contractors do not provide a breakdown of the waste disposed by destination (landfill or incineration). In these cases, we have assumed the waste goes to landfill. www.kingfisher.com 41 Environment continued Transport Carbon emissions direct haulage We aim to reduce CO2 emissions from transport. This includes Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent from transport of goods between our suppliers, distribution centres dedicated store and home delivery fleets and stores, and, increasingly, delivering orders to our customers’ homes. It also covers our own business travel, 56.6 56.9 employee commuting and customer travel to our stores. 54.1 52.4 52.9 48.7 43.3 Achieving our targets is challenging, given the growth in our business and in particular the increased number of customer home deliveries due to the rise in internet shopping. Our approach is to focus on improving efficiency in each journey and to integrate new lower carbon technologies where possible. 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15* 2016 2020 Direct haulage emissions – dedicated delivery Milestone Target fleets * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope Our companies are investing in lower carbon fuels to improve Target 2020: Achieve a 20% reduction Not On Track efficiency and reduce costs and emissions. This includes in CO2 emissions from our direct transport to milestone B&Q UK’s 50 dual fuel trucks which run on diesel and liquid impacts from a 2010/11 baseline. biomethane extracted from landfill sites that have helped B&Q Milestone: 10% by 2016/17. cut CO2 emissions from product transport by 33% since 2006 and the introduction of compressed biomethane gas lorries for deliveries to five Castorama France stores this year. In total, Direct haulage emissions are those from our dedicated lower carbon fuels now account for 11% of fuel use for store delivery fleets that are owned by our operating companies deliveries by dedicated fleets. or operated on their behalf by suppliers. These include: We are also introducing measures to improve truck fill rates, • Store deliveries: Three of our companies, B&Q UK, including double decker lorries and redesigned packaging Castorama France and Screwfix have dedicated fleets and pallets, and replacing road journeys with rail and train for store deliveries. freight to reduce emissions. • Home deliveries: Four of our companies, B&Q UK, Castorama Indirect haulage emissions – supplier France, Castorama Poland and Koçtaş, have dedicated fleets delivery fleets for home delivery. Other home deliveries are made by third party delivery companies and by post and we do not have data for these. Target 2020: Demonstrate a comprehensive On Track programme of action to reduce the overall to milestone Overall our direct haulage emissions increased by 5% against carbon footprint of our indirect transport impacts. our 2010/11 baseline. This increase is primarily due to the Milestone: To have made progress in measuring growth in home deliveries, with home delivery emissions and reducing the carbon footprint of our indirect doubling since 2010/11. transport impacts, eg in a key supply chain by 2016/17. We have reduced emissions from dedicated store delivery fleets by 10% since 2010/11, despite a 7% increase in Indirect transport includes third-party fleets and deliveries the volume of products delivered over the same period. made by our suppliers to our distribution centres, stores and Year-on-year emissions increased by only 2% despite customers. Eight of our companies use third-party fleets for an 8% increase in products delivered. This is due to a store deliveries – B&Q China, Brico Dépôt France, Brico combination of improvements in the fuel efficiency of our Dépôt Romania, Brico Dépôt Spain, Castorama France, fleet vehicles, the introduction of low carbon fuels such Castorama Poland, Castorama Russia and Koçtaş. as biomethane, and work to optimise transport routes and improve truck fill rates. The efficiency of dedicated store CO2e emissions from third-party haulage have increased by delivery fleets (litres of fuel used per m3 of product delivered 72% since 2010/11, due to improvements in our data collection to stores) has improved by 9% since 2010/11. and to business growth. There was a 1% increase in emissions this year due to a rise in emissions at Castorama Russia, which accounts for 29% of our emissions from indirect transport, and the inclusion of data from Brico Dépôt Romania for the first time. We work with haulage suppliers to encourage reductions in emissions. This includes specifying fuel-efficient vehicles, improving truck fill rates and switching to rail freight where possible. We also partner with external organisations to address transport related emissions. For example, Castorama France is a member of TK’Blue, a European organisation that works to improve the environmental performance of transport suppliers. TK’Blue is assessing the fuel and carbon efficiency of Castorama’s own 42 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 fleet and its transport suppliers, enabling the business to Water-using products compare the cost and footprint of different transport options. Castorama will be working with suppliers to introduce lower Target 2020: All water-using products Data Not carbon LNG vehicles. to meet ‘best practice’ standards on Available water efficiency. Green travel Milestone: 50% of water-using products Target 2020: Demonstrate proactive green On Track to meet ‘best practice’ standards on travel initiatives to minimise the environmental to milestone water efficiency by 2016/17. impact of travel by employees and customers. Milestone: Some key actions taken on green We can help our customers to use water more efficiently travel by 2016/17. through our kitchen and bathroom ranges, appliances and products such as water butts. We are developing guidance We aim to reduce CO2 emissions from business travel by air to help our companies adopt best practice in this area and and road and to encourage employees to adopt greener forms do not yet have data to report our performance. of transport for their daily commute. B&Q is one of the first retailers to use the Water Label, enabling We have a Group telepresence videoconferencing system to customers to choose more water-efficient products. All toilets help reduce unnecessary air travel between our key locations, and baths carry the label online and in catalogues and it is now and our companies have also introduced measures such being rolled out to taps. See www.diy.com/one-planet-home/ as Brico Dépôt France’s transport policy that requires all save-water-bathroom/. employees to travel by train rather than air for journeys under Appliances such as washing machines can also use a lot three hours. CO2e emissions from business air travel increased of water and be expensive to run. B&Q catalogues now by 1% since 2010/11. show how much an appliance will cost to run each year We aim to make it easier for employees and customers to based on its electricity and water use, giving customers choose lower carbon transport options when travelling to our the information they need to choose products that are stores. This includes providing shuttle bus services and electric better for the environment and their wallet. vehicle charging points as well as car-sharing websites and Chemicals subsidised tickets for public transport for employees. CO2e emissions from business road travel have increased by 1% since 2010/11, but fell by 9% on the previous year. Target 2020: None of our own-brand or Data Not exclusive brand products will contain the Available During 2014, B&Q UK completed an initial analysis of its chemicals of concern we have committed customer transport emissions, working with sustainability to remove (on Kingfisher’s Chemical Action List). experts Bioregional. This showed that its customer transport Milestone: Work is in progress to phase out, footprint is higher than the carbon emissions associated substitute or eliminate the chemicals of with B&Q’s own operations. concern from our own-brand or exclusive brand products by 2016/17. Water use in our operations Target 2016/17: To understand the water Not On Track We stock many chemical-based products such as paints, footprint of our own operations. to target treatments and cleaning products and chemicals are also used in the manufacturing process for many finished goods. There is increasing customer interest in the use of chemicals In our operations, we are not major water users but we recognise and a growing number of chemicals are being identified for the importance of water conservation, particularly in areas of phase out or potential phase out under legislation such as water stress. Our water use fell by 2% on 2010/11 levels. the EU’s REACH Directive. Many of our new stores incorporate water efficiency features. We aim to improve our understanding of the chemicals used For example, B&Q’s new eco store at Merthyr Tydfil will source in our products so we can provide customers with information, 50% of the water it uses from a rainwater harvesting system phase out or substitute any chemicals of concern and comply and is the eighth B&Q building to use rainwater harvesting. with changing legislation. With a large supplier base and B&Q has also installed water smart meters at 37 stores, 393,000 products sold in our top five companies alone, enabling it to monitor consumption and quickly identify leaks. this is very challenging. We have started development of a One of our major sources of water use is for the plants in company-wide Chemicals Policy to help us implement a B&Q garden centres. B&Q has introduced training for staff consistent approach. on efficient watering techniques. “B&Q is one of the first retailers to use the Water Label, enabling customers to choose more water-efficient products.” www.kingfisher.com 43 Environment continued Our first step in working towards our targets is to improve products more efficient to transport. The new designs will be transparency around the chemicals used in our products and rolled out in B&Q UK and Castorama France and Poland supply chain. Suppliers of own-brand products will be required initially, and are expected to save £600,000 for B&Q alone in to provide information on the chemicals used in the product the first two years. The improvements will be rolled out across or during manufacturing, known as a likely Bill of Substance. the rest of our lighting ranges and projects are also underway to Scientific understanding of the impact of chemicals on people improve the packaging of door furniture (such as door handles) and the environment is evolving as research develops and and leisure furniture. regulatory lists of chemicals of concern are continually Changes in our business can affect the amount of packaging changing. By having a clear picture of the chemicals we use and create new priorities for packaging optimisation. used in our products, even those not currently covered For example, online paint orders are an area of considerable by legislation, we will be better placed to respond if new business growth for B&Q. Previously paint orders were delivered chemicals of concern are identified. to customers’ homes using moulded foam packaging which Our next step will be to focus on sustainable substitution of was not recyclable. Working with suppliers, we are replacing chemicals where there are concerns around a substance’s foam with moulded pulp cardboard packaging starting with our potential impact on people or the environment. We will prioritise 2.5 litre round paint pots. This is 100% recyclable, reducing chemicals based on regulatory requirements and we will need waste to landfill and costs to the business. to work in partnership with suppliers and other stakeholders We will use what we have learned from these early projects to to identify the best alternatives to ensure that substituting gradually improve packaging across our ranges. We are also chemicals does not affect product performance. working with suppliers to make sure that timber and paper We have already begun working with suppliers and are rolling used in packaging are sourced responsibly, see page 19. out our requirement for suppliers to provide likely Bill of Substance for their products. This included an initial trial Sustainable construction project during 2014 involving 40 suppliers and more than We aim to improve the sustainability of our property estate 200 products. Training was provided to some of our suppliers and to work with landlords to improve the performance of in Shenzhen and Shanghai, China. We cannot yet allocate a our leased properties, which account for 61% of our floor score for our chemicals target and milestone as work is still space. Our sustainable property road map covers issues in progress to update the Kingfisher Chemical Action List. such as energy and carbon, construction waste, timber, climate change and biodiversity. Our current approach to chemicals builds on our previous work in areas such as reducing the use of volatile organic We promote best-practice sharing between our companies. compounds in paint and our global phase out of neonicotinoid For example, the Kingfisher Property Exchange is our online chemicals used in some pesticide products that are thought forum where those involved in property projects throughout the to contribute to bee decline. company can learn from examples of sustainable construction and building design, and attend webinars and training sessions. Packaging During 2014/15, 129 webinars were held. We also encourage employees to learn from new thinking and best practice Target 2020: Packaging on all own-brand Data Not examples outside the business, and property professionals and exclusive brand products to conform Available from around the business attended events such as the UK’s to Kingfisher packaging sustainability standards. Ecobuild conference during the year. Milestone: Packaging on new own-brand and exclusive brand products to conform to Kingfisher Reducing timber packaging at B&Q packaging sustainability standards by 2016/17. A major source of waste wood for B&Q is the clean and treated timber used in pallets and transit packaging for Packaging is essential to protect products while in transit and imported, heavy, oversized or bulky products. B&Q aims on display and for branding and marketing purposes but is to reduce, eliminate or reuse this timber, cutting waste also a significant source of waste and cost to the business. and reducing the amount of wood used, supporting our Our business is affected by regulations on packaging and work on responsible timber sourcing. packaging disposal. B&Q is working with suppliers to implement a number We are working with suppliers to redesign packaging for key of approaches to tackling the waste wood. For example, product lines to improve the visual impact of packaging while a project with our kitchen door supplier, Ilcam, will reducing the overall volume of materials used, enabling more eliminate 700 tonnes of treated timber currently used efficient product transport and improving recyclability. We in packaging each year by replacing it with corrugated introduced a company-wide packaging policy this year which cardboard, while a project with Metsa Wood, one sets minimum standards for our companies and helps them of B&Q’s largest timber suppliers, means that up to to work with suppliers to improve packaging design. We are 600 tonnes of timber bearers (used in place of pallets) working to strengthen our data collection systems so we can could now be reused each year. monitor compliance with our policy and establish a baseline B&Q is also partnering with the National Community Wood against which we can track progress towards our target. Recycling Project (NCWRP), a network of wood recycling We have launched packaging optimisation pilot projects social enterprises that aims to create sustainable jobs, for some products in our group brand ranges, working with as well as offering training and volunteering opportunities packaging specialists, designers and manufacturers. For for local people. NCWRP has collected 300 tonnes of example, packaging for 70 lighting products has been redesigned, waste wood from 34 B&Q stores so far which is sorted reducing the amount of materials used and making the at its community wood recycling shops and sold or used in the creation of new products. 44 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 We test out sustainable approaches to building design, Peat elimination construction and operation at ‘learning stores’ in each of our businesses. We now have 19 learning stores, see page 29. Target 2020: All ‘bagged’ growing media sold On Track Our property awards celebrate best practice in our businesses in the UK to be from sustainable sources, to milestone and include categories for Net Positive and Innovation. ahead of the government 2020 deadline. Sustainable construction – waste Milestone: 65% of ‘bagged’ growing media (by volume) sold in the UK to be from sustainable sources by 2016/17. Target 2020: 90% of construction Data Not waste recycled in new build and Available The use of peat in horticulture threatens important natural major refurbishments. habitats and contributes to climate change. B&Q is the largest Milestone: 50% by 2016/17. garden centre in Europe and among the biggest retailers of garden compost. It has been working to phase out peat from its bagged growing media for a number of years. We are improving our data collection in this area but are not yet able to report progress against our target. B&Q’s new formula Verve peat-free compost range, launched in 2014, was developed through a series of rigorous growing Our companies are working with their construction and waste trials. It was voted a Best Buy by Which, the consumer management suppliers to increase the volume of waste recycled magazine, out-performing many peat-based composts. from construction projects. For example, Brico Dépôt France See case study on page 10. and Castorama France have established a joint methodology for managing construction waste from new store builds and major In 2014/15, 64% of UK bagged growing media (by volume refurbishments. This was used for Castorama’s Héninsold) was peat-free (2013/14: 61%). B&Q sold 497 million litres Beaumont store refurbishment in 2014, see case study, and of peat alternative in 2014, enough to fill almost 200 Olympic Castorama France achieved an overall 91% recycling rate for sized swimming pools. construction waste. B&Q is also working with horticultural suppliers to minimise B&Q recycled over 90% of construction waste at its Merthyr peat from the plants sold in its stores. The introduction of Tydfil store by working closely with the landlord and waste easyGrow bedding plants which are 95% peat free was an management suppliers. important step in this process, see page 10. Sustainable construction – biodiversity Environmental prosecutions We take our environmental responsibilities seriously and aim Target 2020: Enhance biodiversity on new Not On Track to comply with, or exceed, regulatory requirements. If mistakes build projects, major refurbishments and to milestone do occur we aim to take prompt action to address them. There existing stores. was one ongoing environmental prosecution during the year concerning Castorama France’s distribution centre at St Martin Milestone: Biodiversity audits and action de Caux. The case, brought by an NGO, is contesting the plans to be completed for all new build projects authorisation granted by the local authority for the construction and major refurbishments by 2016/17. and use of the site on the grounds of environmental impact. We are cooperating fully with the authorities to resolve the case. Operating Companies are developing plans to protect and enhance biodiversity on new-build projects, major refurbishments Hénin-Beaumont – a more sustainable approach and existing stores. A number of biodiversity audits were to refurbishment carried out during the year, including audits of all three of Castorama France’s newly refurbished store at HéninCastorama France’s major refurbishment projects. These Beaumont includes a range of sustainable features assessed the potential impact of the projects on local plants, including LED lighting panels which reduce energy use animals and habitats and identified steps that could be taken for lighting by 52%, a charging point for electric vehicles, to enhance biodiversity. and a new approach to waste management which enabled Biodiversity and our products 90% of demolition and construction waste to be recycled. Through our garden product ranges we can help our customers The store also features a new energy efficiency advisory to encourage local biodiversity. For example, B&Q worked with service for customers, see page 9. campaign group Friends of the Earth and the UK’s Royal Horticultural Society to help people get involved in protecting bee health. In 2014/15, this included launching the Great British Bee Count App, part of a citizen science project which gathers data on bee populations to help inform the UK’s National Pollinator Strategy. Over 823,000 bees have been spotted by more than 20,000 people and 800 participating schools so far. Users of the app can also get discounts on Perfect for Pollinator plants at B&Q, and tips on how to create a bee-friendly garden. See www.greatbritishbeecount.co.uk/. Through our work in areas such as responsible timber sourcing (page 18), peat elimination (right) and chemicals (page 43), we aim to minimise negative impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity associated with our products. www.kingfisher.com 45 Governance & management Governance & management We are integrating sustainability into the way we run our business and engaging with our stakeholders internally and externally to learn from their expertise and improve how we work. We have made good progress on many of our Net Positive Network, made up of the Group Net Positive team and targets; however, we know we need to significantly increase representatives from each operating company, meets twice our rate of progress and to address gaps in our performance. a year in person and through monthly webinars. It is a forum We will be reviewing our approach during 2015/16 to identify for reviewing progress and sharing ideas and best practices. how best to do this. A number of function-specific networks are also in place, such as the Kingfisher Property Sustainability Network. We also Roles and responsibilities launched the Kingfisher Exchange in 2014, an online forum Our Group Sustainability Director has overall responsibility where our companies can share information on Net Positive, for delivery of our Net Positive targets. He sits on the Executive ask advice, get inspired and network with colleagues. Committee and reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer. Monthly Net Positive progress reports are submitted to the We are updating our policies to integrate sustainability criteria Kingfisher Board of Directors. and published company-wide policies on timber and packaging during 2014, which were approved by the Group Sustainability We established our Group Sustainability Committee in 2014 Committee. to provide direction on the development and integration of sustainability. The Committee, which met twice during the Stakeholder engagement year, is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and its members We engage with our stakeholders to learn from their expertise include senior leaders from our companies. It is responsible and insights and to bring new ideas into our business that help for agreeing the direction of our sustainability approach and us achieve our goals. It is also important that we are open about for monitoring progress against our Net Positive targets. how we work and communicate regularly with stakeholders on It also facilitates sharing of best practices across the Group our approach and progress. and supports the development of capacity and capability At a Group level we consider our key stakeholders to be at all levels throughout the business to deliver Net Positive. employees, investors, suppliers and government as well as Each of our companies is developing an implementation plan NGOs, the media and other third-sector organisations. Most for how they will deliver on our Net Positive targets in a locally stakeholder engagement takes place as part of everyday relevant way. Each plan is based on our commercial model business practice, but we also have more formal mechanisms for delivering Net Positive, see page 6. Operating companies for dialogue. Information on our approach to engaging our provide a regular performance update against their plan to employees is included on page 36 and our suppliers page 38. the Group Sustainability Committee. Customers Operating companies report progress against our targets to Most engagement with our customers is managed within the Group once a year via our Foundations questionnaire. our companies; however, we also undertake larger research The results are reviewed by our operating company CEOs and projects to help us understand changing customer priorities. senior directors at Group level. We publish an annual internal For example, we published our second European Homes progress report which enables our senior leadership to track Report in 2014, a survey of 17,000 householders’ attitudes and compare performance across our companies. This is to home improvement in nine European countries. This reviewed at a meeting of our One Team Board and by the showed that changing lifestyles and demographics such as high Group Sustainability Committee and shared with all operating property prices, working from home and children living at home companies to encourage best practice sharing. for longer are putting our living spaces under more pressure. Our central Net Positive team works closely with our businesses, The research also revealed a number of insights related to our including monthly meetings with representatives from our sustainability work. For example, high energy prices are the largest operating companies. The Kingfisher Net Positive number one worry about the home for 65% of those surveyed. 46 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 This is more than double the number worried about keeping Following the appointment of our new CEO and the up with the mortgage/rent. You can read the report at development of our new strategic direction we are evaluating www.kingfisher.com/europeanhomereport. our approach to external engagement, including the role of our Advisory Council. We expect to update our approach in the year Investors ahead to more fully integrate stakeholder engagement. We communicate our approach to Net Positive to our investors and participate in many responsible investment benchmarks Audit and risk and indices. We hold a roadshow each year to update both Net Positive is an important and high-profile priority for the SRI (socially responsible investors) and mainstream investors business. We have robust governance processes in place to on our progress. The roadshow in 2014 included meetings ensure the completeness, accuracy and reliability of our Net with 13 investor organisations in the UK and France. To raise Positive performance data. These include the use of in-house awareness among the mainstream investment community, we and third-party experts to review data and qualitative statements include information on Net Positive in all investor presentations. included in our Annual Report and Net Positive reporting. For example, sustainability experts Bioregional coordinate our head We are included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the office data review process for Net Positive and review our data RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook. We are listed in the and monitor our progress on eco product innovation. Our timber FTSE4Good Index. We participated in the Carbon Disclosure data is reviewed by Efeca, who are also the lead consultants to Project and received a score of 95A-, a significant improvement the UK government’s timber procurement policy. on 83B last year. This reflects both performance on climate change (Arating) and disclosure around our climate impacts The CEO of each operating company is responsible for ensuring (95%). We were included in the FTSE 350 Carbon Disclosure that appropriate processes and controls are in place to monitor Leadership Index (CDLI) of the top 10% of companies in the and report progress against our Net Positive targets. They are CDP. We also participated in the Forest Footprint Disclosure required to complete an annual self-certification process to project of which we are a founding partner. confirm that Net Positive performance data submitted to the Group is materially accurate and has been subject to an Advisory Council appropriate level of review prior to submission. The Net Positive Advisory Council is composed of senior external experts in different aspects of sustainability who Group Internal Audit performed testing over a selection of provide advice, insight and challenge to help us progress performance data at each of our operating companies. We towards Net Positive. The Council convenes twice a year to appointed KPMG LLP to provide a limited assurance opinion review our progress and to meet with our senior management. on selected aspects of this report. Their work included: testing You can read a perspective from Sally Uren, chair of the the Group-level data collation processes; assessing the work Advisory Council on page 15. performed by a number of our in-house and external experts; assessing the work performed by Group Internal Audit at each Key themes discussed by the Advisory Council during 2014 of our operating companies; and reviewing the narrative content included: the importance of and challenges associated with of this report. Further details are set out in their full assurance engaging consumers on Net Positive; the role of Kingfisher statement on page 52. companies in local communities including how our business can engage in the sharing economy; the need to strengthen Identification and management of risks relating to Net Positive, our approach to supply chain management and to develop our at an operating company and Group level are incorporated in strategy on energy and carbon; and the importance of further our strategic risk assessment processes. This means key risks integrating Net Positive into our businesses and reporting. to achieving our Net Positive targets are considered at least twice a year. In addition we conduct topic-specific internal The Advisory Council members are: audits or risk reviews where required. For example, this year • Craig Bennett, CEO, Friends of the Earth Group Internal Audit performed a limited desktop review of ethical supply chain management following on from a • Clare Chapman, People Director, BT and Non-Executive governance review in this area during 2013. Read more on Director of Kingfisher our approach to risk management in our Annual Report and • Vivienne Cox, Executive Vice President of Alternative Energy Accounts: www.kingfisher.com/AR14-15. BP, and non-executive Director of Rio Tinto plc, BG Group Materiality plc, Pearson plc and Vallourec SA A wide range of social, environmental and economic issues • Eric Fouquier, Associate Director and Founder, Thema are relevant to our business and to stakeholders. We prioritise our most material issues through extensive consultation within • Victoria Hornby, Director of Grants and Evaluation, The Royal and outside our business. We look at which issues are of most Foundation of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge concern to our stakeholders and assess their potential impact and Prince Harry on our business including commercial, operational and • Elisabeth Laville, Founder and Director, Utopies reputational risks and opportunities. This is a continual process that includes: • Peder Michael Pruzan-Jorgensen, Vice President Europe, Middle East and Africa, Business for Social Responsibility 1. Internal review: stakeholder mapping to identify priority (BSR) stakeholders for engagement, and collating and reviewing feedback and information from internal and external sources. • Rt Hon Caroline Spelman, MP 2. External review: engaging directly with stakeholders through • Jamie Taylor, B&Q Youth Board member and undergraduate channels such as face-to-face meetings, investor roadshows, • Dr Sally Uren, Chief Executive, Forum for the Future (Chair) and membership of organisations including Forum for the Future, BSR and the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. From this we identify a shortlist of issues considered most material to our stakeholders. www.kingfisher.com 47 Governance & management continued 3. Prioritisation: working with key internal and external We keep our materiality assessment under review and welcome stakeholders to identify priority issues for action, including feedback to netpositiveconversation@kingfisher.com. through: workshops and specialist forums such as our Net Positive Advisory Council and internally through our Net Human rights Positive Network meetings and review processes. We take steps to protect the human rights of people affected by our business, in line with the UN Universal Declaration on This process was used to develop our Net Positive aspirations Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and and targets and to identify which issues should be included in Human Rights. This commitment applies to all our interactions our reporting. with our stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and communities. Our material issues Our Net Positive strategy and reporting is structured around We are signatories to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), and are seven themes: timber; energy; innovation; communities; committed to its 10 principles including those relating to human employees; suppliers; and environment. Each theme relates rights. See page 54 for our UNGC Index. to a number of material issues, as demonstrated in the table Read more about our approach to human rights issues in our below. Our Net Positive targets are designed to help us take supply chain on page 38 and in relation to our employees on action on our most material issues. page 33 (Diversity and inclusion). Material sustainability Net Positive key themes issues and impacts Public policy Timber Deforestation Sustainability issues are complex and often global in scale. To achieve our Net Positive aspirations we need to change Climate change how we work, but our success will also depend on changes in Biodiversity policy and practice beyond just our own business. Governments Energy Climate change and regulators can play an important role including by setting minimum standards, incentivising sustainable business Home energy efficiency practices and creating a level playing field that supports Fuel poverty investment in sustainable business and innovation. Innovation Sustainable lifestyles We engage with national and regional governments and international institutions, such as the European Union, Natural resource use governments and regulators to encourage policy that supports Waste sustainable business practices and helps to catalyse positive change. Examples of our public affairs advocacy work on issues Circular economy relating to our Net Positive priorities are included throughout Communities Community cohesion this report. See timber (page 21), energy (page 26), innovation Decline in practical skills (page 29) and communities (page 32). Sharing economy We also engage in the political process in our markets and at EU level to inform the development of policy that has a material Community relations impact on our business. It is important that all our public Employment Equality and diversity policy work reflects our commitment to building a sustainable business and our Group Government Affairs function sits within Training and development our Net Positive team to ensure an integrated approach. Health and safety Examples of public policy activity from 2014/15 include: Human rights • Interchange fees: These fees, levied by banks for customer Supply chain Human rights transactions made by credit or debit card, have a material impact on our business and that of all retailers – large and Labour standards small. Working together with our EU-based operating Environment Climate change companies, we have advocated the case for reform and Natural resource use the European Council, Commission and Parliament have now agreed proposals to set a limit on these fees which will Waste be law across Europe by the end of 2015. Biodiversity • Business rates reform in the UK: We believe tax levied on property in the UK has a disproportionate impact on retailers Water and no longer reflects the way people shop. Working with Governance and Business ethics other retailers through the British Retail Consortium, we management Tax advocated for fundamental reform of the rates system and a continued cap on the annual percentage increase. All Lobbying political parties have now committed to a review of the Pensions business rates system. Human rights 48 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 “Reflecting our commitment to The KPS Trustees are also exploring opportunities to invest in specific funds that support progress on issues relevant to Net Net Positive, the Kingfisher Positive, such as renewable energy and social housing projects. Existing investments include a £20 million stake in the Global Pension Scheme integrates Farmland Fund which invests in farmland operated according to sustainable farming methods. responsible investment KPS aims to make its pension provision inclusive so that it principles into its work.” meets the needs of all employees. For example, the Money Purchase scheme offers a Shariah fund which invests in shares of companies around the world whose practices are consistent Our approach to government relations involves working through with Shariah principles. trade associations and industry groups to increase the impact Communication on responsible investment of our policy messages. Our memberships include: the British To improve understanding and awareness among Trustee Retail Consortium (BRC), the European DIY-Retail Association Directors, information on ESG risks and opportunities is (EDRA), the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), the French included in the quarterly training days held for Trustees. Regular Association of Private Businesses (AFEP), the French communication between the KPS Trustee Directors and senior Federation of DIY Retailers (FMB) and the Green Building Kingfisher executives and the Kingfisher Net Positive team help Council (GBC). We are involved in many similar organisations at to improve integration of ESG factors. the national level in our operating markets. In line with EU and UK corporate governance best practice, it is Group policy not to The KPS keeps investment managers updated on its investment make donations directly to political parties or politicians. This is approach and raises awareness of Kingfisher’s commitment to clearly set out in the Kingfisher Code of Conduct. responsible business. KPS supported development of ‘The Guide to Responsible Investment Reporting in Public Equity’ Pensions in 2014 and has shared the guidelines with its investment The Kingfisher Pension Scheme (KPS) manages the pensions managers. The Guide, developed by 16 UK pension funds, has of past and present employees. Reflecting our commitment been developed to help improve the integration of responsible to Net Positive, the KPS integrates responsible investment investment considerations into investment management principles into its work and communicates with stakeholders decision-making. on its approach to environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. Employee engagement The KPS uses a number of innovative approaches to engage Principles Kingfisher employees and encourage them to plan and save Investment decisions at KPS are governed by the scheme’s for their retirement. This includes educational DVDs for store Statement of Investment Principles (SIP). This sets out KPS’s managers to use during team meetings and a mobile app commitment to act as a responsible investor and states the game designed to engage younger employees. The app was Trustee Board’s belief that all companies should be run in downloaded 519 times and 78% of players said it encouraged a socially responsible way. them to think about saving for their future. This approach Investment managers acting on behalf of the KPS are required helped reduce opt-out rates from 6.2% to 4.89% by the end to take account of social, environmental and ethical of December 2014. considerations where these may have a financial impact on External recognition investment performance. They are encouraged to engage with • Engaged Investor Trustee Awards 2014, Best Defined investee companies on these issues, including exercising voting Contribution Initiative and Best Trustee Training awards rights where appropriate. • Professional Pensions – Pension Scheme of the Year Awards Investment managers must disclose their investment approach 2014, Pension Scheme Trustee and Defined Benefit Scheme to KPS and state whether this integrates ESG factors. All awards investment managers acting for KPS are asked to disclose whether they are signatories to the UN Principles for • European Pensions Awards 2014, Communication Award Responsible Investment and the UK Stewardship Code. • Investment & Pensions Europe Awards 2014, Best Long-term Ethical funds Investment Strategy – Gold Award As well as integrating responsible investment principles across • Very Important Benefits Awards, Best DC Pension Plan. its investments, the KPS also offers participants in its Money Purchase scheme the opportunity to select an Ethical Fund for their pension. This fund aims to provide long-term growth by investing in the shares of companies that meet a set of ethical criteria. A similar fund is offered to participants in the final salary scheme, in respect of members’ additional voluntary contribution investments. www.kingfisher.com 49 About our reporting About our reporting Our Net Positive Report explains our progress towards our 50 Net Positive targets and longer-term aspirations. It summarises performance at a Group level covering the financial year February 2014–31 January 2015. In addition to this report we also communicate our progress via: Our data is still incomplete in some areas and we are working to address this so we can report progress against • Our Net Positive Review, which summarises our progress all 50 targets in future years. We are also working with our against a selection of our key performance indicators partners to explore how we can track and report progress during 2014/15. against our longer-term aspirations. • Our more integrated Annual Report for investors which Sustainability experts Bioregional coordinate our head office data explains the financial, economic, social and environmental review process for Net Positive. Bioregional helped to develop value our business creates over both the short and long term, our eco product guidelines which are reviewed and updated on see www.kingfisher.com/AR14-15. an annual basis. They also monitor our progress on eco product • Regular updates on our website www.kingfisher.com/netpositive. innovation and calculate our figure for customer energy savings. Data and targets External assurance This report contains our key performance data showing Our report is subject to external assurance. KPMG LLP progress against our targets. More detailed data is available has provided limited assurance over selected aspects of in our Net Positive Report Appendix – Detailed Performance the Net Positive report for the year ended 31 January 2015, Data. Detailed information on the scope of the data and the see page 52. methodologies used to calculate our data are explained in Reporting standards our Net Positive Data Collection Methodology document. This report contains standard disclosures from the Global See www.kingfisher.com/netpositivereport. Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We publish a Group score for each of our targets, where data is To aid comparison with other businesses we provide a GRI available. This is a weighted average of the individual operating Index on our website: www.kingfisher.com/netpositivereport. company scores for each target. The weighting is based on the sales contribution of each operating company. We also indicate United Nations Global Compact Index where we are on track to our milestones for the end of financial We joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) year 2016/17. in early 2014, and are committed to its 10 principles covering the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our UNGC Index on page 54 shows where information on our performance relevant to the 10 principles is included in our Report. 50 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Operating company performance summary We measure the progress of each of our companies against our 50 targets annually and we publish the average scores for each operating company. We have multiple targets for each issue and the scores included here are average scores, calculated from the individual scores for each relevant target. The details of how we score progress on each target is explained in our Foundations Questionnaire Scoring Guide (www.kingfisher.com/netpositiveresources). The up and down arrows indicate where scores have changed since 2013/14. The results show that performance is strongest in our largest and longest established companies – those in the UK and France. This is the first year we are reporting data for Brico Dépôt Romania and we do not yet have data for this operating company across all our Net Positive themes. Overview of results January 2015 B&Q China B&Q UK Brico Dépôt Brico Dépôt Brico Dépôt Castorama Castorama Castorama Koçtaş Screwfix Issue France Iberia Romania France Poland Russia Turkey Timber Energy N/A Innovation N/A Communities Employees Suppliers N/A and partners Environment 0-25% 26-50% 51-75% 76-99% 100% target achieved www.kingfisher.com 51 Assurance Report Independent Limited Assurance Report to Directors’ responsibilities Kingfisher plc The Directors of Kingfisher are responsible for: KPMG LLP (‘KPMG’ or ‘we’) were engaged by Kingfisher plc • designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls (‘Kingfisher’) to provide limited assurance over the Selected relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Selected Information described below for the year ended 31 January 2015. Information that is free from material misstatement, whether Our conclusion due to fraud or error; Based on the work we have performed and the evidence we • selecting and/or developing objective Reporting Criteria; have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information has not been • measuring and reporting the Selected Information in properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance accordance with the Reporting Criteria; and with the Reporting Criteria. • the contents and statements contained within the Report This conclusion is to be read in the context of the remainder and the Reporting Criteria. of this report, in particular the inherent limitations explained Our responsibilities below and this report’s intended use. Our responsibility is to plan and perform our work to obtain Selected Information limited assurance about whether the Selected Information The scope of our work includes only: has been prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria and to report to Kingfisher in the form of an independent • the Selected Net Positive performance data for the year limited assurance conclusion based on the work performed ended 31 January 2015 marked with the symbol *; and and the evidence obtained. • the assertion by Kingfisher about the process followed to Assurance standards applied gather and report progress against selected Net Positive We performed our work in accordance with International Foundations Targets for the year ended 31 January 2015 Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 – ‘Assurance marked with the symbol ∆ Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical included within Kingfisher’s Net Positive Report for the year Financial Information’ (‘ISAE3000’) and, in respect of the ended 31 January 2015 (‘the Report’) (together, the ‘Selected greenhouse gas emissions information included within the Information’). Selected Information, in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 – ‘Assurance Engagements We have not performed any work, and do not express any on Greenhouse Gas Statements’ (‘ISAE3410’), issued by the conclusion, over any other information that may be included International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. in the Report or displayed on Kingfisher’s website for the current year or for previous periods unless otherwise indicated. The work performed in a limited assurance engagement varies in nature and timing from, and is less in extent than for, a reasonable Reporting Criteria assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance The Reporting Criteria we used to form our judgements obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially in relation to the Selected Information marked with the lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had symbol * and with the symbol ∆ are included within a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Kingfisher’s Data Collection Methodology Document 2015 as set out at www.kingfisher.com/netpositiveresources. Independence, professional standards and quality control The Selected Information needs to be read together with We comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants the Reporting Criteria. issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants and we apply International Standard on Quality Inherent limitations Control (UK and Ireland) 1 – ‘Quality Control for Firms that The nature of non-financial information; the absence of a Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, significant body of established practice on which to draw; and and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements’. the methods and precision used to determine non-financial Accordingly, we maintain a comprehensive system of quality information, allow for different, but acceptable evaluation and control including documented policies and procedures measurement techniques and can result in materially different regarding compliance with ethical requirements and measurements, affecting comparability between entities and professional standards (including independence, and other over time. requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour) as well as applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 52 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Summary of work performed This report’s intended use Considering the level of assurance and our assessment of This assurance report is made solely to Kingfisher in accordance the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Information, with the terms of the engagement contract between us. Those whether due to fraud or error, our work included, but was not terms permit disclosure to other parties, solely for the purpose restricted to: of Kingfisher showing that it has obtained an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. • assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the Selected Information; We have not considered the interest of any other party in the Selected Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we • interviewing specialists in Kingfisher Head Office and accept no responsibility and deny any liability to any party other Operating Company (‘OpCo’) teams to obtain an than Kingfisher for our work, for this assurance report or for the understanding of the Net Positive management procedures, conclusions we have reached. performance data collection, aggregation and internal and external reporting processes and controls; • planning and agreeing with Kingfisher Management the scope of work and extent of testing that Kingfisher’s Internal Paul Holland Audit function would perform at each OpCo which included: for and on behalf of KPMG LLP • Timber (B&Q UK, Castorama Poland) Chartered Accountants • Energy (B&Q China, B&Q UK, Brico Dépôt France, Brico London 9 June 2015 Dépôt Spain, Brico Dépôt Romania, Castorama France, Castorama Poland, Castorama Russia, Koçtaş Turkey, Screwfix) • Innovation (B&Q UK, Brico Dépôt Spain) • Communities (B&Q UK, Brico Dépôt France) • Suppliers and Partners (Castorama France, Screwfix, KSO Hong Kong) • Environment (Castorama France, Screwfix) • Employees (Castorama France, Poland) • evaluating the work performed by Kingfisher’s Internal Audit function and re-performing a selection of their work; • considering a selection of the documentation and findings relating to the review process performed by Kingfisher’s Internal Audit function on the OpCos’ self-assessment against their progress on Net Positive Foundations Targets; • considering the data collation and validation processes at the Kingfisher Head Office level, including: • understanding the functionality of Kingfisher’s online CR reporting system • re-performing a selection of the calculations and conversion factors used by Kingfisher to prepare the Selected Information; • reading the query logs completed by the Kingfisher Head Office team and submitted to OpCos • reading the Report and narrative accompanying the Selected Information in the Report with regard to the Reporting Criteria, and for consistency with our findings. www.kingfisher.com 53 United Nations Global Compact Index We joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2014, and are committed to its 10 principles covering the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Report forms our first Communication on Progress against the Global Compact Principles, covering our financial year 2014/15. This table summarises our approach and shows where information on our targets and progress for each principle can be found in the report: Summary of approach Location in our reporting Human rights Principle One We take steps to protect the human rights of people affected by our Human rights, page 48 Businesses should business, in line with the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights Suppliers and partners, support and respect and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. page 38 the protection of We have clear policies on human rights for employees and suppliers. internationally Ethical business These include: proclaimed human conduct, page 40 rights; and • Our Code of Conduct, see page 40 Principle Two • Our Code of Conduct for Factory Working Conditions, see page 38 make sure they are not complicit in human Employees can report concerns via our independently managed hotline, rights abuses. see page 40. The number of open and resolved cases and the outcomes are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We also run an online reporting system for vendors. We have an ethical assessment and audit programme for supplier factories which covers human rights. We set targets and report our progress annually, see page 38. Labour Principle Three We respect the rights of our employees and suppliers in areas such as Suppliers and partners, Businesses should freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, no child labour page 38 uphold the freedom or forced or compulsory labour. We work to eliminate discrimination and to Human rights, page 48 of association and the promote inclusion and diversity in our workforce and take steps to protect effective recognition the health and safety of employees, customers and contractors. We set Inclusion and diversity, of the right to collective targets and report our progress annually. page 33 bargaining; Our Code of Conduct for Factory Working Conditions incorporates Health and safety, Principle Four the requirements of international frameworks such as those from page 35 the elimination of all the International Labour Organization and the OECD Guidelines forms of forced and for Multinational Enterprises. See page 38. compulsory labour; Employees can report concerns via our independently managed hotline. Principle Five The outcomes of cases are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board the effective abolition of Directors. We run an online reporting system for vendors. of child labour; and Our ethical assessment and audit programme for supplier factories covers Principle Six labour practices, page 38. eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 54 Kingfisher Net Positive Report 2014/15 Summary of approach Location in our reporting Environment Principle Seven We aim to be restorative to the environment, going beyond zero impacts Timber, page 18 Business should to create positive change. We focus on our own operations and on our Energy, page 22 support a precautionary products and services, helping customers to live more sustainably. approach to Our approach is summarised in our Sustainability Policy. Innovation, page 27 environmental We have assessed our footprint and identified the issues of timber, Environment, page 41 challenges; energy and sustainable innovation as most significant for our business. Principle Eight We are working towards the aspirations of: creating more forests than we Net Positive – part undertake initiatives use; helping our customers have homes that are zero carbon or generate of our day, page 36 to promote greater more energy than they use; and enabling more sustainable lifestyles environmental through our products and services. responsibility; and We are also reducing our impacts in areas such as waste, transport, Principle Nine packaging, water, chemicals and biodiversity. We have set ambitious targets encourage the and report progress annually. We support a precautionary approach as development illustrated by examples such as our decision to remove pesticide products and diffusion of containing neonicotinoid chemicals that are thought to contribute to bee environmentally decline, across our global operations (see Chemicals page 43). friendly technologies. We are reviewing our product ranges to improve their environmental performance and training our employees to encourage greater environmental responsibility. Anti-corruption Principle 10 We will not tolerate bribery or corruption in any form. Our Code of Conduct Ethical business conduct, Businesses should explains our approach and helps us to comply with regulation such as the page 40 work against corruption UK’s Bribery Act. in all its forms, including To implement the Code, our companies have established reporting and extortion and bribery. compliance procedures including the appointment of a senior compliance officer in each company, training for relevant employees, raising awareness of our whistle-blowing procedures for employees and suppliers and integration of the Code of Conduct into employee and supplier contracts. All employees whose location or role poses a potential corruption risk must complete our anti-bribery and corruption training module. We have a target on ethical conduct and we monitor compliance with our standards through our internal audit programme and annual self-certification process. In 2014 our internal audit programme included a Group-wide review of compliance with the UK Bribery Act. “I am pleased to reaffirm Kingfisher’s support for the United Nations Global Compact and its principles on human rights, labour practices, the environment and anti-corruption. We will continue to strengthen our approach in each of these important areas over the year ahead and to share our progress with our stakeholders.” Véronique Laury Chief Executive Officer www.kingfisher.com 55 Kingfisher plc, 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX Telephone: +44 (0)20 7372 8008 www.kingfisher.com About our reporting This Report summarises our progress against our Net Positive targets during 2014/15. We also publish more detailed performance data in our Data Appendix available at www.kingfisher.com/netpositivereport. Our more integrated Annual Report for investors explains the financial, economic, social and environmental value our business creates over both the short and long term, see www.kingfisher.com/AR14-15. Find out more about Kingfisher and sustainability: Annual Report and Accounts – www.kingfisher.com/AR14-15 B&Q UK One Planet Home – www.diy.com/eco Castorama France Corporate Responsibility – www.castorama.fr/store/pages/rse-home.html Get in touch We’d love to know what you think about Net Positive and sustainability at Kingfisher. Get in touch at netpositiveconversation@kingfisher.com Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper. Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001. This document is printed on Symbol Freelife Satin, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC® certified forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process. Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.blacksunplc.com Advice and writing: BDH Sustainability Ltd www.bdhsustain.com Editorial oversight, Kingfisher: Becky Coffin and Alex Duff
