COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2015 2 Communication on Progress Nefab SUPPORT STATEMENT CEO , DAVID MÖRK In October 2008, Nefab signed the United Nations Global Compact. The Global Compact is a global strategic business initiative on corporate responsibility initiated by the former UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan in 1999. The UN Global Compact works with business to transform our world, aiming to create a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to all people, communities and markets. Reflected in our core values and underlined in our code of conduct, we continuously strive to integrate the principles of Global Compact into our business. We realize that continuous work is needed in order to promote and further integrate the ten principles of Global Compact within and outside Nefab, and that this work has no end. Nefab wants to secure a place in a sustainable future society. To achieve this, we work within our supply chain, our own operations as well as with our value proposition to achieve sustainable development and manage our stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. We focus on the key aspects of the company’s social and environmental impact, based on stakeholder dialogue and the strategic importance of each area for the company. There are many opportunities to join forces with engaged stakeholders. Customers are often interested to partner with us in order to create win-win situations. A common example of that is when we support customer objectives of CO2-reductions by analyzing current and proposing new packaging solutions which reduce not only cost, but also environmental impact. In our yearly staff survey, we can see that an increasing majority of our employees believe that it is important to work for a company who takes sustainability seriously and that most of them think Nefab is working with sustainability in a good way. We believe that our continuous commitment to the Global Compact Initiative will be beneficial for Nefab and its stakeholders and at the same time help to improve the conditions in general for the global community. Consequently, I am pleased to confirm Nefab’s continuous support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this Communication on Progress (COP), we express our aim to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Jönköping, September 2015 David Mörk CEO, Nefab AB Communication on Progress Nefab 3 SUSTAINABILITY NEFAB OFFERS COMPLETE PACKAGING SOLUTIONS THAT REDUCE COST AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT. DOING THIS, NEFAB INTEGRATES SUSTAINABILITY IN THE VALUE PROPOSITION TO THE MARKET. WORKING WITH SUSTAINABILITY MEANS THAT WE CARE FOR THE WELFARE OF OUR EMPLOYEES AS WELL AS OTHER STAKEHOLDERS AND TRY TO BALANCE ECONOMIC WITH SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS. A STRUCTURED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY LEADS TO A FAVOURABLE BUSINESS CLIMATE THAT ATTRACTS SKILLS AND STRENGTHENS THE BRAND. IT ALSO FACILITATES BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT BY ATTRACTING CUSTOMERS HAVING THE SAME MIND-SET. THE SUSTAINABILITY WORK IS GOVERNED BY NEFAB’S VISION, CORE VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT AS WELL AS OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES, TOGETHER WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS. NEFAB’S CORE VALUES Internal processes The corporate culture is based on our shared core values: Nefab continuously work with certification according to ISO “Simplicity”, “Respect” and “Empowerment”. Our continu14001 and during 2014, we obtained new certifications for ous work to communicate the core values to all employees our site in Newark (California) and for Mexico. A couple of continued during 2014 and in the yearly employee survey, re-certifications were also successfully obtained. 93 % answered that they could stand by our core values In our recurring internal trainings for engineers and sales either “OK” or “Good”. people, we continued to strengthen their competence in terms of using our tool “GreenCALC”, which generates VISION AND STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY complete life cycle analyses. To make environmental considThe overall goal is to position Nefab as a leading “green” erations in the early design phases of a packaging solution is company within industrial packaging. Nefab uses the term important in order to optimize the business process. “green” to communicate its sustainability work from a broad perspective. For this to be achievable, three basic strategies Customer offering have been developed: With the use of GreenCALC we have been able to offer substantial reductions of GWP (Global Warming Potential) to our • Nefab will ensure sustainability throughout the supply customers. Introducing new materials that are environmentally chain. friendly is an area where we continue to work. We still find it • Sustainability shall be more clearly instilled into Nefab’s quite challenging to implement them on a larger scale and own operations and internal processes. here the question of secure supply is a major concern for our • Sustainability will be an integrated part of Nefab’s customers. customer offering. Organization During 2014, sustainability work has been focused on realizing Nefab’s sustainability work is directed by its “Green Team”, action plans in the three areas mentioned above and some a network with representatives from various parts of the further progress can be reported. Preperations for a renewal global organization, with responsibility to initiate new of the strategy were also initiated. concepts and tools and to govern implementation of the sustainability strategies. Supply chain In our process for supplier evaluations, we made about 80 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE evaluations during 2014 with an approval rate of 79 %. One Stakeholders to Nefab’s business are employees, customers, area of evaluation concerns how the supplier works with suppliers, owners, environment and society (e.g. authorities environment. The supplier also have to accept to comply and various interest groups). The company engages in a relwith Nefab’s Code of Conduct. evant dialogues with the stakeholders on multiple levels. 4 Communication on Progress Nefab Employees and customers ENVIRONMENT Every year, employees and customers are given the opNefab’s greatest contribution to the environment is directly portunity to express their views and wishes in comprehenlinked to the business offering, in which the customer is sive surveys. In the 2014 customer survey we did not ask presented not only with the most cost efficient packaging our customers specifically about sustainability as it should solution, but also its environmental impact. With the use be well integrated in our way of doing business. We might of GreenCALC, customers are offered life cycle analysis, return to these specific questions in the years to come. The showing how a (new) packaging solution can impact CO2 employee survey addresses issues relating to health, leaderemissions, comparing different solutions. ship, job satisfaction, working conditions and sustainability. Response rates for 2014 were recorded at 31 % for the cusDesigning the packaging properly leads to more efficient tomer survey and 82 % for the staff survey. loads in trucks and containers, which means that customers carry less air and can reduce C02 emissions. As far as posSuppliers sible, all packaging solutions from Nefab are also designed The dialogue with suppliers is on-going in daily contacts as with consideration to recycling. The customer offering well as in the work of supplier evaluations. Questions about includes a range of smart returnable packaging and rental code of conduct, including human rights, working condisystems that increase utilization and reduce the consumptions, quality, delivery precision and environment are asked, tion of materials and energy. following a standard process established in our global procurement guidelines. Environmental policy Nefab’s environmental policy is based on the principle that Owners with our complete packaging solutions, we can avoid wastIn board meetings and through direct questions, owners ing resources both in the packaging itself and in terms of question the business model and how it can be sustainable damages. The goal is that the packaging products should in its value creation. Various initiatives and priorities are dishave low environmental impact throughout their life cycles. cussed and the organization is always prepared to answer The minimum requirement in our own production is to specific questions. comply with current laws and regulations and the aim is to surpass them. As per end of 2014, sixteen of Nefab’s faciliEconomic value creation ties are certified in accordance with ISO 14001 with the aim Sustainability work affects both revenues and costs and is part of all production facilities becoming certified – a process of Nefab’s long-term value creation, which is of vital importhat will take a few years. tance not only for the company but also for society as a whole. Within the framework of ISO, local entities are involved in Created and distributed economic value, SEK m Stakeholders 2014 Directly created economic value various improvement projects, like energy efficiency and reRevenues Customers 3,063 duction of emissions from own vehicles. Concerning energy Distributed economic value Key ratios 2014 2013 2012 Operating costs Suppliers 2,246 Plywood consumption (m3) 88,816 89,691 3) 90,444 Personnel costs Employees 614 Steel consumption (tons) 6,574 7,293 8,141 Financial net Owners/Banks 38 Consumption of paint/coatings (tons) 35 49 55 Tax Society 8 Energy consumption (MWh) 32,704 33,131 39,942 Investments Water consumption (m3) 1) 46,279 51,029 53,456 Net investments Suppliers 36 Direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (tons) 2) 830 917 981 Environment and society 1 Close to 100% from municipal water supplies. Authorities in the countries where Nefab operates are 2 Emissions from our own production, excluding inbound and outbound transportation. 3 Restated due to mistake in last years reporting. mainly concerned about safety, working conditions and health issues. The dialogue primarily takes place through consumption, the main parameter affecting the consumprecommendations and inspections. As a member of Global tion is temperature, as especially cold winters require a lot Compact, Nefab also indirectly contributes to a comprehenof energy for heating of the premises, while the production sive global stakeholder dialogue. itself is not very energy consuming. Communication on Progress Nefab 5 EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY sales processes, as well as courses dealing with the comNefab’s market-leading position is maintained by focusing pany’s social responsibility, environment and human rights. on the individual employee’s development, ensuring continuous competence development. Nefab will offer attractive Pakademy started in China in order to address the need to opportunities to ensure that employees choose to remain educate newly recruited engineers and salespeople. The while allowing valuable new skills to be recruited. Nefab is five week training program includes theory and practice characterized by a customer-oriented corporate culture regarding packaging materials, sales processes and testing where employees are encouraged to develop a proactive methods. Classes are organized on a needs basis and durapproach. Nefab’s values and code of conduct form the ing 2014, we run one class with 27 students of nine different basis for the corporate culture to reflect the Group’s global nationalities. expertise and diversity. Nefab Management Program is a training for selected employees to enhance their leadership and management All employees are invited to participate in a yearly employee abilities for future challenges. In 2014, for the second time, survey in which they respond to a number of questions this program was held during 13 days from January to June concerning health, job satisfaction, leadership, physical with 25 students. and psychological working conditions, etc. Based on the outcome, a so called “Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI)” is Key ratios 2014 2013 2012 Percentage of employees measured, which easily can be compared year by year. who have union agreements 21% 24 % 22 % Units that scored the lowest index are subject to improveHours of training per employee 14.7 12.7 14.5 ment measures. The employee survey is conducted by an Percentage of employees who external partner to ensure the methodology and integrity in have regular development talks 47 % 42 % 35 % every aspect. Board members for the 7 % female 10 % female 8 % female Group, gender breakdown 93 % male 90 % male 92 % male Internal trainings – Web Academy & Pakademy Presidents and other 20% female 20 % female 17% female senior executives* 80 % male 80 % male 83 % male Web Academy is Nefab’s intranet-based skills portal. As Percentage of employees trained part of Web Academy, employees are offered a variety of in anti-corruption policies 14 % 8% 8% basic tutorials on the company’s packaging solutions and * Management team members and similar. EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AGE DISTRIBUTION ALL EMPLOYEES INDEX (ESI) – ALL EMPLOYEES – BY FUNCTION 100% 75% 11% 29% 31% 67% 67% 68% 50% 30% 59% 25% 10% 35% 2014 2012 2013 2014 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION INDEX (ESI) EMPLOYEES UP TO 29 YEARS OLD MANUFACTURING/ENGINEERING RESPONSE RATE EMPLOYEES 30–39 YEARS OLD ADMINISTRATION EMPLOYEES 40–54 YEARS OLD SALES, MARKETING & DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES 55 YEARS OR OLDER 6 Communication on Progress Nefab GENDER DISTRIBUTION AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ALL EMPLOYEES – BY REGION – ALL EMPLOYEES 100% 3,000 23% 24% 24% 2,797 2,506 75% 77% 76% 76% 24% 2,363 2,000 33% 50% 1,000 25% 43% 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 MEN ASIA WOMEN EUROPE AMERICAS COMMITMENT AND ACTIONS of Conduct is an important tool to fulfill this commitment, Nefab will continuously seek to implement the ten prinas it guides employee behavior to be in line with Global ciples of the United Nations Global Compact. The Nefab Compact principles. During November 2014, a brochure Code of Conduct was updated during 2014, as a result (“Employee basics”) containing the CoC, including the Antiof the stakeholder dialogues with customers and recent corruption policy, together with a few other global policies, development in the global business environment. The Code was produced and shared with all employees. Comparison of UNGC principles and the Nefab Code of Conduct UNGC PRINCIPLES NEFAB CODE OF CONDUCT Human Rights Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed huinternationally proclaimed Human Rights man rights and ensure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Freedom of association effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As local or relevant laws allows, all employees are free to form, join or not to join unions and have the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Forced and compulsory labour and compulsory labour. No form of forced or compulsory labour is tolerated and all employees have the right to leave their employment as stated by contracts or local laws. Employees shall not be required to leave deposits of money or identity papers with their employer. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Child labour No person shall be employed who is below the minimum legal age for employment. We are not complicit in any form of child labour or other forms of child exploitation. A child means a person below the age of 18 years. No one is employed below the completion of compulsory school or under the age of 15 and no one under the age of 18 is employed for hazardous work. Children shall not be employed for any work that is inconsistent with the child’s personal development, including health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development. Communication on Progress Nefab 7 UNGC PRINCIPLES NEFAB CODE OF CONDUCT Labour Labour standards 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Workplace respect of employment and occupation. We provide a working environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees. Appropriate health and safety information and training shall be provided to employees including, but not limited to, safe evacuations of buildings and correct handling and marking of chemicals and machinery. Discrimination Diversity among our employees is a positive attribute and no one regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, parental status, marital status, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, ethnic background, social origin, social status, age, union membership or disability shall be discriminated. Harassments in the form of physical or psychological abuse are strongly prohibited, as are any kinds of intimidation or other threats. Employees with the same qualifications, experience and performance shall receive equal pay for equal work. Environment Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Precautionary approach environmental challenges. Sustainable development is a key concept and finite resources are avoided as often as possible. We also have a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges whereby dangerous materials are avoided when suitable and more environmentally friendly alternatives are available. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental responsibility environmental responsibility. We strive to improve environmental performance in our own operations and to promote environmental responsibility within our sphere of influence 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion We support innovative developments in products and services that ofof environmentally friendly technologies. fer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental responsibility. Anti-corruption Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Nefab’s reputation of honesty, integrity and responsibility must be upheld including extortion and bribery. and any involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption is not tolerated by Nefab in any form. Nefab’s Anti-corruption policy further outlines our responsibility in this area. Consumer interests When dealing with consumers, we act in accordance with fair business, marketing and advertising practices. We also ensure that the goods or services we supply meet all agreed and legal standards. For 2014, no violations of Nefab’s code of conduct were Labour reported. Nefab’s annual Staff Survey gives each employee the right to provide feedback on working conditions, managers’ Human rights behavior, physical and psycho-social working environUsing our e-learning system (Web Academy), Nefab ment, stress and more. In addition, free text comments can developed a basic course in “Human Rights”, which was be submitted. All answers are anonymous and the survey launched in June 2010. At the end of 2014 we had in total system is provided by an external partner. The response rate 271 (of which 34 during the reporting period) students with for 2014 was 82 %, which is considered to be very satisfying. a diploma in this course. From the Staff Survey a combined key ratio, ESI (Employee The course material contains the Universal Declaration on Satisfaction Index), is communicated as a generic output Human Rights as well as the principles from Global Comfrom each survey. The idea of a combined key ratio is to pact and more business oriented issues in terms of Human make it simple to communicate and simple to set targets in Rights. With the distribution of the brochure “Employee terms of improvements from one year to another. For the Basics”, containing the updated Code of Conduct as well as entities reporting the lowest ESI, root causes are analyzed the corporate HR Policy, Human Rights issues were further and actions designed in order to improve. emphasized. 8 Communication on Progress Nefab Environment • Quantify improvements in reduction of Global Warming Nefab’s business concept is to offer engineered complete Potential. packaging solutions that reduce total cost and environmen• Implementing engineered complete packaging solutions tal impact. In line with this, Nefab has developed a tool to that are optimized in terms of total cost and environquantify environmental impact from packaging solutions, mental impact. the Nefab GreenCALC. During 2014, the work has continued to implement the tool into the common sales process In 2014, as the second consecutive year, Nefab supported and also to obtain an external certification of the tool. (The the World Wildlife Foundation (WWF) tree planting project external verification by Bureau Veritas was finally awarded on Borneo. Over the two years, totally 16 000 trees have to Nefab in April 2015.) been planted with the financial support provided by Nefab. GreenCALC – features: Anti-Corruption • A Life Cycle Assessment method analyzing environIn September 2013 the Board of Directors approved Nefab’s mental impact from raw material, production, logistics, new Code of Conduct with an Anti-corruption policy added. use phase and end of life. During 2014 we created and shared the brochure Employee • Analyzing multiple impact categories, such as Global Basics (see above) with all employees. In addition a Web Warming Potential (GWP), water and energy consumption. Academy course about Anti-corruption was launched and • The impact calculations are based on the databases of 329 employees took the diploma during 2014. one of the World’s leading LCA software; SIMA Pro. Performance By using GreenCALC Nefab can support customers in their Nefab reports performance using guidelines provided by green initiatives by: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Below is a table, summarizing • Quantifying environmental impact in packaging solution. the performance indicators information that can be found in Identify areas of improvements. this COP. GRI-TABLE Performance indicators Ref.page e c t sE f f EC1 Direct economic value, generated and distributed 4 Environmental impact EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 4 EN8 Total water consumption 4 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 4 Working conditions and working terms LA1 Total number of employees, by employment type and region. 5-6 LA2 Total number of employees and staff turnover by age group, gender and region 5-6 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by union agreements 5 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 5 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance evaluation and career development. 5 LA13 Composition of the Board and management and breakdown 5 of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption practices. 5 Your mission is our mission. We develop complete packaging solutions optimized to reduce total cost and environmental impact in your supply chain. With our global engineering and supply capabilities we serve you in every corner of the world. N E FA B .CO M
