VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Copenhagen June 2015 To whom it may concern I hereby express our continued support for the Global Compact initiative. Since VLA’s latest communication on progress in june 2014 the implementation of environmentally sustainable measures in our various building projects has become even more present. Many of our projects are now designed with energy optimized features like high insulating glass, integration of solar cells and efficient climate shells. Most notably is Activity and Day Care Center Rønnebærhus, Flintholm Company House and the Niels Bohr Building. Please see also our part in the development of a low energy housing concept wich will offer affordable ‘green’ homes to all levels of income. For actions taken and outcomes achieved I kindly refer to the following pages. Best regards Søren Daugbjerg CEO and partner Vilhelm Lauritzen Architects VLA Communication On Progress #6 2015 Element 1: Statement of Continued Support VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS ACTIONS Human rights • As a firm founded and based in Denmark – who has been a member of The United Nations since its creation in 1945 we of course strive to be in compliance with the 30 articles of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • As architects we have a special obligation in regards to article 25 (1) concerning the right to adequate housing. At VLA we have a strong focus on housing projects and have over the last years designed several projects with a high degree of both environmental and economic sustainable measures. Labour • Continued update of the ‘VLA employee information’ with description of rights and rules concerning employment in the firm. The information is available on the company’s intranet and handed out in hard copy to every new employee. The information includes description of maternity leave, rights in case of illness, insurance, working hours, holidays and name of the elected union representative. • Continued agreements with professional organizations ensuring the rights of employees at VLA. Environment • VLA has a defined strategy concerning environmentally sustainable approaches to building design.The strategy is built around five focal points; the job, the architecture, the technology, finance and the strategy. • Working with various business partners on developing new sustainable solutions for both private and public clients. Anti-corruption • Compliance with Danish law in respect to anti-corruption – also when working abroad. VLA Communication On Progress #6 2015 Element 2: Actions VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES Rønnebærhus Activity and Day Care Center The activity center consists of light, friendly two-storey building fitting into the descending terrain. The building aims for clarity of structure with simple inner logic based on a shared entrance passage. The activity center enjoys an approach to all four directions of the compass with patios at ground floor level and on the first floor augmented by fine outdoor leisure areas featuring an inviting garden to the west. Access, deliveries and parking are simply organized in keeping with the natural shape of the terrain. Our choice of materials emphasizes a light, sturdy building based on tried-and-tested approaches, simple components and hardwearing high quality materials. The result is a building that acquires a beautiful patina with time and proves capable of full usage. The facings draw on the Nordic tradition of simple, precise doors and windows. The facility covers an area of 1.580 m2, in addition to which there are spacious basement areas.This is a class 1 energy building, employing efficient insulation, careful location of windows, and a ventilation plant with a high degree of heat recycling to limit heat loss, with solar arrays to augment traditional electricity supplies. The Activity Center was completed in 2012. VLA Communication On Progress #6 2015 Element 3: Outcomes VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES Gladsaxe Company House Gladsaxe Company House, designed according to the Company House concept, is a modern office building with concerted facilities for several tenants with joint reception, canteen, fitness centre and meeting centre among others. The new company house is the first office building in Denmark classified after the DGNB Certification System DGNB on the highest level, Gold, which is awarded to buildings that have environmental, social and economic sustainability as highest priority. The 15,400m2 in total are 3D projected from the first draft in order to live up to the high ambitions of environmental, social and economic sustainability. The building of Gladsaxe Company House was ready for occupancy in February 2015 as the first new development in the new building area with up to 120,000m2 of business and housing. VLA Communication On Progress #6 2015 Element 3: Outcomes VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES Flintholm Company House Flintholm Company House is one of Denmark’s largest office buildings which has been built in accordance with EU Green Building Standards. This means energy savings within areas such as heating, lighting, ventilation, cooling, office machinery etc. Due to the enrgy savings tenants can expect lower energy costs in the building, and the company can brand itself towards customers and employees with a similar sense of responsibility when it comes to environment and sustainability. The location in the centre of a busy intersection gives good accessibility from all corners of the world. The best possible infrastructure of the Copenhagen area gives the companies who choose this location a head start when it comes to attracting employees not least employees who make a point of travelling by public transport. The pleasant indoor climate, with focus on fresh air, an agreeable temperature, correct lighting and good acoustics results in an enjoyable working day, during which it is easy to concentrate on the positive aspects. The building was completed in 2012. VLA Communication On Progress #6 2015 Element 3: Outcomes VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES Niels Bohr Building VLA, working with CCO Architects, won the competition for a major building for the natural sciences at the University of Copenhagen. Named after the acknowledged Danish scientist and Nobel Prize winner the Niels Bohr Building (NBB) is aiming at recreating the atmosphere and merits of the era. The building is quite uniquely going to house all parts of natural sciences: physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science and also didactics. Included in the 50.000 m2 are functions such as research and educational laboratories along with other teaching facilities, offices, canteen for staff and students, meeting and conference rooms. Energy concept The energy concept of the NBB is aiming at less energy consumption years ahead of its time and general sustainable solutions especially crucial for a science building. Part of this concept is to be achieved through the design of a double façade allowing for more efficient insulation of the building, protection of the solar shading and preheating of the ventilation air intake. Heat exchanging is also to be utilized on the exhaust air for energy efficiency. Energy production is going to take place on site through an installation of solar panels on the roof and rain water is to be collected and reused. The water consumption is to be reduced through the right means of technical installations and visibility on usage of water and also on electricity and use of ventilations (to support the right use of fume cupboards for instance). VLA Communication On Progress #6 2015 Element 3: Outcomes VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES Niels Bohr Building The labs of a science building are in general high consumers of energy. A significant effort is being processed towards a more energy efficient and sustainable laboratory design for the NBB. Work environment and indoor climate A number of initiatives are made in order to assure that the NBB is going to have the best possible work environment for the people building it and for the end users. This is started in the design phase were an effort is made for high standards of accessibility (for different kinds of inabilities) – also higher standards than demanded by legislation. At the same time health perspectives are incorporated – for instance stairs are placed and designed to animate frequent use. The indoor climate is another high priority where a life cycle screening is made on building materials in order to support a safe environment for the contractors and for the people using the building upon completion. Relations to the surrounding society Physical environment for sharing knowledge and interaction with the surroundings are thought through in the concept of the NBB. A specific example is the facilities for the elementary school classes to be able to make projects at the NBB or for the staff of NBB to visit high schools throughout the country. VLA is participating in and shaping all of the above mentioned aspects of the project for the NBB towards the general goals of the UN Global Compact including environmental issues. VLA Communication On Progress #6 2015 Element 3: Outcomes VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES ‘Energy Zero Home’ Since the first communication on progress in june 2010, VLA has continued the development of a housing concept with focus on low energy consumption, affordability and flexibility. Continued collaboration with different business partners on this project provides VLA valuable challenges, feedback and inspiration for working with both environmental and social sustainability. The concept’s flexibility means that the houses more than 100 row houses are now being realized on several locations across Denmark. Some as family homes and some as homes for disabled. The project is designed with inspiration from the nordic townhouse tradition of modern and liveable houses. Human scale and vibrant facades make it an attractive type of housing. Affordable quality housing requires a build system with a high degree of repetition and prefabrication. The building elements are prefabricated as room-size elements at a factory and erected and installed on foundations on site. The low energy consumption is possible with the integration of measures like solar arrays and solar traps, extra insulation, ventilation plant with heat recycling and heat pumps. The units are light constructions in recyclable materials such as timber, aluminium, galvanized steel and zinc. VLA Communication On Progress #6 2015 Element 3: Outcomes VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES Facts ‘Energy Zero Home’ 2000 3600 3000 2950 450 Energy consumption: < 1kWh/m2/year Thermal transmittance Windows: 0.65W/m2K Facades/roof/floor: 0.08-0.1W/m2K Sustainable Energy Europe The ‘Energy Zero Home’ project has been selected to be part of the EU ‘Sustainable Energy Europe’ campaign wich is dedicated to energy-efficient, sustainable solutions. Sustainbale Energy Europe is an attempt to present an overall picture of European efforts in this field and to spread best practice in sustainable technologies, develop networks, and inspire new ideas and approaches. Some 450 projects and events are currently involved. VLA Communication On Progress #6 2015 Element 3: Outcomes
