Think TRUST Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Think TRUST Respect Social Responsibility Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 02 CEO’s Message 04 Company Profile 06 Main Business Technology Ultimate Safety Timeless Integrity 07 Kori #1 Reactor and the Economic Growth of Korea 08 2014-2015 Highlight Sustainability Governance 10 Sustainable Business Strategy 12 Corporate Governance Structure 14 Stakeholders Engagement 16 Stakeholders Communication About This Report 18 Materiality Evaluation Sustainability Issues Purpose of the report Reporting and verification guidelines 20 Think TRUST 1 Technology This report is the sixth sustainability report of Korea Hydro & Nuclear This report was prepared in accordance with GRI G4.0 (Sustainability Power (KHNP), a green energy company. Through this report, KHNP is Reporting Guidelines by Global Reporting Initiative) and reviewed/ 26 Think TRUST 2 Respect sharing, 'TRUST', the vision and core values of KHNP with key stakeholders. validated by a third party verification agency to improve the reliability of 28 Respect for our Employees We will report sustainability performances in all economic, social, and the contents. We have attached a statement of assurance from the third 32 Respect for our Partners environmental fields by reflecting perspectives of key stakeholders. KHNP party verification agency (refer to page 76). seeks to proactively communicate with key stakeholders by publishing 36 Think TRUST 3 Ultimate Safety this report every year and timely share our performance data with the Additional information of the report 46 Think TRUST 4 Social Responsibility public. Korean and English versions of this report are available at the KHNP 48 Social Responsibility for our Planet Reporting scope and period website (www.khnp.co.kr) and are downloadable as PDF file. For further 56 Social Responsibility for our Community inquiries in relation to the sustainability report, please contact us below. The scope of this report covers the HQs and all domestic and international 62 Think TRUST 5 Timeless Integrity offices of KHNP. This report includes the main sustainability performances from January 1st, 2014 to December 31th, 2014. Data from 2012 to 2014 is provided to help readers understand the related changes in our performance. Appendix A partial report of qualitative performance includes the contents of the first half of 2015. 70 Other Sustainability Performances 76 Third-party Assurance Statements 78 SR10 Certificate 79 GRI Index Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., LTD, Planning Dept. Planning team 84 Membership and Participating Principles Address 520, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Homepage www.khnp.co.kr Phone +82-2-3456-2761 FAX +82-2-3456-2229 Email sustainability@khnp.co.kr Kori #1 Reactor 02 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Think TRUST CEO Message Company Profile Main Business and the Economic 2014-2015 Highlight 03 Growth Of Korea CEO's Message To whom it may concern, In 2014, KHNP established a new set of five core values, Technology, Respect, Ultimate safety, Social responsibility, and Timeless integrity (TRUST), in order to pursue a new direction of the company’s vision, ‘KHNP, the Reliable Global Energy Leader’. The utmost priority among the core values is the Ultimate Safety. In this regard, KHNP has endeavored to secure the highest standard of safety technologies while pursuing the timeless values of integrity and a strong ethical foundation. The company has been building a corporate culture respect each other among employees, improvement of world-class technical skills and advancement of ethical management. Our company stands in the forefront of social contribution and environmental protection to fulfill its social responsibilities as a public company. Remarkable results have been achieved in different parts of our business operation after all of the management and the employees refresh their mindset. I must praise the determination and dedication of our management and employees on how they have performed their duty to the fullest. The nuclear power utilization rate was increased to 85% in 2014, and the accumulative power generation rate was reached 3 trillion kWh in April 2015 in the 37 years of operating nuclear power plants. The annual revenue in 2014 was KRW 9.5 trillion, which is a 48.5% increase from 2013, and the net income was KRW 1.44 trillion. We will concentrate KHNP has a global reputation for safe nuclear power plant operations. We are ranked 2nd on the World Association of Nuclear Operators all of our capabilities (WANO) safety performance evaluation, an overall checkup of operational and safety capabilities of nuclear power plant operation on improving the companies worldwide. This is the result of setting safety as the top priority and all of our employees making tremendous efforts to internalize the safety culture. KHNP has constantly sought a better safety practices and actively improved safety standards through operational safety of safety evaluation for nuclear plants in Korea and abroad. In accordance with the Korea government’s policies, the number of nuclear the nuclear power power plants will increase to 35 by 2030. KHNP is preparing for future expansions by enhancing technologies and securing experts to plants. strengthen the overall capability. KHNP will fulfill its To fulfill our social responsibilities, KHNP has organized social contribution activities for the general public and for communities around its social responsibilities nuclear power plants. KHNP is also making efforts to build a robust ecosystem of nuclear power industry by supporting small and medium through sized suppliers for mutual growth. Our sincere communications and efforts towards a symbiotic coexistence have resolved several conflicts, especially in the areas of local residents’ negative perceptions regarding nuclear power plants. After 15 years, negotiations on Shin-Hanul communications and nuclear power construction have finally reached a resolution in November 2014. Wolsong #1 that was stopped for 946 days after the operation mutual growth. permit expired but it was restarted in June 2015 after reaching agreements with local residents. These noteworthy results are achieved through active communications with all of our stakeholders, including the Korea government, regional governments and local residents. Based on an empowered trust gained from mutual understanding and shared concerns, we As the Korea’s largest power generating company that producing 30% of the nation’s will continue our efforts to communicate with our stakeholders via various channels. electric power through nuclear power, hydropower and pumped storage hydroelectric KHNP will equip with KHNP has strengthening its position as a global energy leader through continuous technical development. In 2014, KHNP acquired the world’s best and a national standard design approval of our next generation new nuclear power plant ‘APR+’. ‘APR 1400’ is the Korean nuclear power power, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power (KHNP) has played a key role in contributing the plant and it was successfully exported to the United Arab Emirates (UAE). It passed the preliminary examination for the U.S. Nuclear most competitive Regulatory Commission (NRC) design certification. According to the Korean Nuclear Safety and Security Commission’s decision on the development of the national economy and the enrichment of the Korean people’s lives. technologies. close of Kori #1, KHNP is planning to take proactive steps to compete in the upcoming decommissioning market based on its reactor disassembly techniques and business foundation. With the UAE project as a showcase of the KHNP’s international business, KHNP will Now KHNP is ready to be one of the global energy leaders and to represent Korea on become a ‘Global Energy Leader’ by exporting more nuclear and hydroelectric power plants. the global stage. To ensure KHNP’s sustainability, we need our stakeholders’ support. Like the Korean proverb ‘Su-jeok-seok-cheon’, which means constant dripping of water eventually breaks a rock, we will continue to grow and overcome any obstacles in our way. President & CEO, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Cho Seok Kori #1 Reactor 04 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Think TRUST CEO Message Company Profile Main Business and the Economic 2014-2015 Highlight 05 Growth Of Korea Company Corporate Overview Vision and Core Values Profile KHNP was established in April 2001 when it was separated from the power distribution unit of Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) in compliance with the government’s ‘Electricity Industry Restructuring KHNP established a vision of becoming Reliable Global Energy Leader, KHNP to produce low cost but high quality reliable electricity. KHNP embodies five core values ‘TRUST’ (Technology, Respect, Ultimate Program’. KHNP is a public energy corporation that supplies reliable and affordable electric power through Safety, Social Responsibility, and Timeless Integrity), and these values demonstrate our firm commitments green energy (nuclear, hydro, and renewable energy). to stakeholders. Every member of KHNP shares our vision and values, and we are committed to fulfill those objectives. Accounting for 30% of the State of KHNP nation’s power generation 2030 Business Target KHNP VISION 2030 Accounts for capacity through nuclear, Company Name Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. 30 % of the hydro and pumped storage National Power power generation Mission Enrich Lives through Environment-friendly Energy Target Global energy leader Generation CEO Cho Seok Vision Reliable Global Energy Leader, KHNP Governing Ministry of Industry Trade, Industry and Nuclear Organization Energy of Korea (Public Enterprise) KHNP Hydro (overseas) Core Social Profile (domestic) 3.2Trillion(13%) Values Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Timeless Integrity Location of 125, Hwarang-ro, Gyeongju-si, Operating 24 nuclear Responsibility KRW 1.8Trillion(7%) Large enterprise power plants, 21 hydro Hydro HQs Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea with KRW 49 trillion 49 Trillion 27,039 MW plants, 16 pumped storage (overseas) Strategic Prioritize the Safety of Nuclear Phased expansion of Technology-oriented Business Development of electric power resources / in assets. Assets Capacity 0.2Trillion(1%) Direction Power Plant Overseas Business Expansion plants and other power Nuclear Core power generation and related businesses / generation units with (domestic) Functions R&D and affiliated businesses / overseas New Business Business Domestic Nuclear Power Overseas Nuclear Hydro Power New Business overall capacity amounting 19.2Trillion(77%) businesses 0.4Trillion(2%) Strategies Generation Power Generation Generation (As of July, 2015) to 27,039MW Established April 2, 2001 • ‌short and medium term: • short ‌ and medium • ‌domestic: maintain • focus on nuclear Revenue KRW 25 trillion (overseas revenue establish structures for safe Term: pursue EPC existing system and decommissioning Capital KRW 1,212.2 billion Milestones accounting for 16%) operation • long term: expand business • long term: expand improve efficiency • global: gradual • optimize renewable energy portfolio (January 3, 2011) Nuclear Power Third in the World technology-oriented business BOO business expansion of regions KHNP has overcome many challenges from the foundation and it will continue to innovate relentlessly. Employees 10,107.6 (as of June 30, 2015) 37 units (home) + 5 units (overseas) KHNP aims to be more than a major power generation company in Korea but a global energy leader. • ‌Streamlined process: establish • ‌Enhance global • ‌Advance facilities & • ‌Establish KHNP’s own integrated competitiveness of enhance productivity decommissioning 7 divisions, 26 departments and offices, Hydro Power 37 units (home) + 8 units (overseas) Tasks management model export reactors through increased business infra 4 nuclear power sites (Kori, Yeonggwang, • Technology leadership: • Reinforce business technology competences • Technology business Organization Wolsong, Uljin), 1 hydro power site, 7 Takeoff Stage Technology World’s most advanced technologies advance construction process development • Build more overseas opportunities based pumped storage power plants and 7 and leading technology capabilities power plant operation on customer needs other offices Employees 18,000 • Specialization of manpowerts: • Reinforce financing references • Economically feasible (2008~) : establish specialist training competencies • Expand overseas renewable energy Growth and Development Stage 2008 Domestic nuclear power generation reached 2 trillion KWh. system • Globalize human operation business by business portfolio 2009 Won the United Arab Emirates (the UAE) NPP project • Organization: redesigning resource development leveraging reference (1999~2007) (USD 40 billion) 2030 mid to longterm business framework projects Beginning Stage 2010 Installed a nuclear reactor at Shin-Kori #3 (the first organization 1999 Started commercial operation of Hanul #4 and Wolsong #4 2000 Exceeded 1 trillion KWh of nuclear power applied APR1400) (1978~1998) generation 2011 Started commercial operation of Shin-Kori #1 (first 2001 Launched Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. (spun adopted QPR1000) 1978 Started commercial operation of Kori #1 (recognized as the world’s 21st nuclear power generating country) off from KEPCO) Acquired pumped storage power generation from KHNP WAY thermo-power generation company (4,700MW) 1983 Started commercial operation of Wolsong #1 and Kori #2 2002 Started commercial operation of Habit #5 and #6 Selected as an excellent family friendly organization 1984 Established a plan to secure a proprietary nuclear plant Ranked 6th in the World’s Power Generation Facility Selected as the top Korean company in quality construction technologies Capacity Developed a next generation light water competitiveness by the Founded Nuclear Safety 1985 Started commercial operation of Kori #3 reactor (APR1400) Committee 1986 Started commercial operation of Kori #4 and Hanbit #1 2004 Implemented ERP system Founded KHNP Community 2012 Started commercial operation of Shin-Kori #2 and ShinService Group 1987 Started commercial operation of Hanbit #2 Wolsong #1 Commenced proprietary nuclear plant construction 2005 Completed construction of renewable energy plants 2013 Signed contract with ACRC for integrity success project technology project (Kori Wind Plant and Yeonggwang Solar Park), Hanul #5 Exceeded 100 billion KWh of nuclear power and #6 2014 APR+, Korean reactor acquired a standard design permit generation Groundbreaking ceremony of new company building (at 2007 Acquired continued operation permit for Kori #1 Gyeongju, Korea) 1988 Started commercial operation of Hanul #1 2015 Exceeded 3 trillion KWh of nuclear power Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity 1989 Started commercial operation of Hanul #2 generation 1995 Started commercial operation of Habit #3 Acquired continued operation permit for Wolsong #1 1996 Started commercial operation of Habit #4 Started commercial operation of Shin-Wolsong #1 Compete as a Drive Voluntary Participation Top priority and the Most Basic and Fundamental Duty for Core Principles of Respected Global Energy Leader and Cooperation Important Asset Public Enterprises KHNP Members 1997 Started commercial operation of Wolsong #2 1998 Started commercial operation of Wolsong #3 Started commercial operation of Hanul #3, Korea’s first • Experts-oriented • Acknowledgement of diversity • Safety above all • Public interest • Moral rectitude Standard NPP (OPR1000) • Constant improvements • Open communication • Internalization of safety • Communication with and • Pursues to principles and Won the first overseas NPP contract (Guangdong NPP • Aiming to reach the world-class • Participation and cooperation standard satisfaction of stakeholders standards technical advisory) level • Safety systems and processes • Eco-friendly management • Transparent process Kori #1 Reactor 06 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Think TRUST CEO Message Company Profile Main Business and the Economic 2014-2015 Highlight 07 Growth Of Korea Main Business Kori #1 Reactor and the Economic Growth of Korea Our main businesses are power generation businesses (nuclear power, hydropower, and renewable energy), construction businesses, R&D, and overseas businesses. As Korea’s largest power generation company, we are currently generating 30% of domestic electricity power. In addition, KHNP operates 24 NPPs, 16 pumped storage, 5 solar, 1 wind and 14 small hydro power plants, and the total power generation facilities reach to 27,039 MW as of July 2015. In June 2015, the KHNP board of directors Current State of Power Plant Operation and decided to cease the operation of Kori #1 Construction unit by accepting the recommendation from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. Therefore, Kori #1 reactor, which initiated its Nuclear Hwacheon Hydro operation in April 29, 1978, will be shutdown Chuncheon Hydro Hydro Yangyang Pumped Storage on June 18, 2017 after 40 years of operation. Cheongpyeong Pumped Storage Uiam Hydro Yangyang Small Hydro (2 units) Small Hydro Topyeong Small Hydro Cheongpyeong Hydro Gangneung Hydro Pumped Storage Paldang Hydro Power Generation Capacity (unit: GWh) Hanul Nuclear Power Site Domestic Nuclear Hydro & Renewable Yecheon Pumped Storage ◀ Groundbreaking Ceremony of Kori #1 Reactor (Mar 19, 1971) Yecheon Small Hydro In operation : 6 units Goisan Hydro Under construction : 2 units 162,272 Preparatory : 2 units 159,437 Yecheon Solar (2 units) 155,362 Cheongsong Pumped Storage 150,098 Kori #1 reactor was highly valued as it was the first domestic NPP. After joining the 144,374 Muju Pumped Storage Seonjin River Hydro Muju Small Hydro Wolsong Nuclear Power Site International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in 1957, Korea officially organized a In operation: 6 units committee on NPP development in 1962 to establish development plans. At the end Yeonggwang Solar Park (3 units) of 1964, the Kori region was selected through seven months of site inspection, and Hanbit Nuclear Power Site Kori Wind In operation: 6 units Kori Nuclear Power Site Korea's first NPP construction was initiated in 1971. Every step of Kori #1 contributed Samrangjin In operation : 6 units a significant progression to the scientific technologies in Korea. After seven years of Sancheong Pumped Storage Pumped Under construction : 2 units 31.3 31.1 30.2 Sancheong Small Hydro (2 units) the construction, Kori # 1 reactor started its official operation in 1978, and the history 29.5 Storage Preparatory : 2 units 27.0 of nuclear energy in Korea began. Boseong River Hydro 1.1 1.1 1.0 1.0 0.3 ▲ The First Construction Site for Kori NPP Power Plant Facilities 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (As of July 2015) ※ Dashed lines represent the domestic market shares Nuclear Hydro Category (incl. Pumped Renewable Total Kori Hanbit Wolsong Hanul Kori #1 reactor has been the leader of guiding Korea’s energy industry and solving the power shortage Storage) Nuclear problem. At the time of completion, the capacity of the plant was so enormous (587MW) that took up 9% Units in Operation 6 6 6* 6 37 20 81 22.46% of the whole domestic power capacity (6,590MW). The cost of generation, 9.21 KRW/kWh, was 42% cheaper Capacity (MW) 5,137 5,900 4,779 5,900 5,295 28 27,039 compared with the one of thermal power plant. Due to the inexpensive supply, household expenses in Hydro Total (Domestic M/S) 21,716 (22.46%) (5.68%) (0.03%) (28.17%) electricity decreased, and companies could operate the factories more actively. During the time of frequent Domestic 5.68% * Commercial operation of Shin-Wolsong #2 has been started (on 24 July, 2015) electricity shortages, Kori #1 reactor was a 'light' of hope to Koreans. Market Share Renewable in Capacity 0.03% KHNP is facing a new challenge of 'Safe Decommission' for the shutdown of Kori #1 reactor. DecommisNew Power Plants under Construction Competitors (As of July 2015) sion process is a long-term project, which takes more than 20 years from preparation to environmental 71.83% restoration. This is the new challenge that Korea has to achieve, since the nation does not have any Under Construction Under Construction Preparatory Stage Category experiences in decommission. KHNP will be fully prepared for the permanent shutdown and decomShin-Kori #3 & #4 Shin-Hanul #1 & #2 Shin-Kori #5 & #6 Shin-Hanul #3 & #4 mission, and keep the value of 'Safety First' until the very last moment of Kori #1 reactor. To achieve this ▲ View of Kori #1 Reactor (Recent) Capacity 1400MW x 2 unit 1400MW x 2 units 1400MW x 2 units 1400MW x 2 units goal, KHNP will cooperate with relevant organizations such as nuclear power academic associations & Const. Periods 2007. 9~2016. 5* 2010. 4~2018. 4* 2015. 12~2022. 3 2017. 2~2023. 12 research institute, and regulatory agency. Please look forward to the new KHNP that will open a new era Electro-mechanical & Expecting construction of NPP industry through the safe decommission of Kori #1 reactor. Status Preparing fuel loading Project preparation civil engineering permits Progress 98.41% 78.05% * Shin-Kori #3 & #4, Shin-Hanul #1 & #2 are under review of business schedule Kori #1 Reactor 08 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Think TRUST CEO Message Company Profile Main Business and the Economic 2014-2015 Highlight 09 Growth Of Korea 2014-2015 Highlight As of April 20, 2015, the cumulative electricity generated from the NPPs has exceeded 3 trillion kWh. This was accomplished in 37 years after the Achieved NPP Standard Design Approval, APR+ Awarded with Korea National Industry Development Certification for Health & Safety Management System beginning of operation of Kori #1 reactor in April In August 2014, KHNP received NPP standard design approval from Contributor In September 2014, KHNP has renewed integrated safety & health management 29, 1978. the Nuclear Safety and Security Commission for APR+ (a 1.5 million KHNP was awarded with 'The 2014 National Industry Development Contributor certifications on both the domestic standard of KOSHA18001 (Korea Occupational KHNP has been steadily supplying electricity kW high-capacity NPP), which has been developed with genuinely Award for Excellent Capital Goods' (Gwak Taek-heon, the head of Facility Safety and Health Agency), and the international standard of OHSAS18001 (Korea domestic developed technology. This outcome was achieved in Knowledge Standard Registrars). We have achieved other domestic and international by producing 3 trillion kWh in the past 37 years, Improvement Department) from the Korea Association of Machinery Industry. only seven years of development, and improved both domestic standards for KHNP Research Center. KHNP is creating safer workplace through the and lessened the burden on the people with low This award is for the great contribution of KHNP to sale and import-substituting and international credibility of Korean NPP. APR+ is scheduled to be effect of SMEs by promoting domestic products developed for NPP. This has global integrated safety and health management system. electricity rates. applied to a newly constructed NPP from 2016. proven the effectiveness of win-win policy, and reliability of KHNP to the public KHNP will be a reliable partner by supplying for creating the sales increasing effect of nearly KRW 9.6 billion in SMEs. uninterrupted electricity to its customers and lead the industry to create economic value and to minimize environmental impact. Additional cost amounting to 445 What does 3 Trillion KWh KRW Trillion is required if it is replaced by of Cumulative Power thermal power Generation mean? (corresponding to 23% of the national Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity GDP in 2014) Amount that feeds Amount required for a KTX power to all Seoul train to make round trips citizens for between Seoul & Busan for 65 years. 115 million times (Total power Initiated Commercial Operation of Shin-Wolsong #2 reactor Awarded with Nanum CSR Activities consumption in Seoul was 46.5 billion kWh in 2013) Shin-Wolsong #2 reactor, the 24th NPP in Korea, has begun its operation in July 24, 2015. In October 2014, Hanbit NPP HQs received award from the Minister Shin-Wolsong #2 reactor is constructed for the newly improved type of Korea’s standard of Health and Human Service for our corporate social responsibility Substituted coal fuel Amount that feeds NPP (OPR1000) after Shin-Wolsong # 1 reactor. It is the NPP developed with 100% native activities at the '2014 Korea Nanum Nation Award', hosted the Ministry import amounts to power to the nation for 219 technology. Shin-Wolsong #2 reactor will contribute to the stable electric supply and 6.3 of Health & Welfare. KHNP was recognized for its social contribution overseas expansion with the annual electricity production of 7.9 billion kWh. after winning the 'Korea Economic Leader’s Social Responsibility & years. KRW Trillion Management Award' in July 2014, and 'Voluntary Service Award' from the Ministry of the Interior in December 2014. (Total power (corresponding to consumption in 11% of the national Korea was 475 billion Recognized as the First Public Enterprise to Acquire GDP in 2014) kWh in 2013) Certification of Learning Service Management System Secure Operating Capability of NPP Confirmed as the World's Amount that feeds Reduction effect of 2 In July 2015, KHNP training institute has acquired a certification of Learning Service Awarded with the Korea Ethics Management in Public power to the world for No.2 Management System (ISO29990) from an international standard certification authority of the Korea Quality Foundation for the first time as a public enterprise. KHNP training institute has KHNP ranked second worldwide on operation Enterprise 1.7 months billion tons of greenhouse gas emission continually developed the know-how of fostering manpower for NPP and educational system. KHNP has received the gold medal of 'Korea Ethics Management Award' in public ability based on evaluations from WANO in the Such efforts have been recognized externally through this certification. By optimizing the enterprise conducted by the Korean Association of Ethics. Through this award KHNP (Global power first quarter of 2015. WANO conducts global has been recognized its efforts in eradicating corruption and improving internal ethical consumption total (3.3 times of the international standard education process, the training will provide a high quality of education quarterly evaluations in countries more than was 20.9 trillion TWh national GHG to professional manpower for overseas expansion of NPP. management. KHNP will live up its reputation for high standard of ethics. in 2012) emission in 2011) 10 NPPs. Corporate 10 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Governance Sustainable Business Strategy Governance Stakeholders Engagement Stakeholders Communication Materiality Evaluation 11 Structure Sustainable KHNP Sustainable Business Strategy Award and Certification for Global Sustainability Business KHNP has developed a sustainable business strategy by reflecting the core value 'T.R.U.S.T'. We will be a reliable global energy leader by creating economic, environmental and social values. We developed action In February 2015, KHNP won the gold medal in the sustainability report of 'Vision Awards' supervised by the League of American Communications Professionals, a marketing investigation agency of the world authority. The Strategy plans and performance indices related to the business strategy in order to implement sustainability. We Sustainability Report 2014 received full marks in six items including 'stakeholder communicability', ‘description are also strengthening our monitoring system to facilitate active cooperation between the Planning Team, ability’, 'message clarity', and 'information communicability' among detailed evaluation indices. which is in charge of sustainability implementation, and department managers. In October 2014, for the first time in Korea, KHNP was certified with the SR10, an international standard of social responsibility management (SRM) system. The SR10 certifies the SRM, which includes rules and requirements for the SRM of ISO 26000 (International Standard Guidance on Social Responsibility) and ISO Mission Enrich Life through Environment Friendly Energy 9001 (International Quality Management System Standard). Through the achievement of SR10, our SRM has Vision Reliable Global Energy Leader, KHNP been recognized internationally. KHNP will continuously manage the SRM by improving the overall process and the performance indices. Orientation Short-term (2015) Mid-term (2020) Long-term (2030) by Phases Restoration of trust World-class safe operator Global energy leader Sustainability Performance Management Sustainable Become a trusted global energy leader through balanced growth with the economy, environment and society Management Strategies Performance Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Performance Indicators Unit 2013 Result 2014 Result 2014 Target 2015 Target Evaluation • World-class nuclear power (Employees) • ‌Nuclear plant operation (Environment) • F‌ urther-improved ethical Technology generation technology • Improved organization with first priority placed • Reinforced environmental management system • Expanded overseas culture and on the safety management framework • Establish a culture of R&D Investment KRW 100 Million 3,369 3,031 3,965 ◑ 3,841 nuclear power generation implementation of GWP • Improved credibility of • Minimized environmental ethics and integrity Overseas Sales KRW 100 Million 1,138 1,909 1,339 ● 3,143 business • Training specialists nuclear facilities impacts • Diversified business (Partners) • Enhanced risk • Coping with climate RPS Execution GWh 1,770 1,812 1,767 ● 2,133 portfolio management capabilities change • Support for mutual Respect for relieving citizens growth (Society) worries • Promotion of social Family-Friendliness Points 131.8 146 145 ● 161 contributions Per-capita Education KRW Million 3.4 3.41 3.4 ● 3.5 Labor-Management Relationship Points 3.03 3.13 3.12 ● 3.21 Sustainability Management Organization Purchase of SME Products % 50.2 50.3 51.6 ◑ 52.5 HR Support (e.g. Atom Mentor) Persons 15 25 25 ● 30 In KHNP, Management Advisory Committee (MAC) under the board of directors takes in charge of the decision Overseas/ Domestic Marketing Support Cases 473 499 450 ● 500 for key sustainability issues. The Planning Team carries out the overall sustainability practices at working-level. Financial Support for SMEs KRW 100 Million 792 917 830 ● 950 In 2014, the MAC discussed various sustainability issues such as safety improvements of NPP, social contribuPerformance Sharing Tasks Items 12 77 70 ● 100 tion project, audit results and wages. The Planning Team has also implemented the entire sustainability tasks Ultimate Safety according to the annual sustainability-training plan, report development, and review of the sustainability Failure & Shutdown Cases/Unit 0.26 0.22 0.35 ● 0.33 initiative. By emphasizing the communications with onsite workers and assigning operators to each area of 'T.R.U.S.T', we will achieve the active cooperation with relevant departments. Radioactive Dose Man-Sv/Unit 0.53 0.36 ≤ 060 ● ≤ 0.57 Comprehensive Nuclear Safety Points 99.731 99.804 99.5 ● 99.5 Performance Index Management Advisory Committee (Affiliated with BOD) Nuclear Safety Management Index % 12.228 6.7112 ≤ 11 ● ≤ 9.90 (Plants in Operation) Progress of Fukushima Follow-up % 65.2 73.9 71.7 ● 100 Measures Chairman Director Administrator Social Responsibility CEO Head of Managing Director of Dandelion Spore Fund (Enforced amount) KRW 100 Million 43.5 52 80.2 ◑ 90 Divisions Planning Division Local Community’s Receptivity Points 46.1 45.5 50 ◑ 52 Environmental Performance Index Points 176.92 223.64 222 ● 246 Working Group of Sustainable Management Operators Timeless Integrity Leader : Managing Director of Planning Division Member : Directors of Planning Team & Deputy Director Integrity Index Grade 5 3 3 ● 2 Units in Charge of Sustainable Management Assessment of Anti-Corruption Plans Grade 3 2 2 ● 2 T R U S T ※ Changes in 2014: R&D investments in 2013 (the figures are adjusted due to changes in the investment criteria recommended by the Drivers for Future Employees and Environment & Ethical Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning of Korea) and target of post-Fukushima measures (adjusted through a consultation with the Safety government depending on the progresses of the relevant projects) Growth Partners Social Contribution Management Corporate 12 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Governance Sustainable Business Strategy Governance Stakeholders Engagement Stakeholders Communication Materiality Evaluation 13 Structure Corporate Composition of the Board of Directors Fair Board Member Election and Compensation Governance The board of directors (BOD) makes major decisions related to business and final decisions for the corporate social responsibility. The BOD consists of less than 15 directors, and half of them are appointed as non-exThe Executive Recommendation Committee (ERC), consisting of NEDs to secure independency and transparency, recommends nominees of CEO, executive auditor, and NED according to a transparent process. Structure ecutive directors (NEDs). We are also improving the BOD independency by electing the chairperson from NEDs. KHNP has established a sound governance structure by disclosing BOD’s decisions and information The ERC examines the qualification of nominees thoroughly, and the Management Committee of Public Enterprise recommends final nominees, who do not have conflicting interests with KHNP. The CEO and exectimely. utive auditor are appointed by the President of Korea through the vote at the annual shareholders' general meeting (AGM), and the recommendation of the Minister of the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Energy, and the Minister of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance (MoSF), respectively. The Minister of MoSF also appoints Executive Directors (As of March 2015) the NEDs. And the CEO appoints the EDs at the AGM. Name Position Term Role The BOD remuneration adheres to the Executive Wage Guideline, established by the Minister of MoSF, Cho Seok President & CEO ~2016.9. through deliberation and vote of the Management Committee, and the total remuneration in 2014 was Wi Jae Min Executive Auditor ~2016.10. Audit Committee KRW 780 million. Kim Bum Nyun Head of Power Generation Division (VP) ~2016.8. Cho Byung Ok Jung Ha Hwang Head of Quality & Safety Division Head of Planning Division ~2015.10. ~2016.1. Transparent Operation of the Audit Committee Lee Young Il Head of Construction Division ~2016.10. The Audit committee (AC) is a decision-making body that evaluates and improves the current status of internal audit. It consists of one ED and two NEDs. The AC meeting is held quarterly but AC members discuss Non-Executive Directors crucial issues frequently. The AC also controls and manages important issues in terms of environmental and Name Position Term Role social aspects. Ryu Sung Kyu Former president of Korea Coal Corporation ~2016.2. Chairman of the BOD Strengthening the Professionalism of NEDs Lee Tae Hyeong Chairman of Soobong Educational Foundation ~2016.2. Jeon Seong Hwan Chair-professor at Konkook Univ. ~2016.2. Audit Committee Cho Jeong Je Chairman of Daehannews Media Group ~2016.2. Chairman of Audit Committee Park Kyu Ho Executive VP of Domestic Operations at KEPCO ~2016.2. NED monitor and review the executive directors’ activities, and have rights to vote to limit directors with NEDs’ Activities certain interests in a specific issue. Half of the board is experts with various experiences in the fields of Director of Research Council of Energy & Resources Industrial (Unit: Items) Cho Seong Hee ~2016.10 Development related business, corporate management, media, and local civil feedback. They monitor and consult with Management Suggestions by NEDs Lee Kin Gu Former non-executive director of Korea Radioactive Waste Agency ~2017.2. Adopted Suggestions important issues related to KHNP. NEDs have improved their understanding on the power generation industry by visiting major sites, and through this they are making practical and reasonable decisions. Operation of the Board of Directors and Subcommittees 2014 NEDs’ Competence • Workshop for new NEDs (5) (Feb, HR Development Institute) • Site tour to NPPs at home and abroad for increased hand-on understanding 19 Improvement • Kori, Samrangjin (Feb) / Wolsong, Radioactive Wastes Complex, Gyeongju HQs (Aug) Program • Barakah Plant, the UAE (Nov) KHNP responds to urgent issues by holding temporary BOD meetings. We have actively discovered 16 19% management issues and proposed the improvements by operating subcommittee of BOD for each field of NEDs in order to expand the activities of the board and to strengthen the NEDs’ expertise. 17 53 Performances of Board of Directors Composition of Subcommittees (As of March 2015) 10% 48 Items Unit 2012 2013 2014 Specialized Committees Role Performances in 2014 42 Number of BOD meetings Times 14 11 10 Business, Accounting, •‌14 meetings (10 resolved agendas, 14 reports) Audit Committee (3) Auditing • Report on auditing and internal control monitoring Resolved agenda Items 43 34 50 Executive Recommendation Recommendation of •‌ Nominated candidates for executive auditor and NED (Sep) Committee (7) executive promotion • Nominated candidate for NED (Dec) Preliminary review % 100 100 100 • Ordered an emergency report (Current State of Countermeasures against Cyber Financial Management Finance, Management Amended and resolved agenda Items 4 2 2 Security Issues) on hacking and information breaches in nuclear sites and discussed Committee (3) Advisory countermeasures and management suggestions Reported agenda Items 13 23 16 Press Relationship Committee • Requested ‌ to set up a practical PR strategy through utilizing a Culture Station, a new PR Advisory Attendance rate % 90 93 94 (3) PR channel Advisory for local Site Tour at Kori Power Site Site Tour at Wolsong Power Site Local Community Development • Requested ‌ a review of company-housing plans → Urged alternatives since the NEDs’ attendance rate % 90 95 93 community and civil Committee (3) construction schedule became uncertain due to complicated landownership petitions NEDs’ rate of remarks % 76 85 86 Non-Executive Directors Negotiations on BOD • Revised a provision of BOD code, decreased required budget authorization limit 2012 2013 2014 NEDs’ management suggestions Items 42 48 53 Committee (7) Affairs from KRW 30B to 8B Corporate 14 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Governance Sustainable Business Strategy Governance Stakeholders Engagement Stakeholders Communication Materiality Evaluation 15 Structure Stakeholders 7. Environmental 6. Local Community Groups Engagement It is a local community that has an These groups monitor environment In October 2014, KHNP achieved the SR10, the international standard on Social Responsibility Management interest in the eco-friendly construction related impacts. They have an interest in System, for the first time in Korea. Major stakeholders are identified in seven types based on the SR10 of NPP, the safe operation of NPP, the direct and indirect influences of KHNP’s standard. transparent information disclosure, and business upon environment. social contribution. 1. Shareholders and 2. Customers 3.Suppliers 4. Government 5. Employees Investors Shareholders and investors are the Customers are the group who purchase Suppliers are the group who produce Government is the governing body, This group includes executives and group who invest in a company with the company's product or service. They are values together with a company including legislative, judicial and employees internally employed for purpose of profit and have an interest the general public influenced by the by providing a certain function or administrative bodies that have legal a company operation and value in the improvement of financial stability corporate activities directly or indirectly. collaborating to maximize efficiency of authority over the company operations. creation. They are interested in a and profitability, the distribution of a company’s management, including sound and stable labor-management business performance, IR activities, and legal competence. They have an interest relation, rational HR management, and creating of synergy among electric in the practice of fair trade and mutual competency development. power groups. growth. Communication Communication Opinion Management Actions Report Opinion Management Actions Report Channel Channel 100% return of incentives from executives involved in any violation of Suggested to reserve a fund, in cash, to finance decommissioning •‌ Enhancing executives’ awareness on integrity 67 National audit •‌ Reserved KRW 603.3 billion for a decommission fund (Feb 2014) 7, 23 Shareholders integrity regulations Government expenses and investors Non-executive • ‌Installed Safe Street Lightings and conducted Plus Happiness, Wings to • Implemented the industrial diving safety procedures and improved diving Initiated social contribution campaigns 58~61 Urged taking measures to prevent diving accidents 39~40 director management Hope Project equipment and facilities advice Management • ‌Continuously monitoring facilities through preventive maintenance and • ‌Further activated community-centric social activities (Plus Happiness Continuous facility improvements to secure nuclear safety natural aging management programs such as replacement of steam 42 assessment Need for enterprise-wide campaigns to improve the public awareness Attaching Wings to Hope Project) 58~61 generators for Hanul #3 and #4, and reactor head for Hanbit #3 and #4, etc. of nuclear power generation • ‌Social activities reflecting the nature of the business (installing solarpowered LED safety lightings) • ‌An establishing member of ‘Transparent Society Network’ affiliated with Customers ACRC (2014) Establishment of a sustainable system to normalize the lax • Implemented/enforced normalization plans and established a plan to • Pledge of ethical practices among executives, managing directors of management practices resolve labor conflicts Need for public/enterprise-wide integrity-related declarations 67 divisions and departments and executive director of power sites, and the Committee for Fixing announced managers with high moral rectitude (Jun 15, 2015) Lax Management Reduction of excessive employee benefits • Reduced the welfare expense by 43% compared to 2014 74 • Pledge of integrity campaign for local nuclear industries (Jul 27, 2015) Practices Ombudsman system • ‌Labor-management agreements through on-site visits and Improve the quality of integrity and ethics education program through To improve labor and management cooperation • Play-based integrity education at HQs and plant sites (May, 2015) 68 communication campaigns (travel distance amounting to 20,000km) play Sharing CEO’s management philosophy and pending issues of the • Increased the CEO’s focus on working-level agendas (management-on• Publication and distribution of handbook of code of ethics (2014) Working level Publication and enterprise-wide distribution of code of ethics Employees corporate and stirring up participation to overcome the current site practices to 29 sites and offices in 2014; travel distance amounted to 29, 57, 74 ‌Cartoons, quiz and opinions based on or regarding the articles of the code 67~68 management (CEO) handbook challenges 20,000km) are included Categorized agendas such as improvements of labor/HR management • Improve employees’ satisfaction through improving welfare systems and • ‌Hosted the ‘Award for Proud KHNP Personnel” for morale support Labor-management regulations, employee educations/trainings & working conditions, and working conditions • ‘Reduce ‌ Unnecessary Works’ campaign to simplify processes and reduce 74 Future Development Need for programs to recover citizen’s trust and to restore internal council grievance management by reporting, negotiation and discussion items, • ‌Served as a communication channel between the company and employees’ fatigue 29~30 Committee momentum for sustained innovations and then draw solutions through discussions with labor representatives employees, promoting a smooth communication • Increased ‌ face-to-face communication with the CEO for improved awareness of internal communication NPP operation Emphasized the necessity of sharing information regarding power • ‌Expanded the text notification service for nuclear power information (end 66 Mutual growth Local council plant operation (Kori) user expanded from 300 to 1,350). Difficulties in anticipating PO timing which can affect production plans • Disclosure of materials plan and specifications for 3 years to come 33~35, 74 community Suppliers Meetings Anti-corruption Incorporated opinions of local communities and monitored the • ‌Held meetings every six months as requested or required 16~17, 73 citizen watch group opinions and stance of stakeholders Purchase Requested a purchase consulting session where they can meet and • ‌1:1 meeting with participating suppliers offering goods and departments/ 35 Consulting discuss with actual buyers divisions in demand of them Require a systematic chemical accidents preventive program to cope • ‌Introduced self-diagnosis system for environmental safety risks and 49 Environment Private environmental with the changes in the environmental safety regulatory circumstances improved the system • ‌Accepted and resolved 40 requests and reports, including region-specific Meetings with PartRequested regarding purchase related difficulties and for mutual bidding system and improved site access control. groups watch group Utilization of the group as a channel to communicate with local 35, 74 •‌Promised a private-public joint monitor for all facility replacements 43, 73 ners growth-related projects • ‌Improvements on mutual growth support projects (e.g. purchase communities close to nuclear plants consulting and Atom Mentor) Corporate 16 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Governance Sustainable Business Strategy Governance Stakeholders Engagement Stakeholders Communication Materiality Evaluation 17 Structure Stakeholders Communication Sustainability of KHNP Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity I am expecting safer and more transparent KHNP I hope KHNP find growth drivers and business I hope the entire nuclear industry can make a Safe nuclear power generation is a basis of the Wholehearted and persistent social contributions, Real change for integrity may begin with small stability in sustained technology development balanced growth based on sound belief and will citizens’ happiness that’s what I am expecting from KHNP efforts in every corner of KHNP Jang Dae Cheol Park Jae Young Kim Yun Ho Park Yun Won Jeong Jin Woong Hwang Joo Ho Visiting Professor at Management School of KAIST Director of Department of Nuclear Industry Policy at the CEO of Flowserve KSM Co., Ltd. Professor at KAIST (Dept. of Nuclear & Quantum A Staff of KHNP-SNU Global Volunteer Group / Majoring in Professor of Nuclear Engineering & the Dean of Engineering Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy of Korea Engineering) Psychology at SNU School at Kyunghee Univ. / Current Chairperson of Upright Ombudsman Council I believe that KHNP's activities and system estabThe sequence of controversies regarding KHNP KHNP is contributing to the development of nucleKHNP's efforts for the safe operation of NPP and The KHNP-SNU Global Volunteer Group (GVG) has Anti-corruption can give a result by the enforcelishment have been done very well for promoting and the NPPs has generated a great interest from ar power plant business and domestic business by the recovering of trust have been showing tanbeen dispatched to Vietnam, twice a year since the ment system or the reinforcement of legal action sustainability management. However, to increase the public in recent years. While the public is highly Flowserve KSM is contributing to the development gible results gradually. The number of random winter of 2013, to solve underdevelopment and but these methods can only give a temporary the reliability of information about NPP safety prekeen on KHNP’s handling of the controversies, it is of NPP business and domestic business by localizshutdown of each reactor that is one of the indipoverty. As a member of KHNP-SNU GVG, I went to impact. To obtain the best result in the long-term, sented in the sustainability management report, considered as a good time to improve the public’s ing major parts through developing shaft seal decators showing the safety of NPP operation was Phuoc An, Binh Dinh in Vietnam during the sumawareness of employees must be improved and more efforts are needed and such efforts should understanding on the needs and importance of vice, the core part of nuclear reactor coolant pump 0.22 times in 2014. This shows not only the most mer of 2015 to participate in technology sharing self-esteem of employees must be increased. In this be disclosed specifically in the report. Companies nuclear power by providing honest and transparent that was imported thoroughly before. When we first stable condition of the operation during the last of rainwater harvest tank installment, water filter aspect, the collaborative effort of KHNP executive in other countries meet local residents or environinformation about nuclear power. Especially, it can be developed the product, we were not able to use it 30 years of operation but also considered as the production, and sink installment with elementary members to communicate and share awareness mental organizations frequently to explain the a good opportunity to fully inform the advantages practically due to the short of quality standards of highest level worldwide. In addition, the safety students. with fields has been effectively applied to employsafety of NPP and ease the access to internal data. of nuclear power as the response to climate change KHNP NPP. However, after it was supported by KHNP condition has been highly raised after safety has KHNP-SNU GVG was impressive because it actually ees' awareness of anticorruption in a short period. Also, there are cases that the company meets all has emerged as a worldwide concern. Nuclear power, via SMEs’ technology development program, we been preceded than productivity at the NPPs. To utilized sustainable technology based on analysis of I think that continuous attention and support are of nearby local residents frequently. Therefore, we as a clean energy resource without GHG emission, is could finally make it to a practical phase through draw practical effects out of such KHNP’s safety local needs through rigorous preparation. In addition, needed in both company and society to settle need to keep it in mind that trust is built up by expanding all over the world, and order of NPP from stability evaluation process of quality safety and management, a safety culture should be penetratI could feel the sincere volunteer spirit through KHNP such effort as a tradition of KHNP in the future and rather subjective and emotional approach than overseas is regarded as a KHNP’s new growth driver. verification test under KHNP’s systematic support ed into the entire fieldwork. Especially, not only volunteers who are unlike other corporate volunteer to perfectly internalize employees' awareness of objective. KHNP’s overseas business can be actively promoted and active participation for three years. KHNP sethe safety culture of suppliers should be raised to groups that is solely for the purpose of company anti-corruption. Above all, internally, a continuous I highly evaluate KHNP's efforts and various activonce the UAE operation is deemed successful. And lected this product to replace their conventional the equivalent level of KHNP but also each indipromotion. Short-term volunteering cannot make differentiated education for each field, headquarter, ities for establishing the system of ethical manthe dismantlement of NPP should be prepared part and it is used in Hanbit, Hanul and Wolsong vidual, leader and organization should embrace fruitful results so I hope that KHNP's global social and position shall be effective to help members to agement. I request to disclose the results of ethical through preemptive technology development. NPPs. the safety culture. Trust by the public is important contribution would continue and many more people have pride and self-esteem. It is desirable to help management transparently in this report. I think Although KHNP is constructing and operating NPPs Unlike the beginning of industrialization of Korea, for sustainable management. Since trust cannot could participate in. them enhance their professionalism in jobs and find the governance structure should be composed of safely at the world-class level, I think certain parts still there are lots of SMEs that have global technology be accumulated in a short period of time, I wish the answers of their existence, but also enhance experts in electricity power industry or stakeholdneed to be improved. This is also the task for all NPPs competitiveness. If these technologies are commerthat KHNP, with patience, would become a trusted their human-social and artistic knowledge to see ers, who are closely related with KHNP, in order to in the world. I believe that if the safety of NPP can be cialized for improving nuclear power parts, I anticicompany by the public through consistent policy the whole humanity as well. improve transparency and social responsibility. improved through continuous innovation in safety pate that the effectiveness and possibility of mutual and transparent operation. culture and technology development, then a wider growth will be increased. However, I think KHNP public support can be gathered which may be used should prioritize creating an atmosphere empowas a driving force to leverage further overseas opporering the nuclear power industry to concentrate on tunities. R&D with firm faith and will. Corporate 18 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Governance Sustainable Business Strategy Governance Stakeholders Engagement Stakeholders Communication Materiality Evaluation 19 Structure Materiality Materiality Evaluation Outline STEP 3 Evaluation KHNP has prepared this report by faithfully reflecting the four reporting guideline principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) of sustainability management, 'sustainability context', 'materiality', 'stakeholders’ parCore Issue Selection ticipation,' and 'completeness'. In addition, research was conducted for the stakeholders of international standard analysis and advanced group benchmarking, and media research to understand important issues Comprehensive Review and Analysis of related to KHNP. Based on the research, important or potential issues of sustainable management related to STEP 1 and STEP 2 Results KHNP have been emerged. In accordance with the GRI G4.0 guideline, materiality evaluation was conducted Materiality Assessment Results on deduced important issues, and the final reporting issue was selected through prioritizing process. Significance of Economic, Environmental & Social Impacts Distinguish Core Issues Core Issues 14 17 Manage Safety and Health Strengthen Corruption 18 30 KHNP finalized a list of core issues that is 16 Prevention Activities aligned with our strategy and management 30 17 18 Manage Disasters Risk 7 policy and derived from materiality evalua28 24 Further Support for small and STEP 2 22 13 medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) tion. Selected issues have been structuralized 21 14 Manage Radioactive Wastes Issue Assessment according to core internal values, 'T.R.U.S.T', 20 15 6 2 8 24 31 12 22 Manage Information Security and evenly described these issues in this re5 26 21 Support Community Health port by sorting issues into 5 core values. 29 27 Protection and Management 3 11 19 Survey / Interview on 28 Strengthen Employees’ Data Analysis 10 1 Stakeholders Competencies 9 25 2 Expand Overseas NPP Businesses and Create New Growth Drivers STEP 1 4 Materiality 6 Improve the Competitiveness of R&D Evaluation Pool of Issues Quantify the Materiality of Issues Significance of Economic, Environmental & Social Impacts Process Core Issues in the perspective of GRI G4.0 An online survey regarding 31 sustainability management issues were sent to interIssue Industrial International NO Core Issue Aspect Scope Significance Global Benchmark nal and external stakeholders to understand their expectations and to assess the relCode Indicator Standards Research ative importance for them. In addition, an in-depth opinion by having interviews with Drivers of future growth (incl. Proprietary aspect with the 1 Core 2 expansion of overseas nuclear plant Company-wide High Media Research Internal Data Review external experts about the present and future competencies of KHNP has been veriimpacts on the business reflected Think business) fied. The research results were evaluated based on materiality by reflecting 'Influence ◎ Trust Technology on decision-making of stakeholders' and 'Importance of economical, environmental, 2 Core 6 Strengthen competitiveness of R&D R&D Company-wide High 1 New business development (incl. Proprietary aspect with the and social influence'. 3 Core 3 Company-wide Medium diversification of business portfolio) impacts on the business reflected Draw a Pool of Issues ※ 31 Critical Issues Think 4 Core 28 Strengthen employee competencies Training & education Company-wide High Evaluation of Sustainability Management Level Trust Respect KHNP conducted sustainability management survey on KHNP with internal and 5 Core 24 Further support for SMEs Procurement practices Partners High 2 external participants, and half of survey respondents answered positively about Industrial safety and health KHNP has analyzed the initiatives of interna6 Core 17 Safety and health management Company-wide, Partners High KHNP’s sustainability management practices. However, a majority of internal protection tional sustainability management of GRI G4.0 Disaster prevention strategies and respondents scored KHNP’s sustainability management as ‘low', therefore, it is ◎ Think (Sustainability Reporting Guidelines) and ISO 7 Core 18 Disaster risk management education programs All Stakeholders High Trust Ultimate necessary to strengthen our sustainability management capacity and practices 26000 (Guidance Standard on Social Respon8 Core 22 Information security management Protection of customer Company-wide, Partners, High 3 Safety internally. information Customers, Government sibility) to understand the sustainability trend Enhancement of quality Proprietary aspect with the and to validate important sustainability issues 9 Core 7 competitiveness impacts on the business reflected Company-wide, Partners Medium in the industry by benchmarking global sus10 Core 14 Radioactive waste management Waste water and waste materials ◎ All Stakeholders High tainability leaders. In addition, a pool of 31 Community support for health issues in economy, environment, and social Internal External (Unit: %) 11 Core 21 Customer health and safety Communities High protection and management Think fields has been compiled based on internal 46 Strengthen social contribution Trust Social 12 Core 19 Communities Communities Medium data and relevant media articles. 38 activities 4 Responsibility 32 13 Core 12 Adaptation to climate change Emission All Stakeholders Medium 26 24 16 14 Core 15 Water pollutant management Waste water and waste materials Communities Medium 9 Strengthen preventive anti4 6 15 Core 30 Anti-corruption Company-wide High Think 1 corruption activities Trust Timeless Very Low Relatively Low Moderate Relatively High Very High 16 Core 8 Transparent information disclosure Product and service labeling All Stakeholders Medium 5 Integrity Expansion of corruption report 17 Core 31 Anti-corruption Company-wide, Partners Medium system Think TRUST 1 Core Issues Consisting Core Aspects Technology No. Core Issues Significance Core 2 Reinforced competitiveness of R&D High Core 6 Safety and health management High New business development Core 3 Medium Technology, (incl. diversification of business portfolio) Competitiveness of Issues to Report Reflecting Core Issues Global Energy Leaders Think TRUST 1. Technology • Experts-oriented • Constant improvements • World-class performance • Experts-oriented • Constant improvements • World-class performance Think TRUST Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 23 1 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Technology Securing World-class Technologies in Nuclear Power Industry Based on our strong technologies, we will be the best nuclear power generation company in the world. Representative Technologies of R&D R&D Strategy System Developing Korean NPP Technologies Strategies and Securing Competitiveness With a vision of “Leading the Development of World-class Strengthening NPP Safety Technologies in the field of NPP”, KHNP has selected 13 Acquiring Foreign Certification for APR1400 key technologies from four strategies of 'strengthening Our Performance 1. Major accident prevention and response The standard design of APR1400(Advanced Power Reactor technology NPP safety', 'securing electric power supply safety', 'im2.Optimal safety analysis technology 1400), domestic built advanced power reactor, has passed proving equipment reliability', and 'creating growth poWorld-class Technology Completed Renewable Energy 3. Radiation life safety evaluation technology the preliminary inspection of the USNRC Design Certifica4. Radioactive waste vitrication technology tential'. The representative technologies were selected tion (DC). KHNP aims to pass the USNRC DC review without 42.22 % of USE NPP • Achieved APR+ standard design permit • Achieved more than 1,812 GWh of through interviews of key executives, professional consul• 4 proprietary decommissioning RPS execution any issues. If the USNRC DC is successfully achieved, it will technologies Construction • Launched overseas hydropower plant Securing electric power supply safety tation and R&D innovation workshop, and they will not not only be possible to obtain contracts for NPPs in the US projects (2.3 projects) only improve efficiency of management at KHNP, but also 5. Human error prevention and MMIS (Man but also raise the competitiveness of our NPPs export. With Machine Interface System) serve as the source of growth potential in the future. 6. Used nuclear fuel safe storage technology the goal of achieving European certificate by 2017, KHNP is KHNP is concentrating all of its resources into developing 7. Data (ICT) based NPP life cycle management also exerting its efforts on developing technologies that technology the following technologies: a 'new concept lightwater recan meet the European standard. actor development technology' to build power plants Business & Social Context Improving Equipment Reliability that will have no need for surrounding residents to evacThe Next Generation NPP Technology uate even when there are large-scale natural disasters and APR+, massive 1.5 million kw NPP built solely with technol8. Equipment and structure degradation The global NPP market has significantly declined after the nuclear accident in Fukushima. However, some countries are advancing nuclear power evaluation other extreme events; a safe and economical 'NPP dismanogies developed in Korea, has received a standard design based on its resources and circumstances. A majority of countries shows a tendency of either maintaining or expanding the existing nuclear power 9. Optimum reliability base operation tling and environment recovery technology'; and a 'hytechnology approval from the Korea Nuclear Safety Commission. This policy by considering issues such as energy security, financial feasibility and climate change. As the demand for energy has increased dramatically in 10. Major equipment monitoring, diagnosis draulic and renewable energy technology' to secure conresult was achieved after only seven years and with this developing countries, such as China and India, efforts to construct new NPPs are actively taking place. and veri cation technology ventional hydropower technologies that will successfully approval, trust in Korean NPPs has increased even further The IIEA states that the amount of energy generated by NPPs is expected to more than double the amount of current energy production now and to meet the goals of Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) imboth at home and abroad. The power production capacity reach approximately 930GW by 2050. In order to expand the export our NPP technology in light of this growth, it is imperative that we obtain worldCreating Growth Potential plementation plan. of APR+ has increased 10% when compared to the existing class level technologies beforehand. The nuclear decommissioning market, around 147 reactors require decommission, is also expected to ramp up 11. New concept lightwater reactor development technology APR 1400. The stability of APR+ during emergency situaby 2030 as most of the world NPPs are entering the long-term operation era. Securing the decommission techniques of NPP is an urgent issue in Ko12. NPP dismantling and environment recovery tions also has been increased dramatically with its walls rea due to the shutdown of Kori #1 reactor. In order to be competitive worldwide, KHNP must secure technologies of safe NPP construction, operation technology 13. Hydraulic and renewable energy designed to be of a higher strength and the application of and decommission through continuous R&D to prepare for future foreign and domestic projects. technology a passive safety device. According to the 7th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand of Korea, these technologies will be included in new NPPs starting in 2026. Our Progress Securing NPP Decommission Technology nuclear decommissioning process were identified in February 2015 to begin their development. Essential technologies such KHNP’s current R&D initiatives aim to develop 13 key technologies related to four strategies required to obtain technological advantage over our Considering of mid to long-term development of NPP industry, as site restoration and waste disposal will be developed in global competitors. Nuclear Plant Decommissioning Process (Expected to take over 15 years) we decided that Kori #1 reactor, the first and thus the oldest stages according to the nuclear decommissioning technology 'APR+', the next generation of NPP, was given standard design approval in 2014 in recognition of the R&D at KHNP. Moreover, 'APR1400', Korean NPP, nuclear reactor in Korea, should completely cease its operation. development roadmap.Through such efforts, it will be possible which was successfully exported to the UAE, passed the preliminary inspection of the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) design certification in Preparatory actions for permanent Kori #1 reactor will be operated until June 2017 and then go to integrate business management techniques such as design 2015. KHNP, relying on competitiveness in technical development and its rich experience in NPP construction and operation, is generating new revedecommissioning [2 years] through the necessary decommissioning process. In preparaof decommissioning process and integral technologies after nue growth by entering global markets, such as Asia, Western Europe and the Middle East. Furthermore, KHNP is improving the competitiveness in tion for this task, KHNP has started to obtain technologies re2022, which is expected to result in the further development of the green energy business by creating various business portfolios such as hydropower, pumped storage power, and other renewable energy sources. quired in NPP decommission. A total of 6 core technologies for relevant technologies and export to foreign markets. Fuel cooling and safety management Status of Core 2013 2014 2015 (Fuel uploading Discharge/Isolation Technology • Source Term Evaluation • Study on the feasibility of radioactive metal waste treatment and • System decontamination Safety Management) recycling techniques Development Technology for technology [Min. 5 years] • Decommissioning technique for high active reactor structures Project for Nuclear Decommissioning Future Plan Decommissioning • Cost analysis for standard and heavy water reactors • Standard decommissioning design techniques Decontamination & Dismantling Nuclear Plant Short-term Mid-term Long-term Technology KHNP is planning to develop new foreign NPPs and making efforts to enter the nuclear decommissioning business, with the goal of generating more [Min. 6 years] Decommissioning Roadmap 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019~2021 2022~2025 Technology than 10% of its profits from overseas sales based on the '2030 Mid to Long-term Management Strategy'. To accomplish this, KHNP plans to secure Joint Standard Decommissioning Standard decommissioning Specific decommissioning design world-class level technologies by focusing its resources to develop 13 key technologies. KHNP will also safely operate national NPPs and expand its Restoration & Closing Outsourced Design design for specific reactor types Further development of environment-friendly businesses. KHNP will advance into the role of 'Reliable Global Energy Leader' by continuously improving its world-class level [2 years] technologies and technology technologies and strengthening its capabilities in overseas market and business portfolios. Core Element Technologies export Element technology for Commercialization of for Decontamination & decontamination/cutting decontamination/cutting systems Dismantling 24 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 25 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Expanding Overseas NPP Business Diversification of Business Portfolio Exporting NPP to New Overseas Market Putting Efforts into the UAE NPP Business Leading the Field of Technologies Related to Green Energy KHNP is one of the world's biggest NPP generation compaWorking Towards the Goal of Finishing nies, and is conducting both NPP construction and electricity Construction on Time KHNP is actively developing green energies such as hyDiversification of New Business in Renewable generation at the same time. KHNP is using its accumulated After signing the contract for four reactors of APR1400 with dropower and renewable energies to increase its comEnergy Industry experiences to expand its area of business beyond the dothe UAE in 2009, the construction on those four reactors startpetitiveness in the field of green energy and narrow the KHNP currently has a diverse renewable energy business mestic market of Korea utilizing a 'Plant Lifecycle Manageed in 2012. This was the first KHNP’s overseas NPP constructechnical gap with global industry leaders. KHNP has proportfolio, which includes fuel cell, solar energy and wind ment ' technique, which handles tasks such as research and tion. KHNP took every precaution and putting all of its reOriginal Technology moted the domestication of Francis water-turbine generpower generation. As of June 2015, KHNP is working on development, construction, management and repair at newly sources to ensure the on-time completion of the construction. Francis / Caplan ator with more than 10MW generation capacity to fuel cell projects such as constructing Noeul green enerbuilt nuclear plants. KHNP is putting strenuous efforts into its Hydraulic Turbine strengthen technologies of hydropower, and the installaIn 2014, installation of #1 reactor begun and so far, 42.22% of gy (20 MW) located in Sangam-dong, Seoul and Busan overseas NPP construction and management business. the construction process has been completed. Installation of Wave Power Floating Ocean tion of 15 MW Francis water-turbine generator and main green energy (30 MW) located in Haeundae, Busan. Six Generation Hydro Wind Power For a Sweden project, KHNP has renewed the certification of a #2 reactor was successfully completed in June 2015. There is a devices of control system was completed in the first half power generation companies, including KEPCO, are coopPlant supplier every year after receiving the qualification of a suppliplan to finish the construction of #1 reactor by May 2017. of 2012. erating to develop Miryang solar business. Wave Wind er in 2013, and it has continued this business according to the Power Power KHNP has continuously discovered the core technologies In the case of wind power generation, KHNP plans to conschedule of the Swedish company. The business in Finland Renewable of renewable energy in order to meet the requirements of Energy struct total 140 MW onshore wind farm at 7 complexes, has been stopped due to the client’s request but the cooperaTraining Manpower Specializing in Operating RPS. KHNP plans to secure the core technologies such as which include Cheongsong and Goheung, and its goal is Geotion channel is still maintained with the client for the next Support Services Agreement (OSSA) Thermal Tidal pumped storage power generator, small hydro generator, to complete the construction of at least two complexes EGS business order. KHNP is planning to generate additional revenues by signing Geo-Thermal Power Tidal Power design technology of 30 MW water-turbine generator, and by the end of 2015. Furthermore, KHNP has signed a MOU Additionally, utilizing its experiences in construction and operOSSA after completing the construction of the NPP s. For sucGeneration Generation tidal stream power generation. with local governments of Gyeongsangbuk-do and Ingeation of NPPs, KHNP is offering NPP education and training and cessful signing of OSSA, infrastructures of NPP simulator and gun in order to vitalize the development of renewable providing equipment supplies and construction technologies training center office building were constructed at Shin-Kori energy business and to seek for additional business opto Chinese and Canadian companies. The efforts to transfer NPP plant in March 2015. From the beginning of 2014, Expanding Eco-Friendly Power Generportunities. technologies to American companies are also taking place. OrKHNP has selected manpower, which will be sent to the ation Business In addition, KHNP is concentrating its resources on signdering activities in Egypt,Vietnam, Brazil, and the Czech RepubUAE based on the recommendations from the headquaring contracts to purchase renewable energy from exterlic are currently taking place through cooperation with KEPCO. ters and power plants of KHNP for the purpose of suc'Renewable Business New Start Initiative' was established nal firms and form joint ventures with other companies RPS Achievement KHNP will continuously expand its business territory into globcessfully signing the agreement. (Unit: MWh) in 2014, which added wind power industry to the existing to obtain Renewable Energy Certificate (REC). KHNP is al equipment market in order to accomplish its goal of creating Obliged (A) Achieved (B) portfolio of renewable business centered on hydropower, striving to provide more than 80% of the required more than 10% of its profits from overseas sales according to Execution Rate (C=B/A) solar energy and fuel cell. This initiative includes 'Renewamount of renewable energy according to RPS. KHNP '2030 Mid to Long-term Management Strategy'. able Energy Mid to Long-term Plan' and 'Profit and Public achieved 71.78% in 2014, and is planning to increase RPS 80.82% 71.88% 71.78% Service Plan using Renewable Energy'. Based on such iniimplementation rate to 80.12% in 2015. tiative and plans, KHNP will expand the capacity of green Overseas Business status energy equipment to 1,395 MW by 2018 and become the ① (As of Jun 2015) 2,523,871 Korea's most green energy company by accomplishing Penetrated KHNP overseas offices 2,462,732 Finland •‌ T VO, a Finnish power company: Olkiluoto Nuclear Plant #4 more than 100% of its goal set by RPS. P enetration in tentative suspension preparation Unit (OL4) Construction Project OEM markets Potential target areas UAE • ‌Won the UAE nuclear plant construction project in 2009 (4 APR1400 units) 2,010,256 Seeking Ways to Enter Overseas Hydropower • ‌Closed an MOU with ENEC for professional support for the UAE nuclear power operation in 2013 Sweden Business 1,811,703 • ‌Swedish Public Power Company – Overseas hydropower business market is anticipated to 1,770,121 NPP Construction Project continuously grow as an alternative to fossil fuel. Therefore, KHNP concentrates its capacity on areas with a higher prof1,624,616 Headquarters (South Korea) Canada itability and lower risks. It is also actively promoting tech② United Kingdom WANO Tokyo Center nology-oriented businesses, including function improveNew York Office Paris Office ment and technical supervision. In 2014, KHNP signed a Brazil The Republic of Czech Nepal memorandum of agreement with a Korean construction Egypt • ‌Won the PO of mechanical engineering project company for hydropower business development in Azad Saudi Arabia for Chamelia hydro plant in 2009 Pattan, Pakistan. In 2015, KHNP plans to develop hydropower business in Pakistan, Vietnam and Peru. China 2012 2013 2014 Vietnam South Africa ※ ‌Remarks: No penalty for 2012-2014. Certain proportion of obligation can be carried over ① Solar Power Generation to the next year. ② Wind Power Generation Think TRUST 2 Respect Respect , “Drive Voluntary Participation and Cooperation” • Embracing the Diversity • Open Communication • Participation and Cooperation Core Issues Consisting Core Aspects No. Core Issues Significance Core 28 Reinforcement of Employees’ Competences High Core 24 Further Support for SMEs High Issues to Report Reflecting Core Issues Think TRUST 2. Respect for our Employees • A ‌ cknowledgement of diversity • Open communication • Participation and cooperation Think TRUST 2. Respect for our Partners • C ‌ ontribution to sound and healthy nuclear ecosystem • Support business partners for their competence improvement Think TRUST Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 29 2 T echnology R espect Respect for our Employees U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Respect for our Partners Respect for our Employees Improvement of Organization Culture Three Innovations Aimed at Building a Creating Gender Equality Organization New Organization Culture Culture In April 2014, KHNP announced 'the 2nd Foundation of KHNP has expanded female employee oriented programs We will do our utmost to create an enjoyable working environment, where each Direction the Company' and showed its determination for radical to develop their career as their number has tripled comand every employee can perform to his/her highest level. changes in order to open a new chapter after a series of pared to the one at the foundation of KHNP. Such proRoot out Sources of Corruption corruption scandals, regarding NPP parts, were found to grams include a life cycle education of marriage, child Establish Safety-first Nuclear Pant Our Performance Operation System have taken place inside the company. As a result, KHNP birth and nurturing, and various internal and external Reinforce Drivers of Innovation placed intensive effort on implementing the 'Three Innoclasses. KHNP also offers sexual harassment counseling vations of Organization Operation' and undertook for female workers, which has become the first governBest Family-friendly Company First Public Enterprise Per Capita Education Expenditure • Improve transparency of hires and sweeping changes in the fields of organization, human ment-owned entity to establish a Women’s Committee, Certificate Established a Committee to promotions • Improve plant safety management resources and company culture with contributions from and where female employees can voice complaints. The Valid until 2016 Safeguard Rights of Women KRW 3.41Million •Establish a constructive framework for human affairs through communication every employee to establish a core value TRUST and to be number of female employees in KHNP stood at 798 in 2012 born again as a new KHNP. but its number has been gradually increasing. There were and collaboration 899 and 971 (accounting for 9.9% of the total workforce) Internalization of the Core Value TRUST female employees in 2013 and 2014, respectively. KHNP Business & Social Context We promoted the internalization of core values in order will lead in promoting gender equality by continuously reHuman to compel employees to create change. Handbooks and cruiting female Workers and Supporting Them to Grow. Affairs While the head office of KHNP is scheduled to be relocated to Gyeongju-city by the end of 2015 according to the policy of regional allocation develpromotional videos were produced and distributed to all Innovation opment of the Korean government, the introduction of both wage peak system and performance-based yearly wage system have caused various laemployees, and TRUST trainings have been provided to evSupport System for Female Employees bor-management issues due to the government’s ‘Second-step towards Normalizing Public Policy’. In order to respond proactively to internal and exeryone at the company. Starting in 2015, the 'Best practice LETTER' has been sent to employees’ family to create the Offer pregnant employees a package including ternal changes in the business, the management is required to make fundamental commitment for innovation. Organizational Cultural MOM’s guidance for pregnancy-relevant regulations Furthermore, positive and flexible work culture is required to create a consensus among the employees and for active participation of the employees Innovation Innovation management consensus externally. Package and benefits, work support materials, and a gift. in the business of KHNP. Only when the combination of will and action from the top management is connected to each individual, then collective will from all of the employEstablishment of a Positive CooperaCulture of Promoting a culture to care pregnant ees will lead increased competitiveness of the company. Meanwhile, KHNP plans to increase the number of domestic nuclear plants to 35 and inemployees and enforce maternal protection • S‌ afety-oriented •Culture of tive Culture Maternal Care indicators crease manpower to 18,000 by 2030. Securing professionals is necessary as KHNP faces increased demands in the nuclear sector from both exporting nuclear plant transparent NPPs and the decommissioning industry, which will determine competitiveness of the company when securing future business partners. KHNP will operation organization • Healthy culture • Promotion of In order to expand employees' capacity for innovation Welfare program for employees under develop a systematic human resource initiative to develop working professionals in the field. ‘Restart’ career discontinuity due to career after birth, of check and field-oriented and to turn the positive cooperative culture into the part Program prevention of culture for safety maternity leave corruptions • Organizational of the company, various programs aimed at enticing vol• Increased innovation untary changes within employees have been implementcommunication capability ed. Different campaigns such as ‘Compliment Relays’, ‘Deand collaboration KHNP Women's Committee Established Our Progress • Basis for future partment of the Month’ and ‘Award for Proud KHNP Personnel’ were hosted to raise employees’ morale. A (November 2014) growth campaign of ‘Compliments and Appreciations Starting KHNP Women's Committee (KWC) is a special committee KHNP has actively created a positive work environment that promotes gender equality and the core values of “TRUST”. KHNP creates a workplace that that seeks to enforce policies regarding the training of from the Top' has been implemented to cultivate a posiemployees can voluntarily participate to accomplish the company’s goals. KHNP also pursues a work-life balanced workspace and to increase employfemale workers. In 2014, the committee received consultive mindset amongst senior staff and to boost morale of ees’ satisfaction through family-friendly initiatives such as “KHNP Work & Family Advantage Program”. The company also supports its employees to Programs to Promote a Positive & tation from an advisory panel to select eight promotion all of the employees. The culture of complimenting each take various classes in different fields. In addition, based on an employee’s experience, position and professional field, customized courses have been Cooperative Culture other has been spread throughout the company. The 'Do tasks, including ‘Working Mom Program’, and established provided so that the professionals can maintain the safety of the NPPs. Autonomous culture implementation plans. It Together! Cooperation' online board was created on • Improvement ideas the intranet portal to allow different departments to ad• Workshop for change just work-related issues through cooperation. Not only and innovation that, KHNP has created various online boards on its inFuture Plan Rational task adjustment tranet portal, and held the ‘Team KHNP Warrior Workshop’ • R ‌ einforced ownership and other similar activities to revitalize communication through eliminating within the company. These changes and practices by emKHNP plans to invest increasingly in the training of its employees not only to deal with increased demands on education according to its business exconflicts among divisions ployees have renewed their desire for innovation and pansion both domestic and overseas but also to train its professional manpower systematically so that they can manage the NPPs safely. KHNP will Driver of a positive culture have uplifted working atmosphere within the company. develop a plan to raise the professionalism of employees so the company and employees can grow together through continuous learning. We will also enhance work satisfaction and productivity at the same time, by introducing family-friendly initiatives, such as the expansion of flexible work• Campaigns promoting compliments and positive thinking week, and emphasis on work and life balance. • Awards of Proud Man of KHNP Opening Ceremony of KHNP Women’s Committee 30 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 31 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Respect for our Employees Respect for our Partners Realization of Great Work Place (GWP) Training Professional Personnel for NPP safety Securing Work and Life Balance Strategy of Training Professionals Developing Employee’s Capability 'KHNP Work & Family Advantage Project' Accomplished the Extension of a Family FriendKHNP is looking for professionals ‘who are faithful to the baKHNP has been focusing on the improvement of duty sics, considerate of others, mutually respect, and global profescompetencies in order for employees to secure the necWork and life balance leads to an increase in employees' ly Management Certification Happy Workplace sional’. We have set a vision of ‘Fostering Creative & Integrated essary competency for duty performance, and thus to satisfaction with their work and raises both the efficiency KHNP has also implemented a system of the flexible work Professionals with Global Capabilities’ to those who conform raise the quality competitiveness of KHNP and overall Training programs to revitalize the and competitiveness of their work. KHNP is leading an acschedule such as the flexible time work or alternative work to these, and numerous education and training programs safety at NPPs. Moreover, KHNP trains intensively global organization, support for group tive corporate culture by introducing and expanding the schedule to settle the family-friendly system. In recognition activities for learning, cultural and art that have been developed. In addition, four strategies are nuclear energy specialists in preparation for the expan'Work & Family Advantage’ program. of these efforts, it was possible to extend the certification education programs being implemented that are aimed at establishing ‘Career sion of its international business. → Promoting a positive and of the ‘Best Family Friendly Certificate’, received from the communicative culture 'Work & Family Advantage Project', one of the core programs Ministry of Gender Equality and Family in 2011, to 2016. development system based on the type of professionals’, implemented by KHNP to create a work and life balance, takes its ‘Movement principle and management plan which supImprovement of Job Competency inspiration from the Korean proverb known as Il-geo-yang-deuk, ports career development’, ‘Education and training system KHNP has been operating a customized professional Balance of Work and Family which means killing two birds with one stone. Employees are based on capabilities to foster employees’, and ‘Construction training system for each competency development stage contributing to the expansion of a positive company culture Happy Camp, field education program for employees and their families, Employee Care Service of a systematic career development infrastructure'. according to life cycle from employment through to the after recovering their pride after experiencing work-life balance. retirement of staff and employees. In particular, KHNP has tailored education for age groups Fostering Creative & Integrated → ‌Increasing company loyalty and Vision promoted the share and expansion of core technologies employees’ dedication Operation of Psychology Consultation to Professionals with Global Capabilities’ inside the company by selecting 100 core duties among '10 Resolutions for Making a Happy WorkDeal With Employee's Stress Levels Training professionals for improving core competencies of KHNP the fields of development, safety, machinery, measureplace' Campaign KHNP is providing psychology consultation to help employSupport for Self-Enrichment ment, and quality and by electing core duty professionals In order to remove unhealthy customs at the workplace, a Enforcing career development programs reflecting the needs of both ees deal with stress from work and daily lives so that they employees and the company in charge of technical consultations and knowledge mancampaign of '10 Resolutions for Making a Happy WorkSupport for employees to obtain can effectively carry out their duties. Employees can receive Direction agement, and so on. As of 2014, around 270 core task certificates & licenses, special place' has been promoted. Ten improvement tasks were Improving individual competencies through training and education stress coaching and psychological consultation at a professpecialists and trainees are working at the company. education for female employees obtained by conducting a survey targeting everyone in sional psychological consultant center contracted with the Improving competencies of managers → ‌Driving a mutual growth of individuals and the company the company. KHNP has encouraged employees’ particicompany. A ‘Visiting Counseling Service’ has been operating Establishing a basis for duty-oriented human resource development pation by selecting one issue for each month, and proFostering Global Professionals for remote areas in order to increase accessibility. According In order to expand its international footprint, KHNP is makducing and playing promotional videos. As a result, emto a satisfaction survey in 2014, 95% of employees answered Career Movement principle and ing a concerted effort in training global professionals. In ployees’ satisfaction has risen in all areas in just ten development system based on the management plan which supports that they found consultations to be helpful. In order to creparticular, the complete revision of training materials and type of professional career development months since the beginning of the campaign. Especially, ate an even healthier environment in the future, KHNP will Strategies Education and training system staff has been conducted according to the global educa‘Leave Office on Time Culture’ campaign raised the satisimplement online consultations for all employees. Construction of systematic career based on capabilities to foster tion and training process of Systematic Approach to Trainfaction the most through the activation of a ‘Family Love employees development infrastructure ing (SAT). The Global Village for Professionals Development Day’, which is every Wednesday and Friday. The Opening of the Radiation Emergency Center is a 24-hour language-learning center that was speMedical Center (REMC) cifically established for language training. KHNP plans to In order to deal with radiation emergency situations and offer expand education courses for overseas export oriented to Increased Employees’ Satisfaction 10 Promises for Happy Workplace Performance of Education Infra Securing Advanced Education and preliminary medical assistance in case of emergencies, the meet not only the needs of the UAE business, but also for Punch-out Work order Specify the background, direction and REMC was opened at the head offices of the four NPPs (Kori, Reinforcement 2014 Training Infrastructure other countries that have adopted nuclear power. 61.4 70.9 Points timeline of work you are to order Hanbit, Wolsong and Hanul). During normal operation, the Reinforced HRD Have a meeting with only a few selective with KHNP is planning to expand the current manpower of Vacation Meeting REMC carries out stress tests for employees, measures arterial Interview the closing time clarified • Established Human Resource Training Team 51.8 64.9 Points Do not speak or act if it can disregard stiffness and operates non-smoking and obesity clinics. At in Human Resources Division (Dec 2013) 10,000 to 18,000 by 2030. In order to prepare for such an exTraining of KHNP professionals Communication • Founded 2nd Campus of Human Resource pansion, restructuring plans have been made for the profesat the present time, for a brighter future Meetings personality of others times of emergency, REMC handles preliminary medical treatTraining Institute (Feb 2014) 58.3 67.8 Points Event/Protocol Minimizing the scale & the number of events, ment, the transportation of emergency patients and other re• Established OSSA Education Team (Apr 2014) sional training system, such as to reform the professional deKHNP has recently picked its own unique competency model. The model is a and simplifying the processes of protocols lated tasks to protect the health and safety of employees. velopment organization and to supplement education training system based on competency that was developed through exhaustive Source: Internal survey (Jan. 2014, Oct. 2014) Punch-out Work overtime only when needed for Improved On-the-Job Training Facilities facilities. A training team in charge of overall education was trials over a period of five years, and is broadly divided into areas closely related efficiency, while trying to minimize overtime to core values such as common competencies, leadership competency by class • Additional Simulators for NPP Practicians established in 2013, efforts to train future professionals have Each team establish a vacation plan every and job competency comprising 56 classes and 234 responsibilities. In addition, Vacation (10th unit 15th unit) been further strengthened by the creation of a developdetailed action indicators for each competency are included in the database and month with the order given to members in • Expanded Training Facilities for Maintenance higher to lower positions ment task force team for professionals in 2015. In order to are being used right now in conjunction with the entire training process. Hiring Training meet the increased demand in education, KHNP selected and training NPP personnel will continue to be an important issue that can affect Have a dinner together and break up earlier if Dinner after Work the future of the company’s survival. KHNP plans to train integrated type profespossible. Do not ply others with a drink the 2nd training campus for professionals; created an educaExpanded Training & Education Tools sionals with professionalism, personality, integrity and problem solving ability. By Co-prosperity Respect partners as a partner for co-prosperity, tion & training center for a hydropower plant; and designed • Developed Web-based 2D & 3D On-thecontinuously establishing a best-in-class training infrastructure for professionals, not the weak Job Training Contents for NPP Operation/ a training plan. The company also upgraded a training faciliKHNP will continue to train world-class professionals. Company Housing Respect other’s life Maintenance ty for on-site education to strengthen practical training for Focus on works at work, and do private affairs •Developed Training Materials for OSSA Manpower Development Manager at Professionals Training Team of Personnel Daily Life NPP by using simulator and maintenance training facilities. after work. Operators Division Kim Haeng-seop At the Hanbit Head Office of the REMC on its Opening Day Think TRUST Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 33 2 T echnology R espect Respect for our Employees U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Respect for our Partners Respect for our Partners Contributing to the Creation of a Healthy NPP Ecosystem Mutual Growth Strategy System Creation and Improvement of a System for a Fair and Clean Trade Order KHNP has set 'Global leader KHNP, creating a healthy NPP As a leader in the nuclear power industry, we will construct a sound ecosystem ecosystem' as its vision of mutual growth and resolved to KHNP is striving to establish a fair trade order within the and promote fruitful mutual growth. focus on promoting mutual growth based on SCM. Led NPP industry. As part of the efforts, the company successpersonally by the CEO, KHNP is striving to bring fruitful fully eliminated manipulation during the bidding process mutual growth and is working with partners to realize Our Performance by overhauling the purchase process and taking measures ‘the big dreams of SMEs’. In 2014, KHNP created the ‘KHNP to strengthen the monitoring system. WITH’ brand, with the goal of improving the presence of Financial Aids for SMEs Marketing Support for SMEs Support for Improved Competitiveness of SMEs products made by SMEs in the international market. (Low-interest loan, etc.) •‌ SME product purchase: KRW 579.3 billion • ‌Supports for Technical Certificates & Industrial KRW 91.7Billion (accounting for 50.3of overall purchase) 50.3 Innovation 3.0 : SMBs Policy Innovating procurement systems to foster fair and transparent tenders •‌ Support for business meetings and SME participation in • Human Resource Support (including Atom Vision Global leader KHNP, creating a healthy NPP ecosystem (Increased by KRW 12.5 Billion from previous year) 26 exhibitions at home and abroad : times 25 Mentor Program) : SMEs • ‌Prior declaration of private contracts via Internet, evaluation and prior Slogan KHNP helps SMEs realize their big dream opening of procurement → Improves transparency of contracts • Further standardization/commercialization of nuclear plant compartments and ease of supplier qualifications → Lowers the Business & Social Context KHNP WITH entry barrier Operating a system automating payments System to subcontractors and detecting collusive 'The Third Mutual growth Basic Plan' announced by the government in 2014, contains the mandate to strengthen national industrial competitiveness World-class Innovation tenders (from August 2014) by creating a more cooperative culture between large conglomerates and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). The plan states that large comLeading a mutual Differentiation • ‌Mandatory use of online payment check system for ensuring a panies must expand their range of support to secondary and tertiary suppliers and work to create ‘a bridge of mutual growth’ through the promotion growth and through persistent timely payment to subcontractors (100% for construction contracts) of core tasks such as a mutual-growth payment system and multilateral performance sharing. These changes may be a burden to large companies in co-prosperity innovations • Analysis of bidding patterns by submission phases → request an the short term, but from a long-term perspective, they could strengthen their technical competitiveness through the joint research and development investigation for any doubtable cases to ‘Fair Trade Commission of Korea’ (Analysis of 146 tenders led to 22 warnings) of new products or technologies, which may become business opportunities. SMEs can expect not only an increase in sales from large companies, but also establish self-sufficiency by securing long-term contracts. KHNP is currently working with around 60,000 1st & 2nd tier suppliers in the manufacturEstablishing a rational pricing model for Transparency Harmony ing industry of NPPs and equipment. The purchasing amount for products from SMEs increased annually, and in 2014, it stood at about KRW 580 bilProcess determining proper prices (from September Transparent and clean Nuclear power 2014) lion accounting for 50% of all purchases made by KHNP. The products purchased from SMEs include not only the items selected for development, but culture for industry ecosystem also items certified as new technology. This means that KHNP and SMEs are working together to develop core technologies. An active ecosystem of mutual growth promoting harmony • ‌[Phase 1, ‘14] – commissioning a research for safetyand qualitySMEs strengthens KHNP’s competitiveness so that KHNP should realize suppliers as partners and focus on the improvement of competency in the enand coexistence oriented pricing model and demonstration of production cost tire supply network to induce mutual growth. calculation (2 items incl. axial sealing device) • [Phase 2, ‘15~] – Enforcing a production cost in accordance with the research results and managing the outcomes Our Progress CEO Expansion of the Organization and CEO leading a CEO who values CEO’s Will mutual growth communicating fields Vitalization of Headquarters for Mutuwith SME partners KHNP is moving away from the existing short-term and one-sided support system and is in the process of setting up a continuous and mutual develal Growth opmental support business model. KHNP has been leading the change of the mutual growth paradigm with the vision of a global leader that creates Strengthening the competitiveness of NPP ecosystem by mutual Orientation a sound industrial ecosystem. In 2014, based on strong supports for mutual growth from the CEO and executives, KHNP reformed its overall mutual growth connected with SCM KHNP is operating a division dedicated to implement tasks growth system of organization, policies and systems. related to mutual growth systematically. Operating under KHNP is not only supporting the actual competitiveness of SMEs through technology transfer and manpower support but also we are pursuing fruitImproved effectiveness of the direct control of the SCM team, this division holds regSCM-connected, sound ful mutual growth by means of a supply chain management (SCM) system for the first time by the public enterprise. mutual growth through ular meetings with directors from all divisions to review mutual growth package supports the results of mutual growth projects managed by each reSelect-and-focus for tailored Nuclear industry ecosystem in spective division. In 2014, the division reviewed strategies supports harmony and mutual growth concerning mutual growth and went over the details of fuFuture Plan ture projects to support SMEs. KHNP plans to create a healthy and active ecosystem. To pursue this goal, KHNP will seek to create a vibrant atmosphere where each member can contribute to the growth by improving the competitiveness of the overall NPP supply chain and support the growth of hitherto obscure champions. KHNP will usher in a new era of mutual growth by continuously finding capable and suppliers and provide them with the right type of support. 34 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 35 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Respect for our Employees Respect for our Partners Creation of SCM System and Changes to the Mutual Supporting the Initiatives to Strengthen the Growth Paradigm Competitiveness of Suppliers Strengthening of Coexisting Financial from SMEs Performances of R&D Support for SMEs KHNP supports SMEs to gain access to the NPP market Promoting Strategically Mutual System through our ‘Touring Conferences’ for sales consultation Growth Connected to SCM Category Activities & Descriptions regarding products made by SMEs. KHNP also offers op• Discovery of items to develop In order to help suppliers to achieve financial stability, within 5 years, development portunities to suppliers to hold 1:1 meeting with potenIn a bid to increase the competitiveness of the entire NPP become more self-sufficient and competitive by aligning plan for items, briefing KHNP is providing necessary financial supports. Since tial buyers and thereby enhance both effectiveness and industry and promote measurable mutual growth, KHNP three SCM strategies, ‘creating value’, ‘quality guarantee’ session for the plans, etc. 2013, in partnership with Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK), • ‌Maximized the fund for satisfaction with sale consultations. In order to revitalize is currently using the 'SCM system', the first such system and ‘on-time delivery’, with our mutual growth initiatives. KHNP has been offering low interest rate loans and free collaborative R&D projects the currently depressed NPP industry, KHNP plans to hold among public entities. By effectively managing internal (KRW 0.8B to 10B) consultations as part of its four management SMEs supa sales conference annually and, in a bid to increase the KHNP’s SCM: a nuclear-centric supply channel management system that →‌‌Cumulative performance port programs. In 2014, in partnership with Korea Expurchasing process and suppliers using SCM, it is now comprehensively manage partners and internal procurement processes Reinforcement of (by 2014): 105 cases (KRW overall size of industry, encourage start-up companies possible to ensure that the products meet the safety R&D Support change Bank (KEB), KHNP has started to offer ‘Grow To(contracts, inventory control and material management), facilitating System 30.26B) and women owned businesses to participate in these standards, and that they are delivered at a competitive timely supply of products that comply with the requirements of NPP • Additional ‌ governmentgether Loan’, that allows suppliers working with KHNP to sales conferences. stability and are reasonably priced. private sector joint receive a loan of up to 80% of a signed contract. KHNP price and on time. KHNP is also supporting SMEs to investment fund for technology development has provided financial support of KRW 91.7 billion to its Discovering Hidden Champions projects (KRW 60B) suppliers through various financial aids. → P ‌ erformance in 2014: 2 In order to help SMEs expand their business on the global SCM Strategy Mutual growth Strategy Tasks Key Performances cases (KRW 0.66B) stage, KHNP implements initiatives aimed at discovering completed Support to Strengthen Technology and promoting hitherto obscure champions. For this purValue Creation Value Creation • Introduced High Value Award system • 44 HVA tenders closed (Provision of high-quality (Securing proper profits) • Framework to build proper contract price • Comprehensive plan for establishing a rational pricing system Improvement of ‌ • Partner education program for technology competence Capabilities pose, KHNP helps SMEs to obtain certified qualifications materials) • Shared value through sharing performances • 77 performance share project discovered and completed Technological through Mutual growth and to purchase overseas product liability (PL) insurances Competence • 246 companies (464 persons) completed the program 12 companies Academy (1,320 persons) and also offers customized support depending on their Reinforced QA Capabilities • Education program for improving quality competences completed a mentoring course SMEs face many difficulties with regard to R&D technologies Quality Assurance • Digitalization of quality verification processes • ‌Transferred KHNP-owned export capabilities. (Securing nuclear safety) (Increased competitiveness) • Partners reinforced their own quality monitoring processes technologies (including that are vital to the NPP industry on their own. As such, KHNP • Reflection of quality verification costs • Quality-relevant claims decreased by 9.6% from 2013 patents) (18 items in 2014) supports initiatives to develop technologies at SMEs to enAlong with such efforts, KHNP is actively making use of its • Prior opening of long-term provision (supply/demand) plans • Plan for 370K items opened on Internet • Supported acquisitions of hance their competitiveness and to encourage the localizabrand power and carrying out joint marketing campaigns, Timely Supply Planned Production domestic/global technology • Prior opening of procurement specifications • 401 specs opened with approx. 8,500 private contract items to be opened. leveraging exposure for our suppliers in the marketplace. (Stabilized plant operation) (Stable management) • Opening of private contract items • Number of new entries increased by 4.2 from 2013 certificates for nurtured tion of equipment and development of new technologies. Activation of R&D technologies KHNP has, since September of 2014, been promoting 24 • Introduced Awards for localized products, which include a solar water circulation Individuals & Groups of system and a chromo radiometer as part of its ‘Permanent Contributing to fostering a Enhancing competitiveness of SMEs Collaborative R&D Support for Finding Access to Domeshealthy nuclear ecosystem • Exhibited excellent R&D Exhibit of Quality Products made by Suppliers’ at the Kori outcomes in Nu-Tech tic and Foreign Markets HQs. From 2015, KHNP has established a separate subsidiCustomized Support for SMEs at Every Step Conference 2014 ary that will focus exclusively on supporting SMEs to Expanding the Amount of Products Purchased break into foreign markets. In order to realize mutual growth, KHNP has, since 2014, class materials. KHNP’s customized support covers areas been offering customized support to suppliers on areas such as improving self-sufficiency, efficient management Financial Support such as technology, workforce management and training and strengthening technical capabilities. Such support, Creation of a One-stop Supporting System and access to markets. KHNP provides customized support by dividing suppliers into three groups of 2nd & 3rd which puts the cooperatives’ needs first, is leading to increased profits, saved operating costs and enhanced inKRW 91.7B KHNP is improving the effectiveness of the support sysknow-how and encourage active R&D by implementing tier cooperative small companies, SMEs specializing in ternational sales, helping the companies to expand and R&D Support programs such as the 'Junior Employee Exchange Protem for SMEs by offering a ‘One-stop support’ system, general class materials and SMEs specializing in quality grow their business. 7Cases which is consists of allocating trained personnel from KHNP to assist with R&D and expansion into overseas gram', 'Techno Doctor’ (the system of sending workforce which has retired from KHNP) and ‘Atom Mentor’ (mentoCategory 2nd& 3rd-Tier Partners (small) General Material Partners (SMEs) Quality Material Partners (SMEs) markets. KHNP transfers its technology and management ring service from a panel of technicians which includes Purchase of Nurtured Technologies certified master technicians). Strategy Promote Self-Reliant Companies (small but strong companies) Improve Management Efficiency (small but strong companies) Develop Technology (growing to medium business) KRW 10.4 B One-Stop Support System Revenue Transfer of Technology (incl. patents) R&D Planning & Advisory HR Support 24 Companies Generated • Industrial Innovation Campaign 3.0 (31 companies) • ‌Jointly developed brand (KHNP WITH) and the overseas marketing support (30 companies) • S‌ upport technology development projects (7 projects) 18 Items R&D Collaboration Promotion & Marketing Marketing Support 65 Companies 1.9 B Performances • Tech. transfer (11 companies, 18 technologies) • Exhibitions at home and abroad (299 companies) • Preferential purchase of products derived from the Successful R&D Marketing Support R&D Demonstration Success Financial 1 Billion • Support HR and marketing (86 companies) • Support for global product liability (PL) insurance developed technologies (KRW 24B) 2 KRW 499 Companies (17 companies) • Financial supports (ASME, etc.) (22 cases) Support Cases Think TRUST 3 Ultimate Ultimate Safety, “Most Important Value Safety and Utmost Value” • Safety above all • Internalization of Safety • Safety Systems and Processes Core Issues Consisting Core Aspects No. Core Issues Significance Core 17 Safety and health management High Core 18 Disaster risk management High Core 22 Information security management High Core 7 Enhancement of quality competitiveness Medium Issues to Report Reflecting Core Issues Think TRUST 3. Ultimate Safety • Nuclear plant operation with top priority placed on the safety • Improved credibility of nuclear facility operation • Enhanced risk management capabilities to address citizens’ concerns Think TRUST Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 39 3 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Ultimate Safety Operation of NPP that Puts the Priority On Safety Enhancing NPP Safety Management KHNP will be the most trustworthy company by integrating safety into our actions. System KHNP has focused on disaster prevention in light of the recertificate KOSHA 18001 and international certificate cent accidents in Fukushima and Sewol ferry. Above all, the OHSAS18001 for five offices (Kori, Hanbit, Wolsong, Hanul Our Performance basis of NPP safety general management was established by and Han river hydro power head office) including the head organizing a safety management system and carrying out office and five hydropower plants (Simnyangjin, Cheongreorganization to create the perfect safety management song, Muju, Sancheong, Yecheon pumped storage power Reduced Failure & Shut-Down Timely Implementation of PostReduced No. of Safety Accidents system and prepare fundamental precautionary measures. plant) and national certificate for pumped storage power Fukushima Follow-Up Actions (incl. Partners) 0.22 Times/Unit 24 Cases plants in Yangyang and Cheongpyeong. The OSHA is con39 in 2014 Initiatives completed tinually strengthened by obtaining domestic and interna(Reduced by 0.06 from 2013) Reestablishment of Integrated Safety Man(Reduced by 11 from 2013) tional certification for KHNP research center in 2014. agement System Multiple-barrier safety system was strengthened through consultation with an external expert and 31 improveRaising the Efficiency of the Group In Business & Social Context ment tasks in three fields were selected for the integrated Charge safety management system, involving the whole process that consists of accident prevention, resolution, and manKHNP Nuclear Review Board (KNRB) Operation technology of NPP and safety of NPPs in Korea have been well recognized around the world. In 2014, the number of failure cases for each agement. By applying this system, capability of response Nuclear Review Board (KNRB), KHNP’s top safety committee, reactor in Korea was 0.22, this value is used to measure the safety of NPPs and the level of quality electricity. This value, which is lower than 0.82 cases toward disaster and severe accident was improved by is composed of internal and external experts. This group inrecorded for US and 2.64 cases reported for France, clearly shows that the safety of NPPs in Korea is truly world class. Furthermore, the result of WANO strictly controlling 'accident prevention' within containdependently deliberates issues related to safety policies. PI for KHNP during the first quarter of 2015 was 89.4, ranking KHNP for the 2nd among nuclear power generation companies around the world which ment building, 'Accident Mitigation' on NPP site, and 'acKNRB was divided into four departments, 'Operation & Manoperate more than 10 NPPs. The unplanned loss factor of Korea NPPs was 0.80%, which is the highest among seven advanced countries of NPPs in US, cident management' inside emergency planning zone. agement', 'Engineering', 'Structure & Site', and 'Safety' in Germany, England, France, and Canada. Despite the world-class level of NPP operation, the public's approval rate of the NPP in Korea was 48.6% and 2014, and has expanded its scope from existing deliberation the reliability of nuclear energy was 12.4% as of late 2014. While around half of the general public realizes the need for NPPs, it seems that majority of Strategies Action Items of 'licensing factor' to all pending safety issues. Furthermore, population does not trust the safety of NPPs. Since the situation calls for expanding the number of NPPs to 35 by 2030 according to 7th Basic Plan for • R‌ einforce safety screening/assessment, real name leveraging international safety experts and increasing the Electricity Supply and Demand of Korea, the trust of the general public is essential not only for managing operations of KHNP but also for stable sup• W ‌ orld-class safety safety system, practical safety culture, environmental number of external experts in the board to 50% secured the ply of electricity and national energy security. In the future, KHNP will be the government entity entrusted by the general public by managing NPPs Accident management system management effectiveness and independence of the board. safely, and releasing the information in transparent manner. prevention • Resolve concerns on nuclear • Relieve Concerns Project, international safety safety inspection, safety communication Operating Safety Supervision Group and • R ‌ einforced countermeasures • S‌ afety evaluation for long-service plants Accident and responsiveness against • Reinforced accident-ready facilities Safety Culture Exclusive Group Our Progress Mitigation critical accidents • Establishment of accident mitigation force Safety supervision group, composed of 24 on-site safety officers and one HQs safety inspector at four HQs of NPPs, KHNP’s core values are emphasized on safety, where the company puts all of its resources into creating a multiple-barrier safety system and strength• R ‌ einforcements of • D‌ isaster responsiveness and countermeasures has been operated since 2012 to eliminate safety blind Accident ening safety awareness among all employees. KHNP is aiming to increase trust in NPPs and to strengthen risk management system. To become a comprehensive disaster • Emergency medical treatment and services spots. The on-site safety officer reports to the safety inspecManagement responsiveness • Improvements of disaster/emergency drill tor after checking potential safety issues and the environtrustworthy company, KHNP will ensure all employees have healthy awareness of safety as the top priority. ment of safety culture. Through the action of safety supervision group, a safety oriented work atmosphere at the Certification of Safety and Health Management sites is created and the safety awareness of on-site workers System (OSHA) (KOSHA18001, OHSAS18001) has increased. Inspections were held 710 times in 2014 Future Plan Certification of OSHA evaluates whether the 'Self-control (9.7% increased over 2013) and 53 cases of safety weaksafety management' of company is promoted systematinesses at business sites were discovered and improved. KHNP will make every effort to reform itself and earn back trust from the general public though systematic management of safety and incident free cally for preventing injuries and issues the certificate by The level of safety culture in NPPs is also tested and evaluoperation of NPPs. Above all, accident prevention and reaction capabilities will be strengthened to reduce the likelihood of NPP accident, and KHNP is judging the level of company's safe and healthy activities. ated, and safety culture countermeasure and practice committing resources to reinforce NPP cyber security systems. KHNP will continue to improve safety system and process by thoroughly following the When the certification is achieved, it is possible to assess guideline are established by focusing exclusively on safety 'Safety First' rule. whether the OSHA has been established in accordance culture. A total of ten cases of safety culture improvement with international standard. Through such effort, potential tasks were discovered and managed in 2014, and the injuries and losses are prevented systematically, leading to self-assessment of the safety culture of workers in 2014 reboth the protection of worker's safety and the increase in sulted in the score of 83.1 (6.7% increase over 2012) and productivity and morale. KHNP procured both national revealed that the awareness of safety had been increasing. 40 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 41 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Reorganization of Safety Control System Strengthening Information Security Management System Promoting Nuclear Safe Real-Name System in the following manner: 'evaluation → drawing improve• ‌Safety culture enhancement measures KHNP is operating nuclear safe real-name system in coments → establishing and carrying out enhancement Establishing Long-Term Strategy of Cyber security plan for NPP was established in 2014, and the • ‌Safety culture education plan operation ability of cyber security control center was operation with external agencies to actively reflect the measures'. A unique evaluation standard of KHNP is set Information Security government 3.0 value of ‘Open, share, communication, up and conducted according to international standard strengthened by implementing cyber security control, and cooperation’. Especially, efforts were made to allow safety culture evaluation directive. In addition, improvewhich is operated for 24 hours a day, 365 days per year. The importance of NPP cyber security has been highlighted • ‌Conformity to safety culture real-time tracking and information searches, such as ments and best-in-class cases are discussed and shared By 2016, KHNP is planning to complete the process of secursince recent cyber attacks on NPP facilities. Therefore, KHNP is principles equipment, person in charge of parts, real name of part between employees and experts from inside and outside ing human resource competency and constructing an infra• ‌Execution of safety culture establishing a long-term information security strategy for NPPs, owners, and historical details of each part throughout the of the company. Furthermore, the implementation system structure to continuously probe and remediate weak points. practice program and is enhancing cyber safety system according to its road map. Plan entire cycle of NPP from the 'Integrated Information Manand status of KHNP’s safety culture are objectively inagement System’. In the future, KHNP plans to manage spected by a third institution, the Korea Nuclear Safety Target Establish cyber security system for reinforced NPP safety the entire cycle and result of NPP safety control by using Commission, and tasks drawn from the inspection are reDo flected in creating safety culture enhancement measures. Strategic the internal real-name management system. Reinforcement of Cyber Safety System (2014) Reestablishment of Cyber Security System (2015) Stabilization of Cyber Security System (2016) Roadmap Culture of Acquire the int’l standard information security ISO27001 certification for the entire enterprise and Optimization of cyber security system and R&D Safety Distribution of Emergency Response Mission Card Strengthening Customized Safety Training Strategies management system (ISO 27001) and reinforced the implementation and further development of security projects for cyber security technologies for nuclear In May 2014, KHNP has created emergency response cards Safety trainings customized for each position and jobs are internal security systems governance/systems plants Check and distributed them to all employees to avoid wasting provided not only to employees but also to suppliers and • ‌ISO27001 enterprise-level certification • F‌ urther development of cyber security monitoring precious minutes during emergency situations. On the best practices are shared. Through such effort, the capacity Tasks • ‌Improved competences of cyber security • Implementation of PC-level integrated level and security system optimization/ monitoring center Action emergency response card, position and contact informafor execution is enhanced by broadening the safety culture. authentication system and document reinforcement • Establishment of nuclear plant cyber security plan centralization system • Advanced R&D for nuclear plant cyber security • ‌Safety culture evaluation tion of individuals in different positions are listed, making Partnerships are reinforced by sharing lessons to overcome • ‌Safety oversight safe response possible when an emergency takes place. implementation of safety culture and conflict resolution. • ‌Safety culture index monitoring Strengthening Customized Foundation of 'Information Security Performance Establishment and Implementation of (persons) Information Security Education Committee' Supervised by the CEO Target Program Contents • ‌KNRB (deliberation) Safety Culture Practice Process InPartner house Customized education is offered to employees, based on To protect NPPs, one of the national core infrastructure, • ‌Safety council (SLT) • ‌Safety culture deliberation committee Safety management skills their work responsibilities, to increase the efficiency of inthe 'management policies regarding information security’ Safety Culture KHNP operates a safety culture practice process, based on Managers and understanding of safety 77 42 (NSCMP) Expert Course formation security education. Special lectures for board of CEO’s mandate have been announced to the entire Plan, Do, Check, Action (PDCA), which evaluates and takes culture Improved awareness of safety members have been held by an external specialist to incompany and the ‘Information Security Committee’ suactions in the establishment and implementation of safee-Learning on culture and contribution to 3,010 1,024 spire their security consciousness. Education designed to pervised by the CEO was recently formed. The committee ty culture enhancement plan. As a unique process to Safety Culture safety operation develop experts is provided to information security manis composed of 10 experts and the CEO as the chairperKHNP, the internalization of safety culture within all workInclusion of safety culture ager and general information security awareness educason. It implements BOD policies regarding information ers and the continuous practice of safety culture at NPPs On-the-job curriculums in OJT and offering professional 2,605 602 tion is provided to all employees. security. Suggestions drawn from quarterly committee are the goals of this process. Practicians Training knowledge and practice for ※ Refer to the 2014 Information security training performance on page 73 inspection are reflected in the action item list of longall employees term information security agenda. Special Perfecting Safety Culture Through Systematic curriculum Implementing Safety culture Evaluation for overseas Training, localized for the UAE 500 Certification of Information Security employees Management System Enhancing the Cyber Security System KHNP operates a circular safety culture enhancing system of NPP KHNP’s headquarters acquired the certification of information security management system (ISO27001*), the inKHNP has expanded and founded a cyber security diviternational standard of information security regulated by sion at the head offices of NPPs to enhance the capacity Category Key Concepts Performance in 2014 Improving Practical Safety Culture at the for action regarding cyber security. In addition, the securiISO in December 2014. This is the result of strengthening Actual Work Place ty control system of NPPs, physical protection devices the information security policy by applying the internaGive brief safety speeches before 24 messages developed Active participation of all employees to improve safety and emergency response devices have been strengthSafety Moment tional standard security process. Out of six key perforany key meeting or event → Safety-oriented work environment culture is vital in an effort to drive safety culture in the mance indicators, 'Information protection training' and ened by establishing a cyber security plan according to Collect suggestions on safety Screened ECP suggestions and responsive company. Accordingly, various programs aimed at the international standard. Furthermore, managerial and Safety Suggestion 'Cyber simulation training action' were selected. By unhazards through hotline, fax or actions taken, suggestion boxes installed at improving safety culture have been created for the System * ISO27001 is an international standard esderstanding detailed performance indicator of security technical security measures have been prepared to renotification (CAP) partners’ workplaces purpose of internalizing safety awareness of employees. tablished by ISO and International Electrospond to cyber terrorism preemptively. KHNP is also preFoster a culture and settings where technical Commission (IEC) for information enhancement, a score 86.7% was achieved and the certiPositive Objection venting the threat of security incident by strengthening positive objections or suggestions Activate safety-related communication management systems. The certificate is issued fication was successfully acquired as the result. KHNP System to applicants who passed a rigid evaluation for safety issues can be freely made the information security of suppliers, which are commonprocess covering 114 items in 14 categories. plans to enhance our information system by improving Safety Culture Quantitatively represent the safety 5 indicators of safety culture developed the areas of low assessment and to obtain a compaly the blind spots of cyber security at NPPs. Practice Indicator culture → Suggestions for safety culture practices ny-wide certification. 42 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 43 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Improving Reliability of NPP Equipment Strengthening Anticipatory Safety Inspection Strengthening Quality Competitiveness Improving the Quality of Planned KHNP receives numerous inspections from different orgaof inspection has been increasing after the Fukushima nunizations within the country and from around the world. clear accident, KHNP is training internal experts on internaPreventive Maintenance And we are voluntarily conducting self-assessments, which tional inspections in order to prepare for said inspections. KHNP is continuously implementing quality improvement analyze the differences from world-class NPPs. activities to increase the safety of NPPs. In 2014, quality manWith a change in maintenance paradigm that places utKHNP receives regular inspections from the World Associaagement system was reexamined in an effort to increase the most importance on safety, KHNP has extended the periTypes of Safety Inspection tion of Nuclear Operators (WANO) and the International quality of products and to remove blind spots within quality od of preventive maintenance and has been focused on Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). If there is a need for any inPeer Review OSART / SALTO management system, and the quality system was examined improving the safety of NPPs by securing enough time Inspection Overseas spection due to safety management, KHNP receives a spe(WANO) (IAEA) for 'design purchase operation – maintenance'. Five fields of for quality maintenance service. As issues related to the cial safety inspection conducted by the Ministry of Trade, quality innovation and 15 items were selected from such exforgery of quality verification document were resolved, KNRB, PSR Quality Assurance Industry and Energy and the Nuclear Safety and Security Internal aminations, and KHNP is making intensive efforts to introduce problems also decreased. This resulted in the increase in Inspection (Safety Agency) Audit (QA Division) Commission. Furthermore, independent quality assurance at improvements to those fields. With such innovative efforts for the utilization rate of power plants. team conducts inspections at regular intervals. Specifically, Home Winter/Summer the purpose of quality improvement, KHNP has won the top KHNP will improve the quality of planned preventive Regular Inspection External Check WANO safety inspection was held three times in 2013 and (NSSC / KINS) award (gold medal) in competition held by the International maintenance by actively taking into account changes (MOTIE) six times in 2014; it is scheduled to be conducted over six Convention for Quality Control Circles (ICQCC) where 216 within maintenance environment, introducing advanced times annually starting from 2015. As the WANO safety inSafety Inspection Regular Frequent teams from 14 companies around the world entered. technologies and developing optimum method. spection standard has been strengthened and the number Promotion strategy of Quality Innovation Planned Preventive Maintenance Period Quality Achieve the World’s Best Quality Vision 2013 The planned preventive 2014 Strategies Quality management covering the entire nuclear power lifecycle 1,908 Days maintenance time 1,036 Days 121.9 Days/Unit reduced thanks to 75.1 Days/Unit Global NPP Safety Evaluation Ensured Quality Innovative Culture constant problem (Unit : %) Reinforced Quality of Facilities of Quality solving efforts Operational Indicators for The NPP operating level is diagnosed through WANO PI received high scores compared to Exelon, and three fields Tasks (15 Items in 5 Sectors) Major Countries (World Association of Nuclear Operators Performance Index) of 'development available index', 'auxiliary water feeding Power Plant Usage Rate Power Plant Usage Rate and NPP operator is establishing improvement strategies by system', and 'nuclear fuel reliability' have been selected as 75.5% 85.0% Performance as System 4 tasks including improvement of quality assurance system Nations of 1Q, 2015 comparing results with top NPP operating countries. For the need improvement areas. USA 91.3 first quarter of 2015, Korea was ranked the 2nd on WANO PI In order to preemptively deal with weak areas, such as Supplier Mgt. 2 tasks including improvement of supplier quality evaluation targeting countries with more than 10 NPPs from unplanned long-term shutdown, KHNP will strengthen Korea 89.4 Facility Quality 2 tasks including reestablishment of quality units Anticipatory Replacement of Obsolete the world. KHNP was ranked second among the entire management, and by establishing additional improveChina 88.4 Quality Equipment group of NPP operators, which means the company has atment plan, such as a performance thorough operational 3 tasks including improve expertise of all employees Ukraine 84.7 tained world-class safety standard. maintenance, KHNP will work to bring changes to areas, Competence 4 tasks including reinforcement and restructuring KHNP is not only carrying out regular examination (15 France 74.9 Especially, three fields of 'unplanned loss rate', 'radiation which require improvements. Organization quality units months interval for heavy-water reactor, 18 months interSweden 73.8 exposure dose' and 'the number of unplanned nuclear val for light-water reactor) and safety evaluation (10 years Canada 73.4 reactor auto-stop' have been selected as the areas which Strengthening verification for forgery and alinterval) to secure the safety and reliability of operating India 71.9 Quality Document Forgery NPPs, but also continuously examining and analyzing the 0 Occurrence teration of quality assurance documents Global Comparison of Nuclear Safety Operation Performances 2015 in 2014 equipment condition through preventive maintenance Operational Indicators for Major Countries Case Operational Indicators by Operators Operational Indicators by Operators A quality verification center of NPP was established, which and aging management program. Especially, anticipatory Performance as focuses exclusively on preventing the forgery and alterreplacement is carried out for core equipment of older Operator Sweden Ukraine Verification schedule for newly of 1Q, 2015 introduced tools and equipment ation of quality assurance documents, and the ability of NPPs and at the same time, if there should arise a need to 73.8 84.7 84.7 EXELON 94.9 verification was enhanced by securing professional manmake changes to large equipment such as steam generaNNEGC Phase 1 (Jan 2015 ~) KHNP 89.4 power, 18 people. Furthermore, the 'verification checklist tor and nuclear reactor vessel head, changes would occur Canada QVD on plants in operation ENTERGY 89.1 China and guideline for the forgery and alteration of quality docwith detailed pre-established plan in order to increase 73.4 72.7 the safety of NPPs. In October 2014, steam generators of NNEGC 84.7 OPG 88.4 Phase 2 (Jun 2015~) uments' were established, and the basis for verification deHanul reactor 3 and 4 were successfully replaced. The EDF 74.9 QVD on plants under construction signed to eradicate the forgery and alteration was estabnewly applied equipment is the latest steam generator, OPG 72.7 USA Korea lished by constructing a multi-verification system of quality which uses high quality heat pipe, and this change is NPCIL 71.9 91.3 94.9 89.1 89.4 89.4 Phase 3 (Oct 2015~) documents. A direct examination on 60,994 cases of QualiEXELON ENTERGY meaningful because the technology was developed KoKHNP EQ / CGID ty Verification Document (QVD) was conducted in 2014, targeting 23 reactors of operating NPP. Thorough efforts rea. Each nuclear reactor vessel head of Hanbit reactor 3 ※ ‌QVD(Quality Verification Document) France India will be made to verify newly received equipment with reand 4 is scheduled to be replaced in 2015. EQ(Equipment Qualification) 74.9 74.9 71.9 71.9 CGID(Commercial Grade Item Dedication) spect to forgery and alteration in 2015. EDF NPCIL 44 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 45 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Strengthening the Basis of Safety Control to Reassure the Public Enhancing Disaster Safety Securing Capabilities to Respond During Advancing Radiation Safety New Disaster Types and Conducting Management System the Event of a Major Natural Disaster Management Response Training for Multiple Complex Disasters KHNP came up with 'Fukushima follow-up' as the plan to Due to a record-breaking downpour of over 130mm per Working days inside radiation control zone have inFukushima Follow-up Improvements strengthen NPP safety, and after the Sewol ferry disaster in 2014, hour in Busan and Gyeongnam regions in August 2014, creased due to the increase in the number of older NPPs KHNP has conducted a consolidated training, which inSector Completed it reexamined the disaster safety management system jointly Kori #2 was stopped due to flooding that resulted in some and significant improvements of equipment. This has re(No. of Initiatives) (cases) spects the disaster response system of NPPs, hydropower with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy and took steps equipment difficulties, such as communication and netsulted in the increased possibility of radiation exposure plants, and pumped storage power plants. In order to to strengthen our overall safety management system. work. After the accident, KHNP investigated the reasons for employees working at power plants. Each head office Earthquake protect the lives of the public during the golden hour, 5 Specifically, KHNP has enhanced emergency response cabehind flooding at the power plant and made necessary (6) operates a radiation emergency assistance center, which simulations are used for training, which mimic the situapabilities by implementing plans for improving the capaciadjustments to ensure that other natural disasters would manages the radiation safety and health of supplier tions of different types of disasters, including the readiTsunami ty for response during times of emergency, such as 'the esnot cause stoppage of any NPP in the future. workers, and radiation service management system is be2 ness to quickly respond to new types of emergency di(4) tablishment of integrated emergency response system', In addition, the problems related with natural disasters ing improved by clearly outlining the range of radiation saster and multiple disasters. 'the improvement of disaster countermeasure manual', 'the such as heavy rainfall, heavy snowfall, and strong wind service work and introducing changes to how perforAt the four head offices of NPPs (Kori, Hanbit, Wolsong, and Flooding reinforcement of disaster safety facility and equipment', were understood and the plan for improvement targetmance results are evaluated. 10 Hanul), trainings have been carried out to simulate flood(15) and 'the reinforcement of disaster and safety human reing all NPPs, hydro and pump storage power plants was Furthermore, KHNP is strengthening its human resource ing and collapsing of structures due to extreme natural disource'. Furthermore, 39 tasks out of a series of tasks from established in order to ensure that accidents caused by capacity by adopting a company certification system that Critical sasters such as typhoon, flood and earthquake. At hydrosix different fields (59 tasks in all) were completed in 2014, natural disasters would not occur at other power stations. is equivalent to the professional radiation safety manageAccident 4 power plants, pumped storage power plants, and Han (10) which had been vigorously implemented after the In the six fields including structural repair, hydro and ment license. At the same time, KHNP is also making an River hydropower head office, trainings have been carried Fukushima accident. Besides implementation of governpump storage power and info-communications, 23 tasks effort to reduce radioactive source terms* and decreasing Emergency out to prepare for collapsed dams due to heavy rain and ment initiatives, KHNP is also continuously trying to implehave been implemented with great efforts, From now on, the emission of radioactive waste by adopting the latest Response 9 dam damages due to earthquake or terrorist attack. (11) ment additional measures, such as 'reinforcing equipment', the emergency management office will track the perforradiation control technology and continuously improving 'operating emergency response team', and 'securing the mance result of different tasks on a quarterly basis and the radioactive waste processing system. Aged Plants base of emergency response'. manage accordingly. in Operation 9 * ‌Radioactive source terms: radioactive source emitted from nuclear facilities (10) Total 39 ① Contents Effects Increase Radiation Workers & Improvement of Radiation (As of Dec, 2014) Professional Skill Management System Structural Repair/Hydro & Construction of anti-flooding facility Nuclear plant integrity secured even under deluge Pumped Storage Comprehensive Improvement • 65 → 101 Workers in 4 Nuclear Power • ‌Implementing Web-based ALARA* system Plan to Cope with Natural Information & Diversified communication channels for emergency Sites – ‌Standardize all ALARA practices Communication / Disaster Integrity of communication facilities secured Disasters Prevention Measures control office – 1 for 2 units → 1 for 1 unit – ‌Implement systematic process (plan, 23 6 Development of flood adaptation/prevention – Promoting internal verification system review, enforce, assess) for optimum Operational facilities / Safety Improve disaster-specific adaptiveness and responsiveness Initiatives in Sectors against Disasters drill scenarios for improving professional skills protection Passive Autocatalytic Recombiner (PAR) Containment Filtered Venting System (CFVS) Improvement of Costal barrier 10m Installed hydrogen removal Installed containment building pressure rising Radiation Safety for Expanded coastal ② facility that can work unpowered prevention and radioactive material filtering and Workers barrier of Kori NPP 7.5m → 10m ventilating facility Mobile generator vehicle Waterproof gate Nuclear reactor Secured mobile Installation of waterproof emergency cooler generator vehicle for gate at the emergency Adoption of Cutting-Edge Improvement of Emergency Installation external each sit diesel generator room Radiation Management Medical Service System for injection oil route of Techniques Radiation Impacts emergency coolant at reactor and steam • I mprovement of radioactive wastes • [Previous] the function was operated in generator disposal system Health Center EDG Develop next generation liquid waste • [To-be] ‌ Emergency medical center on-site SFP treatment technologies (4 nuclear power sites) • ‌Introduction of technologies to implant – ‌Medical rescue service for emergency zinc into reactor coolant and frequent health check Steam generator Used fuel – R educing 30% of radiation dose in ① Hanbit Unit #5 – a drill for post-earthquake firefighting and piping gas leak ② Wolsong Unit #4 – a radiation exposure drill co-hosted by Waterproof drain pump SFP emergency cooler Secured Waterproof drain pump Used fuel storage emergency * ALARA(As Low As Reasonably Achievable): Radiation management theory that reduce radiation as low as reasonably achievable Nuclear Safety and Security Commission (portable diesel pump) secured cooler Installation external for each plant Reactor injection oil route Think TRUST 4 Social Social Responsibility, “‌Musts and Basic Responsibility Responsibilities for Public Enterprises” •Public interest •‌Communication with and satisfaction of stakeholders •Eco-friendly management Core Issues Consisting Core Aspects No. Core Issues Significance Core 14 Radioactive waste management High Community support for health protection and Core 21 High management Core 19 Reinforced social contribution activities Medium Core 12 Adaptation to climate change Medium Core 15 Water pollutant management Medium Issues to Report Reflecting Core Issues Think TRUST 4. Social Responsibility for our Planet • Reinforced environmental management framework • Minimized environmental impacts • Responding to climate change • Reinforced environmental ecological system protection activities Think TRUST 4. Social Responsibility for our Community • KHNP social contribution promotion system • Community-oriented social contribution activities • Social contribution activities reflecting the nature of power generation business Think TRUST Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 49 4 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility Social Responsibility for our Planet T imeless Integrity Social Responsibility Social Responsibility for our Community Strengthening Drives of Environmental Management for our Planet Environmental Management Strategy KHNP has set an environmental vision as 'Environment-friendecognized. Nine of our workplaces were designated as green We will lead environmental conservation to pass down a more companies and the status has been maintained up to now. ly company trusted by the public', and it is practicing its three beautiful earth to future generations. environmental management strategies, which are 'strengthening the environment-friendly management system', 'producKHNP’s Environmental Guidelines Our Performance ing zero environmental pollution', and 'strengthening activities Safety Prioritized Management Safety, including for environmental conservation', for ‘internalizing of Environenvironmental protection and environmental safety, is considered as top priority at all processes from plant design, Enterprise-wide ISO14001 Reduced Radioactive Wastes by Green Product Purchase ment-friendly management centered on safety’. In addition, as through construction, operations and maintenance. Certificate (Environmental Increased In-house Treatment of a part of the code of conduct, the company has provided ‘enviManagement System) & Green Company Designation Non-pollutant Wastes KRW 16.3 Billion ronmental Guidelines’ to its employees for voluntary and active Compliance with National & International Environmental Standards We strictly conform to environmental regulations (39% reduction compared to the average practices of environmental management.. This environmental and international conventions while endeavoring to achieve of total waste in the last 5 years) a higher level of environmental management. policy governs not just the business decisions, but also the daiMinimizing Pollutant Emission We reduce emission of ly tasks of KHNP employees. pollutants through optimizing processes and improving operational systems, while saving resources and maximizing recycling. Business & Social Context Leading Environmental Protection Actions We establish an Environment-friendly supply network for promoting further Vision The Environment-friendly Company Trusted by the Public environmental protection and take initiatives in purchasing The world is currently facing an environmental crisis due to climate change caused by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and other related green products, saving energy consumption and reducing environmental changes. The quantity of the world's GHG emission in 2014 was 32Gt which, although was the same level as the previous year, is Target Internalizing of Environment-friendly GHG emissions. nevertheless not a small value. The UNIPCC Fifth Assessment Report (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) has warned that if nations around Management Centered on Safety Disclosing Environmental Information and Cooperating with Stakeholders We discuss freely environmental issues the world do not intensify efforts to conserve the Earth’s environment, the survival of mankind will be threatened in the near future. Accordingly the with local communities, disclose the relevant information pattern of global energy supply has been tended to gradually move to decarbonizing. Although the Korean government has taken initiatives to to the public and actively participate in improving the local founding emission trading for GHG reduction; however, from 2020, the end-point of the Kyoto protocol, Korea will be designed to a carbon dioxide Strategies economy and environment. Strengthening Strengthening the Producing Zero (CO2) mandatory reduction country, so more active efforts for reduction are required. Environment-Friendly Environmental Activities for Environmental Considering environmental and economic factors, NPP industry is receiving attention as a realistic alternative to solve the reduction issue. As the Management System Pollution Conservation nation’s representative company, KHNP will do its uphold its environmental responsibilities through actively researching CO2 reduction methods and investing in renewable energy businesses. In addition, KHNP will improve the public trust in NPPs and minimize the environmental impact by carefully • Maintain enterprise• ‌Strengthen chemicals • ‌Ecosystem protection Environmental Performance Index Key Tasks managing and treating nuclear wastes, which have received intense media coverage and public scrutiny. wide ISO14001 management system activities Based On International Standard (environmental • Reduce the use of toxic • Activities to protect management system) materials fishery resources certificate and green • Reduce the release • Marine environment An environmental performance index, composed of 17 decompany designation of water pollutant cleaning activities Our Progress • Continuous emissions tailed indexes of 6 fields, was developed and is operated by Environmental Improvement Items enhancement of • Increase recycling actively reinforcing environmental demand level, respondSearch and Treatment (Unit : Cases) environmental • Establish marine KHNP has established an environmental management strategy and is conducting environmental management activities in top three strategic performances environment ing to regulatory standards and conducting comparative In-house Internal Screening • Expand green product management evaluations through measuring the environmental perfordimensions in order to be the environment-friendly company trusted by the public . The company established environmental management system External Post-Screening 90 purchase infrastructure (ISO 14001) and operated it in all of its offices as a measure for strengthening environmental management. KHNP is making efforts to minimize its mance for each NPP. The environmental performance in35 dex is evaluated by operational performance, including environmental impacts, including management of radioactive wastes and release of hazardous substances. KHNP is also gradually increasing the use of clean energies such as nuclear energy and water power, as well as renewable energies in line with the Korean government’s climate change management performance such as environmental manmandate. The company is also promoting various energy saving activities, including the use of high-energy efficiency equipment and car-free days of Acquisition Green Certificates agement and compliances, input and output. KHNP scored its employees. 223.64 on its environmental performance index in 2014, 59 For systematic environmental management, KHNP estabwhich is a 46.72 point increase compared to previous year. 17 55 44 lished an environmental management system based on the Future Plan 8 international standard (ISO 14001). The company has been Environmental Performance Index by Year 42 following this management standard since 2006. (Unit: Points) 36 223.64 KHNP will practice its environment-friendly management by placing environmental conservation as the top priority throughout the entire business Furthermore, environmental performance is continuously monitored and improved by identifying and implementing 176.92 process from design, construction, operation and maintenance to waste disposal, and by continuously maintaining environment certifications from domestic and international agencies. The company will not only improve prevention and response capabilities regarding chemical accidents by new approaches through KHNP's own internal assessment 135.95 strengthening the safety control system for managing hazardous substances, as the nation’s climate change leader, but also respond actively to and consultations with specialized organizations. domestic and international regulatory changes by taking actions in green purchase, energy saving and GHG reduction initiatives. Since 2010, our designation as green business units, according 2012 2013 2014 to the 'Low-carbon Green Growth Act', has been widely 2012 2013 2014 50 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 51 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Social Responsibility for our Planet Social Responsibility for our Community KHNP Material Balance in the Environmental Field KHNP is the largest Environment-friendly power company, producing approximately 30% of Korea’s electric power. The company is Environment-friendly management leader based on its enterprise GHG emission management and real-time water quality monitoring system for the operation of hydropower and pumped storage power plant. Material Flow INPUT OUTPUT Fuel Consumption Category 2012 2013 2014 Hazardous Chemical Substances Release Greenhouse Gas Emission (Unit: KgU) (Unit: Tons) (Unit: 1000tCO2eq) Light-water reactor 411,216 380,222 373,523 Nuclear (enriched uranium) Category 2012 2013 2014 Category 2012 2013 2014 Reinforced Response Fuel Heavy-water reactor Nuclear Chemical Scope 1 105 64 33 381,934 291,143 359,617 6,826 6,673 7,537 management to climate (natural uranium) power sites substances use of hazardous Scope 2* 2,959 3,232 3,720 change substances Total emission 3,064 3,296 3,753 p. 54 Energy Consumption * ‌Usage of necessary external electric power for pumped storage p. 52 0 (Unit: 10xTJ) The number of hazardous & safe nuclear operations Category 2012 2013 2014 Energy chemical substances release reached Direct energy (fuel Management 65 27 16 consumption) Continuous efforts to protect marine Waste Discharge p. 54, Marine Indirect energy (electric power ecosystems such as marine algae and (Unit: Ton) 6,093 6,656 7,660 p. 71 Ecosystem Category 2012 2013 2014 Workplace consumption) benthos plant-adjacent areas (refer Effluent emission Protection to p.55 and p.71 regarding ecosystem (Unit: kg) General waste 10,516 11,651 9,769 Waste Total Energy Consumption 6,158 6,683 7,676 preservation) Nuclear Recycling rate Category 2012 2013 2014 Designated waste 1,121 1,561 571 power Improvement COD 20,514 19,918 18,566 Total wastes 11,637 13,212 10,340 sites Water Use Environmental Investments Nuclear Category 2012 2013 2014 SS 5,255 4,968 4,667 Recycling rate* (%) 72.3 80.7 70.1 p. 52, (Unit: 1000m ) 2 power sites Total Investment p. 71 T-N 34,248 34,235 33,476 Reduction 7.8 Underground water 52 38 29 Water * Recycling rate compared to the amount of general waste of effluent Industrial water 2,959 2,686 2,772 Management KRW Billion emission Nuclear Municipal water 1,004 1,006 1,075 Power p. 52 (Unit: 1000m2) Category 2012 2013 2014 Green Product Purchase p. 52 Radioactive Waste Self-disposal Plants Surface water 3,288 3,853 3,951 16.3 Waste water (Unit: Drum) Total Water 3,992 3,845 3,642 Category 2012 2013 2014 7,303 7,583 7,827 discharge Radioactive Consumption KRW Billion Self-disposal of radioactive waste 545 1,015 1,320 Waste Nuclear Recycled 552 528 419 Management power sites water ※ Environmental Data Estimation Standards : ‘NPP headquarters’ aggregated data of energy input and water supply to operate power plants of Kori, Hanbit, Wolsong, Hanul, and environmental data in terms of released pollutants Recycling rate 13.8 13.7 11.5 39 % reduction of radioactive waste compared to the amount of average of 5 years by increased Inp. 53 In terms of hydro and pumped storage power generation, facilities that do not cause pollution, we aggregated environmental data such as energy consumption, GHG emission quantity, etc. Hydropower includes 10 (%) house disposal of non(low)-pollutant wastes hydro power plants, including Cheongpyeong & Uiam, and pumped storage power includes 7 plants, including Muju & Samrangjin. 52 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 53 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Social Responsibility for our Planet Social Responsibility for our Community Minimizing Environmental Impact Radioactive Waste Control KHNP transfers safely radioactive waste, which is inevitably to the government in June 2015 according to the report Strengthening Hazardous Substances Efforts to minimize nuclear waste generated during the operation of NPP, to a radioactive waste published by the Public Engagement Commission on KHNP's water treatment Standard generation Management facility located in Gyeongju. This is safely stored in a secured Spent Nuclear Fuel Management. The government will Category Total Total 2014 performance warehouse located inside NPPs before it is segregated from execute the management plan by the end of 2015 on the COD SS (㎎/L) Nitrogen phosphorus Progressing performance Hazardous chemical substances such as sulfuric acid, hyReduction efforts the human residencial areas. Radioactive waste is classified basis of the recommendations. The proposal contains Substances Purpose Legal Discharge into spent nuclear fuel a high level waste, and low and interrecommendations on the site selezction of an underdrochloric acid, caustic soda, and hydrazine are mostly Below 70 Below 60 Below 60 Below 8 Standard used for rust proofing and water sealing inside the generamediate level radioactive waste, and managed accordingly. ground research facility to be initiated by 2020, manageSelf36 waste drum reduction tion station system in NPP. ment of the underground research facility by 2030, and management Below 20 Below 20 Below 20 Below 2 Standard Compared to the previous operation of a disposal facility to be set up by 2051. Water treatment Thorough supervision and prevention of leakage of these compactor: the volume of Low and Intermediate Level Radioactive room: substances are essential since it may come in contact with the radioactive waste reduced by 1/22 Waste Control Sulfuric acid Spent nuclear fuel storage statue (As of the end of Dec 2014) An ion exchange resin regeneration human body and the environment in various ways during the Water reuse management Vitrification technology applied Low and intermediate level radioactive waste* is packed (Unit : Rod) entire process. Safety measures need to be in place during the (Hanul #3) inside drums that have guaranteed stability and then Condensate various stages such as production, use, and disposal, as a fullSaturation Year A large amount of water is used as coolants and potable stored in a temporary storehouse located inside NPPs. *Storage Present Hydrochloric polishing plan : HQ scale chemical accident can be fatal. Therefore, KHNP has deNuclear waste generation capacity storage Before **After acid An ion exchange water for various machines along with water for the power KHNP disposes non-radioactive polluted waste or polluted reduced by 20% expansion expansion resin regeneration veloped 'Nuclear Power Plant Customized Standard Emergengenerating plant. Kori power plant uses Ulsan and Busan Improved recycling rate and waste below the legal standard level through methods Kori 6,494 5,322 2016 2028 Waste water cy Response Guideline for Chemical Accidents' and applied it water supplies; Yeonggwang power plant uses water from Sodium reduced the volume of waste by such as incineration and landfill. KHNP disposed 1,320 Hanbit 9,017 5,413 2019 2024 disposal plant : on the fields. This guideline contains control standards for hydroxide Gochang Ungok Dam; Wolsong uses Ulsan industrial water material change of protection drums of waste in 2014, a 30% increase compared to the ph control Hanul 7,066 4,652 2021 2026 chemical substances, emergency response processes, and and Daejoncheon; and Uljin power plant uses water from equipment, including work clothes previous year. KHNP will reduce systematically the occurLight-water 523 64 2022 2038 Second system : emergency treatment protocols. It is fully complied with na& cotton gloves Hydrazine Dissolved oxygen Daesuho Dam. Each headquarters reuse some part of efflurence of radioactive waste by introducing new technoloWolsong Increased recycling of protection Heavy-water 499,632 391,872 2019 2026 eradication tional and international guidelines and regulations, to prevent ent water, processed by wastewater disposal devices, for gies and vitalizing self-disposal, as the number of reactors equipment Total 522,732 407,323 chemical accidents and strengthen response capabilities. In filter cleansing, chemicals dilution, and road sprinkling. operated in NPPs as well as the number of replacements of Ammonium Second system : hydroxide pH control addition, the number of hazardous chemical substances manNew NPPs are installing wastewater reclamation systems obsolete equipment are expected to increase in the future. * ‌Excluding emergency core amount Self-disposal performance ** ‌Expected saturation year after expansion, considered as below agers per each NPP is increased from 6-7 personnel to 12-15 to reuse water and to increase water use efficiency. increased by 30% compared to Kori : Shin-Kori #3, #4 construction completed * ‌Low and intermediate level radioactive waste: waste that has low radioactive Sub system : to reinforce the management. the previous year Hanul : Shin-Hanul #1, #2 construction completed Sodium nitrite intensity, such as working clothes & shoes used during work at NPP. Corrosion prevention Hanbit : Hanbit #2 compact storage replacement installed In 2013, after conducting safety inspections of hazardous •‌Increased the number of radiation Electricity dismantle chemical substances storages in NPP jointly with experts, Enhancing the Recycling Rate of contamination testing equipment Wolsong : Heavy-water reactor compact dry storage facility additionally installed Hydrogen facility : (1/headquarters -> 1/plant) Safety Control of Spent Nuclear Fuel peroxide Residual chlorine weak areas were identified and corrective actions were Industrial Waste •‌Enhanced self-disposal Since nuclear fuel generates radioactive emissions and KHNP is making efforts to systematically control spent nueradication taken. Starting 2014, KHNP has introduced an environmentechnology and safety education: heat, fission products after use must be systematically clear fuel until the interim storage facility is built as part of tal safety risk assessment system and created a compreWaste generated from NPPs is classified into various cate1/year -> 4/year disposed after being temporarily stored for a certain perithe final management plan. For light-water reactors, it has hensive chemical accident prevention and response sysgories i.e. general waste, designated waste, and construcIncreased self-disposal performance od in interim storage equipped with specific equipment. installed a high-density storage rack of wet storage system, tem. The company is also promoting an extended tion waste discharged from regions other than radiaReprocessing, permanent disposal, and storage are inwhich maximizes storage capacity by using materials with application of the system, which can be adapted to a NPP tion-controlled areas. There are approximately 15 types of cluded in the total management plan of spent fuel. Most excellent neutron absorption function. Spent nuclear fuel in scenario, through testing and diagnosing. waste such as waste synthetic resin, waste oil, and waste countries are using their interim storage plans, storing a NPP with low storage capacity is transferred, by carriers, wood. KHNP has a system for controlling the entire prospent fuel in the periphery of the plant site. Korea has not and stored in a different reactor. Furthermore, temporary cess from waste generation to final treatment. yet finalized the comprehensive nuclear waste managestorage facilities are expanded by building additional dry Reduction of Water Pollutants Discharge Waste storage facilities are expanded and newly built in ment plan. A recommendation proposal was submitted storage facilities (Silo and MACSTAR) at heavy-water reactors. each NPP to minimize air pollution generated from incinAll sewage and wastewater released from NPPs are diserating waste. In addition, approximately 70.1% of comcharged after processing as per legal stipulations. Sewage bustible waste (domestic wastes, waste synthetic resin, and wastewater treatment equipment are managed under and waste wood) is reused by sorting waste according to Optimum Management of Worker’s Exposure Dose stricter criteria (35% higher than legal standards) than the eftypes, components, and process methods. KHNP is maintaining radioactive exposure dose under the Although there were different reasons in 2014 for the Worker’s radiation exposure dose fluent quality standard of water pollutants designated by law. limit and is thoroughly managing exposure doses to protect increased radiation exposure like the increase in radiarank by nation Purchasing of Green Products (unit: man-Sv/unit) workers from radiation. The worker’s exposure doses in KHNP tion-generating work, each NPP reactor recorded only China 0.34 have been maintained at levels well below international aver0.36man-SV of exposure dose due to large-scale imWastewater Disposal Facilities KHNP has been actively participating in green product purage and efforts are on to further bring down the levels. provement of equipment such as replacement of steam A physiochemical wastewater disposal facility, comprising Korea 0.36 chase system for saving resources and protecting the enviFurthermore, there were no workers, who exceeded the generators and reactor vessel heads. These results were four processesneutralization, condensation/precipitaFrance 0.73 50man-SV, the annual legal dose limit for workers. achieved by putting in a great deal of effort into the action, dewatering, and dryingis operated inside KHNP ronment. KHNP has entered into a Green Purchase Voluntary Agreement” with the Ministry of Environment. Accordingly, tive implementation of mid-to long-term radiation dose NPPs. KHNP controls the quality of effluent water proUSA 0.73 the company has not only established the base infrastructure reduction plan, and the positive reduction activity of cessed through the wastewater disposal facilities, by a reWorker’s exposure dose Canada 0.93 (unit: man-Sv/unit) ALARA committee. As a result, a 42% reduction in radiamote monitoring system. The effluent water quality data for purchasing green products by revising related guidelines Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 tion exposure compared to the five year average. (COD, SS, T-N) gathered from the system is sent to the Koand contract provisions, and monitoring purchase records India 1.01 but it is also broadening the green product purchase activity Average domestic NPP 0.79 0.53 0.45 0.52 0.36 (Please refer to 'Radiation safety control advancement' for detailed rea Environment Corporation in real-time. Russia 1.55 information on radiation safety management policy with the purpose of base through regular employee trainings. Average international NPP 0.89 0.85 0.76 0.73 0.73 reducing worker's exposure dose.) 54 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 55 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Social Responsibility for our Planet Social Responsibility for our Community Climate Change Response Strengthening activities for environmental ecosystem conservation GHG Emission Factors by Emission Sources Opportunities of Climate Change for (Unit : gCO2e/Kwh) Nuclear Energy is emitted to the sea. To minimize impacts on marine life KHNP has been pursuing various efforts for conservation 10 14 8 991 549 782 Nuclear energy does not emit GHGs during the power of the surrounding environment and ecosystem of the nuclear power plants. Environmental surveys of land and sea from the raised temperature and to conserve the marine environment and ecosystem, KHNP has selected sub57 70 generation process. Only a small amount of CO2 is emitnear the nuclear power plants are mandatorily conducted merged cooling technology ** for the new NPPs. ted during the process of uranium mining, enrichment, Nuclear Wind Solar Hydro Biomass Coal Natural Gas Petro during construction and operation of the plants in accoroperation and dismantlement of NPP. The emission quantity of GHGs during the entire process of a nuclear power dance with the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. EnviUse of Heated Effluents ronmental change is continuously monitored in accordance plant is lower than the ones from renewable energies and with the 'Environment Survey Guidelines for Surroundings KHNP has been promoting various businesses using is similar to water-power generation. As mentioned, NPP of Nuclear Power Plants', established by KHNP, even after the heated effluents. An aquarium using these effluents is does not emit any CO2 during the generation process and duration of the legal performance period. operated at Hanbit HQs. This is utilized as a learning place this is why it is an essential power system, integral to Operation state of observation buoy ※ Source : IAEA, 2006 achieving the goal of the nation’s GHG reduction. that demonstrates the safety of heated effluents to NPP system Marine Environment Monitoring System visitors. Furthermore, the Hanbit and Wolsong HQs are raising fish 2014 KHNP’s Climate Change ReShin-Hanul #3 and shellfish by using hot wastewater discharged from Shin-Hanul #2 A total of nine systems, belonging to three categories, Reduction of GHG Emission sponse Performance NPPs. Cultivated fish and shellfish are released in the sea Shin-Hanul #1 have been established for monitoring marine environSecuring Proper Nuclear Power Proportion ment changes in areas where new NPPs (Shin-Kori, near the NPP around May 31st every year, on 'Marine Day', • ‌Deciding 29% of nuclear proportion by 2035 All Employees' Practice of GHG Reduction Framework for Compliance with the Obligation of Shin-Wolsong, and Shin-Hanul) are located, established to build up fishery resources. • Gyeonggi Fuel Cell & Yeongwol Solar Plant (Dec RPS Achievement 2013) Activities for effective energy use and reduction in conand operated. Parameters such as marine environment, High-valued fish consisting of 8.9 million fish, 16.74 mil• GHG emission calculation & statement preparation/ sumption are carried out from various angles to reduce diShin-Wolsong #3 lion abalones, 71 million crustaceans, 3.8 tons of shellfishResponding GHG & Energy Target Shin-Wolsong #2 water temperature, salt, current direction and water flow, Management System verification rect and indirect GHG emissions caused by the use of fossil Shin-Wolsong #1 es, and 0.83 million sea cucumbers and all matching with • Increased recycling rate of NPP waste weather change, temperature, wind direction, wind Improving Recycling Rate of NPP Waste fuel or electricity. Transportation is a major source of GHG ShinKori #3 speed, and atmospheric pressure are used for environthe characteristics of natural marine life in the sea have ShinKori #2 been released to contribute to the development of fishemissions, on account of the burning of fossil fuels. This can ShinKori #1 mental measurement. The observed environmental data Climate Change Adaptation be reduced by the use of eco-friendly vehicles. KHNP has is recorded in the national monitoring system operated ery resources and increase in fishermen’s income. replaced 33.9% of office vehicles with eco-friendly cars to by the Korea Hydrographic and Oceanographic Agency Establishing & Enforcing Energy Saving Plan • ‌Enterprise-wide energy saving implementation reduce carbon emissions. In addition, indirect GHG emisand is available to the public. Improving marine environment Climate Change Expert Education and check and assessment sion was reduced by 65% with new LED lights in the officFurther Development • Participation in seminars & education programs on es. In addition to these, direct and indirect energy conMarine Environment Investigation and KHNP is also contributing to the improvement of marine Proactive Measures for Emission Trading System climate change (total 17 persons) sumption is reduced through use of renewable energy environment by building kelp forests by dropping artifi• Counter measures and participatory strategy for Marine Ecosystem Conservation Establishing KHNP Mid to Long-Term Roadmap for emission trading system resources for equipment in the new buildings, office lightscial reefs. Activities for environment conservation and imClimate Change Adaptation It is evaluated that no significant effect caused by operatout, rational operation of elevators, observing car free days, provement of the fishing ground environmentsuch as * ‌Seaweed cluster near nuclear facilities / ing NPPs since no special changes on the surrounding enand designated compact car parking zones. marine publication beach cleansing near NPPs and removing harmful organvironment have been observed from surveys in the past 28 Establishment of Infra & New Drivers of Growth Refer to page 71 for annual change of marine isms (starfish, sea urchin, etc.)are constantly held. Every zoobenthos (mollusk) years. As a matter of fact, the surrounding environment is Response to Carbon Emission Trading ** ‌Submerged cooling technology under year, members of the KHNP skin-scuba diving club along Introducing Environment-friendly/High-energy • E‌ xpanding adoption/application of eco-friendly also showing similar community structure* with a near water: Unlike the conventional surface intake with local divers volunteer to collect and dispose garbage efficient Buildings energy-saving buildings Starting in January 2015, Korea began carbon emission natural ecosystem. system, it intakes water at 15m below sea • Improving inventory system (emission projection trading in accordance with the government policy. KHNP's surface. Due to the lower ocean such as fish nets and gears thrown out into the sea near Operating and improving Integrated Management However, NPPs have been using seawater for cooling high System for GHG/Energy capabilities) nuclear and hydro power plants have low emission scores, temperatures under water as compared to the NPP. • Performance upgrade project for Cheongpyeong the surface, it has cooling effect during pressure steam, made to produce electricity, and the temperaUsing and Promoting Hydro Power Plant but the pumped storage power plants that indirectly emit intake and dilution effect during drainage. ture of seawater raises by about 7~90˚C when this water #1, #2 and active utilization of overseas resources Promoting CDM Project for Renewable Energy • CDM project for Kori Wind and Yecheon Solar GHGs have not yet reached government assigned targets. Generation Facilities power generation facilities The emission quantity of pumped storage power plants covered 80% of the total emission quantity of KHNP in R&D and Cooperation 2014. To cope with this issue, KHNP has established a longterm strategy for reducing carbon emission and is putting Enhanced Promotion for Improving Awareness • ‌Public relations (24 times) & press releases (7 times). the strategy into practice. Guidelines and company rules Expanding Green Product Purchase • ‌Green product ratio reached 93.4%* for emission trading have been legislated and an effective • ‌New renewable field R&D expansion (Salinity gap Reinforcing Technology Competitiveness generation) response system has been set up for emission trading. Ad• ‌COP-20 industrial representatives participation ditionally, a joint response system for emission trading with Industry-Government-Research Cooperation on Climate Change (Dec 2014) other power generating companies has been established. Exchange activities for GHG reduction such as developing * ‌Source and assessment standard: calculation is based on Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute’s Green Product Farming organism release Ocean purification activity Artificial fishing banks business Marine forest creation GHG reduction technologies and joint participation in inPurchase Information System (http://gd.greenproduct.go.kr), Public Procurement Service, and Green Market Purchasing price. dustrial development are promoted. Think TRUST Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 57 4 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility Social Responsibility for our Planet T imeless Integrity Social Responsibility Social Responsibility for our Community KHNP Promotion System for Social Contribution for our Community Strengthening the Strategy for Social Contribution KHNP aims to pass on happiness and hope to the public by the past 10 years after it was officially launched in June Through truthful activities for social contribution, we will grow together with the local community. sharing the problems of neighbors and solving social is2004. Currently, about 10,000 members of SVG are offering sues by investing in the local community. Under a vision, about 160,000 hours of voluntary service annually. The SGV “the World Where All of Us are Safe and Happy’, various comprises of KHNP employees from HQs, regional offices, Our Performance sharing activities i.e. ‘People’, ‘Public Interest’ and ‘Public Reother offices and functional unit volunteer groups. A Senior sponsibility’ are practiced. Among many other social contriSocial Volunteer Group (SSVG), comprised of retired KHNP Dandelion Spore Fund Award Wins butions, representative activities includes:‘Safety and Happiemployees and their spouses, was launched in September ness’ to protect the safety of the public and to create a 2014. SSVG is extending their experiences and knowledge 5.2Billion • ‌Citation from the Ministry of Health and Welfare at Share KRW Korea Award (Oct 2014) happy world;‘Loving Community’ to support and communito society through practice of sharing. •Social Responsibility Award for Economic Leaders (Jun 2014) cate with the communities around NPPs; ‘Human Resource (Increased 20% from the previous year) Development’ to train local youth to develop their talents; Social Volunteer and ‘Global Voluntary Service’ to solve social issues and to Group nurture education and culture of developing countries. (Head: CEO) Business & Social Context “The world Where all of us are safe and happy” Local office Head office (HQs) (Each workplace) To continue stable operations of a NPP, it is of paramount importance to maintain the trust of the public including the local community toward KHNP. People Public Interest Public Responsibility The company has carried out a heavy responsibility as Korea’s leading company in the electricity industry, a key aide in national progress. In spite of Medical volunteer groups, Local volunteer groups, Global KHNP’s safe operations, fulfilling social responsibilities must be actively pursued to restore the public's trust in the present situation where public convolunteer groups, and Senior volunteer groups fidence in NPPs has been seriously shaken after the Fukushima nuclear accident. KHNP has conducted extensive activities for social contribution at the national level in recent years. Now is the time to fully reflect the needs of the public and various interest groups, and do continuous social contriSafety & Happiness Loving Community HR Development Global Voluntary Service bution activities to bring about the welfare of the local community and to improve the image of KHNP. Spreading a Culture of Employee • ‌Solar safety street lighting • ‌Investment on local • ‌Einstein Class • ‌Environmental Improvement Special consideration needs to be given for social contribution activities in the surrounding areas of the NPPthe base of businessas this must be • Plus Happiness, Wings to Hope communities • Junior Engineering School • Medical/Health Participation Project • Health keeper for farming/ • KHNP scholarships • Culture/Education considered as an important part of operating KHNP’s business. The understanding and cooperation of local residents form the foundation for all • Hope sharing concert fishing communities KHNP business processes from site selection, construction and operation to the dismantling process. Therefore, it is integral to intensively promote ac• Tailored social contributions The culture of participation in social welfare activities is spread tivities that create community shared values (CSV) rather than a simple beneficial support to surrounding areas. These measures can help in establishacross the entire organization, with board members, including ing the base for KHNP to grow together with the local community. the CEO, leading by example in activities for social contribution. Expanding Funds for Social Contribution The corporate culture of sharing is built by members participating in practical volunteer activities such as 'Serving food (BobOur Progress Various funds such as 'Dandelion Spore Fund', 'Love Fund', peo)' and 'Briquette delivery'. KHNP is paying attention to conDandelion Spore Fund ‘Employees’ Voluntary Donation’, and 'Matching Grant*', structing a welfare system through social investment and (Unit: KRW 100 Million) sponsored by the company, have been created and operKHNP is promoting activities for social contribution, suitable for the four strategy directions i.e. 'Safety and Happiness, Loving Community, Human Rehelping underprivileged people to stand on their own feet. In 52 ated. Approximately 91% of the total employee forces are source Development and Global Voluntary Service'. These social contribution activities are guided by our vision of 'the World Where All of Us are Safe addition, KHNP has developed an online course, 'The Underparticipating in the Love Fund as of the end of 2014 and and Happy'. After the 'KHNP social service group' was officially launched on June 2004, activities for social contribution at a national level are promotstanding of Volunteer Work', to develop the spirit of service in KRW 5.2 billion was raised for the Dandelion Spore Fund. ed, centered on exclusive groups at the HQs and offices as well as unit volunteer groups of each function. The span of participation in social contribu43.7 employees and to provide more systematical tools for social The financial contributions gathered by employees are tion has been expanded by launching a senior social volunteer group (SSVG) in 2014. KHNP is currently promoting activities for social contribution by contribution. Furthermore, employees' awareness and partici40.7 transparently used in supporting welfare facilities, supmeasures such as providing safe streetlights and the use of condenser effluent from NPPs. KHNP is also practicing the value of sharing through varipation are encouraged through motivational steps such as porting the vulnerable, promoting local culture, healthous activities by supporting the vulnerable sections of society and fostering the youth. sharing details of best cases of social contribution at workshops. care, sponsoring education and scholarships, and environmental protection. KHNP will increase the size of the Future Plan funds for social contribution to KRW 9 billion in 2015. * Matching Grant: a social fund raised by KHNP on a 1:1 matching basis KHNP has established a system for global social contribution to build the base of overseas business expansion and to improve the brand value of social contribution, unique to KHNP. To strengthen the capability and professionalism of employees' social contribution, the backbone of our social conReorganization of KHNP Social tribution system, KHNP will institute and expand employees’ training programs that foster social awareness, responsibility and contribution. The so2012 2013 2014 Volunteer Group cial contribution that reflects the needs of stakeholders will be continuously rediscovered and practiced, enabling KHNP to become an organization trusted by the public for its high sense of duty and responsibility which have been duly demonstrated. KHNP will create shared values from the busiThe KHNP Social Volunteer Group (SVG) has grown subness and grow together with the local community. stantially in number and in terms of quality of services in Joint labor and management, sharing love ‘Bobpeo’ volunteer service 58 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 59 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Social Responsibility for our Planet Social Responsibility for our Community Local community engagement for social contribution Human Resource Development Einstein Class Performances of Strategic Projects in KHNP is working to fulfill its vision of social contribution, Loving Community 2014 A mentoring program, 'Einstein Class' has been held to 'the World Where All of Us are Safe and Happy'. A social minimize educational gap between urban and rural comcontribution model matching the strategy direction of Safety & Happiness munities and develop human resources since 2010. Col'Safety and Happiness', 'Loving community', and 'Human Medical Check-Ups for Farming and Fishing lege student mentors are selected via industry & academy • ‌Solar safety street lighting: resource development' is promoted in all the local comCommunities cooperation program and help teenagers in rural areas to 41 lightings installed at Hongjaemunities including the surrounding areas of NPPs. KHNP Every year KHNP medical volunteer group members prodong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul achieve their goals by guiding their studies and providing aims to be a company beloved by the public and pledges vide free high-quality medical check-ups and essential career counseling services. About 300 elementary, middle, • ‌Plus Happiness, Wings to Hope to carry out social duties as a public enterprise to the fullmedicines to poor communities around NPPs. KHNP Project: and high school students received the services for one est through genuine activities for social contribution bemedical volunteer group plays an important role of a lo60 school buses and 40 Hope month during their winter vacation. libraries yond simple donations. cal community health support system by providing medThrough the Einstein Class the mentors are not only deLaunching of Einstein Class ical examinations and services such as blood tests, livveloping volunteer spirit but also easing their financial er-function examinations, thyroid ultra-sonographies and Loving community burden of university tuitions by receiving scholarship. The bone density tests, consultations with physicians, sur•‌Health Keeper for farming/fishing Einstein Class was first held in 2010 and the scale of the Supporting Scholarship for Youth Safety and Happiness geons and drug prescriptions. The total number of benecommunities: class has been continuously increased till 2015. Currently, Scholarships are provided to middle, high school, and 2,307 beneficiaries/ Fund KRW 337 ficiaries in 2014 was 2,307 and medical examinations, the class is held at the HQs of 4 NPPs and for students livuniversity students coming from financially disadvanmillion Plus Happiness, Wings to Hope worth approximately KRW 330 million, were provided. ing near the Han River Hydro Power Head Office. KHNP taged households. A total of KRW 1.12 billion of scholar•‌House repairing project: Plus Happiness, Wings to Hope Project By means of the 'Dandelion Spore Fund', a social welfare will foster outstanding individuals by providing various ship was granted to 2,454 students in 2014. KHNP is helpKRW 110 million fund has arranged by the board members and the comActivities of Health Keeper of Farming & Fishing Communities high-quality education endowment programs. ing students to hold on to their dreams in spite of difficult School buses support pany since 2012, and the 'Plus Happiness, Wings to Hope', (Unit: Persons, KRW Million) circumstances and encouraging them to grow as outHope libraries support HR Development Environmental improvement support activities such as supporting school buses and construcCategory 2012 2013 2014 Cumulative Total standing individuals. •‌Einstein Class: Junior Engineering Technology Class tion of the Hope libraries in local community child cenBeneficiary 2,707 3,297 2,307 17,014 297 mentees with 90% satisfaction Support fund (Unit : KRW billion) KHNP is training youths interested in science through 'Juters are intensively promoted throughout the nation. In Fund 470 450 337 2,684 rate HR Development Performance nior Engineering Technology Class' together with the Ko1 1 3 2014, the project budget was dramatically expanded to •‌Junior Engineering School: rea Engineering Academy. The class targets students livCategory 2012 2013 2014 KRW 3 billion to support more areas in helping more chil2,308 mentees ing near NPPs and is held twice annually. The mentor Einstein Class (persons) 240 239 297 40 dren to study in a better environment. One 11-passenger Emotional Engagement with Communities •‌Scholarship for Youths: team comprised of KHNP employees who have completJunior Engineering School (persons) 1,477 1,707 2,308 van was provided to 60 community child centers to help around NPPs KRW 1.12 billion ed teacher’s training courses. They have successfully Scholarship for the Youth children living in areas with inconvenient transportation 'Emotional engagement' activities have been developed 1,180 2,940 1,121 boosted students’ interest in science by easy teaching sci(KRW Million) so that they can safely commute to school. In addition, a to communicate with the communities near NPPs and to Global Voluntary Service entific principles through interesting science classes and total 40 of Hope libraries were constructed, and 600 create a sense of unity with local residents. KHNP helps •‌Dispatched 92 volunteers to Lao Cai practice sessions. A total of 320 employees participated as books and a book data processing system were provided underprivileged citizens living in the adjacent areas in Vietnam / Fund KRW 450 million mentors in 2014 and presented interesting technology to each library. This project will be continuously expandthrough activities like 'house repair of love' and 'caring 60 classes to 2,308 students. ed in the future to attach wings of dreams and hopes to service for families headed by children and single senior children, and to build a safe and caring society. citizens family'. Furthermore, KHNP’s fellowship with the 16 local communities was reinforced and partnership beSocial Contribution with Community 16 tween 1 KHNP department and 1 sisterhood village covEngagement in Areas of New HQs ers now 301 villages near each NPP. KHNP purchases their First Prize in Social Responsibility Award 2014 for Economic Leaders of Korea 16 products and helps farmers during high seasons. KHNP is promoting various social contribution targeting the music concert to celebrate the completion of Gyeo25 Prize of the Ministry of Health and local residents to form a bond with Gyeongju, the locangju Convention Center (May 2015). Welfare in Share Korea Award 2014 tion of KHNP's new head office. 'Traditional Market Day' is 15 Support Sports and Cultural Activities Various cultural events such as 'local concert together held annually to promote the consumption of local prodFirst Prize of the Ministry of the with NPP', 'small love sharing concert for the underpriviInterior in Volunteer Award 2014 ucts. One-to-one sisterhood partnership between each leged people', and sports events are held in farming and KHNP department and Gyeongju social welfare groups is 2012 2013 2014 fishing communities where sports and cultural activities being created through sharing value activities such as are relatively rare due to geographical conditions. KHNP 'House Building of Love' for the underprivileged people is also supporting constructing sports centers and artifiin Gyeongju. KHNP is also supporting the cultural life of Ceremony of school bus support (Plus Happiness,Wings to Hope Project) cial lawns inside NPPs with free access to local residents local residents and is contributing to revitalize local econand by organizing monthly film programs for free. omy by holding 'KHNP's National Sports Soccer Championships' (April 2015) and 'Gyeongju Bonghwangdae Pavilion Music Square' (August 2014), and sponsoring House Repairing Project 60 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 61 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Social Responsibility for our Planet Social Responsibility for our Community Activities for Social Contribution Reflecting Business Characteristics ① ③ ⑤ ⑦ Community Farms Cooperation Facilities Business & Glassed Residential Production Industrial Schools Residential Green Facilities Area Area Areas Houses ② ④ ⑥ ⑧ Business Heat Tourist Facilities Transport Facilities Facilities Water Collection Lines Heating: 90℃ Cooling: 2℃ Heat Generation Facilities 1 million kcal Utilizing Thermal Effluent Heat from NPPs ① Ceremony of installing safe solar street lighting at Gaemimaeul community ② Safe solar street lighting installed at Green House Using Thermal Effluent Solar LED Safe Streetlight Gaemimaeul community Contributions to Global Social Welfare Heat of NPP ③ 2015 Winter global voluntary service for Securing the Base of Overseas KHNP is promoting the 'Safe Streetlight Project' by install④ 2015 winter global volunteer group Expansions KHNP is promoting various business like green houses and ing streetlights using solar LED in areas vulnerable to ⑤ 2014 summer global volunteer group aquaculture by supplying thermal effluent heat*, an unused crime all over the country. Safe streetlights are made with ⑥ Energy Farm cultural event KHNP is strengthening the basis of overseas expansion port, and cultural exchanges in Kyrgyzstan, where the hyenergy resource. A high-tech greenhouse farming business solar LED, are twice brighter than conventional street⑦ Energy Farm Book cafe plans through social contributions targeting countries dropower business is scheduled for promotion, in 2015. using thermal effluent heat has been initiated in 2014 in a lights and has excellent savings compared to public elec⑧ Energy Farm opening ceremony tricity fee since it consumes almost no generated power. where the export of nuclear power plant is scheduled. business agreement with Gyeongju for building an ecofAs a pilot, 41 LED safe streetlights (37 solar streetlights Global activities for social contribution improve the image riendly greenhouse complex. Greenhouses using recovered and other 4 streetlights) were installed at Gaemimaeul, of KHNP in the eyes of local residents, leading to an indirect heat of thermal effluents have approximately 10 times highsupport for winning contracts of NPPs and hydropower The Opening of Energy Farm Cafe, a er productivity than plastic greenhouses and can save 70Hongje-dong and Seodaemun-gu, Seoul in 2014 by investing KRW 300 million from the company’s budget. By business. KHNP is assisting developing countries in initiaPublic Service Place to Experience Energy 80% of production costs as well on account of its excellent reflecting the local residents’ opinions in the project, the tives for improving the residential environment and supeffects on reducing energy, heating costs, and CO2 emissions. porting education and culture. The company is also resolvIn November 2014, 'Energy Farm', an energy and culture experiIn addition, harvesting of agriculture products can be consatisfaction of the residents was increased after the instaling the social issues of developing countries. ence cafe, was opened in YMCA building in Seoul in cooperatrolled so that can raise farm income. People's support and lation, and they could walk around the streets late at 'KHNP & Seoul National University (SNU) Global Voluntary tion with CoffeeBean. Various experimental spaces have been goodwill were drawn as a result of conducting training and night without fear. KHNP will extend the enforcement of Service Team', launched through industry-university cooporganized to let visitors learn about energy in their daily lives. Ininformation sessions on greenhouse farming by visiting inthis project by securing additional budget of KRW 2 bileration, has been sent to remote towns of Vietnam twice side the cafe, visitors can learn about energies through 'Energy terest groups. These measures helped to resolve the vague lion in 2015 and is currently promoting 'Solar Safety every year since 2013. Ten employees of KHNP and 45 SNU table', showing the entire process of how electricity is supplied anxiety that local residents have toward thermal effluents Streetlights' in 5 cities, including Yeongdeok in Gyeongstudents visited the Lao Cai in Vietnam in February and from a power plant through transmission towers and to homes. from nuclear power plants and also educated them on the buk. The Solar LED Safety Streetlights project will contribAugust of 2014, and volunteered their services in the fields Visitors can experience energy generations through entertainadvantages of greenhouses using heat of thermal effluents. ute to improve the safety and happiness of the public of education, medicine, environment improvement, and ing stories related to energy at game corners, a large screen that Through this business, KHNP is hoping to ultimately play a and lighten up more areas, and will be promoted as a culture. The camps were held for 12 days. Another service shows the present condition of energy across the world, and part in vitalizing the local economy, preparing a foundation main project of KHNP’s social contribution in the future. team, comprised of 11 KHNP employees and 39 SNU stucell phone chargers. Opportunities for cultural experience are for the coexistence of industry and environment and condents, volunteered in the suburbs of Haophong, Cu Khe, provided as well through award winning works of 'Dongri and tributing towards creating local jobs and increasing income. Thanh Oai and Ha Noi in Vietnam for 14 days in January Mogwol Literary Award', various cultural performance, and spe2015. Additional service teams will be formed through incial lectures held by KHNP employees. A part of profits from En* ‌Thermal effluent heat: Seawater used to cool down the turbine of NPPs. It is discharged ergy Farm is donated to Seoul YMCA and used as funds for dustry-university cooperation with Ulsan University for to the sea after usage. Thermal effluents, discharged from NPP Unit 1, are released at a rate of 40t per second and total output is 4.46 billion ton annually. Since the output similar activities such as educational service, labor sup youth development and scholarships. contains 25 million Gcal of thermal energy, it has high value as an energy source. Think TRUST 5 Timeless Management for Ethics, Integrity “A Basic Mindset of Respected KHNP Members ” • Integrity • Principle & Standards • Transparent Process Core Issues Consisting Core Aspects No. Core Issues Significance Core 30 Strengthening Anti-Corruption Activities High Core 8 Transparent Information Disclosure Medium Core 31 Expanding Corruption Report System Medium Issues to Report Reflecting Core Issues Think TRUST 5. Timeless Integrity • Reinforce Ethical Management System • Foster a Culture of Integrity & Ethics Think TRUST Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 65 5 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Timeless Integrity Strengthening the ethical management system Advancing Strategies for ImplementAs a result of these initiatives, the direct contract rate deWe will create rectitude and transparent KHNP by taking measures to prevent ing Ethical Management creased to 25.4% by the end of 2014 (29.9% in 2012). Strengthening Quality Control To enhance the transparcorruption and instilling a strict sense of ethics. ency of quality control, KHNP implements measures such as KHNP has established 'realization of KHNP as a transpar‘re-examination process by a third organization', 'assuming ent and ethical organization known for the highest level the responsibility for the cost of quality test' and 'establishOur Performance of integrity' as its vision for EM. Every employee is making ing a NPP quality verification center within NPP industry'. an effort to realize the ideal of an upstanding KHNP Won the 2014 Korea Ethics Ranked Up in the Evaluation of ACRC Korea Won the Award of Excellent Audit through adopting thought processes guided by ethical Management Award •‌‘Anti-Corruption Scheme’ Practitioners of 2014 considerations and trying to act in an ethical manner. Sys(Public Enterprise Sector) (Grade 3 in ’13 → Grade 2 in ’14) (Awarded by the Institute of tematic and intensive EM initiatives are focused on cusEM System Improvement (Awarded by the Korea Ethics Society) •‌‘Integrity’ Internal Auditors of Korea) tomized ethical education programs for the management (Grade 5 in ’13 → Grade 3 in ’14) and staff and pre-emptive measures when it comes to KHNP is building a KHNP of high integrity through intro* ACRC : Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission departments and responsibilities that carry a high degree ducing changes to various systems and preventing occurof risk. In addition, in a bid to implement EM practices not rence of corruption. just for our employees but also for suppliers, KHNP has for Anti-corruption Regulation The code of ethical conduct Business & Social Context the first time ever for a government entity introduced the for government officials, reflecting the ethical standards Code of Ethical Conduct for Suppliers. they should follow, has been revised. Furthermore, regulaAt the end of 2014, the 'Act on Management and Supervision of Nuclear Power Plant Operators for Preventing Nuclear Plant Mismanagement ('Nucletions regarding preparation of charge sheet and requestRealization of KHNP as a transparent and ethical organization Vision ar Power Plant Supervision Law')' was legislated, legalizing the management’s obligations and mandates for suppliers. This Law obliges on public instituknown for the highest level of integrity ing investigation guidelines for employees’ job related tions in charge of NPPs to perform management duties in a clean and safe manner and authorizes the government to manage and supervise the said incrimes were revised by adding 'misuse of government Ethical management with voluntary employee participation for Slogan funds' to the clauses for initiating legal action. Furthermore, stitutions and to demand for rectifications and improvements when problems are discovered. The Law places special emphasis on harsh disciplinary an upstanding KHNP action against employees working at public institution in control of NPPs if they are found holding an additional position at for-profit organizations, infor the first time ever for a government entity, KHNP has Further develop the ethical Foster culture of integrity and vesting in related private companies or receiving bribes. The Law unequivocally shows the will to make a recommendation for dismissal of the chief engiestablished 'guidelines for prohibiting job related business Strategies management regulations & systems ethics across the enterprise neer or executive director overseeing the institutions that do not comply with the demands for rectification coming from related departments. investment' and is operating voluntary reporting period After going through difficult times due to corruption cases in recent years, KHNP has galvanized its policies on the issue of corruption. The company Implementing Creating an for employees holding stocks in privately and publicly Taking preventive policies aimed environment Internalizing the traded suppliers. In 2014, all 72 employees that voluntarily has implemented sweeping reforms to its workforce and systems by taking stringent action against those involved in the scandal and by taking other measures Tasks at rectifying which makes code of ethics by necessary measures. Now, the employees are entrusted with the mission of plant seeds of integrity and reap an abundant harvest of trust. KHNP is corruption for unethical it possible to employees reported their share holdings sold their stocks. activities now striving to create an even more stringent ethical management system. Our employees are expected to fully internalize and follow the newly esrelated issues implement EM Registration of Property for Employees over Level 2 The tablished ethical management system and earn the trust of internal and external stakeholders. property registration mandate for employees at level 2 and Implementing changes to the EM system above used to be voluntary but it became compulsory in to eradicate corruption related to NPPs July 2014. By now 933 employees at level 2 and above have reported their properties, and efforts are being made to Our Progress implement transparent EM for the reported assets. KHNP implements three key initiatives of 'eradication of Registration System for Companies owned by EmployWith ‘ethical management with voluntary employee participation for an upstanding KHNP’ as its slogan, KHNP is endeavouring to create a culture of the misuse of connections’, 'overhaul of purchasing proee’s relatives KHNP has established a system that stipuintegrity where every employee follows the ethical code. Specifically, in order to become a ‘company with the highest level of integrity and clean and cesses and 'strengthening quality control’ according to our lates reports to HR department are required when comtransparent management’, KHNP is implementing four projects: ‘implementing policies aimed at rectifying corruption related issues’, ‘taking prevencomprehensive corrective action plan in order to systempanies owned by employees’ relatives register as tive measures for unethical activities’, ‘creating an environment which makes it possible to implement ethical management’ and ‘internalizing the atically prevent corruption. suppliers. After the system was established, 64 employees code of ethics by employees’. In recognition of such efforts against corruption, KHNP's rank by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission went Eradication of the Misuse of Connections By preventing reported to the HR department. up by two places. KHNP is also awarded amongst public enterprises at the 2014 Korea Ethical Management Award. companies employing former KHNP employees from parOne-strike Out Policy The 'One-Strike Out System' was introticipating in bidding processes and expanding the types of duced to strictly manage job related corruption and acceptpositions affected by the limit, KHNP has enabled retired ing of bribery and other types of favours. The disciplinary acemployees to find other works and prevented misuse of tion guideline has been strengthened by enabling dismissal Future Plan connections. Hiring 116 people of external talents is an exfor even minor corruption involving less than KRW 100,000. ample of KHNP’s efforts to eradicate misuse of connections. Internal and External EM Online System The corporate Improvement of Purchase System KHNP has strengthIn order to become an ethical organization with the highest integrity, KHNP seeks to develop our ethical management (EM) system even further and groupware, an online-based system, which enables real-time ened the independence of the purchase system by estabmake the culture of ethics and integrity the central part of the company. KHNP will develop various advanced EM programs aimed at allowing emcommunication amongst the employees, has been overlishing a SCM team and a production cost investigation ployees to freely participate in EM and contribute their ideas, and will improve EM system in order to monitor its performance indices systematically. hauled to help employees to understand and apply various team. The company has increased the bid transparency KHNP will improve employees’ understanding of integrity and organize ethical education programs and inspiration to instil ethical values within emethical management contents. To encourage internal and exby announcing purchase plan earlier, employing pre-veriployees. Furthermore, we will strengthen the cooperation with related organizations to create an ethical network and spread the culture of integrity ternal stakeholders to adopt EM guidelines, KHNP is sharing fication of purchase specifications about quality level through the entire NPP industry. the notable EM initiatives through the restructured online equipment, and implementing a best value bid system. 66 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Think TRUST 1 Think TRUST 2 Think TRUST 3 Think TRUST 4 Think TRUST 5 67 T echnology R espect U ltimate Safety S ocial Responsibility T imeless Integrity Strengthening the EM Monitoring and KHNP Ethics Ombusdman Since June 2014, KHNP has been operating the 'KHNP Making an Ethical Culture an Integral Part of KHNP Reporting System Ethics ombudsman' system, a revamped version the previous ombudsman(grievance settlement committee) sysRed Whistle Report Process Whistle-blowing Program tem. The system is expected to aid in planning for susCreating the Environment that allows High-ranking Employees Holding Integrity In order to meet the need to detect corruption involving tainable growth as a government entity and building an Participation in EM Oath Ceremony delivery and quality assurance before they happen and even higher level of trust with stakeholders within and Filling the report form Fifty employees ranging from the executive director, adminto vigorously implement the EM system, a reporting sysoutside of the organization. Composed of experts from all EM not only needs the will for creating an ethical organiistrator and section chiefs from headquarters and managers tem named 'Red Whistle' has been commissioned since fields, five ombudsman members are scheduled to hold Submission to Audit Office zation amongst board members; rather, it takes voluntary at 1st level office participated in the Integrity Oath ceremo2012. All reports are processed anonymously and whisregular meetings in each quarter during their three-year participation of every single employee. nies. In the oath, five rules concerning implementation of an tleblower’s online submission is untraceable. The access term as well as hold field meetings, visiting the locations As such, KHNP has created an environment that makes it ethical culture such as 'prohibition of abusing power and Review & investigation the reporting site was facilitated by allowing access mentioned in civil complaints once a year. possible to proactively pursue ethical management and satauthority' and 'prohibition of accepting bribery and special through various types of medium such as PC, smartIn 2014, the jurisdiction range for ombudsman was expandisfy the prerequisites needed to inculcate an ethical culture treatment' were outlined alongside other rules. Through the phone and Quick Response code. In 2014, a total of 27 ed from issues concerning civic complaints to include issues Notification to the whistle blower with high integrity. integrity oath, high-ranking employees made a commitcases were reported involving corruption, illegal activities, that deal with integrity and other critical issues as a way to ※ ‌Red Whistle, the operation agency has no ment to live an ethical and frugal life as an employee of a irrational practices, and unethical actions. promote a vigorous and Ethics Ombudsman System. Proaccess to the report or the investigation Number of Ethical Management EM Instructors government entity in order to eradicate corruption and results. posals made by ombudsman system were vigorously purInstructors Since 2012, EM instructors have been trained to instil an serve as a role model in the efforts to create a fair society. sued and a total of seven cases were implemented, allowing (Unit: Persons) ethical culture by extending ethical education to suppliOffering Fast Access and Accurate Release of Information through KHNP to receive perfect scores on the 'Ethics Civil Audit Sys21 21 ers. EM instructors are specialists with in-depth knowltem' index of the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commisthe Integrity Management Notice sion. Starting in 2015, KHNP is planning to adopt and operedge in EM. They offer consultation and coaching services 16 to handle tasks related to ethical issues through educaate an even more transparent 'Ethics Civil Audit System' by KHNP operates numerous communication channels for sharing information related to operation and tion classes for suppliers. Chosen from among employees forming a consultation group with 19 government entities management of NPPs for the sake of the public's right to know. When making quarterly scheduled anwho either have been recognized by KHNP for exemplary in accordance with government policies. nouncements, PR team leader directly verifies and signs confirmation papers. This has helped improve ethical conduct or completed the EM course, the instructhe accuracy of the announcements and created a system where personnel take responsibility for antors hold meetings targeted suppliers working with difnouncements being made. PR employees are regularly offered education and training programs regardferent branches of KHNP and help suppliers better understand the concept of an ethical corporate culture through 2015 Integrity Oath ceremony ing the nature and scope of communications in the nuclear power industry. A 'Day for Confirming Non-scheduled Announcements' is also held every Wednesday to avoid information being omitted or suitable educational contents. In 2014, 21 EM instructors were trained and these instructors held a total of 56 2015 Integrity Oath Ceremony delayed and to improve the speed of conveying non-scheduled announcements. KHNP has improved meetings (once per quarter) at 14 different suppliers. Strengthening the ethical management network and the quality of management notices by establishing an index related to management notices within its spreading information about outstanding cases KHNP is internal management assessment system (an index for measuring the efforts made to implement tasks 2012 2013 2014 Vitalization of the ethical mileage system strengthening cooperation with related organizations to which are given priority by the government) as well. As a result, while KHNP received 126 penalty points The 'Ethical Mileage System' has been applied and operspread EM awareness. In 2014, KHNP held ‘NPP Safety and in 2013 during management notice inspections carried out by relevant governmental agency, it manated from 2010 to promote the spirit of rectitude among Integrity Workshop (March)' and 'Integrity Pledge Contest' aged to drastically reduce the amount of penalty points to only 5.3 points in 2014. Appointment Ceremony for the KHNP Ethics Ombudsmen employees. Employees receive mileage based on the list (April), through efforts by the CEO and suppliers, and joined of evaluated items, which include ethical activity perforthe 'Creating Transparent Society Network' as a founding Establishment and Operation of Equipment mance and awards from within and outside of the orgamember for the unity of an ethical network throughout the In-stock Equipment industry. Furthermore, KHNP is sharing and promoting inforManagement Tracking Management System nization, and outstanding employees with the highest • ‌Assign a serial number for each stock System scores are certified as ethical employees by KHNP. When mation about outstanding cases of EM to strengthen the • Attach electronic tags (material ID) selected as an ethical employee, a seal of certification is DNA of integrity throughout the NPP industry and improve • Record and manage stock transaction history In order to prevent delivery corruption and carry out efIntegrated shown on the personal information page on the intranet on the ethical image of KHNP. fective management of inventory assets by eliminating Installation Sustainment Database for History blind spots within equipment management, KHNP has portal showing the employee's integrity. Maintenance Management • ‌Remove electronic tag (RFID) System established and has been operating an equipment trackIn 2014, 44 employees were chosen as ethical employees • Register maintenance and usage records to Ethical DNA Propagation Campaigns ing system. This is an IT-based system, which integrates and starting from 2015, efforts will be made to invigorate the work order • Transmit the usage histories and combines 'equipment management system', 'mainthe Ethical Mileage System even further by bringing Postings of Anti-Corruption Practices Equipment Tracking tenance management system', 'general waste managechanges to the list of evaluated items. Materials Master • ‌Post on external web sites (90 cases) Take In/Out Control Access Control Management ment system', and 'NPP control system' and, by attaching • Post on ACRC web site (49 cases) Facilities Master Improvements in the Ethical Mileage System System System • ‌Transmit material issuance records to RFID tag and QR code for each equipment, tracks equipportable devices (PDA) Suppliers Master English Web for EM • Verify take-out items using portable reader ment throughout its lifecycle from its arrival at the wareItems Previous (2014) Improvements (2015~) house to disposal. KHNP will fundamentally block the •‌Share ethics-related resources in English such as code and transmit the results SAP ERP Social activities Point starts at 10th hour of service 1 point for an hour of conduct possibility of delivery corruption, an area that was shown (max. 20 points) Repair & Disposal Waste Ethical Management Instructors’ to have problems in the past, and regain the trust of the Ethical educations Offline courses only Includes ACRC cyber course Management Guidance for Partners • ‌Request disposal of waste materials public through transparent and thorough management (max. 30 points) (15 points) (6 points) System • Transport approved materials and transmit the disposal results of equipment made possible by using the IT-enabled Ethics-related award wins Points to awards winners Additional points to KHNP Ethics • ‌Education & discussion on ethics and integrity for (max. 10 points) (5 points per each win) Ombudsmen each partner equipment tracking management system. 68 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Issues Appendix Internalization of Ethics within Employees KHNP is continuously implementing various integrity eduBringing Ethical Education to Employees cation initiatives such as customized ethical education for KHNP is offering ethical education classes held by one of Employees completed the Integrity employees and group education classes targeted at emthe executive auditor for personnel at the HQs and offices Circuit Education Courses ployees of its regional offices located throughout the throughout the country. During these ethical education (Unit: persons) country. Especially, by moving away from the traditional classes, the direction of policies regarding integrity and HQ Branch offices format of lectures and offering participatory education examples of actual corruption cases are introduced and 822 through plays and discussions about the issues related to presented for discussions of among the attendees. integrity, KHNP is making efforts to ensure that its employ70 Other Sustainability Performances Through such efforts, KHNP is creating more effective 695 ees actually enjoy attending ethical education classes. ethical policies that reflect the opinions of employees ac76 Third-party Assurance Statements tually working in the field. In 2014, ethical education was 2,287 78 SR10 Certificate Implementation of Public Office Lifecycle offered to a total of 3,109 employees. 79 GRI Index Ethical Education 1,849 From newly hired employees to board members, every Encouraging Employee Participation in EM 84 Membership and Participating Principles employee working at KHNP has to complete ethical eduBy operating various ethical programs aimed at creating 1,429 cation without exception. KHNP enables new employees an ethical culture and facilitating employee participation internalize an ethical culture where people lead by examin these programs, efforts are being made to form a conples and develop their ethical character and knowledge. sensus on the concepts of integrity and an ethical culture. Various courses, including 'Basic Attitude of the Public OfThe slogan for the ethical management drive was selectficial' and 'Observation of the Ethical Code of Conduct' for ed by holding a contest open to employees, and Integrijunior employees and programs such as 'Ethics Leaderty! The seed for a clean KHNP and six other items were 2012 2013 2014 ship' for high-ranking officials are regularly organized. In selected in 2014. Moreover, through 'Rumble about Integ2014, 236 employees completed 3 specialized courses inrity Board' at its intranet portal and having employees cluding 'Ethical Leader' (took place four times) and 'Ethipost about their experience of wearing integrity bracelet cal Decision Making Skills' (took place eight times) and on the 'Integrity Bracelet Relay' section, KHNP has opened 6,686 employees completed courses offered online. a pathway through which employees can directly participate in ethical management. Structure of Public Office Lifecycle Ethical Education The day of integrity • ‌Every Third week of Wednesday • ‌Integrity self-check and oath ceremony New hires Employees under 3rd level • ‌Implemented by In-house broadcasting Receive a mandatory education Must complete at least 1 hour per (more than 2 hours) through year → 5 hours (’14) Screening integrity • ‌Screening integrity videos (The first week of Thursday) the new hire orientation course videos and holding • ‌Holding integrity quiz program (The third week of ▶ Basic attitude of public official ▶ Application of ethical norms integrity quiz Thursday) and observation of ethical code and counteractions against program • ‌Delivery of integrity message, auto-run when logging of conduct, etc. corruptions, etc. into the groupware Integrity Log-in • ‌Changes posted every month screen • ‌Delivery of integrity related quotes such as nd Employees promoted High level (2 level or Myungshimbogam to 2nd level above) employee • ‌Notification of key provisions from the code of conduct • ‌Groupware screen Must complete the course for Must complete the course for at least at least 5 hours within the year 5 hours per year A code of conduct of promotion (Executives: at least 2 hours per year) manual • ‌The first publication • ‌Ethics dillema guidline suggestions ▶Roles of a manager and how ▶Ethical leadership and initiatives • ‌Distributed to the all employees to coach, etc. required for high level officials, etc. Organizing Plays and Other Forms of Emotional Ethical Education Total 8 business By not relying on a dry, factual and lecturing style of ethical education and instead offering locations emotionally oriented contents through plays; KHNP has been able to let employees relate to (Including HQs) values at a deeper level. Within the form of a play filled with laughter and inspiration that at once defines the meaning of rectitude and ethics, discusses actual corruption cases, analyzes the 815 employees reasons behind corruption and talks about possible corrective action once corruption cases are completed (2015) discovered, KHNP enables employees to easily understand the concepts behind an ethical culture and integrity and internalize such values. 70 71 Appendix Other Sustainability Third-party Assurance SR10 Membership and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Index Performances Statements Certificate Participating Principles Other Sustainability Performances Economy Environment Major Financial Performances Financial Stability Assessment Energy Consumption & Greenhouse Gas Emission Environmental Preservation With the new NPP construction and partial cash saving from decommission Financial Indicators Energy Consumption by Business Units Changes in Algae Clusters around NPPs cost, KHNP’s asset in 2014 increased by 5.33% compared to the previous year. (Unit: %) (Unit: 10×TJ) (Unit: algae population/m2) Debt ratio improved from 132.1% to 128.7% by the promotion of debt Interest coverage rate Total borrowings to total assets Cash flow coverage rate Business Units 2012 2013 2014 Category 2012 2013 2014 reduction, and the capital increased by 6.91% compared to the previous year Nuclear power HQ 1,534 1,464 1,268 Kori 46 48 48 due to the generation of net profit. Increased by Decreased by Increased by 377.78%p 0.7%p 303.62%p Pumped storage plant 4,604 5,201 6,388 Wolsong 49 49 52 While sales of KHNP has increased with the increase of profit in the UAE NPP Captured species Hydro power plant 5 4 5 Hanbit 28 23 27 business and the rise of electricity sales volume and sale price of electricity, 424.50 20.60 645.31 Other special business units 15 14 15 Hanul 199 77 87 current net income drastically increased compared to the previous year thanks 19.90 46.72 341.69 Total 6,158 6,683 7,676 Kori 305 199 211 to the re-operation of NPP #3 and the stable operation of the NPP. Average standing Wolsong 208 189 204 species Hanbit 7 4 4 Key Financial Performances 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 (Unit: 100 Million KRW) Greenhouse Gas Emission by Business Units (Unit: 1,000tCO2eq) Hanul 111 86 101 Items 2012 2013 2014 Credit Rating STANDARD & POOR’S MOODY’S Business Units 2012 2013 2014 Revenue 67,173 63,984 95,035 Nuclear power HQ 818 761 641 A+ Aa3 Marine Zoobenthos around NPPs Operating profit 4,175 2,610 25,206 (Unit: algae population/m2) Pumped storage plant 2,237 2,526 3,103 Net profit 1,250 (1,883) 14,405 Hydro power plant 2 2 2 Category 2012 2013 2014 Other special business units 7 7 7 Kori 126 134 155 Major Management Performance Total 3,064 3,296 3,753 Wolsong 128 142 141 Captured species Financial Statements Hanbit 58 83 102 (Unit: 100 Million KRW) KHNP has achieved an excellent management performance in comparison with Hanul 343 286 304 Items 2012 2013 2014 global competitors. The utilization rate of the NPP in 2014 increased largely due Kori 668 687 823 to the decreased number of failure stop per reactor and the re-operation of 3 Waste Treatment Current 29,601 36,424 42,402 Average standing Wolsong 689 683 695 reactors compared to that in 2013. Assets Noncurrent 421,694 433,380 452,433 (Unit: tons) species Hanbit 106 159 174 Total Assets 451,295 469,804 494,835 Types of Waste 2012 2013 2014 Hanul 2,481 1,952 1,948 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Current 24,856 29,465 25,940 Recycling 7,598 9,404 6,843 NPP usage % 82.3 75.5 85 Liability Noncurrent 222,223 237,968 252,545 Combustion 913 1,081 815 Failures Cases (cases/units) 9 (0.39) 6 (0.26) 5 (0.22) Total Liabilities 247,079 267,433 278,485 Land-fill 3,076 2,622 2,581 Capital 107,045 107,045 107,045 Power sales Billion kWh 148.52 138.02 155.01 Others 50 105 101 Environment-friendly Power Generation Plan Investment on plant Surplus 97,631 95,639 109,757 KRW 100 million 23,742 17,629 21,312 Total waste amount 11,637 13,212 10,340 construction (Unit: MWh) Capital Other capital -460 -313 -452 Construction progress % 79.67 81.07 83.86 ※ Source: Cumulated amount of treated wastes of Nuclear Power HQ 2014 2015 2018 Total Capital 204,2126 202,371 216,350 Category Schedule Mid-term Plan Mandatory supply (A) 2,523,871 2,662,760 4,091,710 Economical Value Distribution Purchase of Green Products Carry-over (B) 165,790 315,291 442,811 Research & Development (R&D) Investment Cost Solar 193,898 313,743 521,938 KHNP is distributing economical values created through operations to its Hydro 738,647 517,053 1,342,664 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 KHNP promotes R&D for 13 representative technologies and is successfully stakeholders via corporate tax payment, wages and benefits & welfare, and Fuel-cell 798,467 798,467 2,278,767 Total purchase KRW 1,000 12,665,521 16,971,170 17,399,575 entering the global market based on them. KHNP is also contributing to the social contribution cost. Implementation Wind 240,900 Green product purchase KRW 1,000 12,436,445 16,332,413 16,252,203 mutual growth through the technology support for co-operating SMEs. Category Items Unit 2012 2013 2014 Performance Geothermal 86,502 Green product purchase ratio % 98.2 96.2 93.4 Government Corporate tax KRW 1,000 223,704,712 18,183 590,687,272 Biomass 234,155 ※ Source & calculation basis: Green Purchase Information System of Korea Environmental Industry (Unit: 100 Million KRW) Avg. compensation & Technology Institute (http://gd.greenproduct.go.kr), Public Procurement Service of Korea, Green External purchase 246,481 819,359 219,359 Employees KRW 1,000 78,945 76,272 79,947 Market purchase data. Items 2012 2013 2014 per capita Total (C) 1,997,493 2,448,622 4,924,285 Social contribution KRW R&D investment 3,316 3,369 3,031 Communities expenditures* 40.7 43.7 52 Implementation million Total amount 71.78% 80.12% 109.53% Rate ((C-B)/A) * Dandelion Spore Fund (enforced amount) 72 73 Appendix Other Sustainability Third-party Assurance SR10 Membership and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Index Performances Statements Certificate Participating Principles Other Sustainability Performances Human Resources Development KHNP is conducting customized training for each job category, position, and IT Security Education level to strengthen the capabilities of employees according to the human re(Unit: Persons) Society sources development strategy. The company optimized basic training system in Category Method Course 2013 2014 2014 to strengthen the capabilities of entry level employees, and has expanded Education of Enterprise-wide cyber security practitioners 21 a leadership training to respond to the changes in business environment with Status of executives and employees and recruitment Females & Disabled People IT Security Collective Education of infrastructure manager 45 (Unit: persons) the goal of training integrated business leaders. Education of PII** manager (HQs) 66 66 Manager KHNP is calculating the demand for manpower by reflecting various drives of Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Commissioned On-the-job training for information security 67 31 (MOTIE*) practitioners business environment on domestic NPP construction and overseas expansion Population Persons 798 899 971 Average Training Budget per Person Female Information security training 3,384 3,384 of NPPs according to the 2nd Basic Energy Plan. The mid and long-term foreProportion % 8.5 9.4 9.9 The total training budget was KRW 31.7 billion in 2014, and KRW 2.7 billion was e-Learning Understanding PII and information security 7,267 casting of labor demands until 2025 has been prepared, and the company supFemale team leader or Population Persons 4 7 7 spent more compared to the previous year, and the training budget per person General Special lecture on information security and PII (HQs) 66 719 plies manpower flexibly reflecting the change of business environment. Curin higher positions Proportion % 0.5 0.78 0.72 was KRW 3.41 million. Staff Training on information security and infrastructure (plants) 756 163 rently, KHNP is preemptively increasing the number of workers based on the % of Disabled Proportion % 3.1 3.1 3.07 (Unit: KRW million) Collective Security education for new entry and careers (Human guideline of expanding manpower to 12,781 people until 2025. 876 Category 2012 2013 2014 Development Center) In-house training 2.15 2.29 2.32 Total 4,339 12,572 Expansion of Professional Manpower External training 1.09 1.01 1.01 * Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy of Korea (Increased by 290% from the previous year) ** Personally Identifiable Information As of 2014, employees with tenure under 5 years made up 27% of the total emOnline training 0.14 0.1 0.08 Employment Type & Human Resources by Regions ployees. The percentage of new hires has continuously increased due to the ex(Unit: persons) Total 3.38 3.4 3.41 pansion policy of hiring new recruits. The recruitment of experienced workers is Category 2012 2013 2014 also expanding to solve the lack of experienced manpower in the technology Support for Executives and Employees Training Performance by Courses in 2014 Total employee 9,337 9,533 9,816 field. In 2014, 118 people were employed as field specialists with long-term exExecutive 6 4 6 perience in NPP maintenance including professionals of machine and design KHNP operates family-friendly programs per lifecycle to support both work and Category Unit Common Leadership Vocation Global Total verification, purchasing techniques, lawyers, and accountants. Reward systems family of employees. Flexible working is expanded and applied by understandPosition Middle manager 3,090 3,193 3,404 Course Courses 37 47 1,206 47 1,337 ing the needs of KHNP employees to improve the constraints of nuclear power Staff 6,241 6,356 6,406 and HR systems have been organized to attract outstanding people. Person Persons 1,523 1,319 16,065 540 19,447 industry. In this industry, a work-life balance is difficult to keep as there are HQs 1,326 1,194 1,290 many field workers and a long-time work is required. Region Nuclear Power HQs 6,602 6,919 6,789 Creation of Jobs in The Private Sector Hydro & pumped storage 810 771 763 Fostering Job Experts The Status of Flexible Work Other units 599 669 974 KHNP trains job experts for the safe operation of NPPs. Through introducing ‘Job KHNP is contributing to create domestic jobs through non-core task outsourcAlternative work schedule has been conducted in the company since 2013, and Average tenure (years) 15.3 15.2 15.1 performance ability certification system', certificates are issued to KHNP eming, investment business orders, partnership with private sectors, fostering of the operational method of this system was diversified in 2014. The system was functional and professional manpower, and social contribution with the goal of ployees, who passed an assessment requirements of knowledge and skill for expanded to 5 days from Monday to Friday and allowed employees to freely seRetires & New Hires creating sustainable high quality jobs. Although the performance of job creeach job. Certified employees are acknowledged for their unique capability of lect working hours between 7am to 8pm. The alternative work schedule is 15(Unit: persons) ation in 2014 fell compared to the previous year, high quality jobs were created job performance. Applying the expansion of this system in 2014, it was manda30 hours work/week, which is possible to work less than 5 days/week, and it is Category 2012 2013 2014 due to the 2% increase in the area of regular permanent position. tory for new recruits to acquire the certification before they were assigned to operated by freely selecting working hours for each day of a week. KHNP settles Regular retire 185 196 204 positions. The entire development team in NPPs was required to acquire the stably flexible work by prohibiting discrimination in wages, working conditions, Voluntary retire 14 13 11 (Unit: persons) certification. As a result, the secured rate of job experts with internal job perevaluation, and promotion against employees using this system. Female 118 125 114 forming ability certification or RO/SRO increased by 2.5% to 63.7% compared to (Unit: Persons) Category 2012 2013 2014 Disabled 18 7 3 2013. Permanent 4,153 4,131 3,314 Category 2012 2013 2014 Native locals 448 409 453 Outsourcing Permanent Temporary 688 723 728 Work hour selection 21 32 33 Hire High school diploma 132 189 196 Permanent 733 103 263 Sexual Harassment Prevention Training Alternative work schedule 1,957 2,910 3,196 Engineering major 585 561 349 Investment project Temporary 2,579 589 543 KHNP conducts sexual harassment preventive training at the HQs and 14 busiSub total 697 627 678 ness offices at workplaces. For providing a more professional training, the comPermanent 100 133 26 Internship 606 686 939 Partnership (private sector) Status of Maternity and Paternity Leave Temporary 75 780 38 pany invites external instructors and the CEO also attends the training. To encourage childbirth, KHNP provides the period of childcare leave up to 3 Temporary Hire Short-term 151 232 230 Permanent 45 12 17 years. For the third child, the entire period of maternity leave is included in tenSkilled manpower employment (Unit: Times) Sub total 757 918 1,169 Temporary 655 75 37 ure. In addition, a working hour reduction system is also operated to allow Category 2014 Number of training Permanent 68 184 6 those who replace childcare leave to a shorter working hour. Social contribution HQ 4 Temporary 407 739 793 Plants 36 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Permanent 5,099 4,563 3,626 Total Total 40 Maternity leave Persons 58 72 78 Temporary 4,404 2,926 2,139 Return after maternity leave % 100 100 100 Childcare leave Persons 49 59 121 74 75 Appendix Other Sustainability Third-party Assurance SR10 Membership and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Index Performances Statements Certificate Participating Principles Other Sustainability Performances Status of Labor Relation Advancement and Labor Union Support and Communication with Local Communities Participation Restriction Criteria (Unit: KRW Million) KHNP labor union, established in August 10, 2001, is consisted of a central labor Employees' difficulties are resolved and work satisfaction is improved by activeLevel of Tenders Criteria Status of Stakeholders Related with Infrastructure at Facility union, 7 headquarters, and 41 branch offices. As of the 2nd quarter of 2015, ly handling collected opinions. National 210 or above Construction Area 6,227 out of total 10,130 employees (61.47%) have joined the labor union. KHNP (Unit: Cases) Province-wide Lesser than 210 KHNP has actively communicated with local residents to expand the accepsigned a Time-off contract with the labor union in August 2011. On the basis of Category 2012 2013 2014 City-wide Lesser than 10 tance of new NPPs in Yeongdeok and Samcheok. At Yeongdeok area, meetings the Time-off system, 24,200 time-off hours corresponding to 13 employees are Town 50 or lesser No. of grievance reports accepted 238 263 217 with local residents for resolving civil affairs, additional transfer of remaining acknowledged and 2 unpaid predecessors are additionally acknowledged. No. of corrective actions taken by the reports accepted 209 237 195 area of Nomul-ri Yeongdeok-eup and compensation of civil complaints were (Unit: Persons) Action rate to grievance acceptance (%) 88 90 89.9 actively conducted. Opportunity and scale of communication were expanded Relocation policy and management policy Name of offices Number of union members through meetings and medical services. In addition, at Samcheok area, the unIn accordance with 'Article 78, Act On Acquisition of And Compensation For Headquarters 407 derstanding by local residents was enhanced by holding a briefing session Land, Etc., for Public Works', KHNP supports the creation of a settlement comNuclear HQ 4,860 about compensation work, law, and taxation to actively communicate with proplex and the measures of migrating residents coordinated by 'Compensation Hangang Hydro HQ 214 Executives and employees Health & Safety NPP groups and purchase enquirers. Council' in which local government, residents, and local influential people are Pumped Storage Plant 332 participating. Injuries & Occupational disease rate R&D Centers and Education Institutes 414 Regional limit bidding Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Migrants Total 6,227 Regional limit bidding has been applied for purchasing construction parts and Plant Units Project Period Migration Period No. of employees with injury & disease persons 0 1 0 (Households) manufacture or service to activate the regional economy around NPPs. AccordRate of employees with injury & disease % 0 0.01 0 Shin-Kori #3 & #4 2007.9 ~ 2017.2 20 2007 ~ ing to the estimated purchasing price, eligibility for participating in bidding is Labor-management Relationship Loss days due to injury and disease days 0 19 0 limited to business operators in a certain administrative area where a KHNP Shin-Hanul #1 & #2 2010.4 ~ 2019.2 68 2008 ~ 2011 KHNP has re-established an advanced strategy of labor-management relations Rate of loss days related to injury & disease % 0 0.001 0 business office is located. responding to the change of business environment. To increase the execution No. of job related death persons 0 0 0 power of the labor-management relation strategy, KHNP increased 39% of the Absence rate % 0.053 0.023 0.028 labor group in HQs to 25 people and expanded 200% of the labor group in No. of employees with occupational disease persons 0 0 0 branch offices to 24 people in 2014. In addition, based on a result of employees’ Rate of employees with occupation disease % 0 0 0 satisfaction in 'efforts to reflect members’ opinions' and 'labor union’s trust in the management' on November 2014, a tension between labor and management is considered to eased due to value creation and business performance that are achieved by the co-operation of labor and management. Terminology (5 Point Scale) Strengthening Communication with Buppliers Terms Description Category 2012 2013 2014 KHNP practices mutual growth by conforming to needs through two-way comEstablished in the framework of OECD, the organization is dedicated to responding to the risk of supply of oil as well as research and analysis about the international Labor union’s trust in the management 3.39 3.10 3.21 International Energy Agency (IEA) munications with suppliers. KHNP canvasses opinions of suppliers by expandenergy sector and resources. Labor-management relationship 3.17 3.03 3.13 ing communication channels of mutual growth meeting supervised by the CEO, Unplanned loss is the loss of electricity, calculated by deducting possible power generation capacity and planned loss from facility capacity, meaning the electricity Voice of Customer collection by each branch office, and visiting suppliers. Unplanned loss & Unplanned loss rate that was generated due to failure of the generator or accident during operation, and unplanned loss rate is unplanned loss compared to facility. Singing of Collective Agreement to Correct Irrational Labor Category Performance A certificate that the electricity has been produced using renewable energy facility wherein the certifying organization verifies the renewable energy facility and Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) power generation of power generator and based on this distributes the certificate according to power generation Practices CEO-hosted discussion on mutual • Regular meetings with suppliers’ CEOs (25 companies) KHNP has set a rational improvement system of collective agreement and growth Renewable energy Portfolio Standard (RPS) A standard that requires to convert certain proportion of total power generation to renewable energy agreed to provide rational compensation and welfare system in compliance Visiting discussion with the • KHNP management visits suppliers (5 companies) management This technology chemically locks the radioactive waste from a nuclear power plant permanently in a glass structure in the melting furnace. It can perfectly prevent with the Korean government’s guide. The period of general meeting and workVitrification technique radioactive materials from being exposed, and drastically reduces the volume to less than 1/33 as compared to conventional technology. • Discussion with suppliers of each Nuclear/Hydro HQs and plant ing-level meetings for collective agreement was shortened by reestablishing Discussions at plant sites (Twice a year) Radiation dose Total exposure dose (dose equivalent) of a person exposed to radiation (excluding the exposure of the skin or limbs) the negotiation procedures. KHNP has contributed the advancement of collecAtom Mentor • 24/7 consulting for suppliers (31 companies) tive agreement and improving rationally labor-management relation. MOU with women-owned venture It is not that a corporate does social contribution activity after generating profit, but the corporate activity itself is generating social value and at the same time CSV (Creating Shared Value) companies • Declared mutual growth with SMEs and ventures and accepting pursuing economic profit Tech. transfer MOU discuss suggestions (15/4/17 companies) MOU with venture companies Communication Between Labor and Management SR10 SRMS Composed of requirements that a corporate recognizes the influence on stakeholders and society and checks if the management system to manage it is practically setup and operating. SR10 is developed by an international certificate network, IQNet and includes ISO26000 (social responsibility), ISO9001 (quality management), • Hotline for contract managers Various grievance settlement channels, including K-PACS (personnel grievance • 24/7 report channel for corruption reports (5 cases accepted and ISO14001 (environmental management), OHSAS18001 (occupational health and safety ), Includes SA8000 and other management system standards. consultation system), labor-management counsel, and ‘Invitation’, a program for resolved) Alleviating Grievances through • Online channels; e-Customer Center (151 cases), e-SMEs Support A global index published by the WANO Index that makes it possible to evaluate NPPs of co-operating countries, and compare NPP operations and safety between constant conversation between labor representatives and the management Supplier Support System Center (12 cases), Fair Trade Shinmungo (3 cases), Mutual Growth WANO Index (World Association of Nuclear Operations Index) different NPP operators. Ten items including the productivity of the power plant, shutdowns and the wholesomeness of fuel are quantified to evaluate the safety have been prepared to pre-emptively respond to labor-management conflicts. News Letter (monthly) performance. • Purchase Consulting Center and SMEs Support Center are in Opinions of executives and employees are collected through these channels. operation 76 77 Appendix Other Sustainability Third-party Assurance SR10 Membership and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Index Performances Statements Certificate Participating Principles Verification Statement of KOREA HYDRO & NUCLEAR POWER Co., LTD 2015 Sustainability Report Preface Verification scope Recommendation for improvement KOREA HYDRO & NUCLEAR POWER Co., LTD (Hereinafter ‘KHNP’) has the The following are included in the scope of this verification. • Consideration and limitation KFQ was able to identify that KHNP puts a lot of efforts to communicate with responsibility to establish compilation criteria including content of this • ‌Report contents in relation to the headquarters, all local nuclear power Competence of verification team various interested parties and listens to their concerns and expectations Sustainability Report (Hereinafter ‘the Report’). KFQ’s (Korean Foundation for plants and hydropower plants, overseas businesses and construction of KFQ has been performing various verifications tasks, and has qualifications through KFQ’s sustainability report verification. Quality) responsibility is to provide a verification conclusion of KHNP 2015 new nuclear power plants of KNHP to perform independent verification activity. KFQ’s verification team for For more developed communication with interested parties, KFQ proposes Sustainability Report based on its verification procedures in accordance with • Application of GRI 4.0 Core option for the Report preparation KHNP 2015 Sustainability Report is comprised of competent experts, who KHNP to supplement its internal sustainability performance management the selected standards and criteria. • Application of GRI G4.0 EUSS have in-depth experiences in sustainable management and its verification. system. Furthermore, in the next sustainability report, KFQ expects KHNP to • GRI G4.0 Compliance assessment regarding contents of the Report and show more active response effort by holding a variety of channels for feedback Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4.0 (Hereinafter ‘GRI G4.0) and Electricity assurance principles of reporting quality of interested parties’ concerns. Utilities Sector Supplement G4.0 (Hereinafter ‘EUSS G4.0) are accepted as global • Application of Type 1 verification approach according to AA 1000 and Verification opinion guidelines and those are applied as reporting criteria. AA1000 AS 2008 to assess compliance with inclusiveness, materiality and Competence of verification team responsiveness principles and reliability of sustainability performance Based on the verification activity stated herein, KFQ confirmed that this Report This Sustainability Report is intended for various stakeholders of KHNP. information meets the GRI G4.0 ‘Core’ option. According to the three principles of AA 1000 KFQ has been performing various verifications tasks, and has qualifications to • Core subjects in ISO 26000 AS, namely, inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, sustainability perform independent verification activity. KFQ’s verification team for KHNP performance information was assessed and KFQ could secure reasonable 2015 Sustainability Report is comprised of competent experts, who have inevidences to provide Type 1 level of assurance through the following. depth experiences in sustainable management and its verification. Independence Verification procedure 1. ‌KHNP implements the process of stakeholder engagement, accepts a KFQ was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, other than KFQ considered the procedures to achieve reasonable assurance of any variety of stakeholders’ opinion, and works to reflect them in its providing a verification statement, and there has been no conflict of interest apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the sustainability sustainability policy. between KHNP and KFQ. Further to this, KFQ has no biased opinion on information, as well as internal process and system of data collection to have 2. ‌KHNP has a process to define stakeholder group by materiality analysis stakeholders of KHNP. reliability of sustainability performance information provided in the Report. and to identify key issues through communication with each group to set priorities on stakeholder surveys and feedback. Verification standards • Desk review KFQ has performed GAP analysis of key issues and sustainability 3. ‌KHNP connected key issues identified by stakeholders to long-term sustainability strategy and vision and its performance is clearly improved October 2015 Assurance/verification standards performance information provided in the Report against GRI guidelines and sustainably, and its activities and performance were appropriately Seoul, Korea • AA 1000 Assurance Standard 2008 information acquired through media survey. With regard to the financial data included in the Report, our procedures were reported. • AA 1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008 CEO Dae hyun Nam • GRI G4.0 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines limited to verifying that they were correctly derived from the KHNP’s audited 4. ‌KHNP has effective internal systems and procedures of data creation, Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) • GRI G4.0 Electricity Utilities Sector Supplement 2015 statement of accounts for the first half year. gathering and analysis for sustainability performance information. KFQ • ISO 26000: Social Responsibility Standard could confirm reliability of reported information through interviews, • Site visit comparison of internal and external data and could not find any biased KFQ visited KHNP headquarters, two nuclear power plants in operation (Kori data and information. and Wolsong) and three hydroelectric power plants in operation (Chuncheon, Uiam, Cheongpyeong) to understand and assess the systems and processes in place for managing and reporting the sustainability data. KFQ reviewed internal documents selected under sampling technique considering materiality and interviewed interested persons to confirm contents of the Report. Also, KFQ closely reviewed KHNP internal data controlling system and the Report compilation process. • Resolution of findings KFQ reviewed the final report to check the errors and issues identified during the above process to provide correct and reliable sustainability performance information, and conducted an independent assessment of the Report in relation to GRI Guidelines Application Level. 78 79 Appendix Other Sustainability Third-party Assurance SR10 Membership and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Index Performances Statements Certificate Participating Principles SR10 Certificate GRI Index GRI G4.0 General Standard Disclosures ● : Full ◐: Half ○ : Not N/A : Not Applicable ISO 26000: Level of Aspcet G4 Indicators Refer to remarks / note 2010 CLAUSES report Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent G4-1 senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s ● 2~3 Strategy and strategy for addressing sustainability. 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 Analysis 22, 28, 32, 38, G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● 48, 56, 64 G4-3 Name of the organization. ● 4 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. ● 4, 6 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. ● 4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the G4-6 organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics ● 6, 24 covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. ● 4 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and G4-8 ● 6, 24 beneficiaries). G4-9 Scale of the organization. ● 4 G4-10 Total number of employees. ● 4, 72 EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime ● 6 EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime ● 6 EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts N/A No direct power sales to end customers 6.3.10, OrganizaNo power transmission facility that is owned EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime 6.4.1-6.4.2, 6.4.3, N/A tional and managed 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.8.5, Profile 7.8 No emission trade has been made, but the countermeasures and plans are being EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework ● 54 prepared, and some of them have been made open to the public through reports G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ● 74 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. ● 32, 34 No significance change in organization and ownership has been made during the report Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, year, but the overall power generation capacity G4-13 ● 6, 7 or its supply chain. has been increased since the commercial operation of Shin-Wolsong #2 from July 2015 (Operation of Kori #1 is scheduled on June 2017) G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. ● 48~55 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to G4-15 ● 78~84 which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy G4-16 ● 84 organizations. • L ist all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 ● 14~15 •W  hether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. • Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 ● 18~19 Identified • Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. 5.2, 7.3.2, 7.3.3, Material Aspects G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. ● 19 7.3.4 and Boundaries ● G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization. 19 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization. ● 19 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such G4-22 ● 11 restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. ● No significant change from the previous report year G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 14~15 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ● 14~15 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and Stakeholder G4-26 by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken ● 14~18 5.3 Engagement specifically as part of the report preparation process. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report ● 19 the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 80 81 Appendix Other Sustainability Third-party Assurance SR10 Membership and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Index Performances Statements Certificate Participating Principles GRI Index GRI G4.0 Specific Standard Disclosures ● : Full ◐: Half ○ : Not N/A : Not Applicable ● : Full ◐: Half ○ : Not N/A : Not Applicable ISO 26000: Level of ISO 26000: Level of Aspcet G4 Indicators Refer to remarks / note Aspcet G4 Indicators Refer to remarks / note 2010 CLAUSES report 2010 CLAUSES report G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. ● 0 DMA ● 48 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. ● 0 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3, 6.5.4 ● 51, 52 G4-30 Reporting cycle. ● 0 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 ● 51, 52, 71 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● 0 Effluents EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.3 ● 51, 52 • ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. and Waste Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Report • GRI Content Index for the chosen option. ● Reported with all Core Option requirements of EN25 terms of the basel convention2 annexI, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste 6.5.3 ● No wastes transported or exported overseas G4-32 7.5.3, 7.6.2 79~83 Profile • Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends GRI G4.0 Guideline satisfied shipped internationally6.5.3 the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats EN26 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 ● 52, 55 • Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff • If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and Social basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 ● 76~77 ● • Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. DMA 38 • Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the Labor-management Occupational Health organization’s sustainability report. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and LA5 6.4.6 ● Committee consists of 10 or less representatives safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify of labor union and the management G4-34 ● 12~13 Occupational any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Health and Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total LA6 6.4.6, 6.8.8 ● 74 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. ● 12~13 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Governance Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 6.4.6, 6.8.8 ● 45, 53 G4-39 ● 12~13 function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4.6 ● 74 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the DMA ● 28 G4-40 ● 13 criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. Training and LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 ● 11, 31, 73 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes Education G4-56 ● 65 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued of ethics. LA10 6.4.7, 6.8.5 ● 31, 73 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters Ethics and G4-57 ● 66~68 DMA ● 56 related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. 4.4, 6.6.3 Integrity Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 6.3.9, 6.5.1-6.5.2, SO1 ● 56~61 G4-58 matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, ● 66 assessments, and development programs 6.5.3, 6.8 whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 6.8 ● 38~45, 48~55 Local EU19 Stakeholder participation in decision making processes related to energy planning and Communities 6.8, 6.8.3 ● 75 (DMA) infrastructure development EU20 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.6, Approach to managing the impacts of displacement ● 75 (DMA) 6.3.8, 6.3.9, GRI G4.0 Specific Standard Disclosures EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.6, type of project 6.3.8, 6.3.9, ● 75 ● : Full ◐: Half ○ : Not N/A : Not Applicable Disaster/ Emergency EU21 Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training ISO 26000: Level of ● 38, 40, 44~45 Aspcet G4 Indicators Refer to remarks / note Planning and (DMA) programs, and recovery/restoration plans 2010 CLAUSES report Response Economic DMA ● 64 DMA ● 32 AntiTotal number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the SO3 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.3 ● 64~68 Procurement corruption significant risks identified Practices 6.4.3, 6.6.6, EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ● 32~35, 75 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.3, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.7 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 68 6.6.6 Research and EU8 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity 6.8.6 ● 11, 22, 23, 70 DMA ● 38 Development (DMA) and promoting sustainable development Customer Health Plant DecommisEU9 and Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.4, Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites 6.5.3, 6.8.8 ● 7, 22, 23 PR1 ● 42~43 sioning (DMA) are assessed for improvement 6.7.5, 6.8.8 Environmental DMA ● 64 DMA ● 48 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.3, PR3 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and ● 66 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 6.5.5 ● 51, 71 Product and 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.9 service categories subject to such information requirements Service Labeling EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 6.5.5 ● 51, 71 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 6.5.5 ◐ 54 PR4 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, ● No violations Emissions concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 6.7.9 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 ● 54 DMA ● 38 No emission of materials that may destroy ozone EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 6.5.3, 6.5.5 N/A Customer Privacy The customer is Korean Electric Power layer Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and PR8 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.7 ● 41 Corporation (KEPCO). No information leak has losses of customer data EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 6.5.3 N/A No emission of air pollutant materials been made 82 83 Appendix Other Sustainability Third-party Assurance SR10 Membership and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Index Performances Statements Certificate Participating Principles GRI Index GRI G4.0 Specific Standard Disclosures Other Disclosures GRI G4.0 Specific Standard Disclosures Other Disclosures ● : Full ◐: Half ○ : Not N/A : Not Applicable ● : Full ◐: Half ○ : Not N/A : Not Applicable ISO 26000: Level of ISO 26000: Level of Aspcet G4 Indicators Refer to remarks / note Aspcet G4 Indicators Refer to remarks / note 2010 CLAUSES report 2010 CLAUSES report Economic Any significance change in the management is communicated Labor/Management Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether LA4 6.4.3, 6.4.5 ● 90 days before the expected occurrence for negotiations and 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, Relations these are specified in collective agreements EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 70 agreements 6.8.9 Economic Performance Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Diversity and Equal EC2 6.5.5 ● 48, 54 LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and 6.2.3, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 ● 12, 72 activities due to climate change Opportunity other indicators of diversity 6.3.9, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.7, 42~45, EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ● Compensation is made based on the minimum wage stipulated 6.8.9 58~61 Equal remuneration for Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, LA13 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 ● in the relevant regulations, with no discrimination against Indirect Economic Impacts 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 6.7.8, women and men by significant locations of operation 34, genders EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, ● 58~61, 72 Labor Practice Grievance Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved 6.8.9 LA16 6.3.6 ● 74 Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and 6.3.3, 6.5.4, 6.7.8, 6.8.3, Availability EU6 ● 5~6 Human Rights reliability 6.8.6 and Investment contracts are closed with a full and comprehensive Reliability Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, EU10 6.3.3, 6.7.5 ● 5, 42 consideration of the possibilities of any human right abuse or broken down by energy source and regulatory regime violation. All contracts with construction companies and other Demand-Side Demand-side management programs including residential, commercial, 6.3.3, 6.5.4, 6.7.8, 6.8.3, Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and EU7 N/A No responsibilities of managing power demands suppliers are subject to the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact Management institutional and industrial programs 6.8.6 HR1 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 ◐ and compliance with the relevant requirements are strictly screening Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by Investment monitored. However, there is no investment agreement that EU11 N/A No thermal/steam power sites under operation explicitly includes provisions requiring human rights regulatory regime System Efficiency protection. No power transmission and distribution facilities owned and no EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy N/A Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures responsibilities of power transmission and distribution HR2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including 6.3.5 ◐ 73 Environmental the percentage of employees trained EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4 ● 50 Opportunities for promotion are fairly given to all employees, Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.4 ● No relevant reprocessing practices are in place depending on the competence and qualification, while performances and achievements are assessed and EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 ● 50, 71 compensated fair and square. Also, as stipulated in the Code of Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 ● Energy EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4, 6.5.5 ● 54 Conduct, no discrimination against gender, educational EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 6.5.4, 6.5.5 ● 25, 54 background, age, race, region of origin or physical disability is allowed. No legally-bound penalty or lockdown attributed to EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 ● 50 KHNP due to discrimination has been made in 2014. Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5.4 ● 52 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Freedom of Association 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.8, EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.4 ● 50, 52 HR4 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and ● 74 and Collective Bargaining 6.3.10, 6.4.5, 6.6.6 measures taken to support these rights Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and EN11 6.5.6 ● 55 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, Child Labor HR5 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child ● Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 6.6.6, 6.8.4 Compliant with ILO’s convention on the prohibition of child labor EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 6.5.6 ● 55 labor and the UNGC’s labor standards. No forced labor or child protected areas Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of labor violations have been made since the foundation Biodiversity Forced of Compulsory 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, HR6 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all ● EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 ● 55 Labor 6.3.10, 6.6.6 forms of forced or compulsory labor EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas 6.5.6 ● 55, 71 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 6.3.4, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, Indigenous Rights HR8 ◐ 75 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with and actions taken 6.6.7, 6.8.3 EN14 6.5.6 ◐ 55, 71 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human Assessment HR9 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5 ◐ EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.5, 6.7.5 ● 52~55 rights reviews or impact assessments Products and Services Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Society EN28 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 N/A Not applicable categorycompliance Compliant with the Political Funds Act of Korea that prohibits Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.4 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions illegal political funds Compliance EN29 4.6 ● No violation of environmental regulations for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Product Responsibility Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Compliant with the local regulations pertaining to the Transport EN30 and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of 6.5.4, 6.6.6 ◐ 53, 54 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary promotion and information disclosures in enterprises. the workforce Marketing PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.3 ● Conformity to the Prime Minister’s Directive 120 (“Regulations Communications Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5.1-6.5.2 ◐ 50 and sponsorship, by type of outcomes for Promotional Advertisement of Government”) is maintained with no violations of the relevant regulations. Social Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Labor Practices and Decent Work Compliance PR9 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 ● No violations of the relevant regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age LA1 6.4.1-6.4.2 ● 72 EU23 Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or 6.7.8, 6.7.1group, gender and region N/A No power sales to end customers (DMA) maintain access to electricity and customer support services 6.7.2 6.7.6 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 ◐ 73 EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas 6.7.8 N/A No power transmission and distribution facilities EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 6.4.7 ● 31, 73 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and Access EU27 6.3.7, 6.7.8 N/A No power sales to end customers EU16 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.6, 6.6.6 ● 39~41, 45 duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime Employment employees of contractors and subcontractors EU28 Power outage frequency ● 70 All partners involved in the construction, operation and Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in 6.3.3, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.6, EU29 Average power outage duration ● 70 EU17 ● maintenance of NPPs are operating on a legitimate work construction, operation & maintenance activities 6.6.6 EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime ● 70 schedule (max. 8 hours a day) Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone EU24 Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers EU18 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.6, 6.6.6 ● 40 Provision of Information 6.3.7, 6.7.8 N/A No power sales to end customers relevant health and safety training (DMA) to access and safely use electricity and customer support services 84 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2015 Appendix Membership and participating principles Joining and support the UN Global Compact After KHNP joined the UN Global Compact, an international convention on corporate social responsibilities in March 2007, it has complied with UNGC 10 principles in 4 sectors of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Human rights Principle 1. B usinesses should support and respect the protection of Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights. environmental challenges. Principle 2. B usinesses should make ensure that they are not complicit Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater in human rights abuses. environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labor Principle 3. B usinesses should uphold the freedom of association Anti-corruption Principle 10. B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, and the effective recognition of the right to collective including extortion and bribery. bargaining. Principle 4. B usinesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5. Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6. Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Membership Domestic International Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Korea Environmental Preservation Association Pressurized Water Reactor Owners Group (PWROG) Korea Association of Standards Testing Organizations Korea Suggestion System Association Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) Korea Fusion Industry and Technology Association Korean Society for New and Renewable Energy Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) Korea Society of Innovation Korea Management Association CANDU Owners Group Inc. (COG) Korean Association for Radiation Protection Korean New and Renewable Energy Association World Nuclear Association (WNA) Korean Society for Quality Management Korea Smart Grid Association World Association of Nuclear Operators (WANO) Korean Committee of Northeast Asia Economic Forum Korea Photovoltaic Industry Association Framatome Owners Group (FROG) The Korea Chamber of Commerce ＆Industry Corrosion Science Society of Korea Nuclear Procurement Issues Committee (NUPIC) Korean Nuclear Society Earthquake Engineering Society of Korea Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers American Society for Quality (ASQ) Korean Radioactive Waste Society Korea Forum for Progress Radiation Emergency Medical Preparedness and Assistance Network (REMPAN) Korean Society of Radiation Bioscience Women in Nuclear Korea World Nuclear Fuel Market (WNFM) Korean Association for Radiation Application Korean Standards Association COMPSIS Working Group (OECD/NEA) Korea Electric Association Forum on Climate Change and Energy Romanian Atomic Forum (ROMATOM) Korean Society of Pressure Vessel and Piping Korea Energy Foundation CANDU Procurement Audit Committee (CANPAC) Korea Employers Federation Korean Resource Economics Association CEA Technologies Inc. Hydraulic Power Life Interest Korea Industrial Safety Association Korean Institute of Internal Auditors Group (CEATI HPLIG) Korea National Committee on Large Dam Korea Productivity Association Korea Nuclear Equipment Qualifi¬cation Association Institute of Public Corporation Internal Auditors of Korea Korean Society of Public Enterprise Korea Plant Industries Association Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., LTD, Planning Dept. Planning team Korea Project Management Association (KPMA) Korea Network on Anti-Corruption & Transparency Korean Society for Nondestructive Testing Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation Address 520, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Korean Society of Energy & Climate Change Korea Institute of Plant Engineering and Construction Phone +82-2-3456-2761 FAX +82-2-3456-2229 Korea Academy of Nuclear Safety Korea Society for Conflict Management Homepage www.khnp.co.kr Email sustainability@khnp.co.kr In this report, KHNP has used eco-friendly papers and soy inks on its press.
