United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014-2015 Participant since March 6th 2014 362 Highway 31 Flemington New Jersey 08822 Tel: 908-782-5525 I am pleased to confirm that HITRAN Corp. reaffirms its commitment and support to the 10 principles of Global Compact in Statement the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. of In our first annual report, we list and explain the actions that support the Global Compact principles which are present in our tasks. We continued also include activities that we plan to develop in the following year as Global Compact participants. support We are committed to sharing our COP with our stakeholders through the official website of HITRAN Corp. and direct media. Sincerely, Tripp Hindle President of Hitran Corporation Our approach to the 10 principles At HITRAN Corp. we support the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact and in our first report we present the activities performed on the basis of these principles and some of the actions to be taken and explained in the 2015-2016 COP (Communication On Progress). Human Rights Principles Principle1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation HITRAN Corp. has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its work Assessment, Policy locations: and Goals • A suggestion box was installed Measurement of At HITRAN Corp. we believe that outside the Human Resources department. All partners at outcomes respecting human rights should be HITRAN Corp. have the freedom Suggestion box will be reviewed an essential part of social to express complaints about unfair every two weeks. In cases where responsibility, not only because it is treatment and give ideas to human rights complaints exist the right way to proceed from an improve. The complaints and immediate actions discussed by ethical point of view, but because ideas are reviewed by Human Management and Human Resources protecting human rights positively Resources. will be taken. reverts in business and society. That's why we support the Universal • The publication of a policy where Declaration of Human Rights. HITRAN Corp. says that everyone has the right to enjoy human rights without discrimination. Labour Standards Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation HITRAN Corp. has the following measures on Labour principles in its work locations: Assessment, Policy Measurement of and Goals • Whenever people are hired at HITRAN Corp. we immediately outcomes provide information about health It is important that the International insurance and provide training in We have both internal and external Labour Organization’s Declaration safety. Depending on the tasks audits of the company to have on Fundamental Principles and our employees have, they are control and continuous Rights at Work are respected. given safety gear and instructions improvement in the health and HITRAN Corp. supports them and on when and how to use it. safety of our employees. puts them into action in our daily basis. • The publication of a policy where HITRAN Corp. supports the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Implementation • We planned and executed a recycling campaign to raise Measurement of Assessment, Policy awareness among all employees of outcomes HITRAN Corp. on the care of the and Goals environment where teams were formed to collect cardboard, paper, At the end of the recycling campaign plastic, iron and appliances for two we gathered what each team had At HITRAN Corp. caring for the weeks. collected and sold it to a recycling environment is no longer a matter of • A poster with information on CO2 company. For future events, the goal fashion or trend, it is the responsibility emissions from the oven used at will be to exceed the previous to all of us because both small and HITRAN Corp. with the controls amount. large actions are impacting the environment. We must take action in and actions to be taken as a result of monitored emissions. A company in charge of measuring this era where sustainability and CO2 emissions, sums our CO2 friendly actions with the environment • The publication of a policy where emissions every year and with the are a “must do”. HITRAN Corp. affirms that new information we modified the businesses are responsible for poster and take actions if needed. achieving good environmental practice and operating in a sustainable manner. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation Measurement of Assessment, HITRAN Corp. has taken the outcomes Policy and Goals following measures to prevent any form of corruption in its work Ethics tests provides results that locations: allow us to know how ethical our At HITRAN Corp. we believe that employees are when it comes to honesty is essential in all areas • The application of an ethics test taking decisions in difficult or and leaders must set the example to staff of the company. compromising situations. in terms of professional ethics and According to the level reached on corruption. We want our actions • The publication of a policy the test we’ll apply an ethics to be free from corruption. where HITRAN Corp. does not course to strengthen and learn tolerate any type of corruption more about professional ethics. in any transaction or business relationship. Future Implementations At HITRAN Corp. we want to continue with the implementation of the 10 principles of the Global Compact since change and continuous improvement are constant. When of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. There are always areas of opportunity and improvement. Some of the ideas we would like to develop are: Human Rights: Labour: Environment: Anti-corruption: Hiring employees is very Thinking about the Respecting the It is important to identify important and we should welfare of our employees environment is a “must all the actions and be precise when and knowing that do” nowadays. That is behaviors related to explaining their breakfast is an important why at Hitran Corp. we corruption. We plan to responsibilities, health meal every day, we plan would like to purchase have a course on ethics issues, salary, benefits and to install a fruit and cereal office eco-friendly and corruption because it working hours. We want bar in the cafeteria at products to reduce would be good for all to provide a satisfaction Hitran Corp. We also pollution and support employees in HITRAN survey to all employees at want to support both ecology. We also want to Corp. to learn about the HITRAN Corp. The soccer team and fix the rest area and issue and what to do survey results will allow employees in general and support the environment when corruption and us to know if the install soccer goalposts for by planting trees and unethical situations arise. information we provide is their training and bushes. clear and understood. recreation on their breaks. *All ideas are subject to changes and modifications. About This Report About Hitran Corporation Th i s r e p o r t s e r v e s a s H i t r a n C o r p . f i r s t At Hitran, we have a long history of delivering Communication on Progress to the United Nations custom magnetic transformers and inductors to Global Compact (UNGC), which we signed in March clients worldwide. We go beyond 80 years taking 6th, 2014. pride in creating solutions to the most complex It documents our progress in the 10 principles of the requirements. With a team of talented engineers and UNGC. strict testing standards, you get exactly what you need – every time. Through this report we highlight our global corporate progress during (March 2014 February 2015). February, 18, 2015 Our homepage is: www.hitrancorp.com 362 Highway 31 Flemington, New Jersey 08822 Phone: (908) 782-5525 Fax: (908) 782-9733 Copyright © 2008-2015 HITRAN Corporation The Power of Experience Harry Hitran greets you!
