2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT CONTENTS 1 4 Presentation of the Company Financial Information 129 and its activities 5 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2014 Group consolidated 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values 6 results AFR 130 1.2 The Group’s activities 8 4.2 Consolidated accounts AFR 136 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial organization chart 13 Statements AFR 195 1.4 The market and the competitive environment 15 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements AFR 197 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth 17 4.5 Other financial and accounting information AFR 221 1.6 The Group’s investment policy, financing policy and market risks AFR 25 1.7 Risk analysis AFR 26 5 CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 223 2 5.1 Cap Gemini S.A. Share Capital AFR 224 5.2 Cap Gemini S.A. and the stock market 229 Corporate governance 5.3 Current ownership structure 233 and Internal control 33 5.4 Share buyback program AFR 235 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors AFR 2.2 General organization of the Group AFR 35 54 6 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers AFR 58 2.4 Internal control and risk management Report of the Board of Directors procedures AFR 70 and draft resolutions 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ report prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial of the Combined Shareholders’ Code on the report prepared by the Chairman Meeting of May 6, 2015 237 of the Board of Directors AFR 79 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 238 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary 3 Shareholders’ Meeting 246 6.3 Statutory Auditors’ reports 254 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and 7 Sustainability (CR&S) 81 3.1 Our approach to CR&S 82 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 87 Additional Information 257 3.3 Environmental responsibility 108 7.1 Legal information 258 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders 116 7.2 Group Management structure 262 3.5 Independent external analysis 123 7.3 Persons responsible for the information 263 3.6 Grenelle correlation table 125 8 Cross-reference table 267 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 268 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table 269 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial Code 270 The information from the Annual Financial Report is clearly identified in the table of contents by the AFR symbol AFR 2014 Registration Document ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT The French version of this Registration Document (Document de Reference) was filed with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) on April 1, 2015, pursuant to Article 212-13 of the AMF’s General Regulations. It may be used in connection with a financial transaction if it is accompanied by an Information Memorandum approved by the AMF. This document was prepared by the issuer and engages the responsibility of its signatories. In accordance with Article 28 of European Regulation no. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004, the following information is incorporated by reference in this registration document: 1. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2013: X the management report, consolidated financial statements and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, set out in the registration document filed on April 3, 2014 under no. D.14-0283 (pages 276 to 277 and 118 to 185, respectively); X the parent company financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial statements set out in the registration document filed on April 3, 2014 under no. D.14-0283 (pages 186 to 209 and 210 to 211, respectively); X the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments, set out in the registration document filed on April 3, 2014 under no. D.14-0283 (page 212). 2. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2012: X the management report, consolidated financial statements and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, set out in the registration document filed on April 22, 2013 under no. D.13-0402 (pages 232 to 233 and 106 to 173, respectively); X the parent company financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial statements set out in the registration document filed on April 22, 2013 under no. D.13-0402 (pages 174 to 194 and 195 and 196, respectively); X the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments, set out in the registration document filed on April 22, 2013 under no. D.13-0402 (page 197). Copies of the registration document are available from Cap Gemini S.A., 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris, on its corporate website at http:// investor.capgemini.com, and on the website of the AMF at www.amf-france.org. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Serge KAMPF, Honorary Chairman and Vice-Chairman Paul HERMELIN, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Daniel BERNARD, Lead Independent Director Anne BOUVEROT Yann DELABRIÈRE Laurence DORS Phil LASKAWY Xavier MUSCA Pierre PRINGUET Bruno ROGER Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE Kevin MASTERS, Representative of the International Works Council – Non-voting guest. STATUTORY AUDITORS PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Represented by Françoise GARNIER KPMG S.A. Represented by Frédéric QUELIN CAPGEMINI 2 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial highlights Financial highlights CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in millions of euros 2010 (1) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Revenues 8,697 9,693 10,264 10,092 10,573 Operating expenses (8,089) (8,950) (9,435) (9,235) (9,603) Operating margin 608 743 829 857 970 % of revenues 7.0% 7.7% 8.1% 8.5% 9.2% Operating profit 489 600 606 720 853 % of revenues 5.6% 6.2% 5.9% 7.1% 8.1% Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 280 394 353 442 580 % of revenues 3.2% 4.1% 3.4% 4.4% 5.5% Earnings Per Share Number of shares at December 31 155,770,362 155,770,362 161,770,362 160,317,818 163,592,949 Earnings per share at December 31 (in euros) 1.80 2.53 2.18 2.76 3.55 Dividend per share for the year (in euros) 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.10 1,20 (2) GOODWILL AT DECEMBER 31 3,201 3,768 3,702 3,601 3,784 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY AT DECEMBER 31 4,314 4,239 4,482 4,458 5,057 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT DECEMBER 31 1,063 454 872 678 1,218 (3) ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW AT DECEMBER 31 359 164 496 455 668 Average number of employees 97,571 114,354 121,829 128,126 137,747 Number of employees at December 31 108,698 119,707 125,110 131,430 143,643 (1) 2010 figures were not adjusted for the application of IAS 19, revised, (2) Subject to approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015, (3) Before the €235 million exceptional contribution to a UK pension fund. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3 CAPGEMINI 4 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.1 1.5 Milestones in the Group’s 2014, a year of strong growth 17 history and its values 6 Asserting ourselves as our Seven values at the heart of the Group 7 customers’ partner of choice 17 Major contracts signed by Capgemini in 2014 18 1.2 Offering useful innovation to clients 19 Competitiveness as a performance factor 21 Talents: transforming to better The Group’s activities 8 serve clients 21 Capgemini recognized as a leader Four major businesses in its industry 22 and a range of skills 8 Capgemini publications: a 360° Solutions for 6 main sectors view of customer issues 24 of activity 8 An ecosystem of technology specialists 9 143,650 men and women serving 1.6 Capgemini clients 9 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability: Capgemini accelerates 10 The Group’s investment A functional organization adapted policy, ﬁnancing policy to the clients’ needs 10 and market risks 25 Revenue for 2014 (by business, sector and region) 12 Investment policy 25 Financing policy and financial rating 25 Market risks 25 1.3 1.7 Main Group subsidiaries and simpliﬁed organization chart 13 Risk analysis 26 Identification of risks 26 1.4 Risks relating to operations and the strategy 26 Operational risks 27 The market and Legal risks 28 the competitive environment 15 Financial risks 29 Competition 15 Insurance 30 Market trends 16 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values Key dates: 1967 Creation of SoGETI by Serge Kampf, on October 1, in Grenoble (France). 1970 SoGETI and OBM (Organization Bossard Michel) agree to combine IT and consulting services. 1971 Creation of Eurinfor, “facilities management” company, by SoGETI with the Cofradel group and Lyonnaise de Banque. 1973 7th “SoGETI Rencontres” in Djerba (Tunisia), the last “Rencontres” gathering to which all Group employees (440) are invited. 1974 SoGETI takes control of C.A.P. (the leading French IT services company at the time) and of Gemini Computer Systems (US). 1975 January 1 marks the official birth of the CAP GEMINI SoGETI group, which, with a headcount of 1, 700, becomes Europe’s top IT services company. 9th “Rencontres” in Istanbul (Turkey), with 270 participants. 1976 The Group moves it headquarters to 17, avenue George V, Paris. The first Annual Report is published (financial year 1975). 1977 The French authorities veto the acquisition of a stake in the Group by EDS. 1978 The Group takes on the US market and sets up its first “outpost” in Washington DC (Cap Gemini Inc.). 1980 After a long tussle with SESA, the Group wins the DGT contract to produce the French electronic phonebook. 1981 The sale of SORINFOR marks the Group’s withdrawal from processing activities. 1982 Revenues exceed the one billion French franc (€150 million) mark, only half of which is generated outside France. 1984 To general surprise, Serge Kampf declares that English is to be the Group’s official language. 1985 Spectacular initial public offering of the Group’s shares on the Paris Stock Exchange (with demand 123 times the offer). 1987 The Group takes control of SESA, having held a 42% stake since 1982. 1989 The Group reports a year-end after-tax profit of 7.4%, a record not yet broken. 1990 17th “Rencontres” in Marrakesh (Morocco): the 550 participants decide on an aggressive strategy including, if necessary, joining up with an industrial group. Shortly after, the Group makes several acquisitions: SCS in Germany, Hoskyns, the European leader in outsourcing activities, and two US companies (URC and Mac Group) that wil make up the Group’s consulting arm. The invasion of Kuwait triggers a global economic crisis, which lasts four years. 1991 Daimler-Benz takes a 34% stake in the holding company Sogeti (which itself controls 60% of the Group). 1992 Acquisition of Volmac in the Netherlands (3,200 employees) and Progamator in Sweden (1,600 employees). GENESIS is launched at the 18th “Rencontres,” which brings together 700 managers in Prague (Czechoslovakia). This is the Group’s first transformation program, and mobilizes up to 5,000 employees for over a year. By the year-end, Cap Gemini – after 25 years of consecutive growth – announces the first losses in its history (it will be a similar story in 1993 and 1994). 1996 Under the combined pressure of the two other major shareholders, Serge Kampf accepts the “amalgamation” of the two-tiered control of SKIP and SOGETI within the listed company Cap Gemini Sogeti. 1997 Daimler-Benz exits from the Group’s share capital. Bossard Consultants (in which the Group has held a 49% stake for more than 20 years!) is integrated into the Group’s consulting arm. Celebration of the Group’s 30th birthday during a memorable evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris. 1998 Cap Gemini rejoins the Paris Stock Exchange’s CAC 40 index (it had been on the index from August 1988 to November 1993). 2000 Acquisition of Ernst & Young Consulting (employing more than 12,000 consultants). The Cap Gemini share price rises to its highest ever level of 368.9 euros in March, making a stock market capitalization on that day of €44.5 billion. 2002 Creation of a subsidiary specializing in local services and taking over the SOGETI name. 2003 SOGETI acquires Transiciel (7,000 employees); the Group signs a major multi-year contract with the British tax authorities and opens its first offshore production center in Bombay (India). 2006 Launch of the I.Cube (Industrialization, Innovation, Intimacy) transformation program. 2007 Acquisition of Kanbay, a US company with a strong presence in India and specializing in financial services (7,000 employees). Capgemini is the main sponsor of the 6th Rugby XV World Cup. Celebratory evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris, to mark the Group’s 40th birthday. 2008 A number of small acquisitions, including Getronics PinkRoccade in the Netherlands. 2009 Acquisitions in Romania, Vietnam and Australia. Launch of five global service lines (Business Information Management, Application Lifecycle Services, Testing Services, Infostructure Transformation Services, Smart Energy Services). 2010 Acquisition of IBX in Sweden and CPM Braxis (5,500 employees) in Brazil. 23rd “Rencontres” in Barcelona (Spain) around the theme of “La Niaque” (fighting spirit). The Group ends the year with a headcount in excess of 100,000. CAPGEMINI 6 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values 2011 Acquisition of eight companies, including Artesys, Avantias and Prosodie in France, and Praxis Technology in China. The Group 2012 restructures around six Strategic Business Units (SBUs). Launch of a new global service line (Mobile Solutions). Serge Kampf passes the torch of Chairman to Paul Hermelin during the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012. 1 2013 Passing away of Michel Jalabert, a Cap Gemini S.A. Board Member and one of the key figures in the Group’s history since 1976, and of Odette Bernard-Colombat, the Group’s longest-serving employee and Serge Kampf’s personal assistant for over fifty years. 24th “Rencontres” in San Francisco: the top 450 Capgemini managers gather, joined for the first time by some of the Group’s biggest technology partners, thereby confirming the Group’s position as a major player in the “Champions League” of its industry. Launch of Digital Customer Experience, a new global service line. 2014 Acquisition of Euriware in France and signing of a contract with AREVA. SEVEN VALUES AT THE HEART OF THE GROUP Seven values permeate Capgemini’s corporate fabric, from the Team spirit, meaning solidarity, friendship, fidelity, generosity, time of their inception by Mr. Serge Kampf, founder of the Group, fairness in sharing the benefits of collective work; accepting Honorary Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, responsibilities and an instinctive willingness to support common to the present day. These values inspire and mould our corporate efforts when the storm is raging. culture and professional conduct. They motivate us as a Group Modesty, that is simplicity, the very opposite of affectation, and as individuals. Intangible by nature, they lie at the heart of all pretension, pomposity, arrogance and boastfulness. Simplicity our actions as an ethical and responsible company. They form the does not imply naivety ‘simple does not mean simpleton!); it is basis of Capgemini’s reputation. more about being discreet, showing natural modesty, common Honesty signifies loyalty, integrity, uprightness, a complete refusal sense, being attentive to others and taking the trouble to be to use any underhanded method to help win business or gain any understood by them. It is about being frank in work relationships, kind of advantage. Neither growth nor profit nor independence having a relaxed attitude, having a sense of humor. have any real worth unless they are won through complete Fun means feeling good about being part of the company or honesty and probity. And everyone in the Group knows that any one’s team, feeling proud of what one does, feeling a sense of lack of openness and integrity in our business dealings will be accomplishment in the search for better quality and greater penalized at once. efficiency, feeling part of a challenging project. Boldness, which implies a flair for entrepreneurship and a desire These values are embodied in Capgemini’s brand promise: to take considered risks and show commitment (naturally linked “People matter, results count”. We believe that our clients’ to a firm determination to uphold one’s commitments). This is success does not depend on technology only, but also on the the very soul of competitiveness: firmness in making decisions women and men who give that technology life and who make or in forcing their implementation, an acceptance periodically to all the difference. Our approach thus enables companies and challenge one’s orientations and the status quo. Boldness also organizations to respond faster to market trends, to adapt and to needs to be combined with a certain level of prudence and a improve their performance. particular clear sightedness, without which a bold manager is, in reality, merely dangerously reckless. Truly multicultural, Capgemini works on the basis of its trademark “Collaborative Business Experience™”, which gives priority to the Trust, meaning the willingness to empower both individuals and ability to listen, to be flexible, agile and creative – essential qualities teams; to have decisions made as close as possible to the point to ensure the success of our clients. where they will be put into practice. Trust also means giving priority, within the company, to real openness toward other people and the widest possible sharing of ideas and information. Freedom, which means independence in thought, judgment and deeds, and entrepreneurial spirit, creativity. It also means tolerance, respect for others, for different cultures and customs: an essential quality in an international group. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 7 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities 1.2 The Group’s activities With operations in more than 40 countries, the Capgemini Group at the cutting edge of innovation in major trends such as: Cloud, is dedicated to helping its clients enhance their performance Big Data and mobility, cybersecurity and the Internet of Things and sharpen their competitive edge. It does so by offering them (IoT). Capgemini’s 143,650 employees (as of 31/12/2014) are a range of skills grouped around four major businesses. the guarantors of its results and of its commitment to its clients. Capgemini’s solutions for operational effectiveness and digital They leverage the Group’s performance, and also represent its transformation are designed to enable its clients to meet industrycorporate responsibility and sustainability undertakings on the specific challenges. It works closely with technology partners ground. FOUR MAJOR BUSINESSES AND A RANGE OF SKILLS X Consulting Services, which help to enhance the performance To be sure of meeting its clients’ expectations as closely as of organizations, based on in-depth knowledge of client possible, the Capgemini group has: industries and processes; X developed a global production capacity known as Rightshore® X Local Professional Services (Sogeti), which provide (making the best use of everyone’s expertise wherever they assistance and support to internal IT teams within client are based, whether onshore; nearshore or offshore), which companies; standardizes its processes while bringing them more into X Application Services, which devise, develop, implement and line with CMMI (an international reference model for software maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system integration production); and application maintenance activities; X created an ecosystem of first rate technology specialists that X Other Managed Services, which integrate, manage and/ allows it to react rapidly to the current changes and make the or develop either fully or partially, client’s IT Infrastructure most of them; systems (or that of a group of clients), transaction services, on X implemented a broad portfolio of innovative offers in key demand services and/or business activities (Business Process areas (e.g. Cloud, data management and analysis, mobility Outsourcing, BPO). and testing), also incorporating new service models based on Through these four businesses, Capgemini offers its clients a intellectual property. The Group also develops specific offers for range of skills in a variety of fields, such as digital transformation, certain sectors, enabling, for example, the digital transformation Cloud, Big Data, mobility, testing, cybersecurity, application of energy companies and the rapid rise of connected vehicles management, infrastructure services and outsourcing. in the automotive industry. Finally, Capgemini delivers comprehensive solutions covering all the aspects of a given sector. SOLUTIONS FOR 6 MAIN SECTORS OF ACTIVITY Thanks to its sector-specific expertise, the Group speaks the X C o n s u m e r p ro d u c t s & re t a i l , d i s t r i b u t i o n a n d same language as its clients, understands their needs and is able transportation: many companies in this sector are facing to offer solutions tailored to meet their specific objectives. The similar productivity requirements. Capgemini offers them a Group is active in seven sectors: technological framework with Cloud at its heart, plus the level of expertise necessary to develop e-commerce platforms that X Manufacturing: this sector needs to boost its competitiveness combine speed and flexibility; on a permanent basis; in particular, the cost of raw materials continues to rise sharply. In areas such as outsourcing and X Energy, utilities and chemicals: drawing on the latest BPO, Capgemini offers companies in the sector a wide range of technologies, the Group helps companies tackle the double solutions, which enable them to make substantial savings in the challenge of constantly changing regulations and ever-stricter management of their IT systems and support functions; environmental standards. Capgemini is the world leader in IT systems designed to manage smart electricity meters; CAPGEMINI 8 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities X Financial services : the Group works with financial X Telecommunications, media and entertainment: operators establishments (especially insurance and banking ) to in this sector have a variety of issues to address: the drop in rationalize and simplify their applications and infrastructures. the income generated by their traditional activities, competing 1 Our main areas of intervention are mobility, smart data digital content from players coming from other fields, and the management, enhancing the client experience, and compliance saturation of their current networks arising from an explosion with regulations; in such content. Having worked with these operators for over X Public sector: Capgemini helps central administrations, thirty years, Capgemini can offer an in-depth knowledge of the companies, public agencies and major local authorities to telecommunications and digital content sector and considerable implement their modernization programs and projects; technical expertise in respect of networks. AN ECOSYSTEM OF TECHNOLOGY SPECIALISTS Historically, Capgemini has established strategic partnerships of enterprise mobility, and Pivotal and Cloudera in the field of big with both leading technology allies and start-ups with specialized data. skills. Whether these partnerships are longstanding or more In parallel, the Group develops shorter-term collaborations with recent, the Group maintains its independence with respect to all highly specialized start-ups in order to provide targeted responses its partners in order to remain free to choose those that best meet to the specific industry challenges of its clients. the expectations and challenges of its clients. In providing the best available technology, Capgemini enables its clients to stay one Three groups of partners step ahead of the market. X Strategic partnerships : EMC2, HP, IBM, Microsoft, ORACLE, Over the last two years, Capgemini has pursued a more selective SAP and Salesforce.com; technology partnership strategy with high added value. The X The “new champions” (specialization): objective: to fully capitalize on each of its alliances. Working • Cloud: Amazon web services, Google, Netsuite, VMware with fewer, very innovative firms helps to enhance synergies for • Big data: Cloudera, Informatica, Pega, Pivotal, SAS, Teradata, the joint development of new solutions. In 2014, Capgemini has strengthened its partnership with Intel, in the areas of big data, X In addition to: Adobe, Cisco, box, CA technologies, Citrix, Dell, the Internet of Things and cybersecurity, with VMware, in the field Drupal, Intel, Software AG, etc. 143,650 MEN AND WOMEN SERVING CAPGEMINI CLIENTS “People Matter, Results Count”: Capgemini’s entire approach To achieve these results while its industry is engaged in a battle for is summed up in its brand signature. After all, it is our people’s top talent, Capgemini uses several means: talents that deliver the commitment and expertise we offer our X its websites (30% of new hires); clients. As at December 31, 2014, the Group had 143,643 X external hiring portals (23%); employees versus to 131,430 at the end of 2013. The number of employees exceeded the symbolic threshold of 50,000 in India. It X applications forwarded or recommended by Group employees reached 56,000 at the end of the year . The workforce is split on (22%); 5 continents: 62,035 in Europe, 59,792 in Asia-Pacific, 10,384 in X LinkedIn (13%). It should be noted that 35 employees now have North America, 10,268 in Latin America, and 1,164 in the Middle “Certified Professional-Recruiter” certification from Linkedin; East and Africa. Over 120 nationalities are represented in over 40 X external hiring agencies (8%); countries. X other channels: 4%. The number of offshore employees grew sharply in 2014 (+17%). In 2014, a vast transformation plan was launched to bolster They now account for 47% of total headcount at Capgemini, up Capgemini talents. Its name, “Excellerate” is a combination three points over one year. of excellence and acceleration. For more information, see In 2014, recruitment was at particularly high level in India and in section® 1.5. Morroco, with over 1,000 employees in the latter. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 9 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY: CAPGEMINI ACCELERATES For Capgemini, CR&S is increasingly a driver of growth and from 2.7 tons to 2.3 tons per employee between 2013 and performance. It helps the Group better meet the expectations of 2014. Its efforts were recognized by the CDP (Carbon Disclosure its clients and employees, while being more useful to society. All Project), an international organization that analyzes the impact of round the world, the Group and its employees tackle head on the global companies on climate change. issues of the regions in which they live and work, with a focus on In the area of social engagement, Capgemini launched the four priority areas: ‘Global Community and Engagement Awards’: this internal X reducing the environmental footprint of the Group; competition honors CR&S initiatives from employees. It has been X social commitment; very successful in mobilizing thousands of employees. Of particular note are the support for young graduates seeking employment in X the cultivation of talents; the Netherlands, awareness raising on sorting of electronic waste X values and ethics. in Brazil and the mobilization for people with disabilities in Poland. 2014 was marked by clear improvements, with CR&S A total of 139 projects from 17 countries were put forward. The governance strengthened at the highest levels of the firm. 12 winners received financial support from the Group to pursue Significant progress was made on the environment. In India, their activities. Capgemini achieved ISO 14001 certification, which attests to For more information, see § 3.1. a high performance ‘environmental management system’. The Group also cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 14.9%, down A FUNCTIONAL ORGANIZATION ADAPTED TO THE CLIENTS’ NEEDS Capgemini’s objective is to help its clients boost their competitive These seven SBUs have been joined by Prosodie-Capgemini, an edge and their ability to react to developments within their markets operator in the multi-channel transactional flow sector. by offering innovative solutions and reliable, high-quality services – all supplied promptly and at competitive prices. The Group is GLOBAL SERVICE LINES organized on an international level into large-scale operational units (Strategic Business Units or SBUs) and is based on global Capgemini continuously adapts and enriches its catalog of multiservice lines. sectoral and multi-service offers. Since January 2014, a particular focus was placed on strengthening: OPERATIONAL UNITS X Testing Services: the expertise and industrial solutions of Capgemini and Sogeti combine to offer software testing and To ensure the optimum response to its clients’ requirements and quality assurance services, with the emphasis on mobile and developments in the market, Capgemini is structured into seven social applications; operational (Strategic Business Units, SBUs): X managing the ‘data deluge’. Insights and Data helps leverage X Capgemini Consulting is the brand which distinguishes the the tools available to companies and public and private bodies Group’s consulting activities, in the fields of strategy and to tame and help make sense of big and fast data and make the transformation; right decisions at the right time. Capgemini also offers its clients X Sogeti is the brand which identifies the entity in charge of local the possibility to create a link between available data and the professional technology services; capacity to transform such data into economic values; X Infrastructure Services handles the design, implementation, X Cybersecurity: Capgemini’s mission is to guide and secure outsourcing and maintenance of its clients’ IT infrastructures; its clients’ digital transformation, helping them define and X the Group’s system integration and application maintenance implement their cybersecurity strategy while protecting their IT capacities are divided geographically between two SBUs, and industry systems and connected objects; Application Services One and Application Services Two; X Digital Customer Experience: this service allows Capgemini X Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) is responsible for services to help firms define their digital strategy and adopt customized relating to the outsourcing of functions and processes on behalf platforms and solutions in order to transform the way in which of companies and organizations; they interact with their clients. Mobility services are its natural bedfellow, optimizing clients’ access to their services through X LatAm (Latin America) brings together the Group’s Latin smartphones, tablets and other mobile terminals. Moreover American operations and covers the Application Services and the new era of the Internet of Things heralds numerous Infrastructure Services businesses, in particular its Brazilian opportunities for optimization of the Digital Supply Chain; subsidiary. CAPGEMINI 10 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities X Finally, Capgemini aims to help each client make the most infrastructure so as best to meet their needs (in terms of data of the cloud, offering a full range of services: consulting on storage and access; in the public, private or public/private strategy, service integration, data migration and optimization sectors etc.). 1 of applications for the cloud, assistance in piloting cloud THE RIGHTSHORE® MODEL, A SPRINGBOARD TO GROWTH FOR THE GROUP Rightshore®, the global production model mentioned in the “Four major businesses” section of this document, is a growth driver and powerful competitive advantage for Capgemini. It played an important role in securing several major contracts in 2014 (see “Major contracts signed by Capgemini in 2014” section, page 18). Thus, to manage and transform the business applications of the Nordic oil company, Statoil ASA, the Group will draw on the combined expertise of its centers in Norway and India. Similarly, the extension of the contract with the Brazilian conglomerate Algar mobilizes the BPO of Blumenau in Brazil and Bangalore in India. The Rightshore® model is also a vital component of the new global Cybersecurity service offerings launched at the beginning of 2015 (see “New global service offerings launched by the Group” section, page 10). Its surveillance provision draws on five Security Operation Centers (SOC) located in France, the UK, Luxembourg and India. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 11 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities REVENUE FOR 2014 (BY BUSINESS, SECTOR AND REGION) BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY BUSINESS 4% Consulting Services (Capgemini Consulting) 15% Local Professional Services (Sogeti) 55% Application Services 26% Other Managed Services BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY SECTOR 5% 8% Others Telecommunications, media & entertainment 22% 12% Public sector Energy, utilities and chemicals 14% Consumer products & retail, distribution and transportation 22% Financial services 17% (insurance and banking) Manufacturing BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY COUNTRY OR REGION 8% 10% Asia-Paciﬁc Benelux and Latin America 22% France 18% Rest of Europe 21% 21% North America United Kingdom and Ireland (1) Other Managed Services integrate, manage and/or develop, either fully or partially, the client’s (or group of clients’) IT infrastructure systems, transaction services, on-demand services and/or business activities (Business Process Outsourcing, BPO). CAPGEMINI 12 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and 1 simpliﬁed organization chart The Group performs its business activities mainly through Cap Gemini S.A. holds: 111 consolidated subsidiaries as listed in Note 32, List of the main X the entire capital of an inter-company service company, consolidated companies by country, to the consolidated financial Capgemini Service S.A.S; statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 (page 191) and X the entire share capital of Capgemini Université S.A.S, which is present in more than forty countries in eight geographic areas: operates the Group’s University; X North America: USA, Canada; X the entire share capital of Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S, which X the United Kingdom and Ireland; operates the campus housing the Group’s international training X France, to which Morocco is associated; center; X Benelux; as well as operating subsidiaries held directly or indirectly via X Nordic countries: Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland; regional holding companies. The main operating subsidiaries are presented in the simplified organization chart below. X Germany and Central European countries: Switzerland, Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia; Finally, it is Group policy not to own its business premises. The vast majority of Group subsidiaries rent their business premises X Southern Europe: Italy, Spain, Portugal; from third-party lessors. There is no relationship between these X and finally the Asia-Pacific/Latin America region: India, China, lessors and the Group and its senior executive management. Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, etc. The sole real estate assets owned by the Group are: The parent company, Cap Gemini S.A., defines the strategic X a building owned by S.C.I. Paris Etoile and housing Cap Gemini objectives of the Group via its Board of Directors, and ensures S.A.’s headquarters, located at Place de l’Etoile, 75017 Paris; their implementation. In its role as a shareholder, Cap Gemini S.A. X the Group’s international training center in Gouvieux, located contributes, in particular, to the financing of its subsidiaries, either 40 km (25 miles) north of Paris, owned by a real estate limited in the form of equity or loans. Finally, it makes the trademarks liability company, “Immobilière Les Fontaines”; and methodologies it owns available to its subsidiaries, notably X and 3 campus located in India. “Deliver”, and receives royalties in this respect. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 13 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart The organization chart of the main operating subsidiaries (reporting revenues in excess of €50 million) and the Group’s support and resource subsidiaries, directly or indirectly wholly-owned by Cap Gemini S.A., with the exception of CPM Braxis group (held 53.92%), is presented below: CAP GEMINI S.A. Capgemini S.C.I. Service S.A.S. Paris Etoile Capgemini Capgemini Immobilière Université S.A.S. Gouvieux S.A.S. Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA-PACIFIC UNITED KINGDOM FRANCE BENELUX OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES Capgemini Technology Capgemini Capgemini Deutschland Capgemini AU.S.tralia Capgemini U.S. LLC CPM Braxis S.A. Capgemini UK Plc Services S.A.S. Nederland B.V. GmbH Pty Ltd Capgemini Financial CPM Braxis Capgemini Financial Capgemini Outsourcing Capgemini Outsourcing Capgemini India Sogeti Nederland B.V. Services U.S.A, Inc. Tecnologia, Ltda. Services UK Ltd Services S.A.S. Services GmbH Private Ltd Capgemini America, Inc. Sogeti France S.A.S. Capgemini Belgium Capgemini Sverige AB Capgemini China Co., Ltd N.V./S.A. Sogeti USA LLC Sogeti High Tech S.A.S. Sogeti Belgium S.A. Capgemini Norge AS Capgemini Canada Inc. Prosodie S.A.S. Capgemini Finland Oy Inergi Inc. (Canada) Euriware S.A. Capgemini Espana S.L. New Horizon System Capgemini Italia S.p.A. Solutions Inc. (Canada) CAPGEMINI 14 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.4 The market and the competitive environment 1.4 The market and 1 the competitive environment Capgemini group is active in the professional IT services market The worldwide consulting market is worth nearly €74 billion in as defined by Gartner, a US market analyst, worth €605 billion total. Capgemini is ranked tenth globally and has strong market in 2014. Capgemini is ranked seventh in this global market, positions in Europe. Consulting is the most cyclical segment. excluding Japan where the group has only a marginal market The worldwide development and integration market is share since 2012 following a targeted acquisition. estimated to be worth around €191 billion. Here, the Group North America is the largest global market representing 44% of ranks ninth in the world, and number two in Western Europe. The worldwide activity. Western Europe is the second largest market market is quite cyclical, especially for local professional services, representing approximately 29% of worldwide activity. The which have short cycles (and contracts), while system integration Group is ranked second in this market and is the leader in the activities have somewhat longer timeframes. Netherlands and France. Then comes Japan, with 11% of the The systems and business process management markets market, the Asia-Pacific area with 10% and Latin America with consist for the most part of longer-term maintenance and 4%. Capgemini now operates in all these regions and had a global operations contracts and cycles, which make them more resilient. market share of approximately 1.7% in 2014 The systems management market was worth an estimated Gartner had segmented the market into consulting, development €223 billion in 2014, and the Group is considered to be the and integration, systems management (outsourcing) and business ninth largest global player in this field. The business process process management. This segmentation more or less reflects management market is worth an estimated €117 billion, however the Group’s businesses, except that development and integration Capgemini does not have a leading position in this market. activities and systems management activities have been grouped together in the Application Services business. As these markets are extremely close there are a number of overlaps. For example, the applications market encompasses both development and maintenance activities and is at the crossroads of two Group businesses (Application services and Sogeti), as is IT infrastructures. COMPETITION The Capgemini Group’s competitors fall into four categories: Offshore players (primarily Indian) have until now enjoyed the global players, offshore players, regional players and specialists. strongest growth and the largest among them, such as TCS, Infosys, Wipro, Cognizant and HCL, can claim to compete with Global players include two IT giants, IBM and HP. Their presence the global players. Having established themselves in Englishin other similar technology markets, such as hardware and speaking countries, they are now focusing on continental software, provides them with a broader overall market base for European markets. their customer relations. They are followed by pure IT services players, such as Accenture, Atos, CSC and CGI. This group of There are numerous regional players, as IT services present few players also includes competitors who are part of groups offering entry barriers. However, these players generally do not have the a wider range of services encompassing audit and transaction geographical coverage or product depth of global players. The services, that is Deloitte, KPMG, PriceWaterhouseCoopers and leading regional players in Europe are T-Systems, Indra and Steria, EY. Capgemini can claim membership of this select group of while North America has Lockheed Martin and SAIC. global players, making the others its most direct competitors. Also Finally, specialist players encompass a range of competitors, from included here are Japanese groups such as Fujitsu and NTT Data, consulting firms to companies specializing in business process which are primarily presented in Japan but are starting to expand outsourcing such as Genpact. beyond their borders. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 15 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.4 The market and the competitive environment MARKET TRENDS In addition to the main structural change in the IT services market slow down in more mature regions, such as North America, while triggered by the spectacular development of offshore services accelerating in continental Europe. (launched in the early 2000s by Indian service companies), The main players in this sector are also developing more and we now have the rapid development of cloud computing, the more high value added offers based on solutions to which they emergence of new markets around Big Data and the accelerated own the intellectual property. This trend allows them to meet their transformation of digital use, which went hand-in-hand with the customers’ needs better while limiting pressure on the pricing of explosion in mobility and the emergence of social media. The the services they offer. The Capgemini Group has made a firm industrial sectors in particular have started using a potentially commitment to the development of such solutions. revolutionary technology, the “internet of things”. Indian service companies have attacked the North American market, supplying The Cloud computing phenomenon, which reflects the on-request a skilled and inexpensive offshore workforce, allowing them to shared use of services and infrastructures between several public propose very low prices. Accordingly, they have rapidly gained users, was initiated by major players such as Amazon, Google market share, especially in the most accessible segments and Microsoft. Thanks to its strong positioning in the infrastructure (reengineering, maintenance and applications development) management field and its business process expertise, the and in English-speaking countries (USA, UK, Canada and Capgemini Group is particularly well placed to benefit from the others). Today, they are steadily extending their expertise into transformation of the economic model brought about by this new more complex segments (software package installation) and way of using IT resources. non-English-speaking countries (mainly the Nordic countries, The generation of data also continues to accelerate around the and then the Netherlands, Germany and France). To counter world, both as a result of consumers using various forms of this trend, all players and in particular those with global reach, equipment (computers, smartphones, tablets) and due to the such as Capgemini, have greatly increased their presence in wide range of sensors used by many industries. Players in some India and are adapting their production models to enable and sectors – the consumer goods sector, for example – are beginning then increase the participation of their offshore teams in the to catch on to the potential value to be gained from such data, and development of client projects: this has allowed them to restore are plowing substantial resources into ground-breaking projects margins and reduce prices in order to stay competitive. Offshore designed to harness more of the value represented by their players have responded by strengthening their local presence. consumers. 2014 saw an upsurge in the general awareness of our This has brought them closer to their customers and allowed clients of the challenges Big Data represents for their industries. them to make headway in market segments that are difficult to We expect significant growth in demand for these services, aimed service at a distance, such as consulting. As announced for a at experimenting and implementing new technology platforms number of years, it seems likely that offshoring will continue to capitalizing on new client interaction models or developing grow while undergoing a sea change, from a cost-cutting model innovative new services. to one that enables offshore teams to provide an increased level of added value. Accordingly, the growth in offshore services might CAPGEMINI 16 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth 1 In 2014 the Group’s two performance levers, innovation and value chain, from the portfolio of offers and sales arrangements competitiveness, helped it outperform the objectives set at the to customer project implementation and team training. beginning of the year. With revenue of €10.573 billion, the 2014 Competitiveness was optimized in two ways: through offshoring fiscal year featured good organic growth (+3.4%) that sped up at and the ongoing globalization of production, and by rolling out year-end (+5.5% in the fourth quarter). The dynamic performance industrialization methods throughout the chain of IT services. With was also seen in the major 9.2% jump in operating margin (up these measures, the Group consolidated its appeal to customers 70 basis points over 2013) and major generation of Organic with both an offer and services featuring high added-value and the Free Cash Flow (€668 million), both despite a sluggish economic best price-quality ratio. context in continental Europe. The Group is already present in over 40 countries, and it continued In a relentlessly demanding competitive environment, this to bolster its presence in rapidly developing regions such as Latin performance confirms the validity of Capgemini’s strategy for America and Asia-Pacific. innovation and competitiveness. Innovation fuelled the entire ASSERTING OURSELVES AS OUR CUSTOMERS’ PARTNER OF CHOICE With competition now globalized and taking on a completely Consolidating industry-specific offers new shape, far-reaching changes in consumer habits sparked by Capgemini was already a leader in the energy and public utilities Generation Y (the 18-34 year-olds), and widespread cyberattacks, sectors, and had designed a specific offer for each industry. In companies are operating in an increasingly complex environment 2014, the Group decided to go to the next level by developing that is dictated by technology. Over the years, Capgemini has comprehensive, end-to-end solutions to the industry changes developed a ability to combine detailed IT expertise with an infacing clients. Utilities were the first industry to benefit. In coming depth understanding of industry-specific challenges. To an years, the approach will be applied to Consumer Products & increasing extent, this has set the Group apart as the natural Retail, Distribution & Transportation, banking, and insurance. strategic partner for its customers. With the involvement of all the Group’s Utilities experts, Capgemini Providing comprehensive answers is now able to accompany its clients in the digital transformation Today, companies all face the double challenge of consolidating of their entire value chain, making them real services enterprises fundamentals through boosted competitiveness, and anticipating rather than just energy providers, thanks to its package of changes to their markets through innovation to reinvent their dedicated solutions (u2es: from utilities to energy services). Some business and create new kinds of added value. Against this examples are: backdrop, their expectations go beyond a simple technological X the smart electricity metering systems and real-time simulation solution. That is why Capgemini is organized to provide tools developed by its subsidiary Sogeti High Tech; comprehensive answers drawing on all its business lines and X a cloud platform to collect data concerning the use of these areas of expertise: Consulting Services, Outsourcing Services, systems, within the “Infrastructures” business line; BPO, analytics, testing, Cloud, and cybersecurity. X and teams to continuously monitor that the systems run At the beginning of 2015, the Group overhauled its marketing correctly, with the support of BPO. approach to focus on the two main technological facing customers: digital transformation and operational efficiency. The Without forgetting the development of business line applications objective is to be able to coordinate all Group offers consistently to by Application Services teams, and the complete advisory services meet customer expectations with a unified voice. The strategy also provided by Capgemini Consulting. led the Group to merge the Mobility offer into Digital Customer In 2014, this new offer, which combines all its major businesses, Experience (DCX). helped the Group retain the trust of Hydro One, the electricity Parallel to this, Capgemini has reinforced its ability to deal with transmission corporation of Ontario (Canada). The goal of this new issues end-to-end, by creating two new comprehensive offers new five-year agreement is to transform Hydro One’s business in cybersecurity and data leveraging (its Insights & Data offer). processes, and develop high value-added services for its 1.4 million clients. This new, cross-disciplinary approach promotes the appearance of disruptive solutions that are tailored to individual customer needs. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 17 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth In 2014, Capgemini took over Euriware, Areva’s former outsourcing different horizons on innovative experiments. These Labs enable services and IS integration subsidiary, thus consolidating its knowclients to gain a better understanding of what innovation can bring, how in engineering and industrial IT. Euriware has developed by testing new technologies, discovering best practices, learning unique know-how in industrial infrastructure management for how these can be applied to their industries and, in the long run, its clients in energy, industry and defense, particularly in the producing innovative solutions in partnership with them. The most field of cybersecurity for sensitive sites and Product Lifecycle recent, Lab’innovation, opened in Suresnes (France) in 2014. Management. Here, customers can “see” industrial plants in virtual reality using an Oculus Rift headset, or steer a drone in order to inspect an Accelerating customers’ digital transformation industrial site or offshore wind power plant. and promoting “useful” innovation This year, digital transformation reached new stage of maturity Operational efficiency: managing complexity for companies. Customers now want to act quickly to seize and lowering costs advantages before their competitors do. As a result, the innovation With the constant addition of new systems, applications, and cycle no longer exceeds six to nine months. To speed the work platforms to the legacy environment from innovation, companies’ up, Capgemini has adapted by creating skill centers around all IT systems often become highly complex. The Group has digital transformation issues. Internally, this approach draws on developed an arsenal of business lines and offers in order to the skills of experts from all the Group’s business lines, particularly handle this complexity on behalf of its clients: Infrastructures, Capgemini Consulting, and externally, specialized start-ups able to Outsourcing Solutions, BPO and Testing. The Next Generation meet ultra-niche issues. Since 2014, Capgemini has collaborated Application Management offer provides innovative, industrialized, with Iterate, a new American digital lab that selects start-ups performance-oriented solutions for permanent cost reduction. hyper-specialized in mass retail. To keep lowering development times, the Group is more quickly deploying methods like automation and DevOps, a software Another factor speeding up transformation is innovation, which development method involving co-work between designers, Capgemini only considers meaningful if it is useful and applied. developers, and operations teams. A network of forty Innovation Labs worldwide unites players from THE LEADING DIGITAL BOOK: CAPGEMINI LEAVES ITS MARK ON DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION “Leading Digital: Turning Technology into Business Transformation” is a genuine guidebook to digital transformation, which summarizes three years of research during which 400 companies were monitored by Capgemini Consulting and MIT. To understand its impact, the authors George Westerman (MIT), Andrew McAfee (MIT), Didier Bonnet (Capgemini Consulting) – focused on organizations whose core business is unrelated to technology. Their conclusion is incontrovertible: the competition is set to roll over all companies that do not implement a program of digital transformation. It is a burning issue that has made the book a bestseller: since its release in October 2014, it has been the top seller on Amazon in the Business Information Technology category. A strong testament to Capgemini’s expertise in digital transformation, “Leading Digital” has been presented to customers in some fifty events in Europe and the United States, including Oracle OpenWorld ’14, before an audience of 20,000 company heads and technological partners. MAJOR CONTRACTS SIGNED BY CAPGEMINI IN 2014 In 2014, the order book went up 13% over 2013 thanks to a Hydro One, electricity transmission corporation of large number of major contracts with global giants. Reinforcing or Ontario (Canada) renewing existing partnerships demonstrates the trust customers Hydro One chose Capgemini’s Canadian subsidiary to support have in the Group to support their digital transformation and the overhaul of its business processes. This contract, which has consolidate their operational efficiency. These contracts also been renewed for five years, draws on all the Group’s business attest to Capgemini’s global growth, since they encompass all its lines. It reaffirms Hydro One’s confidence, twelve years running, business lines and brands. Here are some examples (for a more in Capgemini’s ability to be its technological partner. Managing comprehensive list, see section 4.1.1, “Significant events of 2014”, 97% of Ontario’s high voltage power lines, Hydro One serves over page 132). 1.4 million customers. It is one of the largest power companies in North America. CAPGEMINI 18 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth AREVA, world leader in nuclear energy the end of December. Based on an entirely redesigned interface and customer journey, Ma Banque offers a feature that is unique In May 2014, the French Group Areva and Capgemini finalized their partnership agreement. One part of the agreement covers on its market: booking an appointment with a banking agent. The 1 Capgemini’s acquisition of Euriware and its subsidiaries, while app is another building block in Crédit Agricole’s approach to another part covers a major agreement for outsourcing services excellence in customer relationships. and IS integration, amounting to one billion euros over ten years. PostNL, the Dutch postal service The long-term partnership covers the operation and transformation The Dutch postal service chose Sogeti for consulting in relation of Areva’s information system. to its cloud strategy. Capgemini’s Local Professional Services Honeywell, American industrial group (products subsidiary helped PostNL define its roadmap to migrate over and services for aerospace, defense, home 30 applications to Azure, Microsoft’s public Cloud. Sogeti now automation and automobiles) manages the new Cloud platform. Honeywell chose Capgemini as its service provider to transform Algar, one of Brazil’s largest conglomerates its accounting and finance department. The goal is to streamline the group’s processes to improve efficiency. In the five-year Capgemini became the exclusive BPO provider for Algar, which agreement, Capgemini will take on a portion of Honeywell’s now benefits from Capgemini’s Global Enterprise Model to accounting and invoice processing. To do so, Capgemini will centralize all back-office functions. It can call on the Group’s BPO draw on its Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) center of services centers in Blumenau, Brazil, and Bangalore, India, to excellence in Bangalore, India, and on its Global Enterprise Model carry out its transformation projects and develop outside of Brazil. transformation methodology. GDF Suez, global energy player First Data, global leader in payment solutions and French group GDF Suez, one of the leading world power, natural services gas, and energy services companies, chose Capgemini to support Capgemini was chosen by American firm First Data Corporation to the transformation of its IS system. The objective is to overhaul jointly develop new generation payment technologies based on the GDF Suez’s SAP application portfolio to significantly lower VisionPLUS® and AccessPLUS solutions. With this agreement, the management costs. Capgemini’s ability to think outside the box competitive advantage of First Data’s portfolio of offers joins hands for application management made all the difference. with Capgemini’s expertise in industry-specific financial services. The goal is to meet changing consumer needs by offering new functionalities in terms of payment, data security, customer loyalty, OFFERING USEFUL INNOVATION and mobility. TO CLIENTS Statoil, Norwegian oil group In 2014, Capgemini consolidated its portfolio of SMAC offers Statoil entrusted the management and transformation of its (Social, Mobile, Analytics, Cloud). Group revenue generated from business line applications to Capgemini, to support its plans for these offers rose 25%. Capgemini also positioned itself, alone international growth. To provide development and maintenance or with technological partners, on the market for the Internet of services, Capgemini draws on SAP®-based solutions, its Next Things (IoT). Generation Application Management platform, and its teams in Norway and India. The new, potentially ten-year agreement The following is a selection of its most notable advances in terms reinforces the existing partnership. of innovation across the year. European Commission EMPHASIS ON JOINT INNOVATION FOR SMAC Capgemini signed a three-year contract with the European Commission to deploy the EU Open Data core platform. The In 2014, Capgemini speeded up synergies with its technological objective is to set up, launch, and operate a single portal gathering partners to jointly develop new solutions for the fast-growing the public data of all 39 European countries. In this way, data SMAC markets (Social, Mobile, Analytics, Cloud, IoT). The will be accessible to all European residents via Internet. By the Group reinforced its partnerships with Intel for Big Data, IoT, and agreement, Capgemini Consulting will coordinate all members and cybersecurity; with VMware for corporate mobility; and with Pivotal outsourcers involved in the project. and Cloudera for Big Data. Crédit Agricole, French retail bank Backelite, a subsidiary of Capgemini Prosodie specializing in mobile services development, designed Ma Banque, Crédit Agricole’s new multi-platform mobile app. Made available in July 2014, it had already been downloaded 2.5 million times by CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 19 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth Big Data & Analytics solutions consulting, Sogeti and Sogeti High Tech created 200 prototypes Capgemini rolled out two new offers with Cloudera, the leading for connected thing solutions for their clients in the past two years. platform for Big Data built on Apache™ Hadoop®. The objective is The prototypes are based on the development of technologies to to make it easier for their clients to set up new Big Data projects, collect and aggregate data from sensors. From 2015 on, some of by combining the American firm’s cutting-edge Big and Fast Data these projects will help clients derive business benefits from data engineering with the Group’s know-how in analytics and insights. generated in real time by sensors. Enterprise Data Hub Accelerator helps companies define and In the automobile industry, Capgemini works with several major execute their first project. Data Science-as-a-Service delivers global manufacturers, such as BMW and Mercedes-Benz, on predictions that derive insights from Big Data to make business telematics. The objective is to use vehicle-generated data to decisions. improve the driving experience. To help clients continuously improve how data is used, Capgemini Capgemini also works with several players in manufacturing and has also shored up its Business Data Lake offer developed with energy on IoT convergence and the complete digitalization of their Pivotal, a software publisher specializing in Big Data and Cloud manufacturing equipment and infrastructures. development platforms. Working with Informatica on this project, the world’s top independent software provider, will help turn raw TWO NEW GLOBAL OFFERS ADDRESSING MAJOR data into usable data faster. CLIENT ISSUES Cloud solutions At the beginning of 2015, Capgemini rolled out two new global In 2014, Capgemini filled out its portfolio of Cloud offers by offers with packaged, industrialized services that can be replicated partnering with VMware, a leading American group in cloud and in all countries where the Group is present. virtualization infrastructures. This involves providing clients prepackaged solutions from which they choose those services and Cybersecurity: a complete range of services suppliers best suited to their industry and needs. The objective This major digital transformation issue facing clients was given its is to help companies concentrate on creating added value for own dedicated global line of services in February 2015. Its added their business while managing their place amongst the plethora of value includes its access to the expertise of 2,500 cybersecurity service providers involved in their Cloud solution. professionals (consultants, network architects, ethical hackers who do intrusion tests to identify threats, etc.); a large ecosystem The Group also rolled out Virtual Company, a scalable, cloudof technological partners; and a worldwide network of five based BPO solution (Business Process Outsourcing). Designed Security Operations Centers (SOC). Thanks to this arrangement, with NetSuite, Virtual Company helps clients adapt faster in Capgemini offers clients a complete range of services: consulting, disruptive environments. Other alliances, for example Amazon protection of all systems (information, industrial, connected things) Web Services and Microsoft, have enabled us to enrich our and 24/7 surveillance. Cloud offer. Mobility solutions Insights & Data: quickly transforming data into information For companies mindful of protecting sensitive data and controlling In one year, the Group significantly consolidated its ability to make employee access using hierarchies, Capgemini and VMware Big Data a source of information for its clients’ business activities. pooled their know-how to launch corporate mobility solutions The Insights & Data range of services launched during the first in partnership with AirWatch, a specialist in this field. Together, quarter of 2015 joins Capgemini and Capgemini Consulting’s they offer a “turnkey” platform to manage all types of mobile Big Data experience with a new approach focusing on data terminals online, thus keeping a firm grasp on the complexities use (insights). In particular, Capgemini developed an innovative arising from Choose Your Own Device (i.e. employees using their technological platform called “Insights as-a-service” to help clients own terminal or the one provided by their company). analyze consumer-generated data in real time and actively adapt Internet of Things: moving forward their business processes – all this, without the initial investment alongside clients cost of data science and IT infrastructure. In the game-changing field of Internet of Things (IoT), Capgemini is innovating alongside its clients to ensure quick and concrete business application. Specializing in engineering and technology CAPGEMINI 20 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth COMPETITIVENESS AS In 2014, the Group sped up the implementation of this A PERFORMANCE FACTOR industrialization strategy in three areas: X industrializing the logistics chain, to continually optimize the 1 In order to always offer clients solutions with the best value for use of available human resources and materials. These initiatives money, Capgemini continued to boost its competitiveness in helped reduce unused resources by re-assigning them to new 2014, in particular through two key levers. projects that will drive growth for the Group; First, it increased its offshore headcount, reaching more than X standardizing production methods and infrastructure, 56,000 employees in India and one thousand in Morocco by yeartesting, and development services, for increased end. Additionally, the Group invested and continued consolidating productivity. In these areas, implementing standardized solutions its global production model based on aligning its production leads to a 10% gain in productivity each year; capacities with its portfolio of offers. In 2014, Capgemini’s X automating certain tasks, to boost efficiency and agility of Infrastructures services finished globalizing their teams, bringing services rendered to clients. Today, this concerns many areas about a two-figure gain in profitability and more competitive for which the simplest tasks may be grouped together and services for customers. standardized, such as application testing, quality controls on A second major factor boosting the Group’s competitiveness was source codes, or incident management and prediction. the deployment of industrialization methods over its entire chain In recent years, the Group has also sped up the deployment of of IT services, from design to operations. This involved gradually a very agile software development method known as DevOps. standardizing and automating the most common services. For By increasing cooperation between design, development, and activities like Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) or application operation teams, DevOps reduces development time. After maintenance, the Group has already registered an increase in experimenting with the method for the solutions in its own competitiveness of up to 5% per year. catalogue of proprietary offers, Ready2Series, Capgemini now develops many projects using DevOps for its clients. TALENTS: TRANSFORMING TO BETTER SERVE CLIENTS In 2014, a vast transformation plan was launched to boost talent the Netherlands, some 300 people have benefited from coaching within Capgemini. Christened “Excellerate”, it is grounded in to bring their career plans to fruition. This initiative is to be rolled several actions. out on the Group’s European markets in 2015. Another initiative helps employees take professional development STRENGTHENING THE LEADERS OF TODAY AND courses to stay up to date with the market. That is the role of MATURING THOSE OF TOMORROW Capgemini University, which delivered over 3 million hours of training in 2014. The University developed 577 virtual lessons Capgemini leaders are at the forefront of the Group’s and MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses). It also increased transformation. An annual “talent review” is organized to detect the number of international campus weeks organized near Paris, and provide support for talents. The review is performed by with 24 events in 2014. During these campus weeks, “co-creation their supervisors and takes into account not merely employee challenges” help Group experts tackle real strategic problems in performance, but also potential. conjunction with clients. For example, Ferro, a global leader in Tailored “acceleration programs”, such as specific training, are set high technology materials, benefited from one of these challenges up to help the most promising leaders mature. The principle is to in 2014. promote the best talents before external applicants are recruited. Capgemini University’s accreditation from the prestigious European Capgemini is also investing to develop a simpler, more dynamic Foundation for Management Development was also renewed. mobility policy to encourage a wider range of vocations. The EFMD has over 800 members from the worlds of academia, business and public services, from 81 countries. Capgemini is one RIGHT KNOW-HOW, RIGHT PLACE, RIGHT TIME of sixteen corporate universities selected, and the only one from its industry. Capgemini clients face extremely rapid economic, technological, and societal changes. To help them cope, a first initiative increases the agility of Group employees. Two concrete examples are “reskilling”, to bring skills up to market requirements, and support solutions for employees planning to change careers outside of Capgemini. For example, in CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 21 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth RECRUITMENT: INNOVATING IN THE BATTLE TO Super Techies Show, a reality show created in India for young ATTRACT TALENT professionals and students to take on technological challenges encountered by large companies. This year the participants came For several years, Capgemini has hired over 30,000 employees from six different countries. per year. In 2014, that figure almost reached 40,000. To boost its recruitment policy and attract the most suitable applicants around the world, the Group places its trust in innovative solutions. For SPEEDING UP TO SUSTAIN GROUP PERFORMANCE example, it stepped up its use of LinkedIn, with 2,200 employees In 2015, Capgemini will continue deploying its talent transformation recruited through this channel in 2014. This is a genuine plan, Excellerate. The plan is based on a medium-term overview advantage in establishing more direct contact with applicants and of the skills the Group will need in the future, as determined by finding stronger matches for the Group’s needs. business line heads. In France, the Group launched Digistart, a Facebook video These transformations are discussed in-depth with social contest offering students the chance to win an internship. In partners, particularly the International Works Council (IWC), made India, technology aficionados were able to enter the second Tech up of employees’ representatives from around the world, and Challenge, a large online game that identifies the best computer Capgemini’s Board of Directors has invited IWC Secretary Kevin developers. Finally, there was the third season of Capgemini Masters to participate in its meetings. ETHICS AT CAPGEMINI: EVERYBODY IS CONCERNED Upon entering Capgemini, new employees sign the charter of ethics at the same time as their work contract. In 2014, the Group made three e-learning modules compulsory for all employees. These deal with major ethical subjects: fighting corruption, competition laws, and the Group charter of ethics. Refresher courses are also planned for 2015. In two years, fifty workshops on ethics were also organized with top managers from all the Group’s entities worldwide. For the third consecutive year, the Group was name “One of the World’s Most Ethical Companies®” by the Ethisphere Institute (United States). PROMOTING DIVERSITY: A BUSINESS CHALLENGE Capgemini clients face a wide variety of business challenges. Team diversity is one lever for meeting these challenges. In 2014, the Group rolled out an awareness-raising initiative on “unconscious biases”. Top managers participated in a series of sessions delivered by a known expert on the topic. Capgemini continued to promote gender equality and equal opportunity in all its entities through its women@capgemini program. It also pursued its initiatives for disabled individuals. For example, a specific university diploma was developed in partnership with the Cergy-Pontoise University (France) and four other large French groups: Atos, Crédit Agricole, Dassault Systèmes and Orange. It aims to train disabled students in cutting-edge technologies. CAPGEMINI RECOGNIZED AS A LEADER IN ITS INDUSTRY In 2014, Capgemini received recognition in several forms from independent bodies and analysts. Thought leadership First, Capgemini Consulting was named one of the Top 4 “Thought Leaders” by Source Consulting. The quality of Capgemini research was applauded in the firm’s global ranking of consulting firm publications. Since the creation of the Digital Transformation Research Institute, Capgemini Consulting has jumped ten places in two years. CAPGEMINI 22 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth Distinctions awarded to Capgemini by analysts Capgemini, “One of the World’s Most Ethical Companies®” X IDC has positioned Capgemini as a Leader in the Business Analytics IT Consulting and Systems Integration Services 2014 For the third year running, the Group was named “One of 1 MarketScape(1); and in the Worldwide Business Analytics BPO the World’s Most Ethical Companies ®” by the United States’ 2014 MarketScape(2). Ethisphere Institute. The title recognizes Capgemini’s on-going X Forrester has positioned Capgemini in the Leaders category commitment to ethics and corporate social responsibility. in The Forrester Wave™: Enterprise Mobile App Services Capgemini Campus, the only corporate campus Providers – Large Providers, Q1 2015.(3) in Europe to hold an Ecolabel X Gartner has positioned Capgemini as a Leader in the Magic Les Fontaines, Capgemini’s global campus in the Paris region, had Quadrant for Finance and Accounting BPO.*(4) its European Ecolabel renewed in 2014. Les Fontaines opened X Forrester has positioned Capgemini in the Leaders category in in 2003, and is the only corporate campus in Europe to hold an the Global Infrastructure Outsourcing Wave™, Q1 2015.(5) Ecolabel. X Gartner has positioned Capgemini as a Leader in the Magic Quality training Quadrant for Oracle Application Implementation Services, Capgemini University’s accreditation from the prestigious European Worldwide *(6) and as a Leader in the Magic Quadrant for SAP Foundation for Management Development (EFMD) was renewed. Application Management Service Providers, Worldwide.*(7) The EFMD gathers over 800 members of academia, the corporate X Ovum has positioned Capgemini as a Leader in the Decision world, and public services from 81 countries. Capgemini is one Matrix report for Outsourced Testing Services.(8) of sixteen corporate universities chosen, and the only one from Distinctions awarded by technological partners its industry. It also received four Excellence Awards from learning research and analyst firm Brandon Hall, for outstanding learning Over the year, Capgemini received twelve prizes from its programs. technological partners, including EMC, HP, IBM, Microsoft, Pegasystems, Salesforce, SAP, Teradata and VMware. These Recognition for commitment to the environment accolades acknowledge the Group’s excellence, capacity for The Group was recently named a leader in Climate Change innovation, and successful partnerships. Performance by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). CDP is an international organization that analyses the impact of large international companies on climate change. With this honor, Capgemini become one of ten French companies listed amongst the 2014 “CDP Climate Change Performance Leaders”. (1) IDC: “IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Business Analytics Consulting and Systems Integration Services 2014 Vendor Assessment,” Ali Zaidi, May 2014 (2) IDC: “IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Business Analytics BPO 2014 Vendor Assessment,” Mukesh Dialani, July 2014 (3) “The Forrester Wave™: Enterprise Mobile App Services Providers – Large Providers, Q1 2015,” Forrester Research Inc., March 5, 2015 (4) Gartner, Inc.: “Magic Quadrant for Finance and Accounting BPO,” Cathy Tornbohm, May 28, 2014 (5) “The Forrester Wave™: Global Infrastructure Outsourcing, Q1 2015, Forrester Research Inc., January 13, 2015 (6) Gartner, Inc.: “Magic Quadrant for Oracle Application Implementation Services,” Alex Soejarto, Susanne Matson, December 3, 2014 (7) Gartner, Inc.: “Magic Quadrant for SAP Application Management Service Providers, Worldwide,” Frances Karamouzis, Gilbert van der Heiden, Kris Doering, October 16, 2014 (8) Ovum: “Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting an Outsourced Testing Service Provider, 2014–2015,” Thomas Reuner, January 6, 2015 * Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications express the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 23 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2014, a year of strong growth CAPGEMINI PUBLICATIONS: A 360° VIEW of the eGovernment 2015 action plan. Adopted in 2011 by the OF CUSTOMER ISSUES Member States, the program aims to extend the availability of online public services. The 2014 report reveals that although Anticipating company issues, analyzing major market trends, and public services are now widely paperless, use has dropped due to deciphering the impact of new technologies on business: these are slow, difficult access and a lack of information. The study surveys also Capgemini missions. To this end, the Group produces several 28,000 EU citizens every year, and will be continued until 2019. dozen reports and case studies each year. These publications, The Internet of Things: Are Organizations Ready For A which are written by Capgemini teams, often in conjunction with Multi-Trillion Dollar Prize?: How should companies react to recognized partners, are benchmarks in their fields. the rise of the Internet of Things? What pitfalls must be avoided? Here is a selection of reports and case studies published in 2014, Based on the experience of the most advanced connected things in chronological order. players, this Capgemini Consulting study paints a comprehensive portrait of this market that presents such immense potential. Find complete copies of all Group publications at capgemini.com/ thought-leadership. World & Asia-Pacific Wealth Reports: Jointly produced with the Royal Bank of Canada, these yearly reports are the global THINGS – Internet of Business Opportunities – VINT Report benchmark for tracking changes to wealthy populations, and their Things (1): This Sogeti publication, the first in a series of four reports wealth management expectations. Despite a sharp increase in on the Internet of Things (IoT), invites companies to approach this wealth and in trust in wealth managers, the 2014 report reveals new market from the angle of its uses and usefulness. that the latter’s performances satisfy fewer and fewer HNWIs, who Staying Ahead in the Cyber Security Game – What Matters expect more personalized services. Now: Since cyber security is now one of the risks that all Third Party Logistics study: For 19 years, this study (1) has companies must manage, this joint Sogeti-IBM publication tracked changes in the global third party logistics market. provides an overview of the issues and actions to be taken without Upcoming challenges include adapting to omni-channel delay. In particular, the book discusses “bring-your-own-device” commerce and inventing new models of the logistics chain. security measures, and how to detect IT breaches in companies. Digital Shopper Relevancy: Despite the fact that interactions World Insurance Report: Prepared along with Efma, an between consumers and shops become more digital with each association of over 80% of the world’s major financial institutions, passing year, the role of social media in the shopping journey this report draws up an annual panorama of the insurance tends to be overestimated. That is the finding of the second industry. In 2014, although insurers enjoyed greater profitability, edition of this study carried out in eighteen countries and surveying the customer survey of 15,500 customers in over 30 countries 18,000 buyers who use digital channels. The report also highlights revealed a low rate of satisfaction (32%). It becomes apparent a sharp contrast between the habits in mature and developing that digital transformation must speed up to improve the customer markets, and presents an overview of digital shopper segments experience. by country. Application Landscape Report: Revealing a problem of World Payments Report: According to this annual report “overloaded”, “redundant”, or “obsolete” IT applications, this study published with the Royal Bank of Scotland, cashless transactions of 1,000 CIOs from sixteen countries reveals that 76% of those continue to grow in popularity, particularly mobile payments. surveyed believe that it is crucial to rationalize their IT system. The challenge is to introduce applications that allow for companies’ World Quality Report: The quality of IT applications is becoming digital transformation, to boost their competitive advantage. strategic for companies. This sixth World Quality Report jointly produced with Sogeti and HP is based on a survey of 1,500 World Retail Banking Report: This panorama of the retail individuals in 25 countries. It reveals that testing budgets are banking sector is published annually in conjunction with Efma. For constantly on the rise (26% of IT costs in 2014, compared to 18% the first time in three years, its poll of 17,000 customers in 32 in 2012). Another finding is that, for the first time, companies are countries reveals a sharp drop in satisfaction. The challenge for giving priority to new projects (such as mobility or Big Data) rather this sector is to meet the needs of generation Y, who are much than maintaining the legacy system. more tech-savvy than their elders. European Energy Markets Observatory: Each year, this Cars Online – Generation Connected: Each year, this study report analyses the progress European energy markets make prepares an overview of changes to the role of car manufacturers towards the energy transition goals set by the European Union. and dealers in the customer experience. The 2014 edition The 2014 edition shows that electricity markets remain unstable shows that consumer expectations for connected services must and that gas supplies are uncertain. Against this backdrop, the constitute the main driver of innovation in the automotive industry report concludes that the measures adopted by the European – both in terms of the customer experience and on-board car Commission in 2014 are insufficient to ensure a secure supply of features. energy in Europe. E-Government Benchmark: As part of a partnership with the European Commission, this poll assesses the implementation (1) Study jointly produced by Capgemini Consulting, PennState University, Korn Ferry International executive recruitment firm, and Penske Logistics. CAPGEMINI 24 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.6 The Group’s investment policy, financing policy and market risks 1.6 The Group’s investment policy, 1 ﬁnancing policy and market risks INVESTMENT POLICY In 2014, Capgemini purchased Euriware (1,900 employees and technology portfolio will also remain one of the priorities of the revenues of €220 million). Group’s external growth policy. This acquisition was accompanied by the signature of a €1 billion These acquisitions will be made possible thanks to the Group’s contract with the vendor group, Areva. very solid financial position, which they should not compromise. In 2015, the Group wishes to strengthen its presence outside Europe and particularly in North America. The development of the FINANCING POLICY AND FINANCIAL RATING The Cap Gemini S.A. financing policy is intended to provide • maintaining an adequate level of available funds (€2,230 million the Group with adequate financial flexibility and is based on the at December 31, 2014), supplemented by a €750 million multifollowing main criteria: currency syndicated line of credit secured on July 30, 2014 and maturing on July 30, 2019 and backed by a €550 million X a moderate use of debt leveraging: over the last ten years commercial paper program, Capgemini Group has strived to maintain at all times a limited level of net debt (and even a positive net cash position) including • borrowings, with only a limited portion falling due within 12 in the manner in which it finances its external growth; months (contractual cash flows within less than one year; see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements) representing X diversified financing sources adapted to the Group’s financial just 12% of total contractual cash flows at December 31, 2014. profile: Capgemini seeks to maintain a balance between bank financing (including the syndicated credit line and the use of leasing to finance IT equipment) and market financing (issue FINANCIAL RATING of OCEANE bonds convertible and/or exchangeable for new The Group’s ability to access financial and banking markets and or existing shares for €575 million in June 2009; euro bond the cost of accessing such markets depends at least in part on issue performed in November 2011 for €500 million; issue of the credit rating attributed by the rating agency Standard & Poor’s: ORNANE bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new shares and/ in August 2014, the latter upgraded Capgemini’s long-term credit or in existing shares for €400 million in October 2013 – see Note rating to BBB+ (stable outlook), from its previous rating of BBB 20 to the consolidated financial statements); (stable outlook). X a good level of liquidity and durable financial resources, which means: MARKET RISKS Detailed information concerning currency risk, interest rate risk, equity risk, liquidity risk and credit risk is provided in Notes 11, 18, 20 and 22 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements in this Registration Document. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 25 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis 1.7 Risk analysis IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS This risk analysis section was drafted following a coordinated X Individual business units which supplement and adapt the process involving several Group stakeholders. Of particular note Blue Book by drawing up detailed internal control procedures among the departments that play a key role in identifying major which comply with the relevant laws, regulations and customary risks are the Internal Audit, Finance, Insurance, Legal, Human practices in the country where they operate, in order to exercise Resources, Security and Mobility departments. control more effectively over risks specific to their local market and culture. More generally, the Group has implemented a risk control system involving various parties operating at different levels of the X These rules and procedures are updated regularly to reflect the organization, including: development of the Group’s business activities and changes in its environment. X Group Management, which discussed, drafted, approved and distributed a set of rules and procedures known as the Blue X The Internal audit function which independently assesses the Book. Compliance with the Blue Book is mandatory for all Group effectiveness of these internal control procedures given that, employees. The Blue Book restates and explains Capgemini’s irrespective of how well they are drafted and how stringently seven core values, sketches out the overall security framework they are applied, these procedures can only provide reasonable within which the Group’s activities must be conducted, and, assurance – and not an absolute guarantee – against all risks. finally, describes the methods to be followed in order to exercise The overall risk management and internal control system is the necessary degree of control over the risks identified in each described in the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Group’s main functions. (page 70 and seq.) of this Registration Document. The risk management and control procedures presented below are also described in this context. RISKS RELATING TO OPERATIONS AND THE STRATEGY Capgemini is a service provider and consulting group, and as such, COMPETITION the main risks to which the Group is exposed are (i) failure to deliver The IT consulting and services business is highly competitive. A the services to which it has committed; (ii) failure to deliver services large number of players, both French and international, operate within the contractual timeframe and to the required level of quality; with substantial resources, giving them significant scope for or (iii) infringement, notably through human error, of obligations action, both financial and operational. liable to affect the operations of a client or third party. In the course of its consulting activities, the Group has an obligation to provide The Group’s inability to understand, satisfy or anticipate the information and could incur liability should it fail to do so. current and future needs of our clients and prospective clients by launching relevant services on the market, could impact our financial results. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Furthermore, the concentration of players in this market could offer The Group’s growth and financial results may be adversely opportunities or be prejudicial to the Group. affected by a general downturn in the IT service sector or in one of Capgemini’s other key business segments. A shake-up resulting in a change of ownership at one of Capgemini’s clients or a decision EXTERNAL GROWTH not to renew a long-term contract may have a negative effect on External growth transactions, one of the cornerstones of the revenue streams and require cost-cutting or headcount reduction Group’s development strategy, also contain an element of risk. measures in the business units affected. Integrating any newly-acquired company or activity, particularly in The general economic context and more precisely restrictions the service sector, may prove to be a longer and more difficult affecting public bodies in the various countries subject to process than predicted. The success of an external growth budgetary constraints, may weigh on our activities. A continued transaction largely depends on the extent to which the Group is slowdown in the activity of certain economic sectors in which our able to retain key managers and employees, maintain the client clients operate would also limit their ability to invest and according base intact, coordinate development strategy effectively, especially impact the results of the Group in a certain number of segments. from an operating and commercial perspective, and dovetail CAPGEMINI 26 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis and/or integrate information systems and internal procedures. service offers or human resource policy, thereby tarnishing the Unforeseen problems can generate higher integration costs and/ Group’s reputation. or lower savings or synergies than initially forecast. If a material, 1 unidentified liability subsequently comes to light, the value of the CLIENTS assets acquired may turn out to be lower than their acquisition cost (see Note 14 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial Capgemini serves a large client base, in a wide variety of sectors statements, page 166 ). and countries, limiting the risk of dependency on a given sector and/or market. The Group’s biggest clients are multinationals and public bodies (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial REPUTATION statements, page 172). The detailed list of the Group’s biggest Intense media coverage of any difficulties encountered, especially clients is strategic information and is not communicated. on large-scale or sensitive projects, could negatively impact the The contribution of the Group’s main clients to Group revenues (as Group’s image and credibility in the eyes of its clients, and by a percentage of total revenues) is as follows: extension, its ability to maintain or develop certain activities. When dealing with third parties and clients, the behavior of team 2014 members may be inconsistent with our principles (values, work Top five clients 15% methods, etc.) and could even present a danger to the company Top ten clients 20% if contrary to ethics or legislation. Finally, internet users could make negative comments on social media (Twitter, Facebook, etc.) on Capgemini’s performance, OPERATIONAL RISKS RISK CONCERNING PROJECT PERFORMANCE The Group could encounter difficulties attracting, developing or retaining the key skills necessary to the exercise of its activities. Despite the formal review and approval procedure for all The loss of talent or a team could also follow an acquisition or a contractual commitments given by the Group to its clients, change in Group or entity management. suppliers and sub-contractors, in some cases, difficulties with respect to project performance and/or project costs may have The Group pays close attention to internal communication, been underestimated at the outset. This may result in cost diversity, equal opportunity and good working conditions. Group overruns not covered by additional revenues, especially in the Management has published a Code of Business Ethics and case of fixed-price contracts, or reduced revenues without oversees its application. Nevertheless, in the event of an industrial any corresponding reduction in expense in the case of certain dispute or non-compliance with local regulations and/or ethical outsourcing contracts where there is a commitment to provide a standards, the Group’s reputation and results could be adversely certain level of service. affected. Despite the stringent control procedures that the Group applies Figures concerning, in particular, the attrition rate, the utilization in the project performance phase, it is impossible to guarantee rate, changes in headcount (including in offshore countries), career that all risks have been contained and eliminated. In particular, management, the development of expertise, building employee human error, omissions, and infringement of internal or external loyalty and the level of employee commitment are presented in the regulations or legislation that are not, or cannot be identified in Chapter “Capgemini, its values, employees and Corporate Social time, may cause damage for which the Company is held liable Responsibility”, Section 3.2 “Our people, a key Group asset” and/or may tarnish its reputation. (pages 87 and seq.). EMPLOYEES INFORMATION SYSTEMS The vast majority of the Group’s value is founded on its human New technologies (cloud computing, “Bring your own device”, capital and its ability to attract, train and retain employees with etc.) and new practices (social networks, mobility, etc.) inevitably the technical expertise necessary to the performance of client expose the Group to new risks. Risks relating to cyber criminality projects to which it has committed. In particular, this requires a in all its forms could lead to a loss of data, delays in the delivery of strong reputation in the employment market and ensuring fair our projects, service interruptions at our clients, or additional costs appraisal and promotion procedures as well as the professional that could impact the reputation or financial health of the Group. development of our employees. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 27 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis The systems underlying the publication of the Group’s Finally, the poor management of expenditure incurred with a third consolidated financial statements also present a specific risk party, budget overruns, the use of unapproved suppliers and in view of the strict reporting deadlines. The Group is aware of purchases that do not comply with equipment strategic decisions, the importance of internal communication network security, and can also generate risks. protects its networks via security rules and firewalls. It also has an established IT security policy. GEOPOLITICS Capgemini has permanent operations in approximately 40 SERVICE CONTINUITY countries. The bulk of its revenues are generated in Europe and Capgemini’s evolving production model, Rightshore®, involves North America, which are economically and politically stable. transferring a portion of the Group’s production of part of An increasing portion of its production is based in emerging its services to sites or countries other than those in which the countries, and primarily India, which now represents approximately services are used or in which the Group’s clients are located and 38% of the Group’s total headcount. Consequently, Capgemini is particularly India, Poland, China and other Asian and Latin America now more exposed to the risk of natural disasters in South East countries. The development of this model has made the Group Asia and Latin America, political instability in certain regions of more reliant on telecommunications networks, which may increase India and adjoining countries, and even terrorist attacks. From the risk of business interruption at a given production site due to an economic standpoint, the Group is also exposed to risks an incident or a natural disaster, in so far as several operational stemming from the negative effects of insufficiently controlled units could be affected simultaneously. The use of a large number growth (wage inflation, which is particularly rife in the IT sector, of production sites increases the range of contingency options inadequate domestic infrastructure and higher taxes). available to the Group. Sending employees to countries which are geopolitically unstable may expose the Group to risks regarding the physical safety of SUPPLIERS AND SUB-CONTRACTORS these employees. Economic instability and poorly controlled Capgemini is dependent upon certain suppliers, especially in its growth can also be a source of risk for the company’s performance Technology Services and networks businesses. While alternative and reputation. The risk of natural disasters in certain countries solutions exist for most software and networks, the failure of a where we are present, political instability and even terrorist attacks supplier to deliver specific technology or expertise could have and similar risks in countries where we may be called on to work prejudicial consequences for certain projects (see section 3.4.3 in response to client requirements, could impact the physical Engaging with stakeholders, our suppliers and business partners, safety of our employees. Economic uncertainty in an unstable page 121 and seq.). environment generates many other risks (galloping inflation and its impact on wages, poorly adapted infrastructures, unstable fiscal The bankruptcy of a supplier, its takeover by a competitor (and a and social environment, etc.) which could impact our economic change in its current service offer/product range), a change in its performance. sales model, such as the use of Cloud Computing for IT services, or a technical (fire or natural event) or human (error/negligence or Finally, a dedicated international insurance program has been setmalicious act) incident could generate additional risks. up to provide assistance to all employees covering their security, healthcare and potential repatriation (for more information please refer to the Insurance section of this document). LEGAL RISKS Capgemini Group provides a range of services to its clients who in CONTRACTS turn operate in a variety of business sectors. All services relating The acceptance of unfavorable conditions, such as unlimited to a given project are covered by contracts signed with our liability in certain circumstances, comprises a risk. Contractual clients as well as our suppliers and sub-contractors (software, IT risks may notably arise when the Group’s liability for failing to hardware, host sites, etc.) when implementing tailored solutions. fulfill certain obligations is unlimited, when there is no liability Each contract is governed by specific regulations that could protection clause in relation to services affecting health and safety negatively impact our activities. Other factors such as the size and or the environment, and when the rights of third parties are not geographical locations of the Group also expose it to legal and respected. tax risks. CAPGEMINI 28 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION Even if measures are taken to limit any negative impact on our activities or our reputation of non-compliance with regulations The Group is a multinational company operating in several countries and providing services to clients who, in turn, operate governing our activities, failure to take account of regulations or 1 an error in interpreting such regulations, would expose the Group around the world and are subject to numerous and constantly to financial and reputation risks. changing laws and regulations. The sheer diversity of local laws and regulations, which are LITIGATION constantly changing, exposes the Group to a risk of infringement of such laws and regulations by under-informed employees Having developed a vast network of contractual relationships, the especially those working in countries that have a different culture Group is not immune from litigation and legal action. to their own – and to the risk of indiscretion or fraud committed Nonetheless, at the date of this report, there are no governmental, by employees. As stringent as they may be, the legal precautions legal or arbitration proceedings, including any proceedings of taken by the Group both at a contractual and an operational level which the Group is aware, that are pending or liable to arise, which to protect its activities or to ensure adherence by employees to are likely to have or have had in the last 12 months a material internal rules can only provide reasonable assurance and never an impact on the Group’s financial position or profitability other than absolute guarantee against such risks. those that are recognized in the financial statements or disclosed in the notes thereto (see Note 24 to Capgemini’s consolidated FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS financial statements page 186). GOVERNING OUR ACTIVITIES While the Group’s activities are not generally regulated, certain of our clients sometimes require us to comply with regulations imposed on them, or in rare cases, make us comply with other regulations. FINANCIAL RISKS The Group Finance Department is responsible for the control, Financial assets which could expose the Group to credit or monitoring and supervision of financial risks and is present in each counterparty risk mainly relate to financial investments and country and each business unit. accounts receivable. The hedging agreements entered into with financial institutions pursuant to its policy for managing The variety of its activities and geographic locations exposes the currency and interest rate risks also expose the Group to credit Group to a number of financial risks, described below, which, and counterparty risk (see Note 22 to Capgemini’s consolidated depending on their materiality, can have a significant impact on financial statements). the results and reputation of the Group. EQUITY RISK LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk for the Group could correspond to a temporary For the Group, equity risk would consist of unfavorable movements or permanent inability to fulfill all or part of its commitments in in the stock market value of listed companies in which the Group respect of its financial liabilities (including in particular borrowings holds investments. and accounts and notes payable) and the inability to find new However, the Group does not hold any shares for financial sources of financing in order to maintain the balance between investment purposes, and does not have any interests in listed revenue and expenditure. Such a risk would also limit the Group’s companies. It does, however, hold treasury shares acquired under ability to finance its activities and the investment necessary for its its share buyback program as well as call options on its own development. shares and enters into derivatives in its own shares (see Note 11 The financial liabilities whose early repayment could expose the to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). Group to liquidity risk are mainly the November 2011 bond issue and the ORNANE convertible bond issue performed in 2013. CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISK In this context, the Company undertook a specific review of its Capgemini Group would be exposed to credit and counterparty liquidity risk and considers it is able to meet future scheduled risk in respect of its asset financial instruments if the relevant payments (see Note 20 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial debtor was unable to fulfill all or part of its commitments. statements). CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 29 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis INTEREST RATE RISK RISKS RELATING TO EMPLOYEE LIABILITIES The Group’s Income Statement could be impacted by interest Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements may be impacted rate risk if unfavorable movements in interest rates had a negative by provisions for pensions covering funded defined benefit plans, impact on future net finance costs and financial flows of the Group. which are also subject to volatility. Furthermore, the Group could be faced with calls for funds from trustees to make-up pension The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk must also be considered fund shortfalls, over a short or long time period, potentially in light of its cash position. The liquidity at its disposal is generally deteriorating its financial position. invested at floating rates, while the Group’s debt – primarily comprising bond issues – is mainly at fixed rates (see Note 22 to The main risk factors are fluctuations in interest rates and more Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). generally the financial markets, as well as inflation rates and life expectancy. The value of pension obligations is calculated based on actuarial assumptions and particularly interest rates, inflation CURRENCY RISK rates and life expectancy. Pension plan assets, which are invested The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk that could in different categories of assets (including equities), are managed impact earnings and equity: risks arising in connection with the by the trustees of each fund and are subject to market risk, as consolidation process on the translation of the foreign currency well as the performance of the management policy defined by accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is the trustees, implementation of which can in certain cases by not the euro, and currency risks arising on operating and financial delegated. Under these conditions, plan assets may be less cash flows which are not denominated in the entities’ functional than pension obligations, reflecting a funding shortfall or deficit. currency. Changes over time in assets and/or liabilities are not necessarily The growing use of offshore production centers in India, but also in the same direction and are eminently volatile and can increase in Poland and Latin America, exposes Capgemini to currency risk or decrease the funding asset/ liability or the resulting deficit. with respect to some of its production costs. Capgemini is also Nonetheless, the potential economic impact of these changes exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations in respect of must be assessed over the midand long-term in line with the inter-company financing transactions and fees paid to the Group timeframe of the Group’s pension commitments (see Note 23 to by subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro (see Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). Note 22 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). INSURANCE The Group Insurance Department reports to the Group Finance COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY AND Department and is responsible for all non-life insurance issues. The PROFESSIONAL INDEMNITY management and coordination of employee benefits insurance is This insurance plan, which is key for clients, is designed, taken overseen by a joint governance body representing the Finance out and managed centrally at Group level. Any entity in which Department and the Group Human Resources Department. Cap Gemini SA has 50% or more ownership (direct or indirect The Group risk management and insurance policy encompasses control), is insured by a worldwide integrated Group insurance the assessment, prevention and transfer of all or part of the risks program covering the financial consequences of their commercial relating to individuals, its assets and equipments under Group’s general liability and professional indemnity, i.e., any damage responsibility. The Group’s insurance policy for transferring risks caused to third parties within the course of our usual business to the insurance and reinsurance market is to adjust insurance activities, everywhere in the world. This insurance program is coverage to the maximum replacement value of assets to be structured in layers contracted with highly reputable leading insured, or in the case of liability insurance, to an estimate of insurance companies. The terms and conditions of this program, its own risks and reasonably foreseeable third party risks in its including coverage limits, are periodically reviewed and adjusted business sector, taking account of legislation and specific risks in to reflect changes in risk exposure, due particularly to legislation, each country and the emergence of new risks, as well as changes the Group’s activities, new countries where Capgemini operates in major exposure under contacts signed with clients. Deductibles and changes in client contracts, as well as the evolution of the are set so as to encourage operational unit managers to commit worldwide insurance and reinsurance markets. to risk prevention and out-of court settlement of claims, without The €30 million primary layer of this program is reinsured through exposing the Group as a whole to significant financial risk. a consolidated captive reinsurance subsidiary and has been in operation for several years. CAPGEMINI 30 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis PROPERTY DAMAGE AND BUSINESS Employee benefits insurance programs (death and disability, INTERRUPTION healthcare, medical costs, pensions, etc.) are tied to the different The Group has set-up an integrated property damage and benefits received by employees and are generally managed by 1 the human resources departments in each country. The Group business interruption insurance program covering all of its Insurance and Human Resources Departments are jointly subsidiaries worldwide. Its real estate policy is to rent rather than responsible for the management and international coordination of to buy its business premises, and consequently it owns little these programs. The main objectives are to ensure the compliance property. of current schemes and develop, standardize and improve them Capgemini’s business premises are located in a wide variety of in accordance with the different legal systems in the countries countries, and the Group operates at multiple sites in most of concerned and to optimize traditional and alternative risk transfer/ them. The Group has approximately 455 sites with an average financing mechanisms. surface area of 2,7 00 square meters. Some of the Group’s consultants work off-site at client premises. This geographical OTHER RISKS dispersion limits risk, in particular the risk of loss due to business interruption arising from an incident at a site. The Group’s largest Crime and fidelity coverage (especially for information systems) is site, which is located in India, employs some 9,000 people in a managed centrally at Group level via a global insurance program. number of different buildings. Client and supply shortage risk is All other risks – including motor vehicle, transport of goods, and assessed and insured to the extent possible, based on knowledge employer liability for accidents at work – are insured locally using of the materiality of the risk and the available offering in the insurance policies that reflect local regulations. insurance market. Pollution risks are low in an intellectual services business, and Capgemini is not specifically insured against these risks in any EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND MOBILITY INSURANCE country in which it operates. The Group has also decided that, unless coverage is compulsory and readily available, it is not The Group uses specialist companies to train and assist its necessary to systematically insure against terrorism-related risks. employees throughout the world. Risks concerning medical Certain risks are excluded from coverage or restricted under the emergencies, personal security, assistance and repatriation of general conditions imposed by the insurance and reinsurance employees working outside their home countries, is managed market. centrally at Group level via global insurance policies. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 31 CAPGEMINI 32 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 2.3 Organization and activities Compensation of executive of the Board of Directors 35 corporate ofﬁcers 58 2.1.1 History and composition 2.3.1 Chairman and Chief Executive of the Board of Directors 35 Officer compensation policy 58 2.1.2 Other offices and duties 2.3.2 2014 compensation of Paul Hermelin, exercised by members of the Board Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 60 of Directors 40 2.3.3 2015 compensation of the Chairman 2.1.3 Role, meetings, operating rules and Chief Executive Officer 65 and self-assessment procedure 44 2.3.4 Attendance fees and other 2.1.4 Role and composition of the four compensation received Specialized Board Committees 47 by corporate officers 65 2.1.5 Rights and obligations 2.3.5 Stock subscription options, of directors – Compensation 51 stock purchase options 2.1.6 Declarations concerning the Group’s and performance shares 67 Corporate Officers 53 2.1.7 Components likely to have an impact in the event of a public offering 53 2.4 2.2 Internal control and risk management procedures 70 General organization 2.5 of the Group 54 2.2.1 Composition of management and administrative bodies 54 Statutory Auditors’ report 2.2.2 Transactions carried out by prepared in accordance with members of the Board of Directors Article L.225-235 of the French and other Senior Managers Commercial Code on the report involving Cap Gemini shares 56 prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors 79 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 33 2 Corporate governance and Internal control CAPGEMINI 34 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Paul Hermelin prepared the report of the Chairman of the Board X the recommendations set out in the “Corporate Governance of Directors on the composition of the Board and the preparation and organization of its activities and on internal control and risk Code” issued jointly by AFEP and MEDEF (French private business associations) in December 2008 (recommendations 2 management procedures implemented by the Company pursuant immediately adopted by our Board of Directors as a benchmark) to: as revised in June 2013; X the provisions of Article L.225-37, paragraph 6 of the French X as well as the rules of good governance, adopted, applied and Commercial Code (Code de commerce); complied with continuously by the Capgemini Group since the closing of its first fiscal year on December 31, 1968 (i.e. for more than 45 years!). 2.1.1 HISTORY AND COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The story of this (nearly) half-century is a relatively simple one, and X period two (1996-2002): a changing shareholding can be split into four major periods: structure X period one (1967-1996): 29 years of independence On May 24, 1996, as announced in January to key Group managers, Serge Kampf presented his proposals to the Sogeti – the parent and several times grand-parent company of Shareholders’ Meeting which adopted them with a large the current Group – was created in Grenoble in October 1967 majority. Just after, a two-tier structure – more familiar to the as a “traditional” limited liability company, managed nearly 30 German shareholder than the French société anonyme – was years by the same Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Serge introduced for a four-year period, with Serge Kampf as Chairman Kampf, its founder and the uncontested leader of a brilliant team of the Management Board and Klaus Mangold (Daimler-Benz) of managers that he formed around him and never ceased to as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. One year later, following promote. Fully conscious that the Group – if it were to attain the Daimler-Benz’s decision to refocus on its core businesses (a increasingly ambitious objectives that he set each year – could not decision confirmed soon after by the spectacular takeover of restrict much longer its financial capacities to those of its founding Chrysler), this latter was replaced by Ernest-Antoine Seillière, Chairman, Serge Kampf finally accepted in January 1996 under Chairman of CGIP (now the principal shareholder of the Group, friendly pressure from the two other “main” shareholders (CGIP, with 30% of the share capital). At the end of this four-year period, a partner since 1988 and Daimler Benz, shareholder since 1991): the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2000 held to approve the • to propose to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 1999 financial statements decided not to renew this two-tier 1996 the merger-absorption within Cap Gemini of the two governance structure and to reinstate Serge Kampf in his duties holding companies that had until then enabled him to retain of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and to create at his majority control, request a position of General Manager, which had never really • to participate (personally in the amount of FRF 300 million) in existed within the Group. The first holder of this position was Geoff a share capital increase of FRF 2.1 billion, with the balance Unwin, already considered to be the Group’s number two within subscribed in equal parts (FRF 900 million) by Daimler and CGIP, the Management Board. • and finally, to transfer the head office from Grenoble to Paris. In December 2001, after a difficult year whose disappointing • In May 1996, at the end of this initial period, the Group had results only confirmed the threat of recession hanging over the 25,000 employees (7,000 in France, nearly 4,000 in the global economy, the Group had 55,000 employees and reported United States, some 12,000 in the triangle formed by the UK, annual revenues of around €7 billion, i.e. “per capita” revenues Benelux and the Nordic countries and around 2,000 across of approximately €125,000, more than 50% above that of the approximately 10 other countries) – a 625-fold increase first period but merely the reflection of the incorporation in our on its initial headcount! – and reported annual revenues of headcount in May 2000 of 16,643 consultants from Ernst & approximately FRF 13 billion (€2 billion), i.e. “per capita” Young. Taking note of the decision made – and confirmed – by revenues of around FRF 520,000 (€80,000). Geoff Unwin to retire in the near future, the Board of Directors decided, at the recommendation of its Chairman, to appoint as his replacement Paul Hermelin, who became Group General Manager alongside Serge Kampf, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, on January 1, 2002. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 35 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors X period three (2002-2012): a well-prepared succession COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS On July 24, 2002, Serge Kampf took the initiative to recommend While giving the impression of great stability, the composition to the Board of Directors – which accepted – to split the functions of the Board has changed significantly over time. For example, of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as recently made possible in 2002, at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting, it comprised by the New Economic Regulations Law (NRE). He considered that 11 directors and 2 non-voting directors, all of whom were men. after creating, expanding, leading and managing the Group for Only four members of this team remain today: Serge Kampf, 35 years, the time had come for him to give more power and Bruno Roger, Paul Hermelin and Phil Laskawy (in order of length visibility to the person he considered the best qualified to succeed of service). The directors who have left the Board include Christian him one day (he also informed CGIP of this choice in a planning Blanc, Ernest-Antoine Seillière (who was Vice-Chairman), Chris letter dated December 1999, “just in case”). This two-man team van Breugel, Guy de Wouters, Pierre Hessler, Geoff Unwin,… and operated efficiently and in harmony for 10 years, although this was especially Michel Jalabert, Serge Kampf’s long-term companion due more to the relationship of trust, friendship and mutual respect and “boss” at Bull in the 1960s and a shareholder in Sogeti from between the two individuals than what the NRE says regarding the its creation. Michel Jalabert joined the Group in 1976 and was for respective roles, powers and responsibilities of the Chairman and nearly 30 years a member (with Daniel Setbon and a few others) the Chief Executive Officer. Certain directors even observed that of the Chairman’s inner circle and was elected director by the the very general drafting of this law could one day – for example Shareholders’ Meeting in May 2000. Michel Jalabert died in 2013. should one or other no longer be part of this two-man team – In the meantime, a number of individuals have joined and left the become a source of ambiguity, confusion and possibly even Board: Marcel Roulet (non-voting director from 2005 to 2009), conflict. Despite the heavy storm which battered the Group during Thierry de Montbrial (2005-2013), Bernard Liautaud (2009-2013), the first four years of this period, the Group invested considerable Ruud van Ommeren (2000-2014) and Terry Ozan (2000-2014). sums in major restructuring operations (accepted and even encouraged by a Board of Directors, once again very active), At the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, the the most obvious outcome of which was the reinvigoration of all Board comprised 12 directors, four of whom women (there are Group companies: for example, at the end of 2011, the Group had no non-voting directors since the decision by the Shareholders’ 120,000 employees (compared with 55,000 employees 10 years Meeting in May 2012 not to renew the terms of office of Pierre previously) and reported revenues of €10 billion compared with Hessler and Geoff Unwin as non-voting directors): €7 billion in 2001, i.e. a fall in “per capita” revenues to €81,000 – X eight directors were appointed or reappointed by this practically the same as 15 years previously – but a reflection of the Shareholders’ Meeting for a period of four years; their international spread of the Group’s activities and employees since terms of office will therefore expire the day of the Combined 2013, accelerated by the acquisition in October 2006 of KANBAY, Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2017 financial with its 5,000 Indian employees. statements: X period four (2012 to this day): the transfer of power • Laurence Dors, Serge Kampf, Bruno Roger, Paul Hermelin, Phil On April 4, 2012, as he had already implied two years previously Laskawy and Yann Delabrière were reappointed for a period of on the renewal of his term of office, Serge Kampf informed four years, directors that “after having enjoyed the benefits of separation for • Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle and Xavier Musca were appointed 10 years” he had decided to place this office back in the hands directors for the first time; of the Board of Directors while recommending a return at this X Daniel Bernard and Pierre Pringuet, Board members since 2005 time to the “standard” method of governance (that of a company and 2009, respectively, whose terms of office were renewed for in which the duties of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are four years by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, exercised by the same individual, thereby removing at the same 2013 and which will therefore expire in the Spring of 2017, the time the risk of conflict between the holders of these two functions day of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the when they are separated) and the appointment as Chairman and 2016 financial statements; Chief Executive Officer of the current Chief Executive Officer, X Anne Bouverot, coopted by the Board of Directors’ meeting of Paul Hermelin, who had widely demonstrated, throughout a October 8, 2013 to replace Bernard Liautaud (who resigned) “probationary period” of a rather exceptional length, his ability for the remaining term of office of the latter, that is until the to hold this role. The Board followed these recommendations Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2016 and solemnly conferred on Serge Kampf the title of “Honorary financial statements, whose cooption was ratified by this same Chairman” and function of Vice-Chairman. The Board informed Shareholders’ Meeting; the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 of this change, which gave a standing ovation in honor of the immense contribution of X and finally Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, elected as a Board member Serge Kampf to the development and reputation of the Company. by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 to represent employee shareholders, and whose four-year term of office will therefore expire in the Spring of 2016, the day of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2015 financial statements. CAPGEMINI 36 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Throughout recent years, the Board of Directors’ composition has Board of a range of nationalities is confirmed with 33% of directors changed on converging fronts: reduction of the total membership of foreign nationality or dual nationality or conducting their main (the number of members including non-voting directors activity outside France. having been reduced from sixteen to twelve, while pursuant to Since July 2014, the Secretary of the International Works Council, Article L.225-23 of the French Commercial Code, the Board added Mr. Kevin Masters, attends the meetings of the Board of Directors an employee shareholder representative), rejuvenation (average as a permanent guest. His participation contributes to the diversity age lowered to 65) and increased female presence (proportion of of experiences and viewpoints expressed. women increased to 33%). The continued representation on the Composition Composition Composition 2 after the 2013 after the 2014 after the 2015 Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Meeting Meeting Meeting Percentage of independent directors 67% 58% 58% Percentage of female directors 17% 33% 33% Average age of directors 65 64 65 Average total term of office 10 7 8 Percentage of directors of foreign nationality, dual nationality or residing outside France 42% 33% 33% CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 37 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors REVIEW OF THE PERSONAL SITUATION OF DIRECTORS WITH RESPECT TO THE INDEPENDENCE CRITERIA LAID DOWN BY THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE Is not and has not been within Is not an executive corporate officer of Is not a customer, supplier, corporate the last 5 years, an employee a company in which the company holds bank or financing bank: or executive corporate officer directly or indirectly a directorship or in ■ material for the company or its of the company or an employee which an employee designated as such group; or director of its parent or an executive corporate officer of the ■ or for which the company or company or a company that it company (currently or within the last 5 the group represents a material consolidates years) holds a directorship share of activity Serge KAMPF X Paul HERMELIN X Daniel BERNARD X X X Anne BOUVEROT X X X Yann DELABRIERE X X X Laurence DORS X X X Phil LASKAWY X X X Xavier MUSCA X X X Pierre PRINGUET X X X Bruno ROGER X X X Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS X X Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE X X X (1) Pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code, a director only loses his/her status as independent as a result of this criteria on expiry of the term of office during which he/she exceeds the 12-year threshold. NI: not independent I: independent CAPGEMINI 38 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Does not represent a Does not have close Has not been the Statutory Has not been a director of shareholder participating in family ties with a Auditor of the Company in the Company for more than the control of the Company corporate officer X the last 5 years X 12 years(1) or its parent company X Directors’ position NI 2 X X X NI X X X X I X X X X I X X X X I X X X X I X X X NI X X X X I X X X X I X X X NI X X X X NI X X X X I CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 39 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.1.2 OTHER OFFICES AND DUTIES EXERCISED BY MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SERGE KAMPF Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES October 13, 1934 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Honorary Chairman Chairman of: Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ■ CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. First appointment: ■ CAP GEMINI S.A. ■ CAPGEMINI SUISSE S.A. 2000 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: Director of: 2018 ■ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) Number of shares held Sole manager of: at Dec. 31, 2014: ■ S.C.I. PARIS ETOILE 4,340,240 Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Member of the Académie des Sports PAUL HERMELIN Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES April 30, 1952 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Chairman of: ■ CAP GEMINI S.A. ■ CAPGEMINI AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) First appointment: ■ CAPGEMINI US LLC (U.S.A.) 2000 ■ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) Expiry of term of ofﬁce: ■ CAPGEMINI LATIN AMERICA S.A.S. 2018 ■ SOGETI FRANCE 2005 S.A.S. Number of shares held ■ CAPGEMINI 2010 S.A.S. at Dec. 31, 2014: ■ CAPGEMINI 2015 S.A.S. 147,048 Chief Executive Officer of: ■ CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. ■ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) Director of: ■ CGS HOLDINGS LTD (UK) ■ CAPGEMINI AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (UNTIL 05/09/2014) ■ CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL SERVICES INTERNATIONAL, INC. (U.S.A.) Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: ■ CAPGEMINI N.V. (THE NETHERLANDS) Director of: ■ AXA DANIEL BERNARD Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES February 18, 1946 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Chairman of: Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ■ PROVESTIS ■ KINGFISHER plc First appointment: ■ MAF RETAIL GROUP 2005 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: Honorary Chairman of: 2017 ■ LA FONDATION HEC Number of shares held Senior Advisor of: at Dec. 31, 2014: ■ TOWERBROOK CAPITAL PARTNERS, L.P. 1,000 Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Director of: ■ ALCATEL LUCENT Chairman of: ■ LA FONDATION HEC CAPGEMINI 40 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors ANNE BOUVEROT Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES March 21, 1966 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Chief Executive Officer and member Director of: of the Board of Directors of: ■ GSMA LTD (U.S.A.) First appointment: ■ GSM ASSOCIATION (SWITZERLAND) ■ EDENRED 2013 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2017 Number of shares held Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group at Dec. 31, 2014: Vice-President for Mobile Services of: 1,000 ■ FRANCE TELECOM ORANGE GROUP (2009-2011) Member of the Scientific Committee of: ■ FRANCE TELECOM ORANGE Director of: 2 ■ GROUPAMA S.A. ■ ORANGE S.A. YANN DELABRIÈRE Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES December 19, 1950 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Director of: ■ FAURECIA ■ SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE First appointment: 2004 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2018 Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2014: 2,550 LAURENCE DORS Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES March 16, 1956 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Senior Partner of: Director of: ■ ANTHENOR PARTNERS ■ CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. First appointment: ■ EGIS S.A. 2010 ■ INHESJ (FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR Expiry of term of ofﬁce: ADVANCED STUDIES IN SECURITY AND JUSTICE) 2018 ■ IFA (FRENCH INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS) Number of shares held Member of: at Dec. 31, 2014: ■ IHEAL (INSTITUTE OF LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES) 1,000 STRATEGIC POLICY COMMITTEE Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Senior Executive Vice-President, Member of the Executive Committee of: ■ DASSAULT SYSTÈMES Corporate Secretary Member of the Executive Committee of: ■ RENAULT GROUP PHIL LASKAWY Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES March 31, 1941 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: American Chairman (non executive) of: Director of: ■ FANNIE MAE (USA) ■ HENRY SCHEIN, INC. First appointment: (UNTIL MARCH 2014) ■ LAZARD LTD 2002 ■ LOEWS CORPORATION Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2018 Number of shares held Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group at Dec. 31, 2014: Director of: 1,000(1) ■ GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION (USA) (1) During 2014, Phil Laskawy donated 6,600 shares to his children. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 41 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors XAVIER MUSCA Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES February 23, 1960 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Member of the Executive Committee Vice-Chairman of: Deputy Chief Executive Officer in charge ■ UBAF First appointment: 2014 of International Retail Banking, Asset Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: Management and Insurance of: ■ CRÉDIT DU MAROC Expiry of term of ofﬁce: ■ CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. 2018 Director – Vice-Chairman of: Number of shares held ■ CRÉDIT AGRICOLE EGYPT S.A.E. at Dec. 31, 2014: ■ PREDICA 1,000 Director of: ■ AMUNDI GROUP ■ CA ASSURANCES ■ CACEIS ■ CACI ■ CARIPARMA (ITALY) Director – Permanent representative of Crédit Agricole S.A. on the Board of: ■ PACIFICA Director of: ■ BESPAR (UNTIL 05/15/2014) ■ BANCO ESPIRITO SANTO (UNTIL 12/31/2014) Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Deputy Secretary General and then Secretary General of the French President’s Office PIERRE PRINGUET Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES January 31, 1950 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors Director of: and Chief Executive Officer of: ■ ILIAD S.A. First appointment: ■ PERNOD RICARD GROUP ■ AVRIL GESTION S.A.S. (AVRIL GROUP) 2009 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2017 Number of shares held Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group at Dec 31, 2014: Joint Chief Executive Officer and then sole Managing Director of: 1,700 ■ PERNOD RICARD GROUP BRUNO ROGER Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES August 6, 1933 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Chairman of: Chairman of: ■ LAZARD FRÈRES S.A.S. ■ GLOBAL INVESTMENT BANKING OF LAZARD First appointment: ■ LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE FRÈRES GROUP 2000 ■ COMPAGNIE FINANCIÈRE LAZARD Managing Partner of: Expiry of term of ofﬁce: FRÈRES SAS 2018 ■ LAZARD FRÈRES ■ MAISON LAZARD ET CIE Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2014: Member of the Deputy Chairman Committee of: 1,100 ■ LAZARD FRÈRES GROUP Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ■ LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE Non-voting director: ■ EURAZEO CAPGEMINI 42 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors LUCIA SINAPI-THOMAS Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES January 19, 1964 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Deputy Chief Financial Officer of: Chairman of: ■ CAP GEMINI S.A. ■ CAPGEMINI EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE S.A.S. First appointment: 2012 Director of: Expiry of term of ofﬁce: ■ CAPGEMINI REINSURANCE INTERNATIONAL 2016 (LUXEMBOURG) ■ SOGETI SVERIGE AB (SWEDEN) Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2014: 4,114 ■ SOGETI SVERIGE MITT AB (SWEDEN) ■ CAPGEMINI SOGETI DANMARK AS (DENMARK) (SINCE 05/22/2014) 2 ■ SOGETI DANMARK AS (DENMARK) (UNTIL 05/21/2014) ■ SOGETI NORGE A/S (NORWAY) ■ EURIWARE S.A. (SINCE 05/07/2014) Director of: ■ BUREAU VERITAS ■ DASSAULT AVIATION CAROLINE WATTEEUW-CARLISLE Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES February 24, 1952 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: American Chief Technology Officer of: Advisory Committee of: ■ WARBURG-PINCUS (U.S.A.) ■ OCULUS360 First appointment 2014 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2018 Number of shares held Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group at Dec. 31, 2014: Participation in various Advisory Committees as an expert in technology and the consumer goods 1,000 sector Advisory Committee of: ■ HP PRINTING MANAGED SERVICES BOARD OF ADVISORY COUNCIL ■ INTEL CAPITAL ■ ACORIO Global Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President of: ■ BUSINESS INFORMATION SOLUTIONS, PEPSICO NON-VOTING GUEST OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INTERNATIONAL WORKS COUNCIL KEVIN MASTERS Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2014 AND CURRENT OFFICES May 27, 1956 Mr. Kevin Masters has been employed at Capgemini since 1973. Experience gained within Capgemini Nationality: mainly revolves around managing large groups of people in an Operations or Support environment. British Mr. Masters has been engaged in the Employee Consultation process as the Chairman of both the Outsourcing Forum and National Works Council Groups since 2001. He was elected as the UK representative for the International Works Council in 2008, then elected as a member of the IWC Bureau from 2010, and more recently elected as the Secretary of this body from February 2014. In July 2014, Mr Kevin Masters was invited in such capacity to become a non voting member of the Cap Gemini S.A. Board of Directors. He is also a permanent guest of the Compensation Committee. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 43 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.1.3 ROLE, MEETINGS, OPERATING RULES AND SELF-ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE THE ROLE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS implementation of the Code of Business Ethics. Each of the directors signed this Code, evidencing their commitment and The principal role of the Board of Directors is to determine the support (both individual and collective) for all the measures key strategies of Cap Gemini and the group it controls, to ensure contained therein. that these strategies are implemented, to validate the legal and operational structure of the Group and the appointment of key managers and, more generally, to deal with any issues that arise in MEETINGS respect of the day-to-day operation of the Group. The Board pays The Board meets at least six times a year. Meetings are convened particular attention to the management of the Group’s 143,600 by the Chairman in accordance with a schedule decided by the employees(1) and thousands of managers across the globe, given Board before the end of the prior year. This schedule may be Capgemini’s business as a service provider. The Board makes amended during the year in response to unforeseen circumstances decisions collectively and seeks to comply with and ensure or at the request of more than one director. In 2014, the Board compliance with all rules of good governance together with a met seven times (four times during the first six months and three certain number of values which each Board member has solemnly times during the second six months), with an average attendance undertaken to respect. A “Code of Business Ethics” was drafted at rate of 92%. In 2014, the Board returned to the principle of an its initiative and distributed to all Group employees (and is signed “off-premises” meeting focusing entirely on Group strategy. This by all new recruits) with the following main objectives: meeting was held on October 8 and 9, 2014. X ensure all Group companies comply with a certain number of The following table presents individual attendance rates rules of good behavior and primarily that of perfect integrity in at meetings of the Board of Directors and the Specialized the conduct of business and the management of employees; Committees on which the directors sit. For directors whose X implement measures stopping, fighting and sanctioning nonterm of office ended at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of compliance with the core values of the Group, or prevailing laws May 7, 2014 (Ruud van Ommeren, Terry Ozan), this rate was and regulations in the country concerned; calculated based on the number of Board meetings held during X provide an institutional framework for the actions, controls their term of office. Attendance rates were calculated in the same and dissuasive measures required to deal with the problems way for directors appointed on May 7, 2014 (Xavier Musca, identified by these measures. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle). Similarly, as the composition of the Committees changed on May 7, 2014, the attendance rate of The minutes of the work of the Ethics & Governance Committee each director is calculated based on the number of meetings held (see below) describe in detail the corporate actions undertaken during the period during which he/she was a Committee member. in 2014 by the Ethics & Compliance Department and the (1) At December 31, 2014. NUMBER OF MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OF THE SPECIALIZED COMMITTEES HELD IN 2014 AND INDIVIDUAL ATTENDANCE RATES Ethics & Strategy & Board of Governance Investment Audit Compensation Name Directors % Committee % Committee % Committee % Committee % Number of meetings 7 4 6 6 5 Serge KAMPF(1) 4 57% 2 50% Paul HERMELIN 7 100% 6 100% Daniel BERNARD 7 100% 4 100% 5 83% Anne BOUVEROT 6 85% 6 100% Yann DELABRIÈRE 7 100% 6 100% Laurence DORS 7 100% 1 50% 3 100% 3 100% Phil LASKAWY 7 100% 6 100% Xavier MUSCA 3 75% 3 100% Ruud van OMMEREN 3 100% 3 100% Terry OZAN 2 66% 3 100% Pierre PRINGUET 7 100% 2 100% 3 100% 4 80% Bruno ROGER 7 100% 4 100% 6 100% Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS 7 100% 5 100% Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 4 100% 3 100% 2 100% (1) Serge Kampf’s availability was affected in 2014 by a surgical operation performed in Grenoble and his subsequent convalescence. CAPGEMINI 44 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Mr. Kevin Masters, Secretary of the International Works Council, X overhauled the Rules of Operation of the Board of Directors, has attended all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the the Compensation Committee (previously the Selection & Selection Committee since he was first invited in July 2014. Compensation Committee) and the Ethics & Governance Committee; The Notice of Meeting, sent to directors two weeks before the meeting date, contains the agenda determined after the Chairman X decided to invite permanently the Secretary of the International and Chief Executive Officer has consulted with the Vice-Chairman, Works Council, Mr. Kevin Masters at all meetings of the Board the Lead Independent Director and any directors who proposed of Directors. He also attends the meetings of the Compensation specific points to be discussed by the Board. In accordance Committee. with the Board’s Internal Rules of Operation, preparatory The Board also carried out an in-depth review of the Group’s documentation is sent to directors a week before the meeting. Directors are also sent or handed a summary report comparing position in certain business units and was informed, where necessary, of changes in the organization of the Group’s 2 the share price of the Cap Gemini share to that of various general management team or its business units. and sector indexes and to its main competitors, as well as the last known consensus. In addition, important press releases (signature OPERATING RULES of major contracts, alliances, etc.) issued by the Company together with financial analysts’ studies of Cap Gemini or the For many years, the Cap Gemini Board of Directors has applied the sector are regularly brought to the attention of directors. best governance practices now aligned with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code to which Cap Since 2012, documents relating to the Board of Directors as Gemini refers. Accordingly, the Board has: well as the above-mentioned information are communicated by X prepared, adopted, applied (and amended where useful or a secure platform accessible solely by Board members using an individual password. This platform is hosted on a server belonging necessary) Internal Rules of Operation (see 2.1.5); to the Group and located in France. X set up four specialized Board Committees – the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee (formerly the The agenda of Board of Directors’ meetings is defined not only Selection & Compensation Committee), the Ethics & to provide directors with an overview of the Group’s position, but Governance Committee, and finally the Strategy & Investment also with regard to Group governance principles, which, pursuant Committee – and given each a clearly defined role (see to prevailing texts and to the Board’s Internal Rules of Operation, Section 2.1.4); presuppose that Board members will make decisions on specific topics. X adopted a system for allocating attendance fees, whereby the majority of such fees are indexed to attendance at Board and Thus, in addition to approving the 2013 annual financial statements Committee meetings (see Section 2.1.5); and the 2014 half-year financial statements and convening the X periodically reviewed the personal situation of each director in Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, the Board of Directors was required to make decisions throughout the year light of the definition of independence adopted by the AFEPon various transactions relating to the active management of the MEDEF Corporate Governance Code (“a director is independent Group’s balance sheet and liquidities (authorization to buy back when he/she has no relationship of any sort with the Company, shares or cancel shares, authorization to perform a share capital the Group or its Management, that is likely to impair his/her increase reserved for employees) and external growth projects. judgment”). Based on the aforementioned reviews, the Board considers that 7 of its 12 members (Daniel Bernard, Anne With regards to Group governance, the Board of Directors: Bouverot, Yann Delabrière, Laurence Dors, Xavier Musca, X drew up a list of directors and recommended the renewal of Pierre Pringuet and Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle) may be their terms of office; considered independent directors. X selected Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle and Xavier Musca and In light of the recommendations of the Corporate Governance recommended their appointment as director; High Committee, the Board of Directors implemented an appraisal X reelected Serge Kampf as Vice-Chairman; procedure to assess the absence of conflict of interest for independent directors. To this end, a statement of business flows X confirmed the regrouping of the duties of Chairman and Chief between Capgemini Group and entities that are suppliers and/or Executive Officer by reiterating its confidence in Paul Hermelin clients of Capgemini Group and which have directors in common and reappointed him Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for with Cap Gemini was prepared and communicated to Daniel the term of his office as director, that is until the Shareholders’ Bernard, Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year Governance Committee. The Lead Independent Director met with ended December 31, 2017 and appointed the Chairman of each Director individually. The absence of conflict of interest was the Ethics & Governance Committee, Daniel Bernard, Lead confirmed by an analysis of the volume of business relations and Independent Director, pursuant to the new Board of Directors the lack of materiality thereof. Internal Rules of Operation; CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 45 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Under the “Comply or Explain” rule provided for in Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code and stipulated in Article 25.1 of the revised AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed companies revised in June 2013, the Company considers that its practices comply with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. However, the Company has deviated from certain provisions for the reasons explained in the following table or will ensure compliance therewith in 2015. Duration of directors’ terms of office Article 14: “Terms should be staggered so as to After having deliberated and at the recommendation of the Ethics & Governance Committee avoid replacement of the entire body and to favor and noting that the agenda of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 does not a smooth replacement of directors.” include the renewal of any directors’ terms of office, the Board of Directors deferred until a potential future year the implementation of a system of staggered terms of office. Audit Committee Article 16.2.1: “The time available for reviewing the The Capgemini Group practice is to provide directors with the information required for the accounts should be sufficient (no less than two preparation of the Board or Committee meetings four to five days prior to such meetings. days before review by the Board).” Audit Committee meetings are convened two days prior to the Board meeting, unless members are clearly unavailable. Where one of its members is unavailable, the Committee meeting is postponed to the eve of the Board meeting. Employment contract of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Article 22: “When an employee is appointed The employment contract of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was terminated on a corporate officer of the company, it is February 18, 2015. recommended to terminate his or her employment contract with the company or with a company affiliated to the group...” Stock options and performance shares Article 23.2.4: “It is necessary to ensure that Cap Gemini no longer grants stock options. The Board of Directors decided to grant grants (shares and stock options) are made at the performance shares each year at the same calendar period at the Board meeting held at the same calendar periods, e.g. after the publication end of July or in October, despite the fact that they are a different type of financial instrument of the financial statements for the previous whose value is not linked to the grant date. financial year, and probably each year, in order to limit any windfall effects.” The performance shares granted to executive Cap Gemini does not consider this measure to be necessary as Paul Hermelin already holds corporate officers are conditional upon the a number of shares representing around three years’ salary (at the end of 2014). acquisition of a defined quantity of shares once the shares granted are available. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT resulting from his assessment of Board members’ expectations. PROCEDURE These proposals mainly focused on three topics: the development of the ability of directors to contribute to the Group’s strategic Again within the framework of these best governance practices, coordination, the coordination of the Board’s Committees with the Board has performed on three occasions (in 2005, 2008 and the Board and the composition of the Board of Directors and its 2011), an external assessment of its operations and the impact of renewal. Regarding the proper understanding and management its decisions. of the Group’s strategic challenges by all directors, the decision In 2013, given that the 2014 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting was made to systematically hold an annual Board of Directors’ was required to examine the renewal or approval of nearly threemeeting fully devoted to strategy. This meeting is organized quarters of its members and the compliance of its operations around presentations from Group senior executives. Likewise, the and organization with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF “Rencontres” conferences are now formally included in the Board Corporate Governance Code within a context of a “unified” of Directors’ agenda to enable the greatest number possible of chairmanship, the Board of Directors, at the proposal of the directors to participate if they so wish. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, decided to bring forward Three decisions were made regarding the Board’s Committees: by one year the external assessment initially scheduled for 2014. X firstly, to improve coordination of work between the Committees The Board of Directors had asked the assessor to propose and the Board of Directors, the Chairmen of the Committees improvements either resulting from observed best practices or were asked to formalize their activities to enable a more fluid CAPGEMINI 46 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors exchange with other members. Accordingly, the agendas and The performance of the Board of Directors and its Committees in the minutes of each of the Committees are now made available 2014 was reviewed by the Lead Independent Director. to all directors. This is particularly necessary for the topics A questionnaire was sent to all directors covering the performance covered by the Strategy & Investment Committee; of the Board of Directors and those Committees on which they sit. X secondly, the composition of the Committees was reviewed The questions sought in particular to assess whether the changes to guarantee sound compliance with the recommendations of decided following the external assessment performed in 2013 had the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code and improve been implemented and whether they were satisfactory. workload allocation between directors; The Lead Independent Director also met individually with each X thirdly, the respective roles of the Selection & Compensation and member of the Board. Ethics & Governance Committees were clarified. The roles of the Ethics & Governance Committee now include not only executive These procedures showed that the changes introduced were 2 corporate officer selection and succession plans and the considered an improvement and appreciated by directors. proposal of new directors to ensure the balanced composition However, the change in the respective scopes of the Ethics of the Board, but also Group senior executive selection and & Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee succession plans. The Selection & Compensation Committee requires clarification, both in terms of practice and potential is now exclusively dedicated to setting the compensation of the amendments to be made to the Internal Rules of Operation of the executive corporate officer(s) and the definition of compensation relevant Committees. policies for Group executives and is called the Compensation The directors also expressed the need to access the work Committee. performed by the Group internal audit department, either directly or via the Audit Committee. 2.1.4 ROLE AND COMPOSITION OF THE FOUR SPECIALIZED BOARD COMMITTEES THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Where it considers it useful or necessary, the Audit Committee may be assisted by experts appointed for this purpose. In accordance with the provisions of Article L.823-19 of the French Commercial Code and the AMF recommendations of July 22, Since the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, this 2010, the role of the Cap Gemini Audit Committee is to control the Committee has four directors: Yann Delabrière (Chairman), processes governing the preparation and distribution of accounting Laurence Dors, Phil Laskawy and Xavier Musca. Through and financial information, to assess the appropriateness and their professional careers, Audit Committee members have the consistency of the accounting policies and methods used amassed the necessary accounting and financial expertise to to prepare the annual and half-year consolidated and company perform their duties. For example, the Chairman, an independent financial statements, to check the effectiveness of internal director, was Chief Financial Officer of PSA Peugeot Citroën from control and risk management procedures and particularly their 1990 to 2007 and Phil Laskawy was the Chairman and Chief ability to identify those risks requiring an accounting entry in the Executive Officer of Ernst & Young from 1994 to 2001. balance sheet or off-balance sheet commitments, and to ensure The Committee met six times in 2014, with an average attendance by all means the quality of information presented to the Board rate of 100%. and finally to present to the Board its assessment of the various engagements carried out by the Statutory Auditors and give its opinion on whether their audit engagement should be renewed. The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Audit Committee was as follows(1): Yann DELABRIÈRE 100% Laurence DORS 100% Phil LASKAWY 100% Xavier MUSCA 100% (1) As the composition of the Committee changed during the year, the attendance rate is calculated with respect to the number of meetings during the period during which directors were members. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 47 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The Committee reviewed the company and consolidated financial THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 and the On October 8, 2014, the Selection & Compensation Committee consolidated financial statements for the half-year ended June 30, changed its name to the “Compensation Committee” and now 2014. concentrates exclusively on setting the compensation of executive It focused in particular on the accounting treatment of events with corporate officers and defining compensation policies for Group a material impact on the annual or half-year financial statements. executives. This Committee has several duties set out in its With respect to the annual financial statements, it reviewed the internal rules of operation adopted by the Board of Directors on application of IAS 19, the change in the presentation of margins October 8, 2014. Firstly, it must present recommendations to by country and the accounting recognition of the OCEANE 2009 the Board of Directors on the compensation, personal objectives bond refinancing transaction and the ORNANE bond issue. It also and performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In reviewed the ongoing tax audits, as well as deferred tax assets, addition, the Committee is tasked with monitoring the executive goodwill and the financial position of UK pension funds. It closely management compensation policies applied throughout the Group reviewed the analysis of the research tax credit in France. by Cap Gemini subsidiaries and Group Management (changes in theoretical and actual compensation, setting objectives to During its meeting in February 2014, the Committee determine the variable portion of compensation, criteria for the recommended to the Board of Directors the reappointment grant of performance shares) and making sure that the policies are of PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and KPMG SA as statutory both consistent – while complying with specific local requirements auditors for a further period of six years. – and closely aligned with individual performance and collective The Committee interviewed: performance in the scope to which the manager concerned X Philippe Christelle, Internal Audit Director, questioning him on belongs. The Committee must also be informed by Group working methods, planning, areas of intervention, the findings of Management prior to any decisions concerning the compensation audits carried out during the year and more specifically on the (fixed and variable) of Executive Committee members and compliance with Group procedures of newly acquired entities; Strategic Business Unit directors. Finally, the Committee reviews the various schemes enabling a better association of employees X François Hucher, Technical Director in charge of production with Group profits (performance share grants, Group savings and support services, questioning him in particular on the schemes, etc.) and proposes to the Board of Directors the impact on the operating accounts of the systems integration incentive instruments it considers appropriate and capable of business of mutualized tools and industrial procedures rolled being implemented in all (or certain) Capgemini Group companies. out by the Group; Since the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, X finally Jean-Baptiste Massignon, Group General Secretary this Committee has three directors: Pierre Pringuet, who also in charge of pre-sales risk management, questioning him was appointed Chairman to replace Ruud Van Ommeren, on the activities of the Group Review Board during the period Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle and Lucia Sinapi-Thomas. and the terms and conditions of major commercial proposals. The secretary of the International Works Council and employee The Statutory Auditors also issued recommendations to the Audit representative, Kevin Masters, was granted a permanent Committee to make the accounting and financial procedures even invitation in this capacity to attend meetings of this Committee more efficient. and the Board of Directors. The Committee met six times in 2014, with an average attendance rate of 93%(1). The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Compensation Committee was as follows(2): Pierre PRINGUET* 80% Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS 100% Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 100% * 100% attendance rate since Pierre Pringuet was appointed Chairman. Kevin Masters has attended all meetings of the Committee since May 7, 2014. (1) Average attendance rate of Committee members in place since the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. (2) As the composition of the Committee changed during the year, the attendance rate is calculated with respect to the number of meetings during the period during which directors were members. CAPGEMINI 48 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors In accordance with the Committee’s remit, it ensured throughout its control, in all internal and external communications – including 2014 the consistency of the Group’s senior executive management advertising – and in all other acts undertaken in the Group’s name. compensation policy. Its Chairman regularly reported on the It is also tasked more generally with overseeing the application Committee’s work and presented recommendations to the Board of best corporate governance practice within Cap Gemini of Directors concerning the following areas: and its subsidiaries. The Ethics & Governance Committee is X the general compensation policy of the Group and its responsible for all matters relating to the selection, appraisal, subsidiaries; annual independence review and compensation of the Company’s X the compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer directors. It draws the attention of the Chairman of the Board of and that of members of the Executive Committee and the Directors to any potential situations of conflict of interest it has Group’s key managers. These recommendations focused at the beginning of the year on: identified between a director and the Company or its Group or between directors. It must be ready to implement the measures 2 necessary should the question of replacing the Chairman and • an appraisal of the individual performance of each of these Chief Executive Officer suddenly arise. It must handle and propose managers compared with objectives set at the beginning of to the Board any changes it considers appropriate or relevant to the year, the Board’s operation and composition (co-opting a new director • calculation of the variable portion of compensation paid in the or replacing a resigning director, increasing the proportion of first quarter of the next year, female directors, diversity of profiles and expertise of directors, • adjustment of the fixed and two variable portions of the etc.) or to the governance structure currently in force within the “theoretical” compensation for the following year, Group, etc. The Committee is also involved in the selection and • setting objectives to be used at the end of the current year as succession plans for key operating and functional managers of the a basis for calculating the actual variable portion due. Group and the identification, development and retention of high potential executives. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Committee studied the principle and means of granting is involved in this work. The Committee must be consulted by performance shares to certain managers. It drafted and Group Management prior to any appointment to the Executive communicated a list of beneficiaries and the proposed allocation Committee. between them of performance shares to the Board of Directors for agreement on July 30, 2014. Since the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, this Committee has five directors: Daniel Bernard was appointed Chairman of the Committee on March 5, 2014 to replace Serge THE ETHICS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Kampf, who remains a Committee member. As Chairman of the Since October 8, 2014, the roles of the Ethics & Governance Ethics & Governance Committee, Daniel Bernard is also the Lead Committee now include not only executive corporate officer Independent Director since May 7, 2014, as the Internal Rules selection and succession plans and the proposal of new directors of Operation of the Board of Directors confer the duties of Lead to ensure the balanced composition of the Board but also Group Independent Director on the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance senior executive selection and succession plans. Committee, elected by the Board of Directors from among its independent members. This is the case for Mr. Bernard who is a The main remit of this Committee (created in July 2006 by member of the Board since 2005. decision of the Board) is to verify that the Group’s seven core values (Honesty, Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit, Modesty The other members of the Committee are Laurence Dors, and Fun) are correctly applied and adhered to, defended and Pierre Pringuet and Bruno Roger. This Committee met four promoted by the Group’s corporate officers, senior management times in 2014, with an average attendance rate of 83%. and employees in all of its businesses and in all subsidiaries under The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Committee was as follows:(1) Bruno ROGER 100% Serge KAMPF 50% Daniel BERNARD 100% Laurence DORS 50% Pierre PRINGUET 100% (1) As the composition of the Committee changed during the year, the attendance rate is calculated with respect to the number of meetings during the period during which directors were members. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 49 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The Committee interviewed: the Board’s activities and changes in the operational governance of the Group. Accordingly the Committee: X Philippe Christelle, the Internal Audit Director, who presented a special report concluding that the ethical framework within • drew up a list of directors and recommended the renewal of which the Group has decided to operate, is, overall, correctly their terms of office to the Board of Directors with a view to the understood and followed throughout the Group. The internal Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, audits identified some instances of non-compliance (most • selected Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle and Xavier Musca and often involuntary of course) and recommendations were made recommended their appointment as director, to further improve compliance with Group ethical rules and • proposed the overhaul of the Rules of Operation of the Board principles in the future; of Directors, the Compensation Committee (previously the X Hervé Canneva, the Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, Selection & Compensation Committee) and the Ethics & appointed by the Committee on March 1, 2009, who presented Governance Committee to the Board of Directors. a report on the foundations of the Group’s ethics program which is based on four documents available in eight languages THE STRATEGY & INVESTMENT COMMITTEE – the Code of Business Ethics (signed by all new recruits), the anti-corruption policy, the anti-trust policy and the Blue The role of this Committee is to: Book (manual of principles and procedures applicable within X study in-depth the strategic options open to the Group to the Group) – and presented to all new recruits. New recruits ensure its continued growth, improve its profitability and must also follow an e-learning program aimed at establishing maintain its independence to enrich Board discussions; and strengthening throughout the Group perfect integrity in the conduct of business and awareness of the importance of X determine the amount of investments required to implement adopting at all times a behavior in accordance with Cap Gemini each of these possible strategies; ethics. This report also highlighted the Group’s major efforts in X identify and assess the alliances or acquisitions which would e-learning (more than 113,000 employees followed the ethics appear able to facilitate or accelerate the implementation of charter course, the anti-corruption course and the anti-trust these strategies; course). In 2014, to facilitate the assimilation of the ethics X finally, recommend a choice to the Board (or at least establish program by local management, the Chief Ethics & Compliance an order of priority). Officer conducted 23 Business Ethics Workshops in most of More generally, the Committee identifies and deliberates on the countries where Capgemini is present. It also referred to any direction or issue considered relevant to the Group’s the progressive implementation in all countries of the Board future, provided it does not compromise the smooth running of employee advice and professional warning procedure (known operations and guarantees operating and financial stability. as the “Raising Concern Procedure”). Finally, it highlighted that Capgemini had been recognized as “One of the World’s Most Since May 7, 2014, this Committee has five members: Bruno Ethical Companies” in 2013, 2014 and 2015 by the American Roger, Chairman, replacing Daniel Bernard who remains Institute, Ethisphere, thereby affirming our ethical responsibility a Committee member, Paul Hermelin, Anne Bouverot, culture towards our clients. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle. In 2014, the Committee also discussed the composition of the The Committee met six times in 2014, with an average attendance Board of Directors and likely changes therein and particularly the rate of 97%. principle of equal representation of men and women, as well as The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Committee was as follows:(1) Bruno ROGER 100% Paul HERMELIN 100% Daniel BERNARD 83% Anne BOUVEROT 100% Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 100% (1) As the composition of the Committee changed during the year, the attendance rate is calculated with respect to the number of meetings during the period during which directors were members. CAPGEMINI 50 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The Committee carried out an in-depth review of several X follow-up of the integration of recent acquisitions; opportunities before presenting them to the Board of Directors. X study of the impact of major technology waves on all service The other major issues discussed by the Committee to prepare businesses (Cloud, Big Data); the work of the Board were: X the consequences of digitalization of the client relationship. X strategic plan transformation projects; 2.1.5 RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF DIRECTORS – COMPENSATION INTERNAL RULES OF OPERATION The Vice-Chairman: in the absence of the Chairman, the Vice2 Chairman chairs meetings of the Board of Directors and When the legal form of the Company returned to that of a Shareholders’ Meetings. traditional limited liability company (société anonyme) in May 2000, a new set of Internal Rules of Operation were debated and As Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman and Chief Executive adopted by the Board of Directors. These rules have since been Officer has the most extensive powers to act in all circumstances amended several times and most recently on October 8, 2014. in the name of the Company. The Internal Rules of Operation of the Board set out the main The Internal Rules of Operation stipulate nonetheless that he must obligations of the Code of Business Ethics that Cap Gemini seek and obtain prior approval from the Board of Directors for any directors undertake to comply with throughout their term of decision which is of major strategic importance or which is liable to office, and in particular the rules governing share trading and the have a material impact, either directly or indirectly, on the financial obligation for each director to communicate to the French stock position or commitments of the Company or those of one or more market authority (AMF) and to the Company any transactions they of its principal subsidiaries. This applies in particular to: may have carried out in the Company’s shares within five trading X the draft annual budget prepared in accordance with the threedays of the execution of such transactions. year plan; These Internal Rules of Operation set out or clarify the scope of X the approval of the annual investment and divestment budget; (and bases for exercising) the various powers entrusted to the X the conclusion of material strategic alliances; Board of Directors, the four Specialized Board Committees, the X acquisitions or disposals of assets or investments not recorded Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Vice-Chairman and the in the annual investment budget, individually worth more Lead Independent Director. than €100 million, or for smaller investments, resulting in the The Board of Directors represents shareholders. With the €300 million cumulative annual ceiling being exceeded; exception of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the X financial transactions with a material impact on the Company directors have no individual power and actions and decisions must financial statements or the consolidated financial statements of therefore be taken on a collective basis. the Group and particularly issues of securities granting access The role of the four Specialized Board Committees is to study and to the Company’s share capital or market debt instruments; document the issues that the Board has scheduled for discussion X the grant to employees of incentive instruments granting access and to present recommendations on the subjects and sectors to the Company’s share capital and particularly performance within their remit to plenary sessions of the Board. The Committees shares; are consultation bodies and therefore hold no decision-making X material internal reorganization transactions; powers. Their members (and the Chairman) are appointed by the Board of Directors and are selected exclusively from among X material changes to the scope or range of businesses; Cap Gemini directors. They are appointed in a personal capacity X increases or reductions in the share capital of a direct subsidiary and may under no circumstances be represented at the meetings of Cap Gemini, concerning an amount in excess of €50 million; of the Committee(s) to which they belong. The Board reserves X specific authorizations concerning the granting of pledges, the right to amend at any time the number and/or make-up of security and guarantees, other than the delegation of authority these Committees, as well as the scope of their duties. Finally, the granted annually to the Chief Executive Officer to grant pledges, Internal Rules of Operation of each of the four Committees – and security and guarantees up to maximum amount set by him. any amendments thereto which the Committee may later propose When the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and – must be formally approved by the Board. Chief Executive Officer are exercised by the same person, the As Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman and Chief Board of Directors appoints a Lead Independent Director. The Executive Officer prepares, organizes and leads its work. He sets duties of the Lead Independent Director are entrusted by the the agenda of meetings, ensures that directors are able to carry Board to the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, out their duties and have all information necessary for this purpose, elected by the Board of Directors from among its members and oversees the proper operation of the Company’s bodies, the classified as independent. correct implementation of Board decisions and compliance with the rules of good conduct adopted by Cap Gemini. He chairs Combined Shareholders’ Meetings to which he reports on the activities and decisions of the Board. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 51 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The Lead Independent Director exercises his duties for as long As decided at the end of the external assessment of the Board as he satisfies the independence criteria and chairs the Ethics & of Directors performed in 2013 (see the 2013 Registration Governance Committee. The duties of Lead Independent Director Document, Section 2.1.3), the Board decided to overhaul the and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee may be allocation schedule for attendance fees to take account of revoked at any time by the Board of Directors. the increasing workload of the Board Committees and their Chairmen and to encourage good attendance by their members. As for any other director, the Lead Independent Director may be a Accordingly, attendance fees now include for each director a fixed member of one or more Specialized Board Committees in addition portion of €15,000 (unchanged), and an amount of €4,000 for to the Ethics & Governance Committee that he chairs. He may each attendance at a Board meeting (€3,000 previously). also attend the meetings of Specialized Board Committees of which he is not a member. Attendance fees for the Specialized Board Committees were set with regard to the specific role of each committee and the ongoing Roles of the Lead Independent Director: work required of Chairmen, who now receive exclusively a fixed X he is consulted by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on annual payment of €45,000 for the Lead Independent Director and the proposed Board meeting schedule subject to the approval Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, €35,000 for the of the Board and on the draft agenda for each meeting of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and €25,000 for the Chairmen Board of Directors; of the Compensation Committee and the Strategy & Investment X he can propose to the Chairman the inclusion of items on the Committee. agenda of meetings of the Board of Directors at his own initiative A fixed annual fee of €45,000 is allotted to the Vice-President. or at the request of one of more Board members; Serge Kampf has waived his right to collect such fee in respect of X he can bring together Board members in the absence of 2014, like all other attendance fees in previous years (see below). executive corporate officers in so-called “executive sessions”, The members of the Committees receive fees of €2,500 (€3,000 at his own initiative or at the request of one of more Board previously) for each attendance at a meeting. members, to discuss a specific agenda; he chairs any such meetings; It was also decided to take account of the travel time of directors by awarding them additional attendance fees of €5,000 per Board X he chairs the annual meeting of the Board of Directors convened or Committee meeting for directors resident outside Europe and to assess the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive of €2,000 for directors resident in Europe but outside France. Officer and any Deputy Chief Executive Officers; Attendance fees are calculated in two parts, at the end of the X he holds regular discussions with the other directors to ensure first six months and at the end of the year. These amounts they have the means necessary to perform their duties in a could be reduced if circumstances require the Company to satisfactory manner and in particular that they receive sufficient hold a greater than scheduled number of meetings, resulting in information prior to the Board meetings; aggregate attendance fees exceeding the threshold authorized by X he reports on his actions to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting were these “rates” to be The Lead Independent Director is assisted by the General maintained. Secretary in the exercise of his duties. He will report to the Attendance fees calculated and paid to directors in respect of Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on his assessment of the fiscal year 2014 totaled €719,225, representing 90% of the ceiling performance of the Board of Directors in 2014. authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. It should be noted that Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin have waived their COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS right to collect attendance fees since 2009; these attendance fees would have totaled €55,500 for Paul Hermelin and €58,299 for In compensation for the time spent participating in Board and Serge Kampf in respect of 2014. Committee meetings, the Company was authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011 to pay A breakdown of compensation paid in respect of fiscal year 2014 attendance fees to directors of up to €800,000 per year. to the executive corporate officer, Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is presented in section 2.3.2. The 2015 compensation of Paul Hermelin, is presented on page 65 of this Registration Document. A breakdown of attendance fees paid to other directors in respect of 2014 is presented in the section of the Management Report entitled “Attendance fees and other compensation received by corporate officers” on page 66. CAPGEMINI 52 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.1.6 DECLARATIONS CONCERNING THE GROUP’S CORPORATE OFFICERS As far as the Company is aware, none of the current members of As far as the Company is aware, there are no: the Board of Directors: X conflicts of interest among the members of the Board of X has been found guilty of fraud at any time during the last five Directors between their duties towards Cap Gemini and their years; private interests and/or any other duties; X has been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation X arrangements or agreements with the principal shareholders, at any time during the last five years; customers or suppliers pursuant to which one of the members of the Board of Directors was selected; X has been subject to any form of official public sanction and/ or criminal liability, pronounced by a statutory or regulatory X restrictions accepted by the members of the Board of Directors 2 authority (including designated professional bodies) provided on the sale of their investment in the share capital of Cap that: Gemini (other than the obligation for Paul Hermelin to hold his In a decision dated December 18, 2014, the Sanctions performance shares detailed in Section 2.3.1); Commission of the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) X service contracts between the members of the Board of considered that Faurecia S.A and Mr Yann Delabrière, in his Directors and Cap Gemini or any of its subsidiaries that provide capacity of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia for the granting of benefits upon termination thereof. SA, had failed to comply with certain obligations set out in As far as the Company is aware, there are no family ties between Articles 223-1, 223-2 and 223-10-1 of the AMF General members of the Board of Directors. Regulations with respect to disclosures concerning the company’s objectives for 2012. Concerning Mr Yann Delabrière, based on Articles L.621-15 (paragraphs II (c) and III (c) of the REGULATED AGREEMENTS WITH RELATED French Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et PARTIES financier), financial penalties of €100,000, were handed down No agreements falling within the scope of Article L.225-38 of by the AMF against him; Mr Yann Delabrière filed an appeal the French Commercial Code were authorized by the Board of together with Faurecia against this decision with the Paris Court Directors in the year ended December 31, 2014. of Appeal on February 26; X has been disqualified by a court from acting as a member of LOANS AND GUARANTEES GRANTED TO the administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS OF THE COMPANY issuer or from participating in the management or conduct of the affairs of any issuer at any time during the last five years. None. 2.1.7 COMPONENTS LIKELY TO HAVE AN IMPACT IN THE EVENT OF A PUBLIC OFFERING No components are subject to the provisions of Article L.225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code (components likely to have an impact in the event of a public offering). CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 53 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.2 General organization of the Group 2.2 General organization of the Group 2.2.1 COMPOSITION OF MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES Cap Gemini is the parent company of what is generally known as useful for reporting purposes and comparing performance year“the Capgemini Group” comprising approximately 136 companies, on-year: which are listed on pages 191 and seq. of this Registration X North America: USA, Canada; Document (after removing dormant companies and companies in X the United Kingdom and Ireland; the course of dissolution). X France, to which Morocco is associated; OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE X Benelux; X Nordic countries: Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland; One of the founding principles underlying the creation of the Group is decentralization. It seeks to ensure that operating managers act X Germany and Central European countries: Switzerland, Austria, as entrepreneurs, taking each year the risk to commit to a budget Poland, Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, etc.; and personal and collective objectives. It is the Company’s role to X Southern Europe: Italy, Spain, Portugal; provide them with the necessary means enabling them to react X and finally the Asia-Pacific and Latin America (LatAm) region: rapidly to market requirements, to provide consistent responses India, China, Singapore, Hong-Kong, Australia, etc. / Mexico, to changes in demand and to implement the new opportunities Brazil, Argentina, Chile, etc. offered by particularly rapid and abundant technological innovation. GROUP MANAGEMENT The organizational structure of the Group remains based on this model, with basic business units of a size that allows their manager Group Management, led by Paul Hermelin, is structured around to remain in close contact with clients, to know employees well two bodies: and to tightly manage the projects he entrusts to them. X The Group Management Board (GMB), whose role is to facilitate These basic units are grouped by business and geographical area. the carrying out of Group operations and implementing the The grouping by business ensures consistent economic models, necessary steps with respect thereto. The GMB defines the the sharing of experience, the industrialization of processes and broad strategies and actions to be submitted to the Executive methods enabling the demands of international clients to be Committee for approval and ensures their implementation by the served efficiently and consistently. major business units. As of December 31, 2014, the GMB was comprised of Paul Hermelin and five individuals: There are seven strategic business units: • Salil Parekh, responsible for the general management of the X four global strategic business units: AppsOne strategic business unit and operating control of • Consulting Services, Sogeti, • Infrastructure Services, i.e., the design, installation and • Olivier Se villia , responsible for the general management of maintenance of client IT infrastructures, the AppsTwo strategic business unit and operating control of • B.P.O. (Business Process Outsourcing), Capgemini Consulting, Prosodie and BPO, • Local Professional Services, provided by the SOGETI sub-group • Patrick Nicolet, responsible for the general management of the and its subsidiaries; Infrastructures Services strategic business unit and operating control in Latin America, X two systems integration and applicative maintenance strategic business units (Application Services) in the following regions and • Aiman Ezzat, Group Chief Financial Officer, countries: • Hubert Giraud, People Management and Transformation; • AppsOne: North America, the United Kingdom, the Asia-Pacific X The Executive Committee, whose role is to assist Group region, and global responsibility for the Financial Services sector, Management define broad strategies concerning the Group’s • AppsTwo: France, Benelux, the Nordic countries, Germany, operating structure, the choice of priorities, production rules Central Europe and Southern Europe, and organization and the implementation conditions for human resources management. It assesses the performance of Group X the Group’s operations in Latin America (including the joint managers and prepares succession plans for major positions venture in Brazil) encompassing the Application Services and within the organization. The Executive Committee meets once a Infrastructure Services businesses; month with, in addition to the Chief Executive Officer and GMB X in addition to these seven Strategic Business Units, there is members: Prosodie. • the Global Sales and Portfolio Director, These basic units – grouped, depending on their number, into larger business units – reflect the Group’s presence in around forty countries, which are in turn grouped into eight geographic areas, CAPGEMINI 54 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.2 General organization of the Group • the Delivery Director (Production/Methods and Support commitment to performance, encourage a new generation of Department), managers and set up diversified and complementary career • the General Secretary, paths. He is responsible for modernizing and simplifying employee management tools as well as the policies rolled out in this area • the Marketing and Communications Director, by the Group’s subsidiaries, particularly with respect to the • the Development Director, retention of high potential managers and their career orientation. • the Technologies and Intellectual Property Director, He is assisted by Diane Holman, Group Talent Management • the Director of our operations in India, Director, who is responsible for talent management, developing leadership and succession plans for our main executive managers. • the Executive President of the Asia-Pacific area, François Chevrier, Group Compensation and Benefits Director, is • the Directors of the above-mentioned strategic units, responsible for the management of compensation policies applied in the Group, those of Group managers and related share capital 2 • the head of the entity bringing together a significant portion of Group expertise in Big Data to develop Big Data activities in incentive programs. the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and The General Secretary Germany. This position is occupied by Jean-Baptiste Massignon who is The Executive Committee comprises a total of 18 persons. responsible for: Three special-purpose Committees assist Group Management: X legal affairs, covering two departments: one dealing with all X the Group Review Board which examines the major business legal matters related to the Group’s operating activities (Isabelle proposals in the course of drafting or negotiation, multi-national Roux-Chenu) and the other in charge of legal matters impacting or multi-business framework agreements entered into with the general Group structure (Gianna Ghizzardi); clients or suppliers, major contracts involving guarantees given X the Governance Department concerned with the functioning by the Group etc.; of the Group’s governing bodies (the Board of Directors, X the Merger & Acquisitions Committee which examines specialized Board Committees, Shareholders’ Meetings, etc.) acquisition and divestment projects in the course of and the application of corporate governance rules by the listed identification, selection, assessment or negotiation; company Cap Gemini (Patricia Lazard Kodyra); X the Investment Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial X the Ethics & Compliance Department whose primary task is Officer, which reviews and provides advice with respect to promoting and ensuring compliance by all Group entities and projects requiring investment, including those involving real all Group employees with a corporate culture and, first and estate or investment in technologies. foremost, a duty of honesty (Hervé Canneva); Finally, in a certain number of cases where it was considered useful X corporate secretarial services for Capgemini Service (Yves or necessary (and particularly in the Group’s main countries), a Bouchard), the entity managing Capgemini holding company Coordination Committee was appointed bringing together local activities with respect to its operation; managers of the different Group businesses and tasked with X management of the control process for risks presented by ensuring improved cooperation (particularly with respect to actions certain business proposals also falls within his remit. These carried out individually by one or other business for the major proposals are considered from a technical, financial and legal clients appearing in a list drawn up at the beginning of the year). aspect. Based on volume criteria or the nature of commitments, differentiated according to the country concerned, decisions are THE CENTRAL DEPARTMENTS taken at Group level by the Group Review Board chaired by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Group Management is assisted by the following central departments: The Global Sales and Portfolio Department Headed by Paul Nannetti, this department encompasses: The Group Finance Department Headed by Aiman Ezzat, the primary tasks of this department X the management of client offerings and the launch of growth are the preparation of budgets and monitoring performance, initiatives; management control, operational reporting, financial and X relationships with major strategic and technological partners of management accounting, consolidation and accounting the Group (Charlie Li); standards, treasury management, taxation, and financial X the stimulation and promotion of Group offerings in the following communications. He is also responsible for IT and procurement. sectors: Utilities / Distribution & Consumer Goods / Automobile People Management and Transformation Industry / Telecommunications / Taxation and Social Security, initiatives managed – as from 2014 – centrally by Perry Responsibility for this department was entrusted to Hubert Giraud Stoneman but entrusted, in the name and on behalf of the at the beginning of 2014. Mr. Giraud is now in charge of managing Group, to operating entities; the Group’s Human Resources policy with the principal aim of X the definition and standardization of sales support processes. developing the skills and productivity of the Group’s employees. His role is to lead local initiatives so that they reflect our on-going CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 55 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.2 General organization of the Group Capgemini India The Production/Methods and Support Aruna Jayanthi is CEO of Capgemini India. She is responsible for Department the development and performance of production centers based Headed by André Cichowlas, this department is tasked with in India that employ some 49,000 workers to serve the Group’s designing and disseminating prevailing methodologies within the various businesses and countries. Group, certifying certain categories of employee (project leaders, architects, etc.) and performing audits of risk-sensitive projects She contributes to the sale of contracts that are carried out, in conducted by specialized teams known as “flying squads”. It leads part or in full, in India, and oversees their completion and delivery. and supervises the various production industrialization programs In addition, since January 2014, Mrs. Jayanthi chairs the Swedish undertaken by the strategic business units and particularly the Country Board that coordinates business activities in this country. “Lean” program for continuous improvement in productivity and quality. Technology Department This department, run by Lanny Cohen, manages technology The Marketing and Communications Department directors for all of the Group’s businesses and coordinates the This department is responsible for the Group’s internal and work for all proprietary solutions making up the Group’s intellectual external communication and is tasked with coordinating actions property. It conducts and develops the technological dialogue with implemented in this area by operating subsidiaries as well as their the Group’s major strategic partners and is committed to placing marketing deliberations and initiatives. It is headed by Philippe their innovations and the Group’s solutions at the core of the Grangeon, who is also responsible for Capgemini University, Group’s offering and service portfolio. which is tasked with providing Group managers and employees with the additional training they require (in new technologies and Development Department commercial functions, large-scale project management skills, This department, managed by Pierre-Yves Cros, deals with all personal leadership skills development, etc.) and also forms a issues related to Strategy, as well as acquisitions and divestments. natural and convivial platform for exchange for all Group members. It is primarily tasked with fostering deliberations on strategic issues The companies that manage and optimize the Fontaines site in by Group Management, the Board of Directors, its Chairman and Gouvieux also report to the Marketing and Communications the Strategy & Investment Committee. As such, it summarizes Department. and develops the Group’s internal and external strategy. To this end, it maintains close relations with leading firms specializing in The Internal Audit Department analyzing the market and trends therein. The department oversees Headed by Philippe Christelle, this department reports directly compliance with the Group’s internal transformation program and to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and is tasked with monitors, in conjunction with the Technologies Department, the controlling the correct application by business units of Group emergence of innovative potential partners that could contribute principles and rules, particularly with respect to risk management to the Group’s organic growth. It examines acquisitions and and control. The implementation of recommendations issued by divestments in close conjunction with the Finance Department. the Internal Audit Department by the business units concerned is systematically monitored. 2.2.2 TRANSACTIONS CARRIED OUT BY MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OTHER SENIOR MANAGERS INVOLVING CAP GEMINI SHARES Transactions carried out in 2014 by directors and senior • sale of 75,000 shares on May 28, 2014 at a unit price of €53.67, managers involving the Company’s shares, based on AMF • sale of 25,000 shares on May 29, 2014 at a unit price of €53.32, disclosures, Article 223-26 of the AMF’s General Regulations and • sale of 10,000 shares on September 15, 2014 at a unit price of information communicated to the Company for the preparation €58.02, and of the Registration Document pursuant to European Commission Regulation no. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004, may be summarized • sale of 100,000 shares on December 4, 2014 at a unit price of as follows: €60.15. X Serge Kampf (Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors), or persons related to him, performed the following transactions: • sale of 99,760 shares on January 8, 2014 at a unit price of €50.10, CAPGEMINI 56 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.2 General organization of the Group X Paul Hermelin (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer) (1) X Xavier Musca, director, purchased 1,000 shares on June 23, subscribed: 2014 at a unit price of €53.31. • on December 16, 2014 to the “Capgemini shareholders’ fund” X Bruno Roger, director, performed the following transactions: by reinvesting the ESOP 2009 employee transaction in the • purchase of 900 shares on May 6, 2014 at a unit price of amount of €118,365.23, and €51.11, and • on December 18, 2014 to the share capital increase reserved • purchase of 100 shares on May 26, 2014 at a unit price of for employees (ESOP 2014) by investing personal funds of €52.47. €56,851.97. X Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, director, performed the following X Daniel Bernard, director, purchased 850 shares on May 2, 2014 transactions: at a unit price of €51.21. • sale of 6,359 BSAAR warrants on May 28, 2014 at a unit price 2 X Anne Bouverot, director, purchased 1,000 shares on March 11, of €20.14, 2014 at a unit price of €55.68. • sale of 2,500 shares on September 2, 2014 at a unit price of X Laurence Dors, director, purchased 900 shares on March 6, €54.02, 2014 at a unit price of €56.73. • subscription on December 18, 2014 to the share capital X Aiman Ezzat, Chief Financial Officer, performed the following increase reserved for employees (ESOP 2014) of personal funds transactions: of €11,492.00. • sale of 300 shares on December 17, 2014 at a unit price of X Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle, director, purchased 1,000 shares €55.71, on August 14, 2014 at a unit price of €51.92 (USD 69.40). • subscription on December 17, 2014 to the “Capgemini shareholders’ fund” by reinvesting the ESOP 2009 employee transaction in the amount of €26,134.43, • subscription on December 18, 2014 to the share capital increase reserved for employees (ESOP 2014) of personal funds of €21,945.98, and • sale of 6,000 BSAAR warrants on December 19, 2014 as follows: – 1,000 BSAAR warrants at a unit price of €23.00, – 1,000 BSAAR warrants at a unit price of €26.44, – 1,000 BSAAR warrants at a unit price of €26.42, – 1,000 BSAAR warrants at a unit price of €26.33, – 1,000 BSAAR warrants at a unit price of €26.26, – 1,000 BSAAR warrants at a unit price of €20.75. (1) Paul Hermelin gifted a total of 80,000 shares to his children in 2014 (transactions not having to be reported to the AMF). CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 57 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate ofﬁcers 2.3.1 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION POLICY The procedures for setting the compensation of the Chairman These comparisons show that Paul Hermelin’s global and Chief Executive Officer comply with the recommendations compensation is close to the median compensation for CAC of the revised AFEP-MEDEF code issued in June 2013. 40 companies, and is of an adequate level compared with Compensation components were determined in accordance comparable sector compensation in France and abroad. The with the recommendations of this code, whether fixed or variable Group also ensures that the respective proportions of fixed and compensation, the grant of equity instruments or supplementary variable components and share grants valued in accordance with pension benefits. IFRS are balanced and in line with market practices. The fixed component is determined in accordance with a major philosophy In addition to complying with “market” rules and in line with past specific to the Group, which aligns the compensation structure Group practice, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is not of the Chief Executive Officer with that of key operating entitled to termination benefits, is not covered by a non-compete managers. One of the historical rules of the Group is that the clause and receives no benefits in kind. In addition, he has waived remuneration of executive management comprises a fixed his right to receive attendance fees since fiscal year 2009. component equal to 60% of the target theoretical compensation These principles are regularly reviewed and discussed by the and a variable component equal to 40% of this amount subject to Compensation Committee which submits a report on its work and the attainment of pre-defined collective and individual objectives. its resulting proposals to the Board of Directors for approval. The Compensation Committee also monitors the main practices The Compensation Committee refers in particular to comparative of its international competitors. Compensation practices in North studies to ensure the consistency and competiveness of both America and India are structurally and culturally different from the compensation level and structure and calculation methods those applied in European companies. Observing their practices with market practice. The Committee’s recommendations take nonetheless provides relevant information on the nature of the account of executive management compensation levels and market and compensation levels. In American companies such components in CAC 40 companies as well as observed practice as CSC, Accenture and IBM, total compensation includes a in leading French and foreign Group competitors in the IT services substantial proportion of long-term share-based compensation. and consulting sector. Compensation publication practice varies significantly between the countries and legal structures of competitors, in particular in the case of partnerships. CAC 40 PROCEDURES FOR SETTING FIXED AND VARIABLE companies are therefore the most relevant benchmark and the COMPENSATION most transparent, but additional analyses take account of the The procedures for setting Paul Hermelin’s compensation in international and competitive aspects of the sector in which the respect of fiscal year Y are adopted by the Board of Directors’ company operates. meeting in Y held to approve the financial statements of fiscal The Compensation Committee took due note of the observations year Y-1. As indicated above, this compensation comprises – issued to Cap Gemini in July 2014 by the High Committee as does that of all key executive managers of the Group – fixed for Corporate Governance (Haut Comité de Gouvernement compensation paid in 12 monthly installments equal to 60% of d’Entreprise, HCGE) and of its October 2014 activity report, as the total theoretical amount if objectives are achieved and variable well as of the AMF 2014 report on corporate governance and compensation equal to 40% of this total theoretical amount, executive management compensation in listed companies. These closely correlated to the company’s performance. observations were taken into account and integrated into the The Board of Directors therefore approves at the beginning of the items detailed below. year for the year in progress: When performing comparisons with French companies of X the theoretical fixed and variable compensation components. comparable size and ambition, the Compensation Committee The theoretical variable component is in turn split into two parts: ensures that Cap Gemini’s practices are in line with the best V1 tied to Group performance indicators and consolidated practices of CAC 40 companies in terms of both the clarity results and V2 based on the attainment of individual objectives, and consistency of methods applied. As in 2013, the Group where possible quantified, set by the Board of Directors. Each participated in 2014 in comparative studies of the main French of these components can vary between 0% and a ceiling equal companies carried out by specialist firms. to 200% of the theoretical amount. CAPGEMINI 58 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers Therefore, as a result of this system, fixed plus variable by the Board of Directors when preparing the 3-year strategic compensation may vary between 60% and 140% of annual plan. These objectives cover in particular the Company’s three theoretical/target compensation. The variable component strategic priorities (portfolio evolution, pyramid and talent and the total compensation are therefore both capped management and increased industrialization). and the variable component may not represent more than The V1 component varies in line with a formula applied for many 133% of fixed compensation as indicated in the summary decades within the Group, that accelerates actual performance table below; upwards and downwards such that: X the fixed component is not reviewed annually, but after several X the V1 component is nil if the weighted performance of financial years in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Paul indicators is less than or equal to 70%; Hermelin’s compensation was increased in 2008 and was only reviewed in 2013 (+10%) following an extension of his X the V1 component can reach twice the theoretical amount if the weighted performance is greater than or equal to 130%; varying 2 responsibilities and to reflect the strong growth and international expansion of the Group; on a straight-line basis between these two limits. X the internal performance indicators included in the calculation of The level of attainment of objectives and the amount of the the V1 component and the weighting applied to each indicator. variable compensation component are decided pursuant to the The level of attainment of these indicators is determined based recommendation of the Compensation Committee by the Board of on a comparison of actual audited and budgeted Group Directors’ meeting in Y+1 held to approve the financial statements consolidated results. The indicators adopted are tied to growth, of fiscal year Y. The Committee meets before the Board of operating profitability, net profit and cash generation in line with Directors’ meeting to appraise the percentage attainment by Paul the key indicators presented regularly to the market; Hermelin of his objectives. X the individual performance objectives underlying V2 The variable compensation is paid after the Board of Directors’ compensation. The strategic and operating objectives for 2014 meeting that approves the financial statements for fiscal year Y fall into three main categories, “Governance”, “Profitable growth underlying the calculation of the various variable compensation of the Group” and “Talent and succession plans”. The Board of components and that decides the percentage attainment of Directors ensured the objectives were based on objective and individual objectives set. Payment generally takes place in March directly measurable items and, in part, clearly tied to the roll out of fiscal year Y+1. of the Group’s strategy through multi-year objectives, approved Summary table of the theoretical structure of fixed and variable compensation: Theoretical compensation structure, base 100 Target Min Max Gross fixed compensation 60 60 60 Annual variable compensation V1 20 0 40 Annual variable compensation V2 20 0 40 Multi-year variable compensation 0 0 0 THEORETICAL TOTAL IF OBJECTIVES ARE ATTAINED 100 60 140 % variable / fixed 67% 0% 133% CAP GEMINI SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE POLICY X the conditions include internal and external performance PROCEDURES conditions in accordance with the AMF recommendation; X the number of shares granted to executive corporate officers The Group stopped granting stock options in 2009 and now grants performance shares in accordance with the following pursuant to the resolutions presented to shareholder vote is principles: limited (maximum of 10% of shares available for grant set in the last resolution voted on May 23, 2013). The performance shares X share grants are not systematic: Paul Hermelin received granted to Paul Hermelin in 2012 and 2013 represented 2.1% performance shares in 2009, 2012, 2013 and 2014 but was not of the total amount authorized by the Combined Shareholders granted any shares in 2010 or 2011; Meeting of May 24, 2012 and 4.1% of the total amount granted X performance shares are granted subject to the same conditions to all beneficiaries. These percentages are 3.1% and 3.6% of presence and performance as applicable to other Group respectively for 2014; beneficiaries and all shares are subject to performance X in addition, shares granted must not represent more than one conditions; years’ fixed compensation; X the performance conditions are ambitious, as demonstrated X Paul Hermelin is required to hold all vested performance shares by the first two share grants where the vesting rates were only received under the 2009, 2012 and 2013 plans until the later of: 50% and 68.5%, respectively, of the number of shares initially granted; CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 59 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers • the end of the mandatory two-year holding period (2009 plan), Given the significant number of shares held by Paul Hermelin, he extended to four years (2012 and 2013 plan), and was not required to buy a set number of shares on the delivery of • the expiry of his term as corporate officer. the vested shares. In addition, and in accordance with the recommendation of the X Share hedging transactions are prohibited before the end of AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors decided that vested the mandatory holding period. This prohibition is included in the performance shares representing at least 50% of shares must be grant plan rules and applies to all beneficiaries. It applies since retained, where the amount of shares held represents less than the first performance share grant plan in 2009. twice the theoretical annual salary (fixed and variable). Once this X In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF threshold is reached, the obligation to retain performance shares Code, performance share grants will be performed from now on only applies to one third of shares vested. at the same calendar periods and will be decided by either the As this threshold had been attained at the time of the July 2014 Board of Directors’ meeting at the end of July or the following grant, the obligation to hold shares that vest as a result of this meeting, even if we consider that this deprives the Company of grant was set at one-third of shares vested. flexibility in the use of key incentive instruments for the Group’s main managers. 2.3.2 2014 COMPENSATION OF PAUL HERMELIN, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Total 2012 Gross amounts (Reminder) Compensation in respect of 2013 Compensation in respect of 2014 Paul Hermelin: Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer thereafter Paid in 2013 Paid in 2014 Total 2013 Paid in 2014 Paid in 2015 Total 2014 Gross fixed compensation 1,320,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 Annual variable compensation 929,100 1,150,900 1,150,900 1,168,652 1,168,652 Multi-year variable compensation Exceptional compensation Attendance fees Benefits in kind* 3,600 3,600 3,600 3,600 3,600 TOTAL 2,252,700 1,455,600 1,150,900 2,606,500 1,455,600 1,168,652 2,624,252 Value of multi-year variable compensation granted during the year Value of options granted during the year Value of performance shares granted 808,866 905,785 905,785 1,466,026 1,466,026 during the year TOTAL 3,061,566 2,361,385 1,150,900 3,512,285 2,921,626 1,168,652 4,090,278 * Paul Hermelin did not receive any benefits in kind in 2014, with the exception of contributions paid by the Company for his unemployment insurance underwritten by the “Garantie Sociale d’Entreprise” of €3,600. Pursuant to the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in June 2013 to the Shareholders’ Meeting for an advisory vote. The following with which Capgemini complies, the compensation of executive table summarizes the compensation components subject to corporate officers due or awarded in respect of the year then shareholder advisory vote pursuant to the “say on pay” policy. ended of each executive corporate officer must be presented CAPGEMINI 60 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers COMPENSATION COMPONENTS SUBJECT TO SHAREHOLDER ADVISORY VOTE DUE OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF 2014 TO MR PAUL HERMELIN, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Fixed €1,452,000 The gross fixed compensation of €1,452,000 for fiscal year 2014 was approved by the Board of Directors compensation (paid in 2014) on February 19, 2014 at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. It represents 60% of the total theoretical compensation if objectives are attained and is reviewed at long intervals in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This amount is unchanged since 2013 when it was increased by 10% to reflect the change in Mr. Hermelin’s role, who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the extension of his responsibilities and changes in and 2 the internationalization of the Group since 2008, when his compensation was last modified. The annualized increase in his theoretical compensation since 2008 and therefore in his fixed compensation is 1.6% per annum. This compensation falls within the average for CAC 40 executives. Annual variable €1,168,652 During the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 18, 2015, the Board, based on the audited and approved compensation (paid in 2015) accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, assessed the amount of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s variable compensation for fiscal year 2014, of a target amount if objectives are attained of €968,000, i.e. 40% of his total theoretical compensation and comprising two equal components, V1 and V2, that may vary between 0% and 200% of the theoretical amount. V1 component: this component is calculated in accordance with quantifiable criteria and the following respective weightings, all relating to the financial results: 1) % attainment of the revenue objective: 30% weighting; 2) % attainment of the operating margin rate: 30% weighting; 3) % attainment of pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; 4) 2014 cumulated Free Cash Flow: 20% weighting. These objectives were assessed with respect to the budgeted objectives set by the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 19, 2014. Attainment rates for these four objectives were 100.1%, 101.7%, 108.1% and 121.5% respectively, which taking account of the relative weighting of each objective, gives a weighted attainment rate of 106.4%. The Group’s historical calculation formula accelerates actual performance upwards and downwards such that: ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is less than or equal to 70%, the V1 component will be nil; ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is greater than or equal to 130%, the V1 component will be equal to twice its theoretical amount. Accordingly, with this formula, a one point change in the weighted attainment rate increases or decreases the variable component by 3.33%. Therefore, application of the formula to the weighted attainment rate of 106.4% in 2014 results in the multiplication of the theoretical variable component by 121.5%, giving an amount of 968,000/2*1.215= €587,852. V2 component: The following appraisal was performed based on the Compensation Committee work, which reviewed the qualitative objectives grouped into three categories: “Governance” for 25%, “Profitable growth of the Group” for 50% and “Talent and succession plans” for 25%. For the first category (Governance), basing its appraisal on the assessment of the Board of Directors’ performance performed at the end of 2014 by the Lead Independent Director and the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board highlighted the implementation of the recommendations resulting from the Board assessment performed in 2013 by an external consultant, such as the appointment of a Lead Independent Director, a new allocation of duties between the Committees, increased female representation on the Board and a decrease in the average age of its members, as well as the invitation accorded to the Secretary of the Group’s European Works Council to attend meetings of the Board and the Compensation Committee. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category had been attained. For the second category (Profitable growth), the Board based its appraisal as far as possible on objective and quantifiable items and primarily the Group 2015 strategic transformation dash board, a quantitative tool comprising key transformation indicators (changes in the offering portfolio, percentage of sales realized with strategic accounts, industrialization including the offshore and innovation lever). The dash board is approved by the Board of Directors in the context of the Group 3-year plan. In 2015, changes in management report indicators were in line with the objectives set. The second profitable growth criteria comprises the optimization of the balance sheet financial structure in line with the Group’s strategy and the employee share ownership plan, which was a success. Finally, revenue, margin and cash trends all of which are in line with or exceed guidance presented to the market at the beginning of 2014, represent the third pillar of profitable growth. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category had been exceeded. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 61 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Annual variable For the third category (Talent), the Board took account of the record recruitment of 89 “Vice-Presidents” compensation and, in particular, the recruitment of a Group Talent Officer, the promotion of 112 new Vice-Presidents, the (continued) Talent management strategy presented by the new Group HR Director favoring executive manager turnover and mobility reflected by numerous job transfers during the last year and the 5 point increase year-on-year in the percentage of women promoted Vice-President. Given these achievements, the Board took due note of the progress made and considered that the objective set had been attained. This objective will remain a priority in 2015. The Board approved a weighted performance of 120%, therefore leading to a V2 component of €580,800. Accordingly, variable compensation of €1,168,652 was approved by the Board for 2014, i.e. 80% of his fixed compensation for the same year and 120.7% of the theoretical variable compensation. Total fixed and variable compensation for 2014 is therefore €2,620,652, i.e. 108.3% of the theoretical compensation and may be summarized as follows: Paul Hermelin 2014 variable compensation calculation V1 : quantitative component based on budgeted financial targets Indicators Weight % attainment Weighted Total Revenue 30% 100,1% 30.0% Operational Margin ( %) 30% 101,7% 30.5% Pre-tax net profit 20% 108,1% 21,6% Organic Free Cash Flow 20% 121,5% 24.3% Total weighted R/B before flex 106,4% Total weighted R/B after 70/130 flex (10/3* weighted R/B-7/3) 121,5% Variable V1 on target 484 000 Computed V1 587 852 V2 : qualitative component based on 2014 personal objectives Indicators Weight Weighted total Governance 25% Profitable growth 50% 120,0% Talent & succession plans 25% Variable V2 on target 484 000 Computed V2 580 800 TOTAL 2014 VARIABLE COMPENSATION 1 168 652 As a % of total variable compensation on target 120,7% As a % of fixed compensation 80,5% The variable compensation due in respect of a given year is calculated based on the audited accounts approved by the Board at the beginning of Y+1 and is paid at the end of the first quarter of Y+1, or in the present case in March 2015. Deferred NA There is no deferred variable compensation. variable compensation Multi-year NA There is no multi-year variable compensation mechanism. variable compensation Exceptional NA No exceptional compensation was paid. compensation CAPGEMINI 62 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Stock options, Performance 50,000 shares granted subject to performance and presence conditions. performance shares The vesting of performance shares is contingent on the realization of both an external performance condition shares or any €1,466,026 and an internal performance condition. The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant other form (accounting and is based on the comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share over a two year period against of long-term value) the average performance of a basket comprising 8 comparable companies in the same business sector compensation and from at least 5 countries (Accenture/CSC/Atos/Tieto/Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Cognizant) and the CAC 40 index (new in 2014). Accordingly, no shares vest if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than 90% of the performance of the basket of comparable companies, while 100% of shares vest only if this relative performance is at 110% or above. If performance is similar to that of the market only 2 30% of the initial grant vests. The internal performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant and is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over the three-year period from 2013 to 2015. The minimum amount necessary for shares to vest is €850 million. Above this threshold, shares vest progressively on a straight-line basis, with the maximum grant requiring Organic Free Cash Flow of €1.1 billion or more. The IFRS value of this grant potentially represents one year’s fixed compensation. The number of shares that may vest to the executive corporate officer is 0.03% of the share capital. Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013. (Tenth resolution) Grant authorized by the Board of Directors on July 30, 2014. Stock options No stock options or other items were granted. = N/A Other items = N/A Attendance Voluntary The Board of Directors took due note of Paul Hermelin’s decision to waive his right to collect attendance fees fees waiver as a director of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2014 (as both Serge Kampf and he have done for the last five years and Serge Kampf did once again in 2014). Valuation of €3,600 Unemployment insurance contributions paid on behalf of Paul Hermelin. benefits in kind Contributions paid CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 63 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers OTHER COMPENSATION COMPONENTS COMPENSATION COMPONENTS DUE OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF 2014 THAT WERE PRESENTED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING FOR VOTE PURSUANT TO THE REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS PROCEDURE Amount subject Presentation to vote Termination €0 No entitlement to termination payments. payments Non-compete N/A No non-compete indemnities. indemnities Supplementary No amount due in respect of the year. pension Mr. Paul Hermelin is a member of the supplementary collective defined benefit pension plan setup in 2006, benefits under the same conditions applicable to other employee members. This plan was reviewed by an external firm which confirmed that it complies with the AFEP-MEDEF recommendations of October 6, 2009, as it complies with the revised AFEP-MEDEF Governance Code issued in June 2013. In order to receive benefits under this plan it is necessary to be with the Group at the time of retirement and benefits are proportional to length of service (minimum of 10 years required and a maximum of 30 years). Benefits are based on reference earnings equal to the average of the three best years from among the ten years preceding retirement. In addition, this supplementary pension is subject to three cumulative limits such that the pension amount cannot exceed 40% of reference earnings or 50% of reference earnings, including pensions received under all other pension plans, with reference earnings capped at 60 times the French annual social security ceiling. Therefore, in order to receive the maximum pension amount beneficiaries must have between 25 and 30 years’ service, reflecting the progressive acquisition of entitlement, which remains well below the threshold set by the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Entitlement is acquired at a rate of 1.5% per year for the first 10 years and at rates of between 1% and 2% per year thereafter depending on compensation levels. Based on the number of years membership of the plan on retirement, corporate officers can expect a replacement rate of between 39% and 40% of reference earnings. The cost of one year’s service for all corporate officers is estimated at €1.2 million for 2014. Active plan Date of the Board of Directors’ decision: December 13, 2006 Presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2007 ■ Fourth resolution in respect of regulated agreements EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT OF EXECUTIVE his entitlement to pension benefits, given his seniority in the Group CORPORATE OFFICERS (22 years at March 1, 2015) and the services he has rendered to the Company and was in no way motivated by a desire to With regards to Paul Hermelin, the Board reminds readers that maintain for his benefit any entitlement to a severance pay his employment contract has been suspended in its entirety since provision stipulated in his employment contract (his contract does May 24, 1996 (date from which he exercised his first term of not contain any such provision). In keeping with this measure, Paul office as a member of the Management Board), but that it was Hermelin made a commitment to the Board of Directors to waive decided in 2009, pursuant to a recommendation by the Selection his employment contract on reaching the age at which he may & Compensation Committee, to maintain jointly his term as legally exercise his right to retire. Mr. Hermelin therefore informed corporate officer and his employment contract. This decision was the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 18, 2015 that he based on the desire to maintain for this executive corporate officer waived his employment contract as from that date. Indemnities or benefits following appointment, Indemnities in Executive corporate officers: employment Employment Supplementary termination or change in respect of non contracts and deferred compensation contract pension plan function compete clause Paul Hermelin – Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer thereafter No Yes No No CAPGEMINI 64 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers 2.3.3 2015 COMPENSATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Board decided, pursuant to the recommendation of the The four personal strategic objectives adopted for 2015 V2 Compensation Committee, to leave Mr. Hermelin’s theoretical compensation have been assigned an individual specific weight. compensation unchanged for 2014 at €2,420,000. The Board They relate to the operational transformation of the Group in also set the procedure for calculating the variable component 2015 in line with the strategic plan and related indicators, the of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s compensation, defining the performance implementation and fine tuning of the Group strategy (perimeter indicators underlying the V1 calculation, as well as the personal and portfolio) and talent management. The Compensation strategic objectives adopted for the V2 component for fiscal year Committee has formalized these objectives in such a way as they 2015. can be clearly assessed on objective grounds at the end of 2015 with a minimum weight of 40% based on quantified objectives 2 Accordingly, the operating indicators adopted for 2015 V1 and the Board shared the same imperative when finalizing the compensation will remain as follows: objectives. Therefore 70% at least of the variable part will be X revenue growth: 30% weighting; subject to a quantitative evaluation. X operating margin rate: 30% weighting; X pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; X free cash flow: 20% weighting. 2.3.4 ATTENDANCE FEES AND OTHER COMPENSATION RECEIVED BY CORPORATE OFFICERS In application of the principles described under paragraph 2.1.5 It is recalled that Mr. Hermelin and M Kampf voluntarily waived “Compensation of directors”, total attendance fees of €719,225 their right to collect the attendance fees that should have been were paid to directors in respect of 2014, representing 90% of paid to them as directors of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2014 the maximum amount authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ (as both Serge Kampf and he have done for the last five years). Meeting. After deduction of French and foreign withholding tax, a These attendance fees would have totaled €55,500 for Paul net amount of €468,538 was paid in respect of 2014. Hermelin and €58,299 for Serge Kampf in respect of 2014. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 65 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers Attendance fees due in respect of one fiscal year and paid during another fiscal year are detailed below: Amount due in Amount due in Gross amount paid Gross amount paid (in euros) respect of 2013 respect of 2014 in 2013 in 2014 Serge KAMPF (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) Daniel BERNARD 55,500 99,383 54,000 80,000 Anne BOUVEROT 12,750 64,500 0 41,250 Yann DELABRIERE 66,000 78,288 66,000 69,000 Laurence DORS 39,000 58,000 39,000 51,000 Paul HERMELIN (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) Michel JALABERT 0 n/a 28,500 0 Phil LASKAWY* 39,000 65,500 39,000 51,000 Bernard LIAUTAUD* 27,750 n/a 48,000 6,750 Thierry de MONTBRIAL 19,500 n/a 39,000 0 Xavier MUSCA n/a 28,500 n/a 8,500 Ruud van OMMEREN* 66,000 31,000 69,000 61,000 Terry OZAN* 51,000 23,000 48,000 45,500 Pierre PRINGUET 63,000 77,777 69,000 62,500 Bruno ROGER 45,000 77,777 51,000 59,500 Lucia SINAPI 51,000 53,000 54,000 51,000 Caroline WATTEEUW* n/a 62,500 n/a 8,500 TOTAL 535,500 719,225 604,500 595,500 * As required by law, the Company deducted withholding tax on the amounts paid to these non-resident beneficiaries. A 36.5% deduction at source for income tax and CSG/CRDS social security contributions was also applied to amounts paid to beneficiaries resident in France. The non-executive directors did not receive any compensation service company which groups together and manages a large other than attendance fees, with the exception of Serge Kampf, part of Group top management and whose role is to provide founder and executive corporate officer of the Group for 45 years services and assistance to all operating companies of the Group and Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, the director representing employee (commercial development, financial and legal assistance, external shareholders, who holds an employment contract in respect of growth, human resource management, consistency in commercial her functions in the Group Finance Department and receives relations with major clients, communication, etc.), as well as compensation in this respect that is unrelated to her corporate Chairman of Capgemini Switzerland for over 46 years (i.e. since office in the Company. the creation in 1968 of this company, the Group’s first subsidiary), Director of Capgemini North America Inc. (USA) and sole partner With regard to Serge Kampf, readers are reminded that he has of S.C.I. Paris Étoile. He received total compensation of €960,000 long exercised – in addition to his duties as Chairman of Cap in respect of these duties in 2014, unchanged on 2013. Gemini S.A. until May 24, 2012 – and still exercises, several other duties within the Group: accordingly he is Chairman (since its creation in 1993) of Capgemini Service SAS, an intercompany CAPGEMINI 66 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers 2.3.5 STOCK SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONS, STOCK PURCHASE OPTIONS AND PERFORMANCE SHARES The following tables present a breakdown of stock options It should be noted that: and performance shares granted to, exercised by or vested to Mr. Serge Kampf has never been awarded (and has never executive corporate officers during 2014 and historical information requested) any stock options or performance shares. on stock options and performance shares granted. Stock options have not been granted to group executives and managers since 2009. No performance shares vested to Paul Hermelin in 2014. 2 Number and type Value of options (purchase or using the method Stock options granted during the year to each Plan subscription) of adopted in the executive corporate officer by Cap Gemini S.A. date and options granted during consolidated Exercise and/or any other Group company number the year financial statements Strike price period Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Plan Number of options Stock options exercised during the year by date and exercised during the Exercise each executive corporate officer number year Strike price period Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a Value of shares calculated using Performance shares granted the method during the year to each executive Theoretical adopted in the corporate officer by Cap Gemini Plan maximum number consolidated Potential S.A. and/or any other Group date and of shares granted financial Potential availability Performance company number during the year statements vesting date date conditions Paul HERMELIN 5th plan of 50,000 1,466,026 08/01/2016 Later of A detailed 07/30/2014 the end of description of his term of the conditions office and is presented in 08/01/2020 Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 158 of this Registration Document Plan Number of shares Performance shares vested to date and vested during the Year of each executive corporate officer number year Vesting conditions grant Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 67 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO CORPORATE OFFICERS The Group has not granted any stock options since 2008 and the last grant performed on June 1, 2008 expired in 2013. HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO CORPORATE OFFICERS Date of Shareholders’ Meeting 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 Grant date 10/01/2005 10/01/2006 04/01/2007 10/01/2007 06/01/2008 Plan number 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan Total number of shares granted 1,915,500 2,067,000 400,000 1,932,500 219,000 o/w granted to Serge Kampf (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) o/w granted to Paul Hermelin 50,000 50,000 (nil) (nil) (nil) o/w granted to the ten employees receiving the greatest number of shares 109,000 200,000 86,000 114,000 60,000 Start of exercise period 10/01/2006 10/01/2007 04/01/2008 10/01/2008 06/01/2009 Expiry date 09/30/2010 09/30/2011 04/01/2012 10/01/2012 06/01/2013 Subscription price (in euros) 30 43 55 44 40.5 Exercise conditions 10% after 1 year, 30% after 2 years, 60% after 3 years and 100% after 4 years HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PERFORMANCE SHARES HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PERFORMANCE SHARES Plan number 2009 Plan 2010 Plan 2012 Plan 2013 Plan 2014 Plan Date of Shareholders’ Meeting 04/17/2008 04/30/2009 05/24/2012 05/24/2012 05/23/2013 Grant date 03/05/2009 10/01/2010 12/12/2012 02/20/2013 07/30/2014 Number of performance shares initially granted 1,148,250 1,555,000 1,003,500 1,209,100 1,290,500 o/w granted to Serge Kampf (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) * o/w granted to Paul Hermelin 50,000 (nil) 50,000 50,000 50,000 Number of shares vested 485,750 881,048 n/a n/a n/a * o/w to Paul Hermelin 25,000 (néant) n/a n/a n/a Cumulative number of shares cancelled or expired 662,500 673,952 45,000 73,800 2,000 Number of shares potentially available for grant at the end of 2014 Expired Expired 958,500 1,135,300 1,288,500 * o/w to Paul Hermelin 50,000 50,000 50,000 Vesting date-France 03/05/2011 10/01/2012 01/01/2015 03/01/2015 08/01/2016 Vesting date-outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 08/01/2018 End of holding period–France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2019 03/01/2019 08/01/2020 End of holding period–outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 08/01/2018 Share price at grant date (in €) 23.3 37.16 33.15 36.53 53.35 * Complete historical information on performance shares grants is provided on pages 155 to 159 of the Registration Document. CAPGEMINI 68 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO THE TEN EMPLOYEES (NONCORPORATE OFFICERS) Stock options granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having thus subscribed for the greatest number of shares are as follows: Total number of Stock options granted to/exerciced by the ten employees (non-corporate stock options Weighted average officers) having received the greatest number of shares granted/exercised price Plan number Options granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees of all eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares n/a n/a n/a 2 Options exercised (held previously on Cap Gemini S.A.) by the ten Group employees having exercised the greatest number of shares n/a n/a n/a Performance shares granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of performance shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) holding the greatest number of vested shares are as follows: Total number of Performance shares granted/vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having received shares granted / the greatest number of shares vested Plan number Performance shares granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees of all eligible 5th Performance companies having received the greatest number of shares 144,000 share plan 2nd Performance Shares vested to the ten Group employees holding the greatest number of vested shares 97,270 share plan CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 69 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures Pursuant to Article L225-35 of the French Commercial Code, the X the smooth functioning of the Group’s internal control processes Chairman of the Board of Directors prepared his report on the safeguarding assets; and internal control and risk management procedures defined and X the reliability of the Group’s financial information. implemented by Capgemini Group. While contributing to the improved efficiency of its operational This report is based on the contributions of several departments support functions, the optimal use of resources and good risk and, in particular, the Group Finance, Legal, Human Resources control, this system does not however offer an absolute guarantee and Internal Audit Departments. of the control of all possible risks imaginable, no more than it can – A blueprint for internal control was defined at the initiative of the irrespective of the skills of the employees performing the controls French financial markets authority (AMF), which it recommends – guarantee alone the realization by the Group of all objectives set. all French companies subject to the requirements of the Financial For these reasons, since its creation, Capgemini has placed Security Law (Loi de Sécurité Financière) use and apply within their significant importance on compliance with the values and subsidiaries. principles which guide and inspire its actions and, in particular, our The Group builds on this reference framework and the application business practices. These values (headed by honesty) represent guidance published initially in January 2007 and updated on the Group’s fundamental DNA and justify its reputation as an July 22, 2010 by the French financial markets authority (AMF). ethical and responsible company. Capgemini Group ensures the implementation of risk management For over 20 years, a set of rules and procedures known as the and internal control systems within its subsidiaries. In 2014, “Blue Book” has had force of law within Cap Gemini and its such systems covered all consolidated subsidiaries and Group subsidiaries. The Blue Book reminds employees of their obligations businesses. in this area and inventories the tools and methods helping them avoid identified risks in the exercise of the Group’s businesses. The implementation of systems and procedures contributing The ethics system founded on the Group’s values and the Code of to strengthening the uniformity of processes within the Group Business Ethics was supplemented in 2011 by an Anti-Corruption continued in 2014. Code. This system seeks to: Among these measures, the following may be highlighted: X develop within new recruits an ethical culture guaranteeing X the roll-out of a global application for human resource integrity of behavior; management, providing real time access to information and X raise awareness of compliance with international and national focusing the Group on systems, procedures and expectations laws; defined centrally; X highlight initiatives aimed at strengthening the system to prevent X the development of a Group credit management tool in the main and avoid infractions, non-compliance and negligence in these regions; areas. X the ongoing deployment of the single integration management For over 30 years, the Capgemini Group has had a central Internal system in the United Kingdom; Audit function. Its Director reports directly to the Chairman X the consolidation of shared service centers within a globalized and Chief Executive Officer, guaranteeing the independence structure. of the internal audit function with respect to the functions and All these actions help standardize processing and procedures Business Units audited. The internal audit team comprises within the Group and strengthen the Capgemini internal control 24 auditors, representing 12 different nationalities and covering environment. 90% of the languages spoken locally in the Group. This significant internationalization of the internal audit team reflects the desire to accompany the expansion of the Group into new regions of the OBJECTIVES AND MEANS world; the Internal Audit Department also has a Bombay desk with Capgemini Group has therefore defined and implemented a nine auditors including three technical experts specializing in the control system with a view to ensuring: review of IT projects. The Internal Audit Department is tasked with: X compliance of all management acts with relevant laws and X reviewing the internal control procedures implemented in the regulations; Strategic Business Units and their component legal entities to ensure that they comply with the general principles and rules X compliance with the Group’s seven core values and guidelines laid down by the Group and with certain specific procedures set by the Board of Directors and/or Group Management; enabling the elimination or mitigation of the risks to which they X application by the subsidiaries of instructions communicated; are exposed locally; CAPGEMINI 70 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures X auditing the Group’s major contracts considered to present GENERAL PRINCIPLES significant risk: Internal Audit uses one or more technical experts The aim of the general internal control principles is to ensure (Group Delivery Auditors), who are selected from among a list efficient and traceable decision-making. They concern: of Group accredited professionals according to their skills (and also their complete independence from the unit being audited). X delegation of decision-making powers and authorization: the Each Business Unit is audited in line with a bi-annual program decision-making process applied within the Group is based covering the entire Group: the Chairman and Chief Executive on rules concerning the delegation of powers. These rules are Officer has the power to modify this program in the event of an regularly updated, comply with the principle of subsidiarity and emergency (delays and irregularities, major divergence from define three levels of decision-making depending on the issues budgetary commitments, etc.). At the request of the Chairman involved, corresponding to the three levels of Capgemini’s and Chief Executive Officer, the Internal Audit Department may organization: 2 also perform special assignments to review specific situations. • the Business Unit, for all issues that fall within its remit, Since 2012, the Group Internal Audit Department is directly • the Strategic Business Unit (or the Country Board) for all issues responsible for performing, in conjunction with the Ethics that concern several Business Units under their authority, & Compliance Director, the ethics phase of due diligence • the Group (Group Management, Executive Committee, assignments on companies that the Group is considering central departments, etc.) for all decisions outside the scope acquiring. These reviews involve an examination, from an ethical of responsibility of a Strategic Business Unit or region which stance, of all the activities of the target company in order to must be taken at Group level due to their nature (acquisitions, ensure, in particular, their compatibility with Capgemini Group divestments, etc.), or for other major transactions whose expectations. financial impacts exceed well-defined materiality thresholds. During 2014, the Internal Audit Department performed: This process has been formalized in an authorization matrix which requires both prior consultation and the provision of sufficient X 44 audits of units belonging to all Group Strategic Business information to the parties involved. Recommendations submitted Units. Each audit involved an average of 35 man-days in to the final decision-maker must include the views of all interested the field and concluded with the issue of an action plan that parties as well as an objective assessment of the advantages and management of the unit audited undertook to implement as drawbacks of each of the possible solutions: quickly as possible in order to improve or correct the points identified by the audit. The Internal Audit Department uses a tool X the framework of general policies and procedures: the Blue covering the entire Group and enabling it to monitor real-time Book sets out the main principles and basic guidelines underthe implementation of recommendations following the audit, pinning the Group’s internal control procedures, and covers focusing particularly on priority actions; specific issues relating to the following areas: X 2 special assignments at the request of the Chairman and Chief • Group governance and organization, Executive Officer; • authorization processes, X 2 ethical due diligence assignments. • sales and delivery rules and guidelines, Once annually, the Internal Audit Director presents: • business risk management, pricing, contracting and legal X to the Audit Committee, a comprehensive report on the requirements, department’s work (particularly regarding internal control • finance, merger, acquisitions, disposals and insurance rules and efficiency and risk management in the preparation and guidelines, processing of financial and accounting information); • human resources policies, X to the Ethics & Governance Committee, a specific report on • marketing and communications, knowledge management and compliance with the Group’s Code of Business Ethics; Group IT, Finally, the Internal Audit Department may at any moment draw • procurement policies, including ethical purchasing and supplier up a special report for presentation to the Chairman and Chief selection, Executive Officer on any matter that it considers should be • environment and community policies. brought to his attention and it informs the Audit Committee in case of identifying significant deviations. The main risks faced by the Group are set out in the Risk Analysis section of this Registration Document. Risk management and control systems are presented below. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 71 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures BUSINESS AND STRATEGY RISK MANAGEMENT corruption was distributed within the Group in 2011, followed by AND CONTROL PROCEDURES a second in 2012 covering anti-trust legislation. All new recruits are asked to undertake to comply with the principles explained Economic risks in these two policies and follow an e-learning training course The Group monitors and anticipates, as far as possible, thereon. In 2014, the Ethics & Compliance Director presented macroeconomic developments at global level, by closely around the world, over 23 three-hour workshops on business monitoring the quality of the clients in the markets where it ethics, raising the awareness of more than 617 executive officers operates, as well as the potential impacts of these developments and senior managers. These workshops, which were partly based on its own businesses and those of its clients. on case studies, illustrate the importance of the “tone at the top” in terms of ethics and insist on the exemplary behavior required While a substantial proportion of the Group’s operations depends of each manager. An organizational structure rolled-out in each on its clients’ investment capacity, the fact that the Group is country based on an Ethics and Compliance Program, monitors organized around medium-sized Business Units close to their the implementation of the Ethics & Compliance Program covering target market allows for rapid responsiveness to changes in the all Group entities. business environment. The Group decided many years ago to only employ individuals and Competition have commercial relations in those countries satisfying a certain The Group monitors strategy in its various markets in order number of criteria concerning work ethics and legal and physical to assess the weight, strengths and weaknesses of the main security in the conduct of business, as well as tax compliance. players. To monitor the competitive environment, the Development Since 2011, the Group has implemented a solution for measuring Department (mergers and acquisitions); regularly assesses and monitoring conversations on Group brands on social media. potential targets that could integrate the Group in the future. Internal social media are also monitored in order to best respond The Group is also committed to ensuring client satisfaction in to employee comments. Finally, in order to strengthen governance order to build long-term relationships. A satisfaction measure is rules covering the activities of Group employees on internal and kept up-to-date throughout all contract phases (see below). external social media, a social media code of conduct was also External growth drafted and is freely available on the Group website. Capgemini has a wealth of experience in acquisitions, having Listed on the Paris Stock Exchange and a global leader in its carried out around 50 external growth transactions since the business sector, the Group is frequently called upon by the media 1970s. Entrepreneurial spirit, managerial autonomy, and the and the financial community to provide information on its expertise, principle of subsidiarity are crucial factors in the successful strategic direction, forecasts, results, etc. Therefore, to control and integration of newly-acquired businesses. The successful limit risks to its reputation, only persons duly authorized by Group integration of new businesses is also facilitated by the Group’s Management are permitted to speak on behalf of the Group. organization along geographic regions and business lines. The Clients Group’s Legal Affairs Department is involved in the negotiation of The Group is exposed to several types of client risk: the legal aspects of merger/acquisition projects. X the risk of excessive dependence on a single client or group An integration manager is appointed for all acquisitions. He is of clients or a single market sector: the Group has several involved from early on in the acquisition process and generally thousand clients, which to a certain extent enables it to resist from the due diligence stage and, in all events, prior to signature market turbulence and reduce its exposure to volatility in certain of the contract. He has substantial technical experience and the sectors. The client portfolio consists of both a large number of necessary authority and asserts his role as manager responsible entities from the public sector and a large number of entities for the implementation of appraisal systems and the regular review from the private sector, from a wide spread of diversified of management reports used to monitor the integration process markets. Exposure to risks of commercial dependency is and avoid any mismatch. therefore limited; Reputation X client insolvency: client solvency analysis upstream of the sales Compliance with clear principles of business ethics is firmly process helps minimize client credit risk. The solvency of these embedded in Capgemini’s culture. On its creation in 1967, the major clients, combined with the wide diversity of other smaller Group identified seven core values which form the keystone of clients, helps reduce credit risk; its identity. Today, each of the 143,600 managers and employees X the risk of dissatisfaction: Capgemini pays particular attention continue to refer to these values and have committed to applying to assessing client satisfaction and has implemented a rigorous them personally on a daily basis and ensuring their compliance client relationship management process that it carries out by individuals in their Business Unit or who participate on joint throughout the project, known as OTACE (On Time and Above projects. From this point of view, the Code of Business Ethics Client Expectations). This is a key pillar of the Group’s client distributed in 2010 represents the continuation and formal loyalty policy, particularly for major client accounts. documentation of cultural reflexes already firmly embedded in Capgemini. A specific policy dealing with the prevention of CAPGEMINI 72 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL Production and quality control PROCEDURES The Group has approved policies for monitoring the proper performance of contracts that are applied throughout the life of Project performance the project to ensure that it runs smoothly. The key features of The Group has developed a range of methods, organized and these policies include: documented in its DELIVER methodology, in order to ensure the X clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of each individual high quality performance of client projects. Project managers receive specific training to develop their expertise and obtain regarding performance and supervision throughout the entire certification levels consistent with the complexity of projects production process, in particular as regards the choice of entrusted to them. The Group continues its active policy of project leader, client relationship management, billing, estimation external certification of its Business Units (CCM, ISO, etc.). of costs to completion, joint oversight arrangements with the client, etc.; 2 Project performance monitoring satisfies the management and X use of proprietary production methodologies in all of the control procedures defined by the Group, with projects classified Business Units; as “complex” subject to more specific controls. The Internal Audit Department also verifies the application of project management X global access to the expertise available through Capgemini’s and control procedures. At the initiative of the Production/Methods Applications Development Centers; and Support Department, specialist teams of experts audit X monthly Group-wide identification of all risk-sensitive projects in projects considered high-risk or facing performance difficulties. the performance phase, and the implementation of action plans aimed at eliminating or containing such risks; Project risk control X commissioning independent technical audits of the teams in The Group has devised a formal process to identify and control charge of a given project to identify additional risks in cases risks associated with the delivery of information systems projects where actual performance appears to diverge from forecasts or ordered by clients, from pre-sale to acceptance and payment from commitments undertaken. These engagements are carried by the client of the last invoice for the project. This process out by the Production/Methods and Support Department, differentiates between: and complement the upstream independent technical audits X pre-sale risk controls; carried out by the Business Units as a preventative measure for X technical controls during the project performance phase; operational risks. X business control. Business control Pre-sales risk control Depending on its size, each Business Unit has one or more project Projects are increasingly complex, both in terms of size and financial controllers whose role is to: technical specifications, especially in Outsourcing (long-term X monitor the financial aspects of each project and primarily commitments, sometimes involving transfers of assets, staff and the related production costs compared to the budget initially the related obligations). As a result, identifying and measuring approved. Progress reports and management indicators are the risks involved is essential at all stages of the selling process, built into the monitoring process, which relies mainly on the not only for new contracts but also for extensions or renewals of periodic analysis of estimated costs to completion and their existing contracts. This risk analysis is based in particular on: accounting impact; X a reporting tool consolidating all commercial opportunities at X permanently control compliance with contractual commitments Group level. Data concerning commercial opportunities is – particularly billing and payment milestones. entered as and when identified, and updated throughout the Employees sale process; The Group pays very close attention to the quality of its human X validation, at the various organizational levels of the Group’s resource management and employee commitment. Accordingly, operational structure and at the different stages of the selling an internal survey is conducted each year aimed at measuring process (from identification of an opportunity as investmentcommitment and expectations among the Group’s 143,600 worthy from a Group perspective and the submission of service employees. This survey is an appraisal tool and action plans are proposals, often in several stages, to the signature of a contract) established based on identified results. of the main characteristics of the opportunity, in particular as regards technical, financial and legal matters. As described above, the decision to commit the Group to commercial opportunities meeting pre-defined criteria concerning size and complexity is the sole prerogative of the Group Review Board. For particularly complex projects, a review of solutions may be carried out during the final pre-sale phase in order to bring to the Group Review Board’s attention any potential risks relating to the performance of these projects. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 73 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures Furthermore, a human resources management information system resources are deployed. In the event of a breakdown in the (SAP) is being rolled-out globally by the Group Human Resources preferred (fastest) communications network between Europe Department to ensure the comprehensive management of all and India, service continuity is ensured by tried and tested processes concerning the management of high-performing alternative routes. The Group’s Indian subsidiary has set up a individuals and a uniform approach to monitoring performance, the Business Continuity Management (BCM) structure to ensure career plans of our employees, the management of international service continuity in line with the Good Practice Guidelines of the mobility and succession plans, in a manner consistent with the Business Continuity Institute (BCI). These measures take account strategic objectives of the Group and the interests of our clients. of various degrees of hypothetical threats along with the related damages considering the situation and impacts on the site, urban The Capgemini Group International Works Council covers not agglomeration and possibly the country level. Communication only European countries but also includes representatives of the (e-mail) and collaborative systems are covered by a redundant main countries outside Europe (India, United States and Brazil). architecture at two datacenters ensuring service continuity. The Group’s key managers regularly attend meetings to present changes in the Group and the main challenges facing it, and Business continuity and resumption plans in the event of a discuss them with employee representatives in an open manner disruption to the specific IT infrastructures of a given center, client and an environment of mutual understanding. or contact are the responsibility of the Group subsidiaries. Finally, our policy titled “Our Employer of Choice” clearly takes Where required by specific contracts, a business continuity plan account of: is prepared by selecting appropriate measures according to the criticality of the service. Reviews and simulations are performed in X the motivation and career path of our employees; the subsidiary entities to test the efficiency of these plans. Certain X the implementation of varied and attractive career plans; of these entities have heightened security requirements reflecting X the development of our employees through development and certain clients imperatives and they are consequently certified training programs; ISO 27001 compliant by an independent agency. X the respect and promotion of a good work-life balance. Suppliers And Sub-Contractors Information Systems The Group has signed framework agreements and contracts The Group has implemented business continuity procedures in with its suppliers containing clauses similar to those contained the event of a disruption to IT services. The Group has drawn up in contracts signed with its clients, in a bid to improve the an IT infrastructure security policy and the main management IT management of contractual risks and acceptance risks. These systems are covered by a back-up plan at a second datacenter. framework agreements and contracts clearly stipulate obligations The security policy and the back-up plans are verified periodically. with respect to delivery deadlines, service level and operating tests as well as penalties for non-compliance. The Group policy For some projects or clients, enhanced systems and network defines in great detail the supplier and sub-contractor selection protection are provided on a contractually agreed basis. process and method. Over recent years, the Group has signed The Group also has a program that seeks to control the risk strategic partnership contracts with a diversified group of major of cybercrime for its main systems. This dedicated structure is suppliers in order to preserve its independence and guarantee the headed by the Cyber Security and Information Protection Director sustainability of its services. Furthermore, the Group has signed (CySIP). a certain number of strategic contracts with major and financially This program related to the so-called “cyber” risks comprises three sound suppliers. Finally, the related risks represented by smaller subgroups dealing with governance related issues (organization, suppliers and/or start-ups are analyzed and back-up plans are policy and communication and awareness raising) and five established in order to remedy the failures, if any. operational projects (data protection, mobility management, In parallel, Capgemini has implemented a tool allowing for access management, information system control and steering worldwide procurement management and monitoring. This tool, and strengthening infrastructures). The aim of this program is to known as GPS (Global Procurement System), is used for the become a benchmark likely to be exposed to our clients helping issue and approval of purchase orders. The procurement tool to strengthen the credibility of the Group with respect to digital contains an approval chain that ensures the correct allocation of issues and cybercrime. costs to projects and permits their control and provides specific methods for financial approval. The centralized management of Service continuity data in this procurement base enables us to control and better Production systems and services provided by the Group to its manage Group expenditure and supplier selection. Suppliers are subsidiaries are duplicated and covered by back-up plans that are selected by a specialized team based on rigorous procedures tested periodically. using multiple criteria, several of which concern ethical standards Telecommunications networks used by the Group are and sustainable development. automatically duplicated in cases where “Rightshored” production CAPGEMINI 74 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures Geopolitics Failure to comply with regulations governing our The Capgemini Group restricts operations to countries able activities to offer satisfactory guarantees in terms of individual security. During acquisitions and prior to launching a new business line, the Work on client engagements in certain countries classified as “at Group performs a focused due diligence review of the target and risk” is subject to approval by the Group Review Board. Rules applicable regulations. and procedures have been drawn up for “at risk” territories in Litigation which the Group conducts engagements in order to satisfy the demands of its major clients. Specific contracts have been agreed A procedure has been implemented for reporting information with organizations specialized in managing these risks to assess to the Group Legal Affairs Department on actual and potential litigation and other disputes and government inquiries. The local independently the risk exposure in each country. Accordingly, certain countries are subject to strict travel bans. The risk is Legal Affairs Departments also regularly inform the Group Legal 2 reassessed continuously based on the geopolitical position and Affairs Department of any threats of this nature. warning systems are used to inform employees of country risks. Furthermore, these organizations also help resolve any potential FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL difficulties encountered by employees assigned to work in these PROCEDURES countries and provide risk prevention training courses prior to their departure. The Group has drafted formal rules and processes to identify, control and manage financial risks through a prudent financing Strict approval criteria must be met before employees are sent to policy founded, in particular, on the prior authorization by the work in countries where there are no existing Group operations, Board of Directors of all major financing decisions, prudent use of and even stricter criteria apply in the event that employees are debt and maintaining a high level of available funds. sent to countries considered “at risk”. Every employee required to work abroad receives specific training. Equity risk The Cash surplus investment policy defined by the Group Finance LEGAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL Department and documented in the internal manual (TransForm), PROCEDURES prohibits all equity investments. The proper application of this policy is regularly controlled by internal and external auditors. Legal risks are identified, analyzed and managed by the Group With a few exceptions, the Group holds the entire share capital of Legal Affairs Department, which is comprised of central, regional its subsidiaries and does not hold any listed equity investments. and local teams in each of the main geographic areas in which Capgemini has operations. Cap Gemini has a share buyback program authorized by its Shareholders’ Meeting. Within such framework, the Board of Contracts Directors decides share buybacks programs (outside the liquidity The Group has established a Contract Clause Negotiating Guide, agreement, implementation of which is delegated and subject to a which identifies clauses exposing the Group to risk and requires resource ceiling) and equity derivatives. The value of these shares information to be reported to the Group Legal Affairs Department is deducted directly from Group equity and fluctuations in the Cap in the event of derogation from accepted standard positions. Gemini share price do not impact its results. Criteria determining when it is necessary to report to the Group Review Board have also been defined for contracts identified by Counterparty and credit risk the Group as presenting a high level of risk due to their size or The investment policy authorizes the investment of cash surpluses other criteria. in money market mutual funds (FCP and SICAV) satisfying the “monetary” classification criteria defined by the AMF and other Compliance with legislation types of investment (negotiable debt securities, term deposits, The Group has a Legal Affairs Department with an established capitalization contracts) immediately available or with investments presence in the main geographic regions. Its role is to monitor periods, potentially renewable, not exceeding 3 months, issued changes in legislation relevant to the Group’s activities, advise by companies or financial institutions with a good credit rating the Group thereon and provide training in the main legal issues (minimum A2/P2 or equivalent). The Group also applies maximum to targeted employee categories. The Group has also adopted a concentration per counterparty rules. Code of Business Ethics, an anti-corruption policy and anti-trust The Group abides by similar risk quality/minimum rating and policy and calls on a network of Legal Counsels who double-up diversification rules when selecting counterparties for foreign as Ethics & Compliance Officers and participate in identifying currency and interest rate management hedging contracts. risks and train and monitor employees in order to guarantee compliance. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 75 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures Liquidity risk RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES CONCERNING The majority of Group financing is borne by the parent Company THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF and, as such, implementation of the finance policy is largely FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING INFORMATION centralized. The Group adopts a prudent finance policy based Compliance with rules governing share trading primarily on: The Group requires all employees to refrain from carrying out X prudent use of debt leverage, combined with limiting the grant any transactions involving the Company’s shares during certain of contractual provisions that could trigger the early repayment periods of the year. All Group employees are reminded of these of borrowings; restrictions in writing before the start of each such period. X the maintenance of an adequate level of liquidity at all times; Procedures concerning the preparation X the active management of financial liability maturities, aimed at and processing of financial and accounting limiting the concentration of borrowing maturities; information X the diversification of financing sources, to limit dependence on These procedures are used to ensure the application of and certain categories of lenders. compliance with Group accounting rules relating to the preparation Interest rate risk of budgets and forecasts, financial reporting, consolidation, management control and financial communications. During each As part of its financing policy, the Group seeks to restrict interest accounts closing period, the Group Finance Department sends rate risk by generally opting for either fixed rates or capped floating out a questionnaire to all subsidiaries dealing with the application rates. of general internal control principles and procedures concerning The Group favors investments offering a high level of security and the processing of reported financial and accounting information. generally floating-rates and as such accepts – in the event of a fall These questionnaires are analyzed for any irregularities and in interest rates – the risk of a drop in returns from the investment corrective measures devised where appropriate. of cash surpluses (and as such an increase in the finance cost a. Financial and accounting structure differential). The Group’s financial functions are integrated into the operating Foreign currency risk structure, that is, both Business Units and countries. They have The Group implements a policy aimed at mitigating and managing access to common resources encompassing accounting rules and foreign currency risk: procedures, information and management systems and shared X production cost risks primarily concern internal flows with India service centers. and Poland; a hedging policy is defined by the Group and its Each Business Unit has a dedicated financial controller (reporting implementation which is mainly centralized at Cap Gemini S.A. to the corresponding Strategic Business Unit’s financial controller) level primarily involves forward purchases and sales of currency; who is responsible for ensuring that the results of its activities are X financial flows exchanged as part of inter-company financing accurately reported in the accounts in accordance with Group activities are primarily centralized within Cap Gemini S.A. and accounting rules and methods. The financial controller verifies that are mainly hedged (primarily using forward purchases and sales services are correctly billed and paid for, checks profit estimates of currency); for ongoing projects and assesses their accounting impact, and ensures the quality of the information contained in the financial X royalty flows payable to Cap Gemini S.A. by subsidiaries whose reports and accounting packages used as the basis for preparing functional currency is not the euro are also generally hedged. the Group’s consolidated financial statements. These Business Employee-related liabilities Unit financial controllers report to the financial controller of the In conjunction with the Trustees, the Group strives to strengthen Strategic Business Unit, whose main responsibility is to ensure the governance and management resources of its main that financial and accounting information is reported to the parent pension funds. The investment strategy of its main pension company on a timely basis. Their direct superior is the Group funds, encompassing the management of assets and liabilities, Chief Financial Officer in order to safeguard the independence is reviewed annually and monitored periodically with the aim required when preparing accounting results. Operational control of reducing volatility, as much as economically possible and is, therefore, decentralized. reasonable to do so. Increased life expectancy is taken into The countries and geographic areas have a Legal Financial account as and when it is recognized by actuaries. Director, whose duties and responsibilities include ensuring that Group commitments in respect of pension shortfalls depend all financial staff in the country or region are well-versed in the on local regulations. They are reviewed and negotiated with the Group’s accounting policies and methods, checking compliance Trustees approximately once every three years and give rise to with local taxation and statutory reporting requirements, rolling-out payments spread over periods of 5 to 10 years. Group systems and procedures in the country, helping maintain an effective internal control environment, liaising with shared service centers and the Statutory Auditors, setting accounts closing and financial reporting timetables, signing off on the consolidation packages of the subsidiaries under his or her authority, signing the representation letter and bringing any and all matters that he or she sees fit to the attention of the Chief Financial Officer. CAPGEMINI 76 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures All financial staff is required to apply the Group’s accounting X operational reporting process: information reporting is procedures and policies contained in the TransFORM manual, structured by geographic area and business. This allows which sets out: revenues and costs to be analyzed on a monthly basis both by type and function, and performance indicators to be updated X the fundamental rules of internal control; and measured against budget (A/B), the latest forecasts (A/F) X what information must be reported, when, and how often; and prior-year figures (A/A). Balance sheet items are analyzed X management rules and procedures; on a quarterly basis. A monthly management report is prepared X accounting policies, rules and methods; for each Strategic Business Unit jointly by the manager and financial controller, and is submitted to Group Management X performance indicators. for review. This report gives a detailed breakdown of actual Furthermore, the Group has a single integrated management system (GFS), which continued to be rolled out in the Group’s performance, forecasts for the following six months and actions taken in the event of material variances between actual and 2 subsidiaries in United Kingdom in 2014. Other major Business budget figures. Reconciliations are performed systematically to Units will migrate to this system in 2015 and the application as ensure that financial information derived from the operational a whole migrated to the publisher’s latest version on January 1, reporting system is consistent with the consolidated financial 2015. The desired uniformity of management systems is therefore information provided by the legal entities within the Group; a step closer, strengthening the control environment. X consolidation process: at each yearly or half-yearly closing, Finally, the shared service centers pool the accounting processing the scope of consolidation is updated at Group level by resources of the Group’s subsidiaries. The main centers are the Finance Department and validated by the Legal Affairs located in Cracow (Poland) and Calcutta (India). These various Department. Written instructions are issued providing the centers are now consolidated within a globalized structure. schedule for period-end tasks (particularly the reconciliation b. Budgets, forecasting, financial reporting of inter-company transaction balances), highlighting current and consolidation accounting issues requiring specific attention, and describing the control procedures applied during the preparation of the In order to exercise effective control over their operations, consolidated financial statements. The consolidation process is the Group requires Business Units to submit weekly, monthly, based on accounting packages by geographic area, which must quarterly, half-yearly and annual reports of all budget, forecast, be signed off by the person responsible for preparing them. operational and accounting information required for the general Income statements, balance sheets and other key management management of the Group: indicators required for subsequent analysis are stored in a single X budget and forecasting process: budgets form the basic database maintained at Group level. Access to this information building blocks in the management control process. They system is strictly controlled. are debated and negotiated at length between the different c. Financial information Group Business Unit managers and their superiors, with each budgetary item decided based on past performance, the Controlling financial information: financial information and its Group’s chosen strategic priorities and available information communication are subject to specific controls at half-year and concerning expected market trends. Group Management annual period ends. These include: sets quantified targets for each geographic area, Strategic X a systematic review carried out with the assistance of the Legal Business Unit and their component Business Units. The Affairs Department of all material operations and transactions budget preparation process is a key moment in the relationship occurring during the period; between the different levels of the Group’s management and X a procedure to identify, collate and report off-balance sheet makes it possible to substantially link the variable portion of the commitments and any other information liable to have significant compensation paid to Business Unit managers to the attainment repercussions on the financial position of the Group or one of its of the budgetary targets of their Business Unit and the next subsidiaries at the period-end; level Business Unit to which they belong. A forecast operating income statement (for the current month, the following six X a review of the tax position of each of the Group’s legal entities; months and the full year) is prepared monthly by each Business X a review of the value of intangible assets; Unit manager. Variances from budget are analyzed so that any X a detailed analysis of the statement of cash flows. corrective action plans that may be needed can be drawn up as quickly as possible; CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 77 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures The controls described above carried out by the Group Finance The Annual Report has been a key component of the Group’s Department are supplemented by the work of two independent financial communications strategy for the past 40 years (the bodies tasked with carrying out checks on the internal control first edition concerned the 1975 fiscal year). The preparation of environment and verifying the quality of the financial statements: the report, its content, illustrations, design and distribution are the Internal Audit Department and the Statutory Auditors: therefore subject to particular attention on the part of Group Management and, above all, of its Honorary Chairman and X Internal Audit: based on its program covering the Group’s Vice-Chairman. All the sections of the Group’s Annual Report Business Units, drawn up in agreement with the Chairman and are written internally by staff and managers of the Group who Chief Executive Officer (to who it reports directly), the Internal are each responsible for designing and setting out a chapter Audit Department is responsible for carrying out controls to on their area of competence, within the general framework ensure that procedures relating to the safeguarding of assets, proposed by the Communications Department. The Registration the valuation of work-in-progress, the actual amount of trade Document, which is integrated in the Annual Report, combines accounts receivable, and the proper recognition of liabilities, all the information that must be provided pursuant to legal and are applied in each Business Unit in accordance with the regulatory requirements and is drawn up under the responsibility rules and methods established by the Group. In particular, the of the Finance Department. Internal Audit Department is required to pay special attention to revenue recognition methods and to controlling the percentage Financial press releases are only published further to the formal of completion of projects, so as to ensure that these are validation of the Board of Directors or the Chairman and Chief accounted for on the basis of rigorous, up-to-date technical Executive Officer. Financial press releases are published outside assessments. The Internal Audit brief also includes a review of the trading hours of the Paris stock exchange, except in the procedures and controls in place within the Business Unit to exceptional circumstances. ensure the security and validity of transactions and accounting Analyst and investor meetings are subject to specific preparation, entries; and their content is presented to the Board of Directors prior to X the Statutory Auditors, who it need merely be noted here, carry such meetings. This preparatory work is then used as a framework out an ongoing review of internal control procedures with an for comments and explanations provided by the Chairman and impact on the preparation and quality of the financial statements Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, or employees in as part of their audit engagement. charge of investor relations during the meetings. Communicating financial information: this is subject to rigorous internal control, with a particular focus on three key media used to report financial information: X the half-year financial report and annual report; X financial press releases; X analyst and investor meetings. CAPGEMINI 78 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Corporate governance and Internal control 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ report 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ report prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman 2 of the Board of Directors This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board on the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and the relevant professional standards applicable in France. Year ended December 31, 2014 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A., and in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the report prepared by the Chairman of your Company in accordance with Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code for the year ended December 31, 2014. It is the Chairman’s responsibility to prepare, and submit to the Board of Directors for approval, a report describing the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company and providing the other information required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code in particular relating to corporate governance. It is our responsibility: X to report to you on the information set out in the Chairman’s report on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information; and X to attest that this report sets out the other information required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code, it being specified that it is not our responsibility to assess the fairness of this information. We conducted our work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Information concerning the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information The professional standards require that we perform procedures to assess the fairness of the information on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information set out in the Chairman’s report. These procedures mainly consisted of: X obtaining an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information on which the information presented in the Chairman’s report is based, and of the existing documentation; X obtaining an understanding of the work performed to support the information given in the report and of the existing documentation; X determining if any material weaknesses in the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information that we may have identified in the course of our work are properly described in the Chairman’s report. On the basis of our work, we have no matters to report on the information given on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information, set out in the Chairman of the Board’s report, prepared in accordance with Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 79 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ report Other information We attest that the Chairman of the Board’s report sets out the other information required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 17, 2015 Paris La Défense, March 17, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner CAPGEMINI 80 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 3.4 Our approach to CR&S 82 Engaging with stakeholders 116 3.1.1 Our key priorities 82 3.1.2 CR&S: governance 82 3.4.1 Community Engagement 116 3.1.3 Materiality and scope 83 3.4.2 Client services 119 3.1.4 Group ethics 3.4.3 Our suppliers and compliance program 84 and business partners 121 3.1.5 Data protection 85 3.1.6 Commitments, awards and recognitions 86 3.5 3.2 Independent external analysis 123 Assurance report by one of the Human resources, Statutory Auditors, appointed a key Group asset 87 as Independent Third Party, on the consolidated labour, environmental 3.2.1 Methodology scope and themes 87 and social information presented 3.2.2 A changing labor environment 87 in the management report 123 3.2.3 Compensation and benefits 91 3.2.4 Work organization, health and safety 92 3.2.5 International mobility 3.6 and risk management 95 3.2.6 Investing in training and professional development 95 Grenelle 3.2.7 The certification process 98 correlation table 125 3.2.8 Diversity and inclusion 98 3.2.9 Social dialog and information process 105 3.3 Environmental responsibility 108 3.3.1 Group environmental policy 108 3.3.2 Group environmental management approach 108 3.3.3 Environmental performance 109 3.3.4 Key performance indicators and methodology 110 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 81 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S 3.1 Our approach to CR&S 3.1.1 OUR KEY PRIORITIES Underpinned by our Values and Ethics, our commitment People Culture: to Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability has endured “We are committed to being an employer of choice for throughout our history as we have grown to become Europe’s people who wish to develop in a creative and diverse largest IT services company. As a provider of consultancy, environment”. technology and outsourcing services, together with professional services through our Sogeti business, Capgemini Group’s Our priority is to promote the professional development and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) program well-being of our employees by ensuring that both our business covers reducing of our environmental impacts, contributing practices and our facilities empower excellence. We have a culture to the communities in which we operate, as well as creating whereby we respect and value the diversity and creativity of all our a diverse and inclusive working environment to enable our people. people to both develop and serve our clients. Our management Community Commitment: approach also supports all national laws and regulations, in “We strive to have a positive impact on the communities in particular the fundamental conventions on labor standards of which we live and work”. the International Labor Organization, the principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights (where we refuse the use of As a major global employer, we work locally, nationally and forced and child labor), and the OECD guidelines for Multinational internationally with local authorities, non-governmental Enterprises. organizations (NGOs) and charities on two priorities: education and development. The Group encourages the active involvement During 2014 we have extended and enhanced our range of of each of our team members in our communities. initiatives within the key focus areas of Values and Ethics, Environmental Sustainability, Community Engagement and People Environmental Sustainability: Culture. In parallel, we continue to innovate, striving to identify “We are committed to understanding, measuring and opportunities to embed sustainability into the services we provide reducing our environmental impacts”. our clients, helping them to adapt to our changing world. We recognize that, even though we do not manufacture Values & Ethics: products, the business services we provide have an impact on “It is about who we are and the way we do business”. the environment. We work hard to reduce this impact by saving energy and reducing waste, as well as by reducing business travel. Built on a foundation of our seven core values (Honesty, Boldness, We also work to raise employee awareness of the critical issues Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit/Solidarity, Modesty and Fun), our related to the environment. Code of Ethics supports our corporate culture and permeates all our business practices, procurement behaviors and employee Client Services: welfare policies. “Our clients benefit from our understanding of the e n v i ro n m e n t a n d o u r w o r l d re n o w n e d b u s i n e s s transformation capabilities”. We deliver long-lasting added-value with tangible results. We take time to talk to our clients and ensure that their views are taken into account, and we look to embed CR&S considerations into our service offerings. 3.1.2 CR&S: GOVERNANCE During 2014, the executive governance of our Corporate Extract from the CR&S Board Charter Responsibility and Sustainability program was strengthened by The Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) Board the formation of a specific CR&S Board under the chairmanship will provide the executive level governance for CR&S within of Christine Hodgson and comprised of senior executives from Capgemini. The CR&S Board will review, debate and ultimately around the Group including the Group Corporate Responsibility approve CR&S policies and practices for the Group. and Sustainability Director. This Board will maintain consistency and ensure the uniform implementation of our CR&S policies and initiatives across our Group, led locally by our global network of CR&S professionals. CAPGEMINI 82 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S For Capgemini, CR&S means taking a long term view – it is our Several networks established in different countries ensure approach to business that reduces our impact on the environment, consistency worldwide: contributes to the communities in which we operate and ensures X the Ethics & Compliance Officers’ network, reporting to the that we remain a diverse and inclusive company. The Chair of Group Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer; the CR&S Board provides the linkage to Capgemini’s Group X the Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Leadership Management Board (chaired by Capgemini’s Group CEO) ensuring the input of the CEO and the alignment of Capgemini’s approach network, comprising CR&S professionals from within the Group; to CR&S with the Group overall business strategy. X the global Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability network, open to all interested employees; and The overall program continues to focus on the three key areas of Environmental Sustainability, Community Engagement and People X the global client-facing Sustainability network, focusing on Culture. A number of interactive multi-national working groups embedding sustainability into client service offerings. continue to drive the program forward under the direction of the Additionally, we have set up country specific governance Group Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Director. structures in a number of our largest countries. For example, Capgemini has specific executive CR&S committees in Germany, India, and the UK, while in other countries, such as France and North America, CR&S issues are discussed at local Executive Committee meetings. 3 3.1.3 MATERIALITY AND SCOPE In order to ensure our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability program remains aligned with stakeholder expectations, an analysis of the relative importance of sustainability aspects and issues was undertaken during 2014. This analysis, or materiality assessment, is the result of a range of internal and external stakeholder interviews together with desk research. MATERIALITY MATRIX FOR CAPGEMINI Highest Q Reduction of our carbon footprint Q Information security and Data protection Q Human Rights Q Climate Change Q Ethical Behavior Q Talent engagement and retention Materiality of issues to our stakeholders Q Supporting Clients with CR&S challenges Q Energy Security Q Client satisfaction Q Child labor Q Talent and Skills Q Digital inclusion Q Training and Development Q Women’s empowerment Q Diversity and inclusion Q Education in Communities Materiality of issues to Capgemini Highest The results of the materiality assessment, presented in summary in the matrix above, provide confidence in the alignment of Capgemini’s CR&S approach. Further refinement of the alignment of our CR&S program will continue throughout 2015. All Grenelle II (legislation: article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code) indicators are listed in the table in section 3.6, including explanations for indicators which are not reported. As a result of our 2014 materiality assessment and previous analysis, 15 indicators are considered to be the most relevant to our business. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 83 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S 3.1.4 GROUP ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM Our Ethics & Compliance Program was launched in 2009 by X sales and production rules and guidelines; the Group Board of Directors. This program is based on the X risk management, pricing, contracting and legal rules; ethics culture which has been a core part of the Group since its X financial management, merger, acquisition, disposal and creation in 1967. As part of this program, a network of Ethics insurance rules and guidelines; and Compliance Officers was set up, and a Code of Business Ethics, an Anticorruption Policy and a Competition Law Policy X human resources policies; were launched to reassert our values in every country in which X marketing, communications, Group knowledge and IT we operate. All new recruits are expected to comply with the management; principles of these “three fundamental documents”, and follow an X procurement policies, including ethical purchasing and supplier e-learning training course on each one. selection; The Ethics & Compliance program contributes to attracting, X environmental and community policies. developing and retaining employees. The company-wide These policies, procedures and guidelines comprise the reference Employee Survey carried out annually shows that employees’ standards which all entities are required to implement, while commitment is strongly linked to belonging to a group with an complying with national legal requirements and specificities. ethical culture. Achieving commitment and creating an ethical Compliance with these guidelines forms an integral part of our environment strengthen our reputation, help us to win new Internal Audit process. The Group Blue Book is updated regularly business and allow us to take our place in the “Champions and is available to all employees on the Group’s intranet. League” i.e. amongst the leaders in our industry. BUSINESS ETHICS ETHICS & COMPLIANCE ORGANIZATION AND NETWORK Grounded in our seven core values, Capgemini’s CR&S principles guide our relationships with partners, the communities in which we The managers of the Group and its operating units (SBUs/BUs) operate and the environment. Our values and ethics rank amongst are accountable for the Ethics and Compliance programs in their the most important of all our strategic dimensions. respective units, in compliance with the laws, regulations and procedures. They are also responsible for driving the Ethics & The Capgemini Group has forged its reputation in the market Compliance program. through longstanding values. Today, this reputation is an essential asset in our economic performance. The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CECO) is responsible for the Ethics & Compliance program across the entire Group. The To protect this reputation and, in doing so, strengthen our Ethics & Compliance program and its achievements are reviewed competitive advantage, in 2009, the Group launched an Ethics & annually by the Ethics Governance and Nomination Committee of Compliance program and set up a network of Ethics & Compliance the Board of Directors. Officers. Local General Counsels have also been appointed as Ethics & The objectives of the program are to: Compliance Officers (GC-ECO). They ensure implementation of X develop a sustainable ethical culture, which reinforces integrity the Ethics & Compliance program within their geographic region and leads to ethical behavior; and liaise with the CECO. X strengthen knowledge and awareness of laws and regulations, as well as internal policies applicable in Group companies; GROUP FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES, GUIDELINES X implement initiatives aimed at reinforcing prevention and AND POLICIES: THE BLUE BOOK avoiding misconduct and breaches in the field of ethics and In our largely decentralized and entrepreneurial organization, compliance. it is essential to have a set of common guidelines, procedures and policies which govern our daily operations. The confidential ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PROGRAM IN 2014 company Blue Book, so-called on account of its color, was created in 1989. It provides a common reference tool, enabling The Code of Business Ethics each employee and company service or department to work Integrating and encapsulating our original ethical culture, the Code effectively and maintain unity. of Business Ethics, is now available in 14 languages. It received The Blue Book contains: the collective and individual support of the members of the Board of Directors, the Group Executive Committee and the ViceX Group fundamental principles: its mission, expertise, main Presidents community. objectives, values, Code of Business Ethics, and collaboration principles; X Group governance and organization; X authorization processes; CAPGEMINI 84 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S Capgemini expects all Group employees to adhere to the seven Group competition law policy core Values and to the principles expressed in this Code, and in In 2012, the Group distributed a document concerning particular, that they commit to: competition laws, in eight languages. At the end of 2014, more X respecting applicable laws and regulations; than 105,000 employees had followed the related e-learning X applying health and safety rules and contributing to the creation module, available in six languages. This represented more than of a safe and inclusive work environment; 72% of the Group’s employees at this date. X acting responsibly in the marketplace, complying with applicable In addition, new employees are expected to undertake to comply competition laws and regulations and anti-corruption provisions, with the principles set out in the Competition Law Policy and to avoiding conflicts of interest and insider trading, and providing complete the related e-learning module. accurate commercial and financial information; X building honest and clear relationships with clients, suppliers, RAISING CONCERN PROCEDURE: A DEDICATED business partners, and our suppliers; PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING ADVICE AND X maintaining the security and integrity of the assets of the Group RAISING CONCERNS and of any third parties with whom we work; The Code of Business Ethics provides that an employee faced X supporting the communities and respecting the environment in with a question or issue involving ethics or compliance should which we operate; discuss it first with his/her local manager. If the issue is not X refusing the use of forced labor and child labor. resolved by the manager, or if the employee is not comfortable discussing the matter with his/her manager or if other procedures 3 At the end of 2014, more than 113,000 employees had followed for dealing with individual grievances are not applicable, the the related e-learning module, available in five languages. This employee may use the employees’ dedicated Raising Concern represented more than 78% of the Group’s employees at endProcedure (RCP). Employees may in this way seek advice and 2014. guidance on appropriate action from the local GC-ECO, or even All new hires are expected to undertake to comply with the directly from the CECO in Paris. In operation since late 2013, the principles set out in the Code of Business Ethics and to complete RCP is applied on a case-by-case basis in 38 countries where the an e-learning module on the Code. Group operates, in accordance with applicable legislation. SPECIFIC POLICIES BUSINESS ETHICS TRAINING FOR MANAGEMENT Anticorruption policy In 2014, the CECO personally organized 23 3-hour business ethics In 2011, the Group distributed a document concerning the workshops for 617 managers and executives from all around the prevention of corruption, in eleven languages. At the end of 2014, world. These sessions, based on case studies, aimed to give more than 113,000 employees had followed the related e-learning practical advice on how to deal with these issues by highlighting module, available in six languages. This represented more than the role model of management. They also helped develop local 78% of the Group’s employees. action plans to cascade these messages to lower management levels, with the help of the Ethics & Compliance Officers in the In addition, new employees are expected to undertake to comply field. with the principles set out in the Group Anticorruption Policy and to complete the related e-learning module. 3.1.5 DATA PROTECTION Capgemini’s Code of Business Ethics contains a chapter related to related subjects is also available to all employees to help them the importance of protecting personal data, whether Capgemini’s better understand the issues. An e-learning on data privacy own personal data or the personal data Capgemini handles as a issues is available to all employees and compulsory for selected service provider to our clients. The Group is expected to comply members of the legal, IT, HR, business and delivery departments. with applicable data protection laws in all countries where it Specific country-related and business-related internal policies and operates and to process personal data responsibly to protect procedures may be applicable, in particular, to business sectors the privacy of individuals. Several personal data policies (Human requiring higher standards of protection of personal data. Data Resources, Client, Supplier, Internet including cookies) have protection and data security issues also form part of the Group been implemented by the Group Legal Department. In 2014, audit program. Finally, a group Cyber-security and Information the Group has more than twelve data protection officers around Protection officer was appointed in November 2014 with the the world working together with the IT security officers and the mandate to implement data protection uniform standards across Legal Department. A comprehensive booklet on data privacy and the entire Group. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 85 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S 3.1.6 COMMITMENTS, AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS For Capgemini, the principles of Corporate Responsibility & As a result of its on-going commitment to Corporate Responsibility Sustainability extend beyond strict legal compliance: we commit to & Sustainability, in 2014 Capgemini has: comply with international, national and local laws and regulations X once again been recognized as one of the World’s Most Ethical in the countries in which we operate. Companies in 2014 by the Ethisphere Institute, a leading We have also stated our commitment to Corporate Responsibility international think tank specializing in research on ethical & Sustainability in a number of areas: business practices; X Capgemini has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact X earned a place on the 2014 CDP Climate Performance Leaders since 2004. The member companies of this program support/ Index, the ‘A-list’; comply with ten principles in the areas of the environment, X again met the FTSE 4Good standards designed to objectively human rights, labor rights, and the fight against corruption; measure the corporate responsibility of companies; X Capgemini supports the principles of the 1948 Universal X been recognized through the works of Marek Grodsinski, Head Declaration of Human Rights and the fundamental conventions of European BPO Delivery Centers and Board member of of the International Labour Organization refusing the use of Capgemini Poland, who was awarded a Silver Cross of Merit forced labor or child labor; (Srebrny Krzyz Zaslugi) by the Polish Government; X Capgemini supports the OECD guidelines for multinational X won Business Disability Forum’s Disability – Smart Award 2014 enterprises; for being a disability smart organization in conjunction with X Capgemini has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact’s Fujitsu and HMRC; “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007; X won the Sustainable Transport and Travel category of the X Capgemini has been a signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Sustainability Leaders Awards in November 2014 for its UK Principles since their inception in 2011; based TravelWell initiative; X Capgemini is a signatory of the 2010 Guadalajara ICT X won recognition for our volunteering approach in the UK with Declaration on Transformative Low-carbon Solutions. This the award of a Business in the Community ‘Big Tick’ for our document urged governments at the 2010 Cancun Summit to work rejuvenating Dawley Town Hall; use the power of ICT to make the transition to low a carbon X for the third year been included in The Times Top 50 Employers economy; for Women; X in partnership with the GoodPlanet foundation, Capgemini X been awarded an “Excellence in Social and Community translated the 2011 Worldwatch Institute Report into French; Investment” Award for our work in Capgemini North America and; with SmileTrain; X Capgemini has been a member of the “Comité 21” since 2011. X signed a collaborative agreement in France with the Pierre & This is a network of sustainable development players and Marie Curie University (UPMC) strengthening the support given was created after the Rio Summit in 1994 with the mission to students on computer-based courses; of creating favorable conditions for exchange and partnership X achieved ISO14001 certification covering Capgemini India between its cross-sector membership; (extending coverage to include operations in nine countries). A number of actions have also been taken in certain countries, including: Rating agencies Capgemini continues to work with a number of independent X Capgemini France became a signatory of the “charte de la corporate responsibility and sustainability analysts and financial diversité” in 2006 and the “charte de la banlieue 2.0” in 2010; rating agencies. We take external analysis of our performance X Capgemini UK has retained Eco-Management and Assurance seriously and welcome assessment by reputable third parties as Scheme (EMAS) registration of its Sustainability Report since this gives us a clear reference position for our performance. 2010, the highest European level of assurance available for Capgemini works with several analysts including CDP, Ethibel, environmental programs; Ethifinance, Ethisphere, FTSE4Good, Gartner, Oekom, Verdantix, X Capgemini UK is also a signatory of a series of five and Vigeo. communiqués on Climate Change organized by the Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders’ Group on Climate Change. They Capgemini continues to be listed in the FTSE4Good and Euronext are the Climate Change (2012), Cancun (2010), Copenhagen 120 Vigeo Europe indexes. In the 2014 Carbon Disclosure Project (2009), Poznan (2008), and Bali (2007) communiqués. (CDP) assessment, Capgemini was given a disclosure score of 98 out of 100 and a performance banding of A for our environmental performance. This score resulted in Capgemini being included in the CDP A-list and given a place in the CDP Climate Performance Leaders Index. CAPGEMINI 86 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Being a responsible employer with a wealth of diversity, whom – our employees. Our priority is to ensure their well-being and people choose to work for and which provides an environment professional development, ensuring that we empower delivery in which employees can deliver their best, is the mark of our excellence. We have a culture whereby we respect and value business culture concerned with our most important asset diversity. 3.2.1 METHODOLOGY SCOPE AND THEMES Three sources of information are available to provide the Group’s seniority, age range, gender and grading, whenever legal. 99% HR and labor data. These sources are also used in this report: of Group employees are consolidated within this tool; 3 X the Group financial reporting tool, which provides data X a questionnaire collecting labor and societal indicators, which reported monthly or quarterly using common indicators, such are either qualitative or only needed annually. as total permanent headcount (p ermanent and fixedterm Consistency checks and trend analyses are performed to contracts including non actively working, excluding temporary ensure the quality of data and in case of doubt or inaccuracies, agencies staff, individual freelancers, independent workers, corresponding data are excluded. The coverage rate indicated for subcontractors, trainees) and movements (hires/acquisitions/ each indicator reported below only includes data deemed relevant departures/turnover rate) as of 31th December 2014. The scope and appropriate. All labor aspects of Article R225-105-1 of the of this data is Group-wide; French Commercial Code are covered in this report as, based on X an internal Business Intelligence (BI) tool, which is interfaced our analysis, they are declared relevant for our business. with most local HR systems. It provides monthly statistics on 3.2.2 A CHANGING LABOR ENVIRONMENT STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS AND RISK FACTORS X Recruitment Our Group Human Resources (HR) priority is to build a collective • Every recruitment is carefully assessed in terms of skills and workforce to support our clients in solutioning their ever changing cultural fit with group values; technology and consulting needs. In HR terms, this means that • Overall, we monitor gender mix of our external recruits and we need to appraise, develop, and promote our people to obtain internal promotes. In 2013, we asked our internal and external personal growth and engagement and to recruit the skills which recruiters to sign the group diversity charter to gain their we are not able to develop quickly enough or which are needed to commitment to improve diversity; fuel the growth. The Human Resources Department continues to • We continue our policy regarding the employment of people improve contribution by: with a disability; • supporting Managers with appropriate means to career • 1 out of 2 recruits are “college hires”. We therefore have manage team members and understanding their diverse significantly strengthened our partnerships with major schools workforce profile and trends; and universities to make Capgemini an employer of choice. • providing Team Members with means to develop and maintain personal employability to perform over time; • providing Team Members with better support in mobility, virtual working and learning; • maintaining employee safety in particular during business trips. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 87 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset X Development X Talent management Capgemini believes in offering an opportunity for a successful and • Capgemini is favouring mobility at local and global levels. rewarding career – not just a job. Each employee has his or her It allows over 20,000 employees to work on international own personal aspirations, motivations and career preferences. The assignments every year; Career & Competency Framework has been designed to help • Capgemini now provides more visibility on the job vacancies employees to develop in a wide variety of different roles, with the through the www.capgemini.com website but as well through clarity required to support employees career progression, and the the program launched at Les Rencontres in 2013 “promote 1st; flexibility to let them ake charge of their own career. hire 2nd”. As a global organization, our clients expect consistency of X Leadership services and uniform excellence, regardless of where we deliver. • Our leadership community, essentially the 1,300 Vice Presidents As individuals, we expect clarity in the career options available to world-wide are recruited, measured, rewarded, and promoted us. The Career & Competency Framework defines and describes against the “Group Leader Profile” with 6 attributes: a standard set of roles for our businesses, regardless of your region, business unit (BU), project, account, sector or technology – 1. business pioneer, specialization. At a glance, you should be able to understand the – 2. profit shaper, breadth of options available to you. For each role, there are a – 3. people leader, number of core attributes; professional competencies that apply to – 4. la Niaque, everyone in Capgemini and are independent of where you sit in the business; and role-specific competencies, tailored to Capgemini – 5. collaboration, and businesses. – 6. transformation strength. Therefore: • Our leadership journey is now fully aligned to develop the 6 attributes throughout a career as a leader within Capgemini. • every employee is linked to a transparent “competency and career framework” linked to his or her profession but personal ambition is equally important to make a career discussion open STRONG HEADCOUNT GROWTH, BOTH ORGANIC and fair; AND EXTERNAL • every employee has access to a wide range of training to The Group workforce was just below 60,000 people ten years enable their professional development through the group ago, passed the bar of 100,000 employees in September 2010 University. It delivers over 4.8 million hours per year of training and grew again by more than 9.3% in 2014 to reach 143,643 to over 133,000 employees. All training programs are designed employees as of December 31, 2014. to incorporate new technological methodologies, client The average headcount is calculated by adding the average of requirements and skilling needs; opening headcount and the 12 monthly headcount divided by 13. • today, about 43% of training is virtual and our objective is to continuously optimize its impact. Average headcount End-of-year headcount Year Number Change Number Change 2004 57,387 15.2% 59,324 6.7% 2010 97,571 8.1% 108,698 20.1% 2011 114,354 17.2% 119,707 10.1% 2012 121,829 6.5% 125,110 4.5% 2013 128,126 5.2% 131,430 5.1% 2014 137,747 7.5% 143,643 9.3% CAPGEMINI 88 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset The acquisitions of Kanbay, Getronics PinkRoccade (BAS B.V), continued to significantly impact the geographical distribution CPM Braxis and Euriware in recent years, strong organic growth, of Group employees. This development is summarized in the notably in Asia and Latin America, and the most recent economic following table: crisis that affected continental Europe to a greater extent, 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 Numbers % Numbers % Numbers % North America 9,609 7.7% 9,710 7.4% 10,384 7.2% United Kingdom & Ireland 8,964 7.2% 9,130 6.9% 8,766 6.1% Nordic countries 4,504 3.6% 4,277 3.3% 4,145 2.9% Benelux 9,186 7.3% 8,775 6.7% 8,547 6.0% Germany and Central Europe 9,581 7.7% 10,095 7.7% 10,596 7.4% France and Morocco 21,738 17.4% 21,863 16.6% 23,637 16.5% Southern Europe 7,336 5.9% 7,187 5.5% 7,446 5.2% Asia-Pacific (incl. Middle east and Africa) and Latin America 54,192 43.3% 60,393 46.0% 70,122 48.8% 3 TOTAL 125,110 100% 131,430 100% 143,643 100% Since January 1, 2013, the presentation of the data by geographic BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY LENGTH region has been changed to move Latin America from the OF SERVICE: 2012-2014 CHANGES “Southern Europe and Latin America” region into the “AsiaThe coverage rate for the data below is 99.4% of year-end Pacific and Latin America” region. The aim of this is to consolidate headcount. Changes for average length of service reflect the countries with comparable economic characteristics. Fiscal year Group’s recruitment dynamics over the last five years, with 2012 has been restated to reflect this presentation in the various an average of more than 33,000 recruits each year. The high tables of this report. percentage of employees with less than three years’ service The above development reflects the ongoing adaptation of delivery (52,6% of our headcount) is clearly due to the high level of capabilities to our Rightshore® model, combining local resources recruitment. However, the average length of service in the Group (in the client’s area) with those situated in specialized production stands at 4.5 years in 2014, an increase of 0.2 years versus 2013 centers. This change resulted in the significant increase seen in due in particular to an improvement of the data coverage with the Asia-Pacific and Latin America region headcount (notably the addition of new acquisitions (Prosodie and Euriware) and of India representing 39% of total headcount), which now comprises Sogeti Belux entities where the seniority is higher. At constant 48.8% of the Group’s resources compared to 5% in 2004. The perimeter, the average seniority should have been stable. This Group has been growing in Latin America (Brazil mostly and varies according to the geographical area, ranging from just Guatemala) since 2007 driven in particular by the buyout of slightly under 2 years in India or 2.4 in Asia-Pacific/Latin America CPM Braxis in Q4 2010, the region reaching more than 10,000 (where lies the majority of recruitments) to 10.2 years in the employees at end-2014, including 8,600 in Brazil. Benelux countries. For the purpose of calculating length of service, Moreover, India saw very strong growth in recent years with it should be noted that it is the date of recruitment by the acquired headcount rising from slightly under 2,000 people in 2004 to more company, and not the date of integration into Capgemini, which is than 56,000 in 2014 with a significant growth again in 2014 by taken into consideration. 19%. Growth in Central Europe is notably due to the development 33.4% of the BPO business in Poland, which went from less than 500 30.7% employees in 2004 to slightly below 6,000 at year end. Benelux 27.6% was the main region to see its headcount fall for the second year in a row, due to a difficult economic situation in the Netherlands, with 25.0% 22.7% Scandinavia also in decline, albeit to a lesser extent. For the first 22.3% time, UK is declining by -4.0% especially in Infrastructure activities. 20.5% 19.0% In France, due to the acquisition of Euriware (1,800 people and 17.3% 16.1% 1689 in France), the headcount is increasing by 7.2% in 2014 but 13.8% 13.4% 14% should have declined otherwise by -0.9%. 12.3% 11.9% < 1 year 1-2 years 3-4 years 5-9 years 10 years and + December 2012 December 2013 December 2014 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 89 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY AGE: External Acquisitions/ 2012-2014 CHANGES hires transfers The coverage rate for the data below is 99% of year-end 2004 (reminder) 9,285 5,363 headcount. The average age of employees increased in 2014 to 2010 30,139 7,579 34.4 years (+0.2 year vs 2013), in spite of the hiring of young 2011 32,713 3,158 graduates (41% of total recruits), but it is linked to a change in the perimeter, (inclusion of two new acquisitions Euriware and 2012 31,100 769 Prosodie and of Sogeti Belux where the average age is higher), 2013 32,369 193 otherwise, it should have been stable at 34.2 years. The average 2014 39,925 2,110 age increased in most of countries (18 countries like India, France, UK, USA, Brazil…) representing 90% of total headcount. The This increase was not felt in the same way across all geographic percentage of employees aged less than 35 years decreased regions and countries, with offshore countries contributing by 1 point over the previous year to 60.4%, while the share of strongly to this recruitment dynamic, with nearly two thirds of all employees in the over 45 group increased by 0.6 point, due recruitment in 2014. India, where 54% of recruitment took place, mostly to the increase of the proportion of employees aged over saw headcount grow organically by more than 9,000 people 55 years linked to the extended retirement age is most countries. in 2014, representing 74% of Group net headcount growth. Average age is lowest, at below 30 years, in Guatemala, Chile, The diversification of offshore recruitment resulted in the Polish India, China, Morocco, Romania and Poland, while the United workforce expanding rapidly and is now just below 6,000 people Kingdom, Sweden, Canada, Denmark and the Netherlands are in 2014, while Brazil continued to grow. the only countries with an average age at just over 40 years. In a still uncertain economic environment, the employee turnover 48.7% 48.3% rate (the percentage of voluntary departures) increased by 1pt to 47.2% 17.8%, being higher in Latin America, Poland and India (where the IT Services market is more dynamic) than in Continental Europe or North America. This rate is, however, below the peak rate of the last ten years, which reached 19.7% in 2007. Hires are people on-boarded into Capgemini payroll through the usual recruiting cycle during the period and accounted in 23.7% 23.2% 23.6% headcount (it excludes recruits made through acquisition/big deals). Turnover rate 13.1% 13.2% 11.9% 11.7% 11.2% 11.5% 2004 14.1% 2010 16.3% 4.0% 4.0% 4.4% 2011 18.1% 2012 17.0% < 20-24 years 25-34 years 35-44 years 45-54 years 55 years and + 2013 16.8% December 2012 December 2013 December 2014 2014 17.8% Against a still uncertain economic backdrop for 2014, the Group The number of voluntary departures was at the highest level of hired nearly 40,000 employees, the highest number in the Group’s the last past 10 years at around 24,500. This rate is constantly history and a significant increase over the average number of hires monitored to ensure that it remains in line with industry norms, over the past decade. using appropriate response initiatives according to the needs of each business line and geographical region. CAPGEMINI 90 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2.3 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS Concurrently, stock options granted to Executive Corporate Officers form a very low percentage of the total options distributed. The Group’s remuneration policy is based on shared principles, Under the fifth and sixth plans, 1.1% of the total number of options applied in a decentralized way and tailored to local job market allocated was awarded to Executive Corporate Officers, and no conditions and regulations. This policy aims to: options are exercisable as all plans are now closed. Regarding X attract and retain talent; performance shares, resolutions set a limit of 5% or 10% to be allocated to Directors and the volume effectively allocated X reward individual and collective performance with a represented 3.2% of the total grants of the 5 performance share remuneration model that is motivating yet flexible; plans since 2009. Moreover, share based instruments are not X be fair and consistent with the Group’s financial and operational allocated on an automatic and/or annual basis. targets. Detailed information regarding performance shares allocated by Where local rules permit, employees can select the components Cap Gemini S.A. to directors and to the ten main beneficiaries of their remuneration package from a predefined package. This (non-directors), the options exercised by the latter, and details of provides employees with additional flexibility, enabling them to these plans are provided on page 67 to 69 of this Registration reconcile their financial and personal situations in the best possible Document. way. In addition, following a negotiation with French employee Profit-sharing is available to employees pursuant to the local representatives, instead of paying a bonus in cash for the “profit regulations applicable in the country. Vice-President/Associate Director and senior executive sharing bonus” implemented in 2011, the Board decided to pay this incentive through shares subject to a presence condition of 3 compensation schemes are reviewed and authorized at the 2 years and with a compulsory holding period of another 2 years Group level for both fixed salaries and variable components. The in two occasions (2012 and 2014). As a result, more than 16,000 principles of compensation schemes for other employees, which employees became shareholders in July 2014 and again more are locally designed and managed, are subject to Group approval than 20,000 employees have been granted the opportunity to with the intent to progressively better align schemes to favor become shareholders in October 2016 subject to their presence mobility and ensure consistency and fairness. on this date. The minimum salaries applied by the Group in each country always exceed or are equal to the legal minimum salaries in force EMPLOYEE ACCESS TO STOCK HOLDING in the country concerned, and are sometimes higher by a very In 2009, Capgemini launched its first international employee significant proportion. stock ownership plan, covering 19 countries. This plan was The evolution of compensation (which can be found in the note 6 very successful, with more than 14,000 employees applying for of the Reference Document) is subject to regular analysis as shares. After authorization was granted by shareholders, a new compensation costs represent 60% of the group revenue. international plan was launched in 2012 covering all employees The Compensation Committee of the Cap Gemini S.A. Board of of the 19 countries, which was again very successful, with Directors is in charge of supervising compensation policies and 12,000 employees subscribing. As the 2009 plan was ending in actions throughout the Group, to determine the compensation December 2014, a new international plan has been launched in structure of the CEO and to review equity based incentives. 2014 and was again a success with close to 17,000 subscribers joining this new plan. As a result of these two plans our employees, as a whole, are amongst the Group’s main shareholders with ALLOCATION OF SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE nearly 6.2% of the share capital. SCHEMES Lastly, in 2009, Capgemini launched a product whose Cap Gemini S.A. has allocated share-based instruments performance is related to its share price: the BSAAR. This product (previously stock options and performance shares since 2009) was made available to Group managers at the price of €3.22 on a regular basis in line with its corporate governance rules. (at fair value and in accordance with a valuation carried out by These allocations are made selectively with the aim of rewarding an external expert) and was accompanied by an information employee loyalty, namely for those who have made exceptional memorandum approved by the French Financial Markets Authority contributions to company sales, production, innovation or to (AMF). BSAARs represented an opportunity for managers who reward those who have been acknowledged for specific initiatives wanted to make a long-term investment in the Company (from 4 or who are seen as transformation agents. Any employee in the to 7 years) while being fully exposed to fluctuations in the share Group may be selected to receive them. They are an exceptional price. reward and do not form part of the general remuneration policy. The Board of Directors allocated a certain number of stock options to 2,298 beneficiaries under the sixth plan and to 1,906 beneficiaries under the performance shares plans. The Management Report, presented at each Cap Gemini S.A. Shareholders’ Meeting, provides a detailed yearly breakdown of the performance share allocations. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 91 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2.4 WORK ORGANIZATION, HEALTH AND SAFETY BREAKDOWN OF PART-TIME WORKFORCE IN 2012-2014 14.4% 2012 2013 2014 9.7% 7.3% 6.4% 5.8% 5.2% 4.5% 3.9% 0.3% 0.0% rica dK es ne G Ce erm pe As Ind tal i un lux ntr an nE ia ia To Am & ngd Ire om tri Be al y a Eu nd ur La -Pac e lan co ro pe o tin iﬁ rth ite d ic Fr an er Am c an No rd ce an uth er d ica Un No dM So or occo Part-time staff is defined as any resource working less than the BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY FIXED WORKING normal/legal working hours schedule of each country of payroll. HOURS IN 2013-2014 The coverage rate for the above data is 96.6% of year-end 42% headcount. 39% 36% 36% 2013 Brazil CPM data have been restated. The percentage of part-time employees in the Group decreased at 3.9% of the total headcount in 2014 due to Indian headcount increase, while India reports zero part-time staff. However, the number of employees working part-time is slightly increasing (+185 people) and in most European countries, the percentage of parttime staff is also 17% increasing (UK +2,7%, Poland +0.7%, Germany +1.6%, Italy 15% +0.8%). The figures show significant variation between regions: part-time working is most widespread in the Benelux countries 8% 7% with 14.4% (decreased ratio due to an increase of the perimeter which includes now Sogeti Belux), followed by the United Kingdom 0% 0% and Ireland with 9.7%. Conversely, in India, Asia-Pacific and Latin America (excepted Brazil), part-time working is not widespread. 35h 36h=>39h 40h 41h=>45h 48h In France (and Morocco), 5.2%, or approximately 1,100 people, December 2013 December 2014 work on a part-time basis and the percentage has remained stable over the last three years. A study of fixed working hours in the Group showed a wide variation between the regions. This study covered 95.6% of the workforce at year end. 2013 India data has been restated with a 45-hour working week. France, representing 15% of the total workforce, was singled out, with a 35-hour working week. 36% of our employees have a 40-hour working week but is the collective timetable of most of our countries. The 40-hour working week concerns in particular Europe (excluding the United Kingdom, Finland and Denmark, where it is generally 37.5 hours) and North America. Brazil BPO, Guatemala, Morocco are on a 44hour working week and India is on a 45-hour working week. CAPGEMINI 92 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset RATE OF ABSENTEEISM IN 2012-2014 4.9% 2012 3.3% 2013 3.0% 2014 2.6% 2. 6% 2.4% 2.0% 1.9% 1.6% 0% Am e rica Un ite d an King Co un es tri Be ne lux G Ce erm ntr an or occo Eu pe ro As ia La -Pac Ind ia TO TA L 3 d I do al y a an rn tin iﬁ rth re m No Eu nd dM So Am c an No lan rd ro uth er d ica d ic pe ce e an Fr The rate of absenteeism is expressed as the number of sickness leave as such. In 2014, the rate of absenteeism for sickness in days excluding maternity (sickness covers all absence declared as the sample was 2.6%; an increase ratio of 0.3 pts mostly due such by employees which can cover anything from headache to to Poland (+1pt). It was highest in Germany and Central Europe, surgery) / number of total working days less holidays and vacation driven by Poland at 5.8%, followed by Scandinavia also at 3.3%. for the average headcount. France and Morocco at 2.4% are just below the Group average rate of absenteeism, as did the UK. The coverage rate for this study is 54.8% of the year-end headcount. This low percentage is due to the fact that some Identification and likely occurence of professional diseases is countries such as India (which represents more than a third of implemented in some countries, however, these quantified data our workforce) do not collect data on the number of days of sick are not yet consolidated. NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS/HEADCOUNT IN 2012-2014 0.72% 2012 0.67% 2013 0.63% 2014 0.37% 0.31% 0.28% 0.26% 0.16% 0.14% 0.03% erica dK es lux G co e op ia ia TA L Ce erm La -Pac i tri oc Ind Am & ngd un ne or ur tin iﬁ TO Ire om Be ntr an nE rth lan d co al y a dM er Am c an ite ic Eu nd an uth er d No Un rd No ro pe ce So As ica an Fr CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 93 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset A work-related accident is defined as a non-fatal injury resulting in New training and development modules provide work-life balance incapacity for work at least three consecutive days, excluding the programs covering issues such as “stress and vitality”, “conflict day of accident. prevention” and health. The coverage rate for the above data is 73.3%. In 2014, the Group In France, Health and Safety Committees (HSC) are set up by recorded 389 work-related accidents which is stable, of which location or business unit. Their main objective is to analyze 38% were in France on account of the regulations in force relating situations that might have an impact on the workforce: mobility to the reporting of information. This corresponds to a ratio of projects, on-site working, safety in the workplace or stress at work. accidents/employee of 0.37%, a decrease of 0,01pt versus 2013. Actions are reviewed and decisions taken in quarterly meetings The majority of these work-related accidents were accidents and whenever needed, extraordinary meetings may be called. during the home/workplace journey. HSCs may decide to commission surveys or studies if deemed necessary, to help the management improve working conditions Health and safety in the workplace and safety. A new agreement was signed in November 2013 Health and S afety in the workplace is an important feature aimed at strengthening actions in Capgemini France related to of human resources and facilities management. The Group’s Health and Safety at work, informing employees about the nature businesses do not involve high-risk activities. Health and Safety of professional risks and developing necessary actions to avoid responsibilities are nevertheless taken very seriously and the them, and safeguarding the health of every employee. company has established specific processes and measures. At In North America, the safety and well being of employees is fully a minimum, across the Group we comply with all local Health integrated in the way in which they carry out their daily jobs. The and Safety legal requirements. Our Health and Safety policies are aim is to maintain the lowest possible accident and professional focused on information, instruction and training, covering: health and safety incident rates. Incident and trend assessments X accidents, first aid and work related health issues; may, where appropriate, lead to tighter workplace safety checks. X disability; Our workforce is actively involved in the development of a positive X safe handling, use and disposal of hazardous substances and health and safety culture through on-going training as part of our PPE; Cigna EAP Program, which includes training in wellness, stress management, prevention of harassment and violence, etc. X emergency procedures; As in North America, other countries have an Employee X guidelines for Capgemini employees working on client sites. Assistance Program (including India). Audits on the health and Numerous modules are available on line to employees on Health safety environment are regularly carried out within the Group and Safety matters and as part of our catalog we have a module (India, UK, etc.). called Well Being Essentials, addressing a variety of topics including health challenges, work-life balance, healthy eating, In Poland (as in some countries such as UK, Netherlands), fitness, grief and loss, etc. conditions of Health and Safety at work are regulated by applicable labor law and are incorporated into their internal Our offices around the world have introduced initiatives to promote regulation procedures available on the intranet. In addition, new employee wellbeing, including: hires must also sign a special document (declaration) stating that X work-life balance programs, including remote working (as in they are familiar with the content of the document. For example, France with two agreements signed in 2011 for remote working in Poland, new employees are required to undergo a medical and for professional equality between men and women, and check-up before employment and to undergo periodic medical parenthood); check-ups during employment. New employees must also X stress management; attend a preliminary workplace Health and Safety training session organized on their first day. X improvement of employee-manager relationships; X better working conditions. CAPGEMINI 94 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2.5 INTERNATIONAL MOBILITY AND RISK MANAGEMENT The total volume of cross-border assignments across the globe X Specific training courses and advice are provided by the for a short or longer term duration is increasing each year; this is Capgemini international assignment network and Capgemini’s one of the results of globalization, our Group’s delivery model as service provider. In 2010, an e-learning training course was well as a strong will to offer to our employees exciting international launched. In 2014, 8,051 employees have been trained on career opportunities to enhance their employability in a global business travel safety through e-learnings and 668 of our organization. employees have attended a dedicated face to face training from our Group service provider. International assignments are therefore an important aspect of our business, whether the assignment is voluntary initiated by the X A geo-localization tool has also been set up to identify where employee for career development or personal reasons, or required our employees are when they are travelling; by the company to fulfill a business need. X Capgemini has set up a repatriation procedure and specific One of our Group’s main challenges is to ensure an environment insurance coverage, to limit, as far as possible, the risks faced which meets our standards as well as the physical safety of our by its employees if trouble breaks out in a country where they employees on assignment in potentially high-risk countries. are present; X Lastly, there is an information system which provides travel The Capgemini international assignment network, comprising alerts when necessary, as well as practical advice on local nearly 100 people, supports employees with legal, immigration, and tax & labor regulation procedures in the 100 countries to culture and customs in the countries our employees visit. For 3 employees involved in overseas assignments, useful information which they may be assigned. is provided on the Group intranet sites, together with relevant The Group International Assignment policy sets the general rules and procedures. conditions applying during any stay abroad. In 2014, 20,863 employees have been proposed with one or Through our Risk Management Policy & Procedures, the Group several missions abroad to 100 different countries. The main has a selective policy on the countries/locations in which our countries of origin were India, US, Germany and Poland. The main employees can work. Assignments in countries assessed as “at destinations were the US, UK, France and Germany. risk” by our specialist external safety service provider are subject to strict rules and must be approved in advance. 3.2.6 INVESTING IN TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT TRAINING POLICY In providing such development opportunities, we enhance our ability to achieve individual, team, business unit and corporate General training policy goals. The value of a consulting and IT services company lies in the The fundamental strategy of competency development draws on quality of its intellectual capital. In an industry characterized by standard training programs as well as various approaches such rapid technological change and shifting patterns of work, it is as virtual classrooms, e-learning, on line books, easily accessible essential for employees to keep their knowledge and skills updatabases and KM 2.0 communities, on the job training, mentoring to-date and in line with client and market needs. Likewise, new systems, team rooms and communities... staff joining the Group is keen to leverage and build on their knowledge and to gain rewarding professional experience. A sustained focus on training and competency Personalized development plans are therefore designed during development based on a Career & Competency annual performance interviews and reviewed at least once a year. Framework Furthermore, operating units undertake a systematic and iterative Employees’ professional development is supported by a Career & review of the capabilities required for their businesses and their Competency Framework which forms the basis for performance portfolios of training offerings in order to keep pace with current appraisals and personal career advancement. Rooted in shared and future market needs. values, the Career & Competency Framework is tailored to take into account the specific needs of each of the Group’s businesses Capgemini is committed to the continuing development of all and Group’s functions. Common frameworks allow today’s employees, professionally and personally, with the aim of creating employees to understand competencies across businesses to and maintaining a fully competent and motivated workforce with facilitate mobility. core skills aligned to its present and future business requirements. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 95 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Capgemini believes in offering an opportunity for a successful and Group Training & Development figures rewarding career not just a job. Each employee has his or her Overall, more than 133,000 employees were trained in 2014, up own personal aspirations, motivations and career preferences. 11.6% compared with the previous year taking the total volume of The Career & Competency Framework has been designed to training hours to 4.78 million. help employees to develop in a wide variety of different roles, with the clarity required to support clear career progression, and the 143,643 flexibility to let our employees take charge of their own career. 131,430 125,110 As a global organization, our clients expect consistency of 119,707 services and uniform excellence, regardless of where we deliver. 108,698 As individuals, we expect clarity in the career options available to us. The Career & Competency Framework defines and describes a standard set of roles for our businesses, regardless of the region, business unit (BU), project, account, sector or technology 95% specialization. At a glance, our employees should be able to 91% 88% understand the breadth of options available to them. 85% The Career & Competency Framework allows employees to 78% understand and measure the competencies they need to be successful in each role/level, and to be clear about what they need to achieve to be ready for the next step up the career ladder. For each role, there are a number of core attributes; professional 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 competencies that apply to everyone in Capgemini, independent of where employees sit in the business; and role-specific % of Unique Employees Trained Headcount Total competencies, tailored to the Capgemini businesses. To support our employees development, learning maps can guide The Group continued to develop its virtual training courses, them about the best ways to hone their skills for each role. increasing by 12% over the year, or 2.06 million hours. This channel now represents 43% of total training hours. LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT 4.69 4.78 The quality of services provided to our clients depends on the 4.25 excellence and motivation of our teams. We therefore invest in the 3.87 development of our employees – our most precious asset – from 3.52 their hiring and at every stage of their career. Our Learning & Development teams provide our employees with a broad range of learning assets for them to develop their capabilities. Capgemini University’s Global Curriculum provides our employees with cutting-edge content to support their professional and personal skills development. Learning is available in several modes to make it easy, convenient and effective: from e-learning modules, 43% 39% 24/7 e-books, mobile learning applications, virtual classrooms, 19% 33% through collaborative learning platforms and our Virtual Campus. 15% In addition, these virtual solutions are often coupled with physical 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 classrooms whether they be at the client’s site, an office, or a local venue. We also organize international learning events for Virtual learning Classroom learning (in Hours in million) key talent, within key communities, at our Group’s world-class campus, in Les Fontaines, France. The Group’s on-line learning management system, MyLearning, is open to all employees for informal, just-in-time learning and for structured learning events. MyLearning contains all the Group programs and, for many regions, local curricula. The catalogue of courses includes as well a wide range of training options to suit different learning styles teaching and classroom instruction is provided either at local training centres, through external suppliers, or at the Group’s Campus in Les Fontaines, France. Focus on Capgemini University CAPGEMINI 96 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset The University’s value proposition is to bring our people to deliver specific learning and mobilization events at the Group’s together to develop their capabilities and achieve the full physical Campus in Les Fontaines. These events delivered content potential of our Group for our clients. To do this the University: that was both targeted at each specific SBU and supported the Group’s overall ambition. X challenges and supports them in their skill development, and connects them to our Group and to their communities. It brings As well as focusing on building Capgemini members capabilities, to life our Group’s values and multicultural approach in the way the University continued to focus on ensuring it was building its it engages our teams – whether virtually, locally, or on site at our learning expertise. It challenged itself by submitting and winning world class campus, Les Fontaines; awards through recognized organizations that included: X formalizes, packages and deploys cutting edge content using X The Association for Talent Development’s Excellence in Practice our Next Generation Learning (NGL) approach on Capgemini Award for achieving business impact through learning; specific differentiators, know-how as well as industry standards, X Corporate University Exchange’s Award Excellence for furthering ensuring our teams are kept up to date and aligned with our corporate goal’s through learning and development efforts; strategy and responding to our clients’ demands. It is delivered X Brandon Hall Group Awards for best learning team, best use by our best practitioners and external experts; of games and simulations, and best leadership development X leverages its rich history and it accreditation among bestprogram. in-class learning organizations to guarantee demonstrated excellence. Finally, the University successfully went through its EFMD Learning Business Partnering (European Foundation for Management Development) 5 year reaccreditation process. Capgemini University received its initial 3 The Global Learning Business Partner Team, created in 2010, is EFMD accreditation in 2009 and is the only Corporate University composed of the Learning & Development (L&D) Executives of all from the IT industry to have it. The accreditation is a mechanism Strategic Business Units (SBUs) and of the main countries – led by for quality benchmarking, mutual learning and sharing of good the Business-to-Learning Department of the University. practices where internal self-assessment is combined with an external review from experienced peers against a comprehensive The University worked together and closely with the business to set of rigorous criteria. The EFMD stated: “We are happy to strengthen the capabilities of our people to respond to our clients recognize Capgemini University for maintaining a very high level of demand through: professional quality in all its operations, demonstrating consistent X focus on new content linked to hot market topics such as excellence through its programs and an exemplary standard of training on disruptive technologies, global service offers and global training.” sector trends to create business value; Key University L&D figures X building professional capabilities in key roles such as architects, engagement managers, management consultants, intellectual In 2014, close to 134,900 Capgemini employees (94% of our property product managers, sales professionals or software workforce) took part in training schemes as part of the training engineers; path defined by the Group, using various channels. The volume of training provided by the University was almost 3.1 million hours, X learning interventions focused on bringing cross discipline teams representing 64% of total learning hours taken in the Group. together to sell and deliver on key market trends in Digital, Social, Mobile, Analytics, Cloud and the Internet of Things; Close to 35,000 employees (+35% vs. 2013) were trained at our Global Campus, Les Fontaines, in France or locally in countries X strengthening leadership capabilities to better enable our people in which the Group is present, representing 1.3 million hours of to successfully respond to the fast pace of technology and training. market evolutions. In addition to these cross Strategic Business Unit (SBU) interventions, the University also worked with each of the SBUs CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 97 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2.7 THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS INTERNAL CERTIFICATION EXTERNAL CERTIFICATION This in-house peer review process enables skills to be assessed The Group has a longstanding external certification policy on the basis of precise and clearly identified criteria such as enhanced by on-line learning programs that enable study for experience gained, knowledge sharing, use of in-house tools and external certification, including on-line mentoring. Employees methods, mentoring and leadership. may apply for the following external certification: Microsoft, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Cisco, Linus Professional Institute, The process has three objectives, namely: Six Sigma (Green and Black Belts), Project Management Institute X to create strong and recognized professional-interest groups by (PMI), and ITIL. sharing information, knowledge and skills in specific areas; X to ensure blended distribution and graduated progression of CENTER CERTIFICATION skills, both for in-house and client service requirements; X to create, in the process, a competitive edge for both the Group Centers of excellence around the world continue to develop and and its employees, thereby increasing their “employability”. strengthen the Group’s ability to support a global delivery service model. External certification combined with our internal certification For a number of years the Group has run internal certification programs supports these objectives. Nearly 100 Capgemini programs, primarily for project managers, architects, software centers, including Accelerated Delivery Centers, Application engineers and network engineers. Management Services Centers, Infrastructure Management More than 4,100 project managers, an improvement of 25.4% Service Centers, Business Process Outsourcing Centers, and over last year especially in Infrastructure activities (tripled from 244 Technical Excellence Centers now have some form of certification. to now 750) and India (+30.4%), 824 architects, 3,836 software Centers in India, the United States, Canada, France, the United engineers and 306 network engineers had either obtained or Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, reconfirmed this internal certification during 2014. We also have Poland, Spain, Portugal, Brazil, Italy, Norway, Denmark, Finland, an SAP certification program focusing on new joiners in our Romania, the Czech republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Sweden, SAP practices, on mass certification programs and on specific Australia and China have ISO certifications including ISO 9001/ initiatives, with on line access to learning material. Lastly, training ISO 9001-2008. Many centers also have CMM/CMMI® (Capability programs are developed jointly with the University to support a Maturity Model Integration) certification, which is specific to consistent deployment of methods and content within the Group, the applications development business. In India, the centers of around these different topics. Mumbai, Kolkata, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai and Bangalore have achieved the highest level CMM and CMMI® certification (level 5). All BPO centers are ISO 9000 certified and IIP accredited, a measure of the global production capability, economies of scale and adaptability to changes in demand. 3.2.8 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION With over 140,000 people in more than 40 countries, Capgemini Our commitment is enshrined within our Group Diversity and is proud to represent near 120 nationalities. As such, we are Inclusion Charter which was refreshed in 2014. committed to creating an inclusive workplace culture that provides our people with the opportunity for a successful and rewarding GLOBAL DIVERSITY & INCLUSION CHARTER career and ensures their well-being. We believe that it is the factors which make people different, which offer valuable sources Capgemini’s success, brand identity and client experience are of innovation and creativity, enabling us to generate new ideas, determined by the talented people who work for us. We believe anticipate market trends and be thought leaders in our chosen that people perform better when they are empowered to be their markets. authentic self at work and feel included in the way we approach how we work to deliver services to our clients. Cultivating an Diversity and inclusion have always been an important part of inclusive environment and ensuring that every voice of Capgemini our corporate culture, shaping how we operate and work with is heard and considered, maximizes our capability to win and our stakeholders, suppliers, clients and our colleagues around deliver business and makes Capgemini a great place to work. the world. This diversity and inclusion has many facets including gender, disability, ethnicity, age and lifestyle. At Capgemini we also include broader dimensions of diversity such as experience, personality, communication and working styles – together known as “diversity of thought”. CAPGEMINI 98 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Our Group Global Charter for Diversity and Inclusion sets out the our business and affirm Capgemini’s status as a preferred global Group’s commitment to: employer. X engage with our clients, partners and suppliers to ensure there We make every effort to adapt to the needs of our people with a is understanding and alignment to our values, diversity and wide range of personal circumstances and to provide them with inclusion commitments and clear expectations; a work environment which encourages their development. In a X recruit and retain a talented and diverse workforce to deliver number of countries, where allowed, employee data is monitored innovative, world-class solutions for our clients; according to criteria such as socio-cultural group, age group and disability, etc. Diversity performance indicators are also included in X foster an inclusive workplace environment that offers every the annual HR audit. employee the opportunity for a successful career; X engage employees in the diversity and inclusion agenda through communication, awareness, education to build cultural UNCONSIOUS BIAS competencies, and career development opportunities; Exposing unconscious bias, the tendency for individuals to favor X continually review and integrate employee feedback to people like themselves, is critical to the promotion of diversity and implement programs that provide employee engagement inclusion within an organization. Consequently, together with an opportunities and drive leadership accountability; external expert from the Southern Methodist University in Dallas, X design, implement and regularly review and update policies to Capgemini has developed an Unconscious Bias training module which has been deployed across North America and which was ensure that we, as an organization, are embracing diversity, cultivating inclusion, and responding to our employees’ needs; attended by under 200 of the Group’s top executives from around 3 the globe in November 2014. During 2015 the program will be X support and leverage local and global networks across made available to the remaining executives and rolled out more the Group business operations for employees and led by widely to include a mixture of face to face sessions, online web employees building communities to drive inclusion across based training and virtual sessions. culture, commerce, career, and community; X encourage and support our employees to consider diversity and MEASURES TAKEN IN FAVOR OF GENDER inclusion in our everyday business decisions (e.g. procurement, DIVERSITY building a team, initiative sponsorship); X integrate diversity and inclusion principles into Capgemini’s For Capgemini, gender diversity is also an issue of competitive business systems and activities based on five key drivers: advantage. Being an employer of choice for talented men and workplace, workforce, marketplace, community, and executive women is vital if we are to unleash the full potential of our Group engagement across the Group; and deliver the best results for our clients. X comply with all applicable laws concerning diversity and Breakdown of workforce by gender: inclusion supported through enabling employees to obtain 2012-2014 changes guidance or report concerns on compliance and misconduct; The coverage rate for the data below is 99.5% of year-end X report our progress, best practices and results across the headcount. The percentage of females in the workforce continued Group both internally and externally based on our inclusion and to rise in 2014, increasing by 0.4 point over 2013 to reach 28.8% diversity success measures; at year end. This increase in the female workforce was mainly X enhance Capgemini’s external employer brand through the due to strong growth in recent years of BPO (a business sector promotion of our diversity and inclusion achievements. in which the proportion of females can reach 50%), an activity which attracts more females, and despite its recent expansion Our differences are a source of creativity, innovation and in countries and business sectors (Services Infrastructure) where inspiration. Embracing diversity and inclusion equips us to reflect females are less present in the workforce. Nevertheless, in several today’s global marketplace in the communities where we operate, geographic regions the percentage of females is increasing at enables us to generate new ideas or anticipate market trends constant scope like in India (+1.4pts at 27.6%) which improves as thought leaders in our chosen markets and supports us in largely the overall percentage of female in the Group due to the better understanding the challenges of our clients, partners and high number of employees in this country. The countries with suppliers. We believe this will enhance the employee experience strong BPO development, and therefore a high proportion of around the Group, create greater opportunities for sustainable women joining the Group, include Poland, China (+4.4pts), Brazil business and affirm Capgemini’s status as a global employer of (excluding CPM Braxis), Romania and Chile, in all of which the choice. percentage of women in the workforce exceeds 50%. Conversely, These commitments reflect Capgemini’s vision for diversity and the percentage of women is less than 25% in eleven countries inclusion in the Group. We are determined to take the necessary covering 28% of the workforce analyzed, including mainly France, steps to put this approach into action, drawing on the best of each Benelux and the USA. This overall gender breakdown is a and every employee’s talents, and celebrating our multicultural reflection of the information technology sector as a whole, which and diverse workforce. We know this will enhance the employee tends to attract engineering graduates who are predominantly experience around the Group, create greater opportunities for male. Consulting Services, however, is a more diversified market, with a more balanced 61/39 male/female ratio. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 99 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset e-learning on diversity and recruitment to explain how to include 71.9% 71.6% 71.2% the gender diversity stakes in our recruitment. France also signed a new partnership of mentoring with the University “Pierre and Marie Curie”. 10 women students have benefited in 2014 from a support of 10 Capgemini women in the search and the followup of internship and the definition of their all year round school professional project, to prepare their insertion in the professional world. Capgemini and Sogeti France signed the “Charte de la Diversité dans l’Entreprise” (French corporate diversity charter) in 28.1% 28.4% 28.8% 2006, and continue to actively participate in “IMS Entreprendre pour la Cité”, an organization responsible for promoting the charter to increase diversity in France. In the Netherlands, following the stereotypes campaign in France, in the first half of 2014, as part of an internship, research was done regarding how improving awareness of unconscious bias Male Female can contribute to gender diversity. In India, Women@capgemini found its voice in Winspire, a December 2012 Ddecember 2013 December 2014 forum created four years ago. The focus of WINSPIRE is to increase gender diversity in the workplace, so we can realize the Gender diversity is a specific priority for the Group and in order to advantages of having a greater balance of women employees at ensure a balanced gender workforce, Capgemini has implemented all levels. This program operates under four pillars, each driving a number of initiatives intended to promote the role of women a specific agenda: recruit, retain, develop and institutional within the organization, including: awareness. Annual Women in Leadership Conference by the forum for Women (WILL forum) in Leadership recognized our X the creation of local women’s networks in Australia, Belgium, efforts through the award “WILL Best employer for Women in France, India, Italy, the Netherlands, North America, Spain and 2014”. the UK; Having established key performance indicators around gender X the development of the India Women’s Council to address diversity at the beginning of 2014, Capgemini UK has taken further the challenges women face in the workplace, to tap into the steps to demonstrate the Company’s external commitment. In female talent pool, and to serve as a knowledge-sharing and April, Capgemini joined other high-profile UK companies to networking forum; register its support for the government’s Think Act Report X the re-launch in 2013 of the Women’s Leadership Development initiative – a framework developed by the government with the program in North America to provide specific training, aim of promoting gender equality within the workplace. In May, mentoring, and on-the-job coaching to develop the future Capgemini formally pledged its support to the government leaders of Capgemini; for collaborative action to increase the number of women in X asking all our recruiters to ensure they provide the same number technology roles, committing to a target of having 50% women in of female and male candidates, wherever possible; and; our apprentice intake by 2025. X the scheduling of networking events and workshops to coincide Capgemini UK is proud to have been listed in The Times Top 50 with lunch time, rather than after work. Employers for 2014 and to have been named as one of the Top 10 The Women@Capgemini program was launched in 2012 as a private sector organizations for gender diversity and inclusion by global business program to set the overarching guidelines around Opportunity Now, the campaign for women in work from Business gender diversity across the Group. It is based on the principle of in the Community. This achievement secures Capgemini UK a “equal opportunities, equal chances” and focuses on the themes gold rating and marks a great improvement in our ranking. Last of: attraction and recruitment; promotion and development; year we achieved silver status. retention; and institutional awareness. New initiatives launched Hosted by Christine Hodgson, UK Chairman, two Women’s in 2013 included a global mentoring program, with both male Business Network meetings have been held this year – one and female talented employees to be mentored by our most in March to celebrate International Women’s Day and one in experienced Vice-Presidents of the opposite gender. October. The events have attracted influential speakers to share Following the launch of a gender stereotypes campaign in their experiences in business and enabled women at all levels to April 2013, Capgemini France has created, in 2014, 2 mandatory extend their networks. CAPGEMINI 100 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Monitoring is carried out to better assess and understand the by 0.4% mostly due to a change in the perimeter. The percentage position of women within the Group, in compliance with applicable of women recruited is higher than the female ratio of the Group, legislation, i.e. the percentage of females recruited, leaving and which contributed to the rise in the percentage of women in promoted. the workforce at end-2014, driven by the Asia-Pacific/India and Latin America regions which represents two thirds of the female This showed that females represented 30.6% of total recruitments recruitment and with an improvement of 1pt of the ratio in India in 2014 (rate of coverage of 90%), a decrease ratio versus 2013 (30.1%). 2012 2013 2014 Recruits % of female % of female % of female North America 28.0% 26.0% 27.2% UK & Ireland 24.9% 26.3% 26.5% Nordic countries 30.1% 27.8% 31.7% Benelux 17.0% 14.7% 17.9% Germany and Central Europe 47.5% 52.0% 48.0% France and Morocco 23.6% 22.4% 23.7% 3 Southern Europe 31.5% 27.7% 27.1% Asia-Pacific and Latin America 31.7% 31.7% 30.8% TOTAL 31.0% 31.0% 30.6% Nevertheless, the turnover rate total (voluntary and involuntary leavers included) for females was marginally higher (at equivalent scope to hires) than for the total population. 2014 Turnover % total % of female North America 18.7% 18.6% UK & Ireland 14.8% 15.0% Nordic countries 18.7% 19.9% Benelux 10.9% 11.1% Germany and Central Europe 21.7% 22.7% France and Morocco 12.1% 11.0% Southern Europe 12.1% 10.6% Asia-Pacific and Latin America 26.6% 26.9% TOTAL 20.6% 21.1% CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 101 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Proportion of women in top executive positions On October 31, 2012 a new agreement was signed with employee by operating unit representatives, which aims to increase the employability rate The proportion of women in the highest levels of responsibility had of disabled people through apprenticeships. This three year increased at December 31, 2014: agreement is applicable until end of 2015. These actions are financed by an annual budget of €4.4 million. The agreement has 23.6% 23.9% five key axes: X a commitment to improving the employability rate of disabled 19.6% 19.5% people through a specific recruiting and on-boarding policy. The objective is to increase their employability rate from 1.64% to 16.0% 15.5% 15.3% 15.0% 2.4% in 2015. The recruiting staff expands their sourcing by 14.4% participating in forums, through consultation of specialized sites 12.5% and close collaboration with associations; 11.2% X the development of apprenticeships for disabled people, 10.0% which will represent 23% of the total budget: in addition to welcoming trainees and apprentices, the Group has developed partnerships with Centers of Professional Reintegration and specialized schools. Inside the company, these apprentices are supported by voluntary and certified tutors. Furthermore, within the framework of the CapSH project, Capgemini assists ica d tri G Ce erm lux Be ne Bac+2/3 level disabled students by financing their studies to lan es Fr ntra any an Am er Ire un ce l Eur and So an op uth As n Eu dM e er or oc co enable them to acquire a master’s degree; & co iaLa Pac pe tin iﬁ ro rth Am c an m ic X sustainable employment. As 80% of disabilities arise in the er d ica No do rd To tal Ind ia ing No 20 13 dK To To tal tal 20 20 12 11 course of life, Capgemini commits to supporting employees in ite such a situation. Permanently disabled employees can benefit Un from adapted working conditions or from financial assistance for the acquisition or the customization of a vehicle or for specific The proportion of females in the highest executive grades in 2014 equipment (prostheses); continues to grow with an increase of 0.2pt, but nevertheless X facilitating indirect employment for disabled people through subremains lower than the total percentage of females, all grades contractors, with in particular, a partnership with the GESAT combined, within the company. The continuing growth of Group network which handles the electronic management of all our headcount in countries with a low percentage of female engineers personnel files; weights on the overall percentage (although Capgemini’s proportion of women in these countries is higher than the generally X raising awareness through broader communication, to reduce seen in the market). stereotypes and improve understanding. Capgemini France also supports several initiatives/partners At the end of 2014, 19% of employees who had been promoted to facilitating the occupational integration of disabled employees, or the role of “Vice-President” were female, a higher percentage than helping to break handicap-related stereotypes, such as: last year. We have a clear picture of our female talent pool thanks to talent reviews which are undertaken throughout the Group and X Tadeo and sign language for deaf or hearing impaired people; which range from interviews with the Group CEO of the most X Accede to support access to the internet for visually impaired talented employees to reviews which take place at the Business people; Unit level. All Business Units are asked to ensure that they build a X Capgemini is a founding member of Hanploi, which developed female management talent pool. We are also leveraging leadership the Hanploi.com website dedicated to handicapped people; through local management training courses, mentoring by senior executives, and, lastly, increased visibility of female talents in order X Arpejeh, which aims to improve and promote the training, to improve the gender-balanced of the Vice-President community. qualification and employment of young disabled people. In 2014, Capgemini France also widely developed our purchases The largest countries within the Group have women’s councils with the sector of the protected and adapted work, with a and networks in place with a focus on recruitment, retention, revenue of about 1.24million euros and a remarkable progress of leadership and communication. the indirect employment. Among the axes of progress, we can quote the subcontracting of computing services with Adapted MEASURES TAKEN TO FAVOR SOCIAL INCLUSION Companies such as Talaron Services or Arc IF (320 k€ in 2014). OF DISABLED PEOPLE A framework agreement with the AC Elise allowed to display the In France, since 1995, an active employment policy of people operations of recycling of paper, tumblers, D3E on all the French with disabilities has been in place. In 2005, this approach was sites. boosted with the creation of “mission handicap”, a specific Capgemini India’s disability inclusion program commenced in program dedicated to the inclusion of disabled people. July 2012. It has gained momentum this year with 156 people with CAPGEMINI 102 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset disabilities benefitting from reasonable adjustments. The program Community Business on “Tapping a Pool of Disabled Talent in has four pillars: India”. The report positions Capgemini as an employer of choice for students with disabilities. 1. Accessibility: removing barriers to inclusivity, by ensuring accessible infrastructure and a register of grievances. A total of 20 new employees with various disabilities were recruited Emergency evacuation processes have also been reviewed through this program. This includes 13 employees with orthopedic to ensure safe evacuation for people with disabilities at their impairment, 6 employees with hearing impairment working with Mumbai and Bangalore offices; Capgemini Kolkata offices is the support of sign language interpreters and 1 with vision now also accessible for people with disabilities. impairment using screen reader software. 2. Career: ensuring inclusion through recruitment, engagement, Capgemini Poland decided to include persons with sight and development policies. disabilities in their teams by adapting work environment, including 3. Commitment: encouraging and creating employee awareness providing necessary assistive technologies and awareness about employing people with disabilities, the use of assistance trainings for employees. The target ambition for Capgemini devices, challenging myths and the code of behavior in relation Poland is to develop a model for employing persons with sight to disability, through a number of awareness and training disabilities in cooperation with the Managers of the Future MOFFIN programs. Foundation so as to accommodate their social needs and promote their occupational activity and also further build company culture 4. Communication: Spreading inclusion beyond the company, based on diversity. with clients, partners and other organizations. This includes the partnerships with industry bodies, NGOs and Disability Rights groups such as CII and NASSCOM and NCPEDP (National As a result of a pilot project deployed in early 2014, Krakow’s branch of Capgemini has currently two members of staff with sight 3 Center for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People). The disability holding the posts of a Finance & Accounting Process company has also sponsored and participated in conferences Analyst and a Language Quality Assurance Specialist. They have organized by Choice International, a UK-based NGO and the also been involved in the co-creation of the company’s model for national conference organized by the NCPEDP, India’s largest employing blind and partially sighted persons. In this way, new disability organization. open posts are even better adjusted to the needs of disabled The articles published in Economic Times on Dec 12, 2014 and candidates. in Hindu on Aug 14, 2014 considered Capgemini as a role model company for inclusive practices. Capgemini’s Disability Inclusion practice’s case study featured in a research report conducted by NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE GROUP WITH A DISABILITY IN 2012-2014 563 2012 416 2013 2014 129 156 101 82 1 4 28 ica dK es lux G co e op d L As ia er & ngdi tri ne Ce erm oroc ur ati iaInd Am Ire om un Be ntr an nE n A Pa lan co al y a dM rth ite d ic Eu nd an er uth me ciﬁc No rd ro ric Un No pe ce So Fr a an an CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 103 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset A disability is defined as anything preventing or limiting someone to all countries where the Group is present, there is a “grievance participate to corporate, social life due to a long term or definitive escalation process”, which enables employees who feel that they reduction of his/her mental or physical capabilities. This is both are being discriminated against to escalate their complaint. Each voluntary and legal declarations depending on the country. claim is investigated fully and disciplinary action can be taken if discrimination is proven. The coverage rate for the data above is 79% of year-end headcount. In 2014, figures indicated that the Group employed Personal development and appraisals 1,480 disabled people, of whom 38% are in the United Kingdom A key challenge for a services company such as Capgemini is and 28% are in France, but a new program has been launched in to guarantee a consistent and transparent process of individual 2012 in India and now 156 disabled people have been identified. performance assessment based on a set of clearly-defined and Group-wide, there were 434 more employees than in 2011, as a explained criteria. By establishing such a framework, the company result of these new programs in India, as well as of the programs can ensure the professional development and promotion of all described above. employees and respect for equal opportunities. The performance and development process is driven by regular MEASURES AGAINST DISCRIMINATION meetings between the employee and the evaluator, generally In all countries of operation, the Group complies with local labor conducted in relation to assignments. The mentoring system legislation and international labor regulations. In our working has been set up to allow employees to benefit from an outside practices, Capgemini is committed to ensuring that: view and career management advice from more experienced colleagues throughout their careers. Expectations and skills X talented individuals from different backgrounds are recruited and descriptions are set out for each grade, and are used for setting retained; objectives, evaluation and preparing for promotion. Priority is X individuals are shown respect and treated fairly; given to different dimensions of skills development for each grade, X our working environment is free from all forms of harassment drawing attention to areas on which employees should focus. or abuse; Workforce – percentage of employees eligible to X employees are encouraged and helped to keep a good balance a performance and career review between 2012 between work and private life; and 2014 X the health and well being of our employees is encouraged; The coverage rate for the data below is 95.9% of year-end X a sound and fair working environment is provided, where headcount. employees can develop and flourish. In 2014, 91% of the workforce concerned had undergone an Capgemini will not tolerate any form of discrimination in the annual performance review, the ratio remains stable in the past workplace on any grounds. Discrimination can take two forms, three years. Some regions are further ahead than others in this direct and indirect. Direct discrimination occurs when someone area, such as Europe, where the figure is close to 100% (with is treated less favorably, for example on grounds of their gender, the exception of the Benelux countries where coverage is weaker, race, age, disability, religion or sexual orientation. Indirect at 83% but improved by 9pts especially in Netherlands). Latin discrimination occurs when a condition or rule is applied which America is close to the Group level while India is only at 87% and disqualifies a large proportion of one group from an activity improved by 2pt in 2014, fuelled by its strong growth and high and there is no genuine reason for imposing that condition. In turnover. 99% 100% 98% 99% 97% 91% 91.4% 88% 87% 83% 2012 2013 2014 a dK es lux G cc e As ia TA ric op & ngdi tri ne Ce erm o ia Ind L La -Pac Am ro ur TO e Ire om un Be ntr an Mo nE tin iﬁ lan co al y a Am c an rth ite d ic Eu nd nd uth er er d No rd ro ce ica Un No pe a So an Fr CAPGEMINI 104 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2.9 SOCIAL DIALOG AND INFORMATION PROCESS DIALOG AND COMMUNICATION AT THE HEART available in 8 languages. Feedback (from online survey) indicated OF OUR RELATIONSHIPS that 70% of managers held their sessions via face-to-face meetings, while they kept video conferences and conference calls Capgemini believes employee involvement and commitment is a for teams spread across various geographies. precondition to an open culture and facilitates this through effective and timely communication. With over 140,000 employees, spread In addition to these physical meetings, GIC continued to deploy across more than 40 countries, and within four businesses, new solutions to enable more frequent connects through virtual Group Internal Communications (GIC) plays a vital role in sharing events, bringing top executives closer to their teams. These information, co-ordinating and mobilizing our people around the tools offered a rich mix of contributions together with short Group’s priorities and achieving our ambition of playing in and videos, combined with direct interaction between speakers and winning the Champions League. audiences. Building one Capgemini Engaging and recognizing through communication campaigns Our global intranet, Talent, is home to all global and local Group sites and provides a consistent user experience and increased To resonate with our tag line “People matter, Results count”, an connectivity across the company. In 2014, APAC operations internal multimedia campaign, “People & Results”, showcased the joined this network of sites to share their stories and experiences. Talent, through written and rich-media forms (videos, animations, solutions that the Group brings to its clients, and highlighted the contribution of the teams. Over 100 projects, from all businesses 3 infographics, etc.) and integrated with the internal social media and 21 countries, were covered while the dedicated website had tool, Yammer, encourages our employees to be active, social, attracted over 15,000 visits. A second phase of the campaign mobile, and technology savvy. Amongst other features, Talent was launched in September 2014 to highlight the tangible results enables personalization through the MyDesk feature (enjoying Capgemini teams bring to clients and society. 64,000 profiles to date) and connects with those working remotely In addition to the annual campaign that connects employees at client locations, through daily and weekly digests. with results, nine “One Week Focus” mini-campaigns were held The Talent intranet, through its news portal and information store, to put the spotlight on topics of importance to our business and connects team members across the world, creating a Capgemini society (diversity, environment, community engagement, values without borders. and ethics, training, branding, Group tools, Intellectual Property and information security), and to raise awareness and encourage In 2014, Talent registered 42 million connections, a 20+% the involvement of our employees with these issues. In 2014, a growth over 2013; the daily Talent News Alerts reached 40,000 new feature of these campaigns was the gamification element that subscribers and the weekly digest reached all of our employees encouraged even more people to take part. globally every Friday. Yammer, with over 83,000 members (an increase of over 50% over 2013), and TeamPark, Sogeti’s Growing trust through communication social network with over 15,000 profiles, have become internal To continue to engage and grow trust within the key community digital cybercafés, connecting people, fostering discussions and of employee shareholders (those members who invested in the debates, hatching new ideas and being a source of innovation. company through one of the Employee Share Ownership Plans The Executive Corner on Talent is home to our ~1,300 – ESOP), a number of communications took place in 2014: a Vice-Presidents/Associate Directors. To supplement their need for newsletter in February; regular electronic communications (notably real-time business information and equip them with information to to provide members with the annual Shareholders’ newsletter carry out their client-facing responsibilities, GIC also shares press and H1 ESOP performance); a virtual meeting in September and releases as soon as they are published and provides updates lastly, a new responsive site for ESOP members to follow their through regular key message documents. The Executive series, investment live. With the ESOP 2009 plan that came to maturity in comprising a monthly newsletter (The Executive Summary) and December 2014, and the launch of the third plan – ESOP 2014 – ad-hoc communications (The Executive Link), is also sent regularly that was successfully closed on December 16, 2014, an ambitious to our Vice-Presidents/Associate Directors. communications plan was put together to combine global and local communications and ensure employees would have all they Enabling face-to-face connects needed to take informed decisions. The dedicated hub on Talent To improve the culture of oral communication and allow managers recorded over 100,000 page views and the simulator was used to share the Group story directly with their teams, GIC provided 30,000 times. two TeamTime communications packs (in January and August) comprising of a video animation, slides and voice-over documents CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 105 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Constantly striving to improve EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION AND LABOR DIALOG In an effort to ensure consistency and improve industrialization and Capgemini continues to demonstrate its strong commitment to efficiency across the marketing and communication community, dialog effectively with the employee representative bodies. The GIC designs and shares applications tools and templates. Some Group upholds the regulations governing employee representation 8,000 team members from Sydney to San Francisco used these and also recognizes the importance of a constructive dialog in-house applications to communicate in 2014. To further improve around all key Group decisions. the quality of internal communications, GIC organized in 2014 a In 2001, the International Work Council (IWC) was set up as the number of virtual sessions and workshops (live and available for official representative body of the Group. It enables employee replay) to share best practices (notably with regards to improved representatives to bring employee interests directly to the attention accessibility) and editorial techniques for journalism. of Group management and, in return, to be directly informed by Winning hearts and minds management of plans for the company and the impact of such Maintaining the motivation and satisfaction of existing employees plans on employees. Since 2004, Capgemini has gone beyond is only a part of the communication challenges the other part European legislation on works councils and opened IWC meetings comes from winning the hearts and minds of the many people to members from non-European countries, including North who join the company each year, as new recruits, or as part of an America and India, creating a truly globally representative body. outsourcing agreement or an acquisition. GIC facilitates the rapid In 2011, through its policy of including the major non-European integration of new arrivals by providing them with the necessary countries in the work of the Committee, the IWC welcomed a tools and communication channels, and helping build ‘One representative from Brazil. In 2012, a total of 22 countries were Capgemini’ across all continents. represented on the IWC, namely Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Employee commitment: innovation, continuous Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, improvement and acceleration Romania, Spain, Sweden and the UK, in addition to North Our Group Employee Survey took place last Sept 2014 when America, India and Brazil. 128,096 eligible employees from Capgemini were invited to The company also supports dialog with unions or other employee participate. The 2014 participation is Champions League having representative bodies through the processes provided for under increased more than ever to reach a rate of over 80% (103,338 legislation, regulations and local agreements. The IWC has a respondents, +2%). dedicated intranet site to give all Group employees open access The accountability of data analysis and action plan is now to IWC information. with business managers versus HR in the past, while the In 2014, the 22 member countries were invited to four (4) community of the 300 Champions has worked in tandem plenary meetings including two which were organized by Group with the marketing and communication community to ensure Management in “Les Fontaines” and 2 other were organized in qualitative communications and follow-up all along the year. As Spain and London. Various organization, commercial, and people a consequence, the participation has been strongly correlated topics were openly discussed. A special attention was given to to Business Lead Actions Plans deployed post GES 2013 along career planning, skill development and mobility. In addition to with the communication of the results to the employees directly. these four meetings, the IWC Bureau has met monthly to discuss Managers and Business Leaders’ involvement have made the action plans and progress. difference. GES is a manager tool. Otherwise, the Group is structured around its countries with formal Overall, scores remain fairly stable even with a growing number of national representative bodies. This dialog most frequently leads participants (+11, 400 respondents). While Employee Engagement to the signing of agreements after an information/consultation is stable 66% (-1pt), Client intimacy is still first as 91% (+1 pt) of process followed by a negotiation phase. A number of agreements the employees have strongly reiterated that they “feel personally have been signed in France and in other European countries and responsible for their client’s satisfaction”. La Niaque stands are – if relevant – discussed at the International Work Council by as the very first engagement priority item for our employees’ the members. In countries where labor dialog is not governed by engagement: “I feel that our winning spirit enables us to be local regulations, the management of labor relations is done in a successful, even when times are tough”. Our 7 values still appear proactive manner. Based on the annual survey, which is a key tool as paramount in everyone’s thoughts led by Trust, Team Spirit, in this matter, the company tries to take account of the difficulties Modesty, Modesty, and Freedom. raised by employees and to resolve the issues. GES embraces the voice of all employees from every single part of the business: we innovate in 2014 as all employees of our recent acquisition – Euriware Capgemini – have been offered the opportunity to express their own opinion only 4 months after being merged making GES a even more powerful device to move ahead in that challenging environment. CAPGEMINI 106 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset In 2014, the Secretary of the International Work Council was 4.9% formally invited to attend the Board of Directors of the Group and he attends as well the Compensation Committee. In addition to the IWC, labor dialog is organized locally through employee representative bodies. This dialog most frequently leads to the signing of agreements after an information/consultation 3.3% process followed by a negotiation phase. A number of agreements have been signed in France and in other European countries and 2.5% are – if relevant – discussed at the International Work Council by 2.1% 2.1% the members. In countries where labor dialog is not governed by 1.8% local regulations, the management of labor relations is done in a 1.4% proactive manner. Based on the annual survey, which is a key tool 1% in this matter, the company tries to take account of the difficulties raised by employees and to resolve the issues. 0.4% Maintaining transparent dialogue with employee representatives is particularly important in difficult economic environments. In 2014, ica lan d ies lux pe ro As ur 14 Am ntr ne ro cco ia op 20 the group has not conducted any significant collective redundancy er Ire co Be Eu Mo er La -Pac e tal & u ntr nE tin iﬁ c 3 rth Am an To plans. However, in a business based on the strengths of our No do m ic rd Ce al ce & uth er d ing No an ica workforce, we must ensure the proper matching of our workforce dK y& Fr So rm skills to clients and market needs. As a consequence, and also Un ite an Ge in liaison with our very significant level of hiring (close to 40,000 people in 2014), we are doing layoffs for a large part linked to the improper matching of a part of our new recruits as well as due to individual performance, terminations for cause or layoffs as part of a “RIF” (reduction in force). This represents 2.5% of total headcount. The coverage of this study is 81% of total headcount. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 107 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility 3.3 Environmental responsibility As an IT outsourcer, service provider and consultancy We are also committed to identifying and complying with all local organization, Capgemini does not engage in manufacturing. We and international legislation and other relevant requirements do, however, continue to recognize that the services we provide relating to this impact in the various geographies in which we and business activities in which we are engaged, can still impact operate. Our belief that environmental responsibility drives the environment. shareholder value provides the impetus to go beyond simple environmental compliance. It allows us to provide clients with Our 2014 assessment of environmental impacts (as part of our new services while enabling us to improve our own efficiency wider materiality assessment, detailed in section 3.1.3), highlighted and reduce operational costs. The implications of climate change the importance of climate change and its possible implications to present risk and also opportunity throughout our business. For our business including energy security. Our efforts to reduce and example, we are aware and mitigate against the risk posed by minimize impacts through our energy use, waste management extreme weather events at our data centers ensuring our clients and business travel continue across our Group countries through have continuous service no matter the weather conditions. We our maturing Environmental Sustainability program. also recognize the opportunities, both current and potential, to use technology to assist our clients with their own climate change challenges. 3.3.1 GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The Group Environmental Policy, signed by CEO Paul Hermelin, specifically in the areas of energy, business travel and waste sets out the measures that all countries are expected to take management. The Policy can be found at: http://www.capgemini. in terms of the environment. It reinforces our commitment to com/resource-file-access/resource/pdf/capgemini_group_ respecting the environmental and the continual improvement environment_policy.pdf. of environmental performance across our global operations, 3.3.2 GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT APPROACH Capgemini has extended the scope of its environmental Capgemini’s most material environmental impacts result from management systems with the certification of Capgemini India’s our use of energy (in both offices and data centers), as a result operations in July 2014 under ISO 14001. This certification of business related travel and from the disposal of office waste. increases the percentage of operations covered by the standard These impacts, together with smaller impacts such as from to nearly 60% measured by headcount. water consumption and fugitive air-conditioning emissions, are measured and reported as part of our sustainability accounting In addition to Capgemini India, ISO 14001 certification is held and reporting processes. Other environmental impacts, such as in Belgium, Brazil, Finland (data-centers), France (Sogeti) the those on bio-diversity and noise pollution, while regularly reviewed, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom. are not currently considered significantly material to our operations and consequently are not discussed further in this report. CAPGEMINI 108 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility While certain local variations may exist, the Group’s main environmtental impacts are shown in the table below. Main Environmental aspects Aspects and impacts applicable to the Capgemini business Energy Our main environmental impact comes from the consumption of electricity, gas and oil to light, heat and power our offices consumption and data centers. Data centers are particularly energy intensive due to the high level of IT equipment to be housed, powered and cooled. Business travel The international and domestic business travel we undertake, by road, rail, air, and from staying in hotels, all consume fossil fuels which contribute to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Tackling this remains a major challenge for our industry, which is reliant on the mobility of its people in order to best utilize their skills and experience in serving customers worldwide. We continue to take advantage of opportunities created by remote technology solutions such as video conferencing. We have also improved remote collaboration tools to facilitate remote working and allow greater flexibility, along with plans to roll-out globally our travel program ‘TravelWell’ with its holistic view on travel and traveler well-being. Waste Much of the waste that the Group produces is generated by office consumables and packaging. Capgemini aims to management minimize the amount of waste that is sent to landfill by promoting the development of recycling facilities. We also work with our people and key suppliers to reduce the overall amount of waste generated on our premises by our daily operations. We ensure that all electronic equipment is recycled in accordance with local legislation. 3 3.3.3 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Throughout 2014 Capgemini continued to roll-out our global INDIA CASE STUDY carbon accounting and management service. At the end of 2014 Capgemini India has a highly focussed approach to Environmental the service had grown to cover 28 of our countries and 97% of Sustainability supported by the CEO of Capgemini India and our global headcount. Member of the Group Executive Committee, Aruna Jayanthi. This Whilst we continue to standardize our data collection and carbon approach encompasses: management, our baseline of robust auditable data remains X Climate Protection – Target: Reduce per employee carbon subject to change. As such we continue to plan the setting of emissions by 30% by 2020; global carbon emissions reduction targets and have gained the approval of the CR&S Board to pursue such public declarations X Material Optimization – Target: Zero office waste to Landfill of ambition. by 2017; In the UK, the first country where the measurement system X Resource Conservation – Target: Reduce water consumption has been fully deployed, Capgemini has achieved significant by 20% by 2017. environmental performance improvement – performance externally Capgemini India is the first country within the Group to deploy validated under the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) our own Smart Energy Management Solution (SEMS), which has and with externally audited environmental data in accordance with already demonstrated how cost savings can be used to sustain the principles of ISO 14064-3. other environment projects within India. Our ability to build a solid business case and demonstrate impressive return on investment This robust approach to environmental data collection and enables us to lever funding for new Indian environmental projects reporting is also essential for meeting corporate reporting to reduce our water and paper consumption. obligations, such as the French Grenelle II legislation, at Group level, and the Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation for The success of the SEMS project has led to a further Group wide Capgemini UK. Capgemini’s Carbon Accounting and Sustainability pilot and proposed full roll out across Capgemini’s estate. Reporting service is also available to clients. Strong governance is essential both to ensure successful project delivery and to marshal support from the wider business. Our key stakeholders in this program were the India Sustainability Board and India Sustainability team, Facilities team and our Energy & Utility Center of Excellence. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 109 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility 3.3.4 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND METHODOLOGY The environmental data presented in the 2014 Annual Report As a result of this expansion in our carbon reporting, the 328,500 have been taken from the Carbon Accounting and Sustainability tCO2e reported here represents 4.8% increase in overall reported Reporting system and covers 28 countries (Australia, Belgium, emissions. However, a like-for-like comparison reveals reductions: Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, in particular, the emissions of our largest operations (India, Germany, Guatemala, India, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, UK, France and North America) excluding waste and Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Romania, water have reduced by 3.9% since 2013 (from 274,946 tCO2e Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK, the USA and Vietnam) to 264,145 tCO2e). Similarly, a comparison of the footprint of the covering 97% of Group headcount. Environmental data collected 14 countries reported in our 2013 report, demonstrates a 6.2% from other countries is not presented in this report. reduction (from 313,351 tCO2e to 294,029 tCO2e). Total Emissions per head have also reduced by around 15% (from 2.7 tCO2e per In some cases, it has been necessary to make a number of head to 2.3 tCO2e per head). assumptions: where only partial data are available, extrapolation has been employed to estimate total annual impact (in general, fourth quarter data where is not yet available); where employed, ENERGY CONSUMPTION extrapolations have included: Building upon our ability to monitor more robustly our carbon data X estimating 2014 data based upon available 2013 data, in and in order to reduce office energy use, Capgemini is currently general related to Q4 2014 data (according to documented deploying around 800 smart meters across its Indian office estate methodologies related to differing circumstances and covering (following a successful pilot in 2013). By the end of July 2014, all aspects of energy, travel, water and waste management), approximately half the meters had been deployed enabling more X estimating emissions data based on available cost data than €200,000 of energy savings to be realized through office (employing metrics such as the cost per kWh for electricity and energy efficiency initiatives. These savings equated to a reduction gas; and cost per liter of diesel or per kilometer of travel), or in annual carbon emissions of over 2,250 tons of CO2e. Plans X estimating emissions data for a facility based on data available are currently underway for an international roll-out following the for other facilities (estimating electricity usage based on area completion of the Indian deployment. of the facility, estimating waste disposal & water consumption Across the Group, total reported energy use has reduced slightly based on headcount of the facility). from 377,100 MWh in 2013 to 376,668 MWh in 2014, in spite of Where data is unavailable, as is the case for greenhouse gas the inclusion of additional operations. A like-for-like comparison emissions for some of our smallest entities, the data is deliberately of the 14 countries included in last year’s annual report shows a excluded. Further disclosure about the scope of data available and reduction in energy use of 5.7%. extrapolations employed is presented in footnotes under the data Carbon emissions related to energy use for these 14 countries table below. shows a small reduction of 1.9% (from 147,018 tCO2e to 144,220 The 2013 data against which the latest 2014 data is compared, tCO 2e). This difference partly reflects that in some countries is taken from our 2013 Registration Document, Annual Financial such as the UK and Spain, the grid electricity emissions factors Report. provided by DEFRA have increased since 2013. Of the total 376,668 MWh consumed in 2014, over 80% was consumed in our key 6 countries (India, the Netherlands, France, the United OVERALL EMISSIONS Kingdom, the US and Canada). In 2014, Capgemini’s carbon emissions from operations At the country level: representing nearly 97% of the Group’s headcount were X in India, energy related emissions have increased by 1.6% and 328,500 tCO2e as calculated using the conversion factors and energy use by 6.2%. This increase is largely as a result of the methodology recommended by the UK Government’s Department 19.3% growth in headcount in India which has created the of Environment Farming and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). opening of two new facilities, and masks the real progress made Due to the continued progress of our environmental program, the from the energy efficiency initiatives described above which are emissions data in this report covers more of our operations than reflected by a 11% reduction of the energy use per head; previously included. For 2014, we report data for 28 countries covering over 97% of our headcount (compared to 14 countries covering over 90% of our headcount in the 2013 annual report). We have also calculated emissions from waste disposal and water supply and treatment, which were previously excluded. CAPGEMINI 110 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility X in France, the total energy consumption fell by a little under five comparison of the 14 countries and associated entities included in per cent between 2013 and 2014, with significant reduction in both reporting periods reveals a reduction of 8.7%. office electricity use in particular, as a result of the closure of The adoption of the latest emission factors as recommended by several facilities. The reduction in associated emissions within DEFRA has also had an impact on reported emissions – with the the same period is even more significant (27.5%), due to the application of DEFRA’s 2014 emissions factors resulting in lower reduction of the DEFRA electricity grid emissions factor for emissions per air mile flown, but higher emissions per mile travelled France; for diesel cars and taxis; for most countries the application of X within the UK, total reported energy use in MWh has reduced new emission factors in 2014 is likely to have resulted in a small by 10.1%, primarily due to reductions in data center electricity reduction in business travel emissions since our 2013 report. use. However, emissions from energy use are showing a 7.5% Emissions relating to business travel within the top 6 countries increase compared to 2013, partly due to the increase in the as compared to the last report have reduced by just over 6% to DEFRA grid average electricity emission factor for the UK, and 135,636 tCO2e, partly due to the inclusion of Scope 3 emissions from electricity transmission and distribution losses (which were excluded from At the country level, the main results were: 2013 data); X in India, emissions from business travel have reduced by 6.2% X the significant reduction in energy use (18.6%) and associated since 2013, which is a significant achievement given headcount emissions (15.8%) in The Netherlands is largely as a result of the growth of nearly 19.3% over the period. One area of reduction closure of our Utrecht and Papendorp offices. This has in turn has resulted in dramatic reductions in the emissions associated X was hotel nights, which have declined by 17.7%; business travel emissions have reduced by just over 8% in 3 with district heating (93.5% reduction), natural gas (54.4%) and France, with particularly significant reductions in air travel. office electricity (28.8%) since 2013; The magnitude of the overall travel emissions reduction was X in North America, overall energy use increased by 13.2%, which constrained by improvements to the way hotel data is collected is partly due to the inclusion of energy data from Sogeti USA for resulting in a 17% increase in hotel emissions; the first time and partly due to improvements in data accuracy, X in the UK, business travel emissions have increased by 2.3% with accurate data from invoices replacing data which had been since 2013. This is partly due to the inclusion of travel data estimated in 2013. Emissions from energy use have remained for Sogeti UK for the first time, and partly due to an observed at a similar level to 2013, as the DEFRA grid average emissions increase in short haul flights and hotel stays in the first half of factor for both US and Canada has reduced. 2014; The replacement of estimated data with actual invoice data has X a sustained focus on reducing emissions from business travel in had an impact on the results reported for other countries too. The Netherlands has contributed to a reduction of 11.1% since For Capgemini Spain, reported gas use has tripled, whilst for 2013. This has been achieved by encouraging the use of public Capgemini Germany reported office electricity has reduced by transport and implementing a new car lease arrangement to 25% – both as a result of previously estimated data being replaced encourage people to switch to low emission company cars; with invoice data. X business travel for North America has reduced by 3.1% since 2013. This partly reflects improvements to data collection BUSINESS TRAVEL techniques, with data supplied by third party travel agents now The nature of Capgemini’s business model requires close being used in preference to data obtained from internal expense collaboration with clients around the world. However, Capgemini systems. continues to invest in initiatives aimed at providing alternatives to travel and helping colleagues make informed decisions when OTHER SOURCES travelling. F-gas emissions, waste tonnage (including general, recycled Our award-winning TravelWell program, originally deployed in and e-waste) and water usage (consumption primarily for use in the UK and currently scheduled for international deployment in sanitary areas, kitchen facilities and some data center cooling) are 2015, is focused on ensuring that the right tools are in place to also provided in the table below. For the first time in this report, we support client delivery, while reducing travel impacts. In the UK, also include emissions associated with waste disposal and water TravelWell won the Sustainable Transport and Travel category of supply and treatment. We have continued to improve the quality the Sustainability Leaders Awards in November 2014. and coverage of our waste and water data collection, both in Our business travel emissions make up over half of our global terms of the number of countries providing data and the coverage carbon footprint, with emissions in 2014 at 172,952 tCO2e. This and accuracy of the data within each country. Currently water represents an increase of 5.7% on emissions reported in 2013, data is collected as available, with no assessment done to date which is primarily due to the additional geographies now covered regarding potential scarcity of supply across our global locations. by our carbon management and reporting service – a like-for-like This year, waste and water data was included in the scope of the external audit. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 111 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility Total waste tonnage (including general, recycled and e-waste) for measured water (used and recycled) in the 23 countries where 2014 was 4,332 tons, which represents a reduction compared data is available is approximately 923,674 m3, whilst total F-gas to 2013, partly due to improvements in the way waste has been emissions were reported as 524 t CO2e. Further country-level calculated in Poland, Spain, Canada and the US. The volume of detail is provided in the notes below the tables. SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL DATA BY COUNTRY Energy by Source Total Scope 3 Energy Energy Use Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions Emissions Emissions Scope and Metric (MWh) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) Data Electricity Total Energy Diesel/ Center Office Office Urban Electricity Energy Country (All sources) Gas Gas Oil Electricity Electricity Cooling Heating T&D Losses Emissions India – Capgemini & Sogeti 84,298 N/A 4,976 N/A 55,307 N/A N/A 60,283 France – Capgemini, Sogeti & Prosodie 79,469 38 N/AV 2,832 2,003 N/A N/AV 4,873 UK – Capgemini, Aspire, FS, Sogeti 69,544 717 93 24,185 8,103 N/A N/A 2,813 35,911 Netherlands 25,469 401 16 6,603 2,547 68 16 9,651 North America 44,694 17 88 13,573 3,612 N/A N/A 17,290 Canada 15,134 6 N/A 2,142 381 N/A N/A 2,528 USA – Capgemini & Sogeti 29,560 11 88 11,432 3,231 N/A N/A 14,762 Total Largest operations 303,474 1,173 5,174 47,193 71,572 68 16 2,813 128,008 Belgium – Capgemini & Sogeti 1,339 39 N/A N/A 221 N/A N/AV 260 Czech Republic 144 23 N/A N/A 10 N/A N/A 33 Denmark – Capgemini 148 N/A N/A N/A 47 N/A N/A 47 Finland – Capgemini 11,022 N/A 23 1,579 311 N/A 253 2,166 Germany – Capgemini & Sogeti 13,809 269 N/A 2,647 2,852 N/A 201 5,970 Ireland – Sogeti 94 N/A N/A N/A 40 N/A N/A 40 Italy 3,892 295 N/A N/AV 924 N/A N/AV 1,219 Luxembourg Sogeti 168 N/A N/A N/A 65 N/A N/A 65 Norway Capgemini 1,871 N/A N/A N/A 20 N/A 76 96 Poland 10,706 165 N/A N/A 6,741 N/A 288 7,195 Romania 467 28 N/A N/A 156 N/A N/A 185 Spain – Capgemini & Sogeti 4,753 49 N/A N/A 1,306 N/A N/A 1,355 Sweden – Capgemini & Sogeti 2,991 N/A N/A N/A 40 15 125 180 Switzerland – Capgemini & Sogeti 331 N/AV N/A 5 4 N/A N/A 10 Other Europe 51,736 870 23 4,232 12,737 15 943 0 18,820 CAPGEMINI 112 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility Energy by Source Total Scope 3 Energy Energy Use Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions Emissions Emissions Scope and Metric (MWh) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) Data Electricity Total Energy Diesel/ Center Office Office Urban Electricity Energy Country (All sources) Gas Gas Oil Electricity Electricity Cooling Heating T&D Losses Emissions Brazil 12,364 1 21 271 563 N/A N/A 857 Guatemala 1,164 N/A N/A N/A 214 N/A N/A 214 Mexico 196 N/A N/A 6 82 N/A N/A 88 Total Latin America 13,724 1 21 278 859 0 0 0 1,159 China – Capgemini, FS & BPO 4,732 N/A N/A 523 3,093 N/A N/A 3,616 Philippines 600 N/A N/A N/A 295 N/A N/A 295 Vietnam 231 N/A N/A N/A 106 N/A N/A 106 Australia Capgemini (incl BPO) 648 N/A N/A N/A 533 N/A N/A 533 3 Morocco 1,524 N/A N/A N/A 908 N/A N/A 908 Total Other Regions 7,735 0 0 523 4,935 0 0 0 5,458 GRAND TOTAL 376,668 2,044 5,218 52,226 90,103 83 959 2,813 153,446 Notes – Data included in the tables is for the reporting period January to December 2014 (unless otherwise indicated) – Table key: N/A = Not Applicable; N/AV = Not Available, which denotes areas where data is assumed to exist but was not available for the purposes of this report. – “Scope” is a reporting term from Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which is used in carbon accounting to categorize emissions reported according to the level of control a company has over an emissions source. Data included in the tables is for the reporting period January to December 2014 (unless otherwise indicated) – All emission sources: Operations in the following countries were not included in data in our 2013 Group Financial Report: Belgium, Czech Republic, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Romania, Switzerland, Mexico, China, Philippines, Vietnam, Australia and Morocco. – All emission sources: Data for Sogeti entities in UK, US, Germany and Sweden were not included in the 2013 Group Financial Report. These have been added into the total for each country. – All emission sources: With the exception of hotel nights (mentioned below), emissions have been calculated using the conversion factors and methodology recommended by the DEFRA: https://www.gov.uk/measuring-and-reporting-environmental-impacts-guidance-for-businesses. – Energy: Where certain countries report the use of renewable energy, (energy purchased on ‘green’ tariffs) such as Netherlands, Sweden and the UK, the appropriate emission factor has been applied. – Energy: Given the nature of our business, many of Capgemini’s offices have large server rooms. These are not considered to be data centers but their presence should be taken into consideration when comparing the energy usage of our offices against those in other sectors. – Energy: T&D losses refers to electricity transmission and distribution grid losses (the energy loss that occurs in getting the electricity from the power plant to our facilities). At present, the UK is the only country to calculate emissions from T&D Losses. – Energy: For Canada, one data center closed in 2014. Data center electricity data for 2014 is incomplete for two other facilities and has therefore been estimated based on 2013 usage. – Energy: For US, the 2013 office electricity data had been partially estimated in last year’s Group Financial Report, due to the absence of invoices. When invoices were finally received, these showed electricity had been overestimated by 26 per cent. – F-Gas: For India, it was found 2013 F-Gas data had been significantly over-estimated – the 2014 figures provide a more accurate figure for F-Gas emissions. For India, F-gas for the UK for 2013 was also found to be over-estimated due to the inclusion of F-gases not covered by the Kyoto Protocol. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 113 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility Waste Generated F-Gas Travel (non-hazardous) Water Total Emissions Scope 1 Scope 3 Scope 3 Scope 3 Emissions Emissions Weight Emissions Water Use Emissions Total Emissions Scope and Metric (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (in Tons) (t CO2e) (m3) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) 2013 Total 2014 Total Emissions Total Business Emissions (excl Total F-Gas Travel Total Total Waste Total Water (all waste % Change Country Emissions Emissions Waste Emissions Water Use Emissions sources) & water) from 2013 India – Capgemini & Sogeti 166 36,321 764 106 487,254 517 97,394 99,588 -2.2% France – Capgemini, Sogeti & Prosodie N/AV 24,481 325 17 67,810 71 29,443 33,360 -11.7% UK – Capgemini, Aspire, FS, Sogeti 335 15,173 274 11 42,767 45 51,475 48,907 5.3% Netherlands N/A 30,168 303 41 6,482 7 39,866 45,383 -12.2% North America N/A 29,493 483 94 164,177 173 47,050 47,708 -1.4% Canada N/A 909 97 19 40,450 43 3,499 5,000 -30.0% USA – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 28,584 386 75 123,727 130 43,551 42,708 2.0% Total Largest operations 501 135,636 2150 270 768,490 813 265,228 274,946 -3.5% Belgium – Capgemini & Sogeti N/AV 5,454 8 1 568 1 5,716 Czech Republic 24 87 5 1 337 0 146 Denmark – Capgemini N/A 262 43 1 N/AV N/AV 310 336 -7.8% Finland – Capgemini N/A 418 83 7 1,014 1 2,592 2,806 -7.6% Germany – Capgemini & Sogeti N/AV 8,306 198 38 7,115 7 14,322 14,287 0.2% Ireland – Sogeti N/A 45 0 0 N/AV N/AV 85 Italy N/AV 3,036 77 15 53,440 56 4,326 Luxembourg Sogeti N/A 2,872 5 1 N/AV N/AV 2,938 Norway Capgemini N/A 585 72 9 3,697 4 694 Poland N/A 2,403 334 52 26,179 28 9,677 8,307 16.5% Romania N/AV 101 8 1 2,224 2 290 Spain – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 1,536 72 7 12,391 13 2,911 3,091 -5.8% Sweden – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 2,871 15 3 N/AV N/AV 3,053 3,293 -7.3% Switzerland – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 155 6 1 9 0 166 Total Other Europe 24 28,131 927 138 106,973 113 47,225 32,120 47.0% CAPGEMINI 114 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility Waste Generated F-Gas Travel (non-hazardous) Water Total Emissions Scope 1 Scope 3 Scope 3 Scope 3 Emissions Emissions Weight Emissions Water Use Emissions Total Emissions Scope and Metric (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (in Tons) (t CO2e) (m3) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) 2013 Total 2014 Total Emissions Total Business Emissions (excl Total F-Gas Travel Total Total Waste Total Water (all waste % Change Country Emissions Emissions Waste Emissions Water Use Emissions sources) & water) from 2013 Brazil N/A 3,046 56 2 41 0 3,904 5,490 -28.9% Guatemala N/A 374 44 9 11,889 13 610 795 -23.3% Mexico N/A 192 5 1 1,253 1 282 Total Latin America N/A 3,612 105 11 13,183 14 4,796 6,285 -24.1% China – Capgemini, FS & BPO N/A 3,521 51 10 16,042 17 7,163 Philippines N/A 59 3 0 2,129 2 356 Vietnam N/A 63 1 0 70 0 169 3 Australia Capgemini (incl BPO) N/A 1,869 1085 170 12,048 13 2,584 Morocco N/A 62 10 2 4,737 5 977 Total Other Regions N/A 5,573 1150 182 35,027 37 11,250 GRAND TOTAL 524 172,952 4,332 601 923,674 976 328,500 313,351 4.8% Notes (continued from previous page) – F-Gas: For India, it was found in a recent audit that 2013 F-Gas data had been significantly over-estimated – the 2014 figures provide a more accurate figure for F-Gas emissions. – Travel: Emission factors as produced by the Carbon Neutral Company have been used to calculate the emissions associated with hotel nights in all countries. It was identified during the external Grenelle II audit in 2012, that these factors, when applied outside the UK, may be too high with the result that the figures presented above are likely to be higher than reality. As more appropriate emission factors could not be obtained, the figures have been reported as calculated. – Travel: In the Netherlands and Belgium, emissions data associated with travel includes personal car use as well as business mileage as it could not be separated. – Waste: For the US and Canada, 2014 waste data is estimated based on 2013 invoices, with data adjusted to take into account “Actual number of people in office” in 2014. – Water: In the 2013 Group Financial Report, water supply data had been doubled to give the “Water Usage” figures reported – this has now been corrected resulting in a significant reduction in the water use data reported here. – Water: As recommended by DEFRA we calculate both emissions associated with water supply and emissions associated with water treatment. As the volume of water being sent for treatment is unmetered it is assumed that the volume is the same as that being supplied. – Water: For the US and Canada, 2014 water data is estimated based on a 2011 invoice, with data adjusted to take into account “Actual number of people in office” in 2014. – 2013 Total Emissions: Totals by region have been taken directly from the 2013 Group Financial Report. This 2013 data differs from the 2013 data contained in the Group CR&S Update 2014, which includes emissions from additional countries, emissions from waste disposal and water supply and restated data for the period Oct – Dec 2013. Full details of the difference between the 2013 data contained in the CR&S Update 2014 and that provided above, can be found on Page 27 of the CR&S Update 2014: http://www.capgemini.com/resource-fileaccess/resource/pdf/capgemini_crs_2014_update.pdf – “% Change from 2013” compares the reported 2013 and 2014 “Total Emissions” data – this is not a like-for-like comparison due to the fact that 2013 data excludes waste and water, as well as various countries and Sogeti entities,as mentioned above. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 115 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders 3.4.1 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT As Capgemini recognizes that the greatest resources we have the most disadvantaged countries. This site provides a secure to offer are the skills and expertise of our people, we also platform that enables our people to finance micro-credit projects recognize an opportunity and obligation to give back to the around the world in the form of online loans to projects that have wider community in which we live and operate. Our Community been validated from a socially responsible perspective. Engagement strategy focuses around two key themes: Education In 2012, we launched the MicroWorld platform in France, Ireland, and Development. the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Germany. More We channel our time, energy and creativity to make a positive countries joined the initiative and we launched the platform in impact through partnerships with a range of charity partners North America in 2014. Since the beginning of our involvement, a through volunteering, pro bono work, fundraising and awarding total of 938 micro entrepreneurs’ projects have been co-funded, funding where appropriate. Joining forces to help others with loans amounting to €107,000 from more than 1,200 strengthens team spirit, improves communication and gives us a members. better understanding of the communities around us. Naandi Our intention is to provide as many opportunities as we can for We continue to maintain a close partnership with the Naandi our people so that they can engage in activities for which they Foundation and its Nanhi Kali Initiative which focuses on have passion and commitment. We embed our community supporting young girls through their school education. By the service program within our business lines and client assignments. end of 2014 we had supported more than 70,000 school years We measure and share this commitment with our people, our of education with employees in over 10 countries continuing to partners and our clients through various communication channels support the initiative. such as our externally published Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report, our internet site and our internal Talent Number of Nanhi Kali girls sponsored intranet and Global Employee Survey. 2013 7,881 Through the energy and creativity of our people, communities have been impacted on every continent. To support this, in 2014 6,765 2014 global corporate volunteering guidelines were produced to share the best practices developed from across the Group. To celebrate our people’s achievements we also launched the new 3.4.1.2 NATIONAL INITIATIVES Global Community Engagement Awards, which were awarded for In March 2014, Capgemini France signed a collaborative excellence in four categories plus a People’s choice vote. agreement with Pierre & Marie Curie University (UPMC) strengthening the support given to students on computer-based 3.4.1.1 OUR GLOBAL INITIATIVES courses. Capgemini France assists by providing training and mentoring aimed at encouraging women into IT with mentors PlaNet Finance initiative bringing practical insights from their client based projects. Our Our professional services business, Sogeti, has provided people also deliver workshops aimed at women engineers and practical IT assistance to PlaNet Finance since their creation in managers in business. 1998. PlaNet Finance is an international non-profit organization Capgemini UK continues to help disadvantaged young people focused on enabling those in poverty to access financial services through our national partnership with The Prince’s Trust. Our in order to bring about sustained improvements to their living employees volunteer, mentor, provide pro-bono work and take standards. Sogeti’s assistance, comprising of technical expertise part in challenges and client hospitality. Since our patronage and critical IT systems support, has enabled PlaNet Finance began in 2008, we have directly helped over 1,300 young people to focus on their core business of providing financial inclusion. – in 2014 alone, the UK donated around €60,000 and engaged Sogeti manages PlaNet Finance’s computer systems by hosting with over 20 clients. Our UK program was awarded Business in computer applications including intranet, electronic messaging, the Community’s (BITC) prestigious Community Mark in 2013 and and online training, and provides services related to human since then has gone on to win a Big Tick Award recognizing the resources. regeneration of Dawley Town Hall in Telford, UK. This project also In addition, in late 2011, Capgemini and Sogeti launched a won a Global Community Engagement Award as selected by our dedicated website, in association with PlaNet Finance’s microcredit panel of judges. platform, MicroWorld, to promote the growth of micro-credit in CAPGEMINI 116 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders Started in Pune, India in 2004, Capgemini India’s WeKare program Annually since 2012, colleagues from over 20 locations focuses on the themes of environmental sustainability, education, across Capgemini North America unite and serve in their local and employability. Working with over 30 non-profit organizations, communities. Branded ‘Capgemini Cares’, these events and and in some cases our clients, WeKare undertakes initiatives projects are identified by local teams and have included everything across all our Indian locations including Bangalore, Chennai, from supporting local food banks and cleaning up parks to Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. During the first assisting local homeless shelters. In North America, Capgemini 10 months of 2014, our people donated over €114,000 to WeKare Consulting completed a pro bono assignment for the international through payroll donations, which went to various projects including cleft palate charity, Smile Train, focused on improving the efficiency the sponsorship of school kit and uniforms, the support of a of their worldwide operations. The impact of the assignment, Computer center at Ma Niketan, the planting of trees and various supporting Smile Train’s goal of delivering one million cleft lip educational funding including sponsorship of specific students. and palate surgeries, was recognized by Consulting Magazine with the project receiving their Excellence in Social & Community In May 2014, a number of our people from Capgemini Belgium Investment Award. ran the 20km Brussels Run to raise money for Dertiende Ster (13th Star), an initiative run in conjunction with a local NGO Yenega Once again, Capgemini Poland’s extraordinary Project Theater Tesfa, which supports children in Ethiopia. As well as providing transformed 26 of our people into actors, singers, and stage and shelter, food and security, the initiative also provides education and costume designers. Over five days in March, the team entertained a ‘hope for tomorrow’ (the literal translation of ‘Yenega Tesfa’) for over 1,000 children and their parents at the Małopolsk Ogród vulnerable young people. Sztuki Theater in Kraków. This year, for the first time since the Project started in 2008, around 40 visually impaired people were 3 able to enjoy the play thanks to audio-description. Project Theatre also won a Global Community Engagement Award as voted by our people. 3.4.1.3 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT AND DONATIONS SUMMARY OF DONATIONS MADE Countries Donations Programs North America 65,432€ 22k€ United Way, 11k€ Mental Health Association Of New Yorkcity Inc, 8k€ Boys & Girls Clubs Of Metro Atlanta, 5k€ Us Sciences Po Foundation, 5k€ Naandi France 307,570€ 96k€ for disability programs and 126k€ for CSR programs (50k€ Passport Avenir, 45k€ Women’s forum, 15k€ students in Lille University and 15k€ Ekodev for bees), 85k€ Microworld UK & Ireland 61,734€ 41k€ Naandi NL 71,360€ 20k€ Naandi, 30k€ St. Opkikker Super Opkikkerdag, 21k€ St. Opkikker website India 82,570€ 22,7k€ Capgemini Scholarship for Technical Education, 19,6k€ Bal Raksha Bharat, 16k€ SAHAAS, 6k€ Lila Poonawalla foundation for the education sponsorship of 12 girls Largest operations sub-total 588,666€ Nordics countries 98,218€ 71k€ Naandi, 13k€ Mentor International, Sweden South Europe 265,848€ 102k€ Adecco fundation, 95k€ PlanetFinance (Italy), 25k€ Fundación Catalana Síndrome de Down (FCSD), 25k€ CADIN (Portugal) Germany and centrale Europe 17,837€ 7k€ Managers of the Future Foundation MOFFIN (Poland), 8k€ Germany Asia-Pacific & Latam 19,229€ 4k€ Naandi (Australia), 2,5k€ GMA Kapuso Foundation, Inc.(Philippines), TOTAL 989,799€ CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 117 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders 3.4.1.4 SPONSORING AND PARTNERSHIP work experience, thereby offering young people the opportunity to APPROACH obtain their first job and acquire experience in a global company. Group company sponsorship of sports, cultural, social, In France, many job fairs are set up with major universities to educational or business events, either occasional or recurring, present professions and career paths within the Group. We forms part of Capgemini’s communication and marketing activities have a number of ongoing projects, following the 2012 signature with customers and other stakeholders. Sponsorship is different of three academic conventions and the creation of a university from charitable donations, as its purpose is to promote and degree, enabling students to be integrated and trained, and to strengthen the Group brands and impact. To ensure that it serves join Capgemini Associations such as “Passeport Avenir” and its intended purpose, each sponsorship must be pre-approved “Nos Quartiers ont des Talents” enable our Group to work with and it should also comply with applicable laws and be aligned with engineering or management schools and universities for individual Group’s “Seven Values”, internal policies and Code of Business student coaching. Each student is followed by one of our Ethics. employees – called tutor – during the school year to develop their professional orientation and orient their job search. Regarding sponsorship, the Group has established a longstanding partnership with the rugby world, especially in France, for a In 2014, Capgemini and Sogeti France signed with ATOS, Crédit number of reasons: Agricole S.A., Dassault Systèmes et Orange a partnership with the University of Cergy Pontoise to help and train the students X the team spirit which characterizes this sport fits with our own in situation of handicap on high technologies. This new diploma, values; which started on April 7th, has for objective to train eight students X the quality of the relationship which can be developed with in situation of handicap in the job of Web developer and mobile clients around this theme; applications, over a period of 12 months under limited-term X the strong local nature of rugby teams reinforces the link with contract and in alternation. regional communities. In North America, India or Asia-Pacific, Capgemini creates It is the Group’s policy not to make, directly or indirectly, any cash employment mainly in certain selected development areas. Thus or in-kind contribution to any political organization. in North America, recruiting practice is to hire at our principal sites Under certain circumstances, the Group wishes to have a positive as much as possible, as well as sites involved in large projects (as impact on the communities in which it operates or where its opposed to more remote sites where there are fewer opportunities employees live. As a major global player, it works with national to hire). and international charities on community projects: In India, two of our largest campuses are situated in semi-urban X the goals are compatible with its “Seven Values”, its Code special economic zones identified by the Government of India. of Business Ethics and its Corporate Responsibility and These campuses, located near Chennai and Pune, contribute to Sustainability policy; the development of the local economy by providing commercial and employment opportunities to the local population. In this X the organization is a legitimate charitable organization. country, Capgemini is also growing its presence by setting up operations in smaller cities, such as Trichy and Trivandrum. 3.4.1.5 SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACT OF OUR Lastly, still in India, as part of the “Train & Hire Program”, BUSINESS REGARDING EMPLOYMENT we cover training costs for students in certain cutting-edge In 2014, with 39,925 recruits a record high number in the Group technologies before hiring them when they have finished their history, the Capgemini Group has an important social and training. This program creates a talent pool of candidates with economic impact in most of the countries in which it operates and niche skills and generates employment. is a key local employer. In Brazil, Capgemini opened new sites in other locations such as Nearly 41% of total new recruits are young graduates from the new Service Desk site in Araraquara, which is located in the highly-reputed technology schools and business schools, thus countryside of São Paulo state, and this site will provide more than creating employment or replacing positions for more than 16,000 390 new positions. new graduates annually. Furthermore, we participate in many In Asia-Pacific, the Capgemini Group has an impressive regional actions and job fairs, organized in management and engineering footprint with a presence in Singapore, Hong-Kong, Malaysia, schools, notably in France (ESEO, Telecom Paris, INSA Rennes), Taiwan, the Philippines, China, Vietnam and Japan. In line with India, North America, and the UK. In Latin American countries, our strategy of local development, the majority of employees such as Chile, Brazil, Guatemala and Argentina, where access and management teams are locals and are recruited locally in to education is one of the biggest problems, Capgemini plays a most of these countries. Capgemini thus contributes to building major role in the labor market, recruiting employees with little or no employability and, in some of them, has demonstrated its longterm commitment (present in Taiwan for more than 15 years). CAPGEMINI 118 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders For all these employment programs, Capgemini received several or Capgemini Poland ranked in TOP 20 as best employer by awards in 2014, such as in Poland (Best ‘Next Generation’ AIESEC and received the Employer Branding Excellence Award Process Excellence Award for ‘Creating Change Friendly 2014), or in Belgium (top employer in 2014, 8 years in a row). Environment: Lean Model Office: ‘ by Process Excellence Network) 3.4.2 CLIENT SERVICES Capgemini is dedicated to collaboratively working with our clients 3.4.2.3 SMART ENERGY SERVICES to ensure their business needs are met and exceeded by providing Capgemini’s Smart Energy Services provides the full spectrum of profitable and sustainable added value services. smart metering and smart grid solutions through leveraging best practices developed over the last 12 years working alongside 3.4.2.1 ENABLING CLIENT TRANSFORMATION the world’s leading utilities. As a result of following this strategy, Clients are increasingly expecting their service providers to help investing and focusing in SES, Capgemini has established itself them address their own sustainability challenges, for example, not as one of the leaders among global consulting and technology only providing the most efficient business solutions but minimizing firms in the advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) market. Our environmental impacts in the process. As a provider of business commitment is strong with more than 10,000 utility specialists transformation services for our clients, we believe that we are well positioned to help with such challenges. worldwide. Our team has extensive utilities industry experience with an unequalled track record for successful innovation and 3 delivery. Specifically, as an IT service provider we have the opportunity to help clients reduce their own carbon footprint through the As evidence of success of this strategy, at Capgemini we: advice that we offer and the solutions that we design and deliver. X have provided services to AMI projects encompassing over Capgemini also recognizes that operational efficiency is a key 113 million meters worldwide; driver in ensuring longevity for our clients, a driver that is often X have provided services to over 75 active utilities with regard their complemented by reduced carbon emissions. As our services Smart Meter and Smart Grid programs; incorporate the principles of sustainability, we can support clients X directly manage mass deployment programs for over 23 million in meeting the rising demands of regulation, competition, rising smart meters worldwide; and operational costs and mounting scrutiny upon the consumption of resources. X provide daily smart meter network operations support for 6 million meters globally. Furthermore, when clients outsource their operations to us, they can rest assured that we manage their carbon emissions. Our Our Smart Energy Services Platform (SESP) is used to support sustainable data centers improve the energy efficiency of our mass deployments and ongoing meter operations for over clients’ IT estate. 7.5 million meters globally. Our clients include many of the world’s major utilities such as 3.4.2.2 SUSTAINABILITY AND CARBON EMISSION British Columbia Hydro, Ontario’s Hydro One, San Diego Gas & REPORTING Electric, Southern California Gas, Consumers Energy, Fortum, AusNet Services, Hafslund, Italgas, EON Sweden, GrDF, Hydro Managing sustainability performance is increasingly critical Quebec, and Centrica. for our clients, and raises the requirement for appropriate, Capgemini has an established global network of Smart Energy eco-responsible systems and processes to capture complex and Centers of Excellence (COE). These COE’s provide leading comprehensive data. innovation, content, process, and tools support for our smart To help companies effectively manage their sustainability agenda, energy programs. Our centers also provide leading industrialized Capgemini has developed a sustainability data management services for integration, deployment, meter operations, network function covering energy, carbon impact and wider sustainability operations and solution architecture across multiple clients. reporting. Such systems are essential for well-informed http://www.capgemini.com/utilities/smart-energy-services management of the carbon footprint and reductions in energy consumption. Our service for Energy, Carbon & Sustainability Data Management and Reporting can accommodate all global protocols and emission factors. The solution is highly cost effective, as well as delivering the highest quality data management and reporting. Capgemini provides sustainability and business process expertise, underpinned by a comprehensive technology platform, in a single integrated service. Thanks to this efficient and reliable service, our clients are able to move beyond cost reduction, and leverage sustainability to deliver added value and competitive advantage in the market. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 119 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders 3.4.2.4 SMART CITIES X installing energy-efficient lighting and moving to lights-out operation; Capgemini recognizes that technology – properly scoped and X monitoring temperature set points and making adjustments as implemented – is an enabler to the adoption of new approaches to delivering smarter citizen services. required to maintain an optimal power-toprocessing ratio. Among Merlin’s key sustainability achievements are: As urban populations increase at a faster rate than ever before, they contribute disproportionately to carbon emissions and X a PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness) ratio of 1.10, which means climate change, and our largest cities are now home to millions of power savings of 91% compared to an “industry average” data people. New types of urban infrastructure are required to support center; sustainable growth, and maintain the efficiency of cities. X a cooling system that delivers 80% savings in running costs and Capgemini is acknowledged as a thought leader in the use of produces up to 50% less carbon emissions than traditional data information and communications technologies as a tool to provide center cooling solutions; and energy, transport and public services with the explicit aims of X the elimination of batteries in the Uninterruptible Power reducing costs, delivering better outcomes, and respecting the Supply (UPS) thanks to the application of innovative flywheel environment. technology. More information is available at http://www.capgemini.com/ All of this has been achieved while fulfilling the industry’s most resources/creating-sustainable-cities-for-the-21st-century. rigorous security and resiliency demands. This led to Merlin winning the EU Institute for Energy and Transport’s 2013 European Code of Conduct for Data Center Energy Efficiency Award in 3.4.2.5 SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTANCY SERVICES recognition of “our reduction in energy consumption in a costCapgemini provides consulting services for climate change effective manner without hampering the critical function of data management, as well as operational efficiency and industry center equipment.” operations. Our global network of sustainability experts integrates In its short life, Merlin has also won the Data Centre Dynamics complex business issues with sustainability goals. Leaders’ Green Data Centre Award (2010) and the Uptime We also deliver specialized services for smart verticals, such as Institute’s Green IT Award for Data Center Design (2011). It was utility (energy and water), transportation, oil and gas, and the also a runner up in The Guardian’s 2011 Sustainable Business public sector. Awards, and a finalist in the 2011 Business Green Leader’s awards. 3.4.2.6 MERLIN DATA CENTER Further information is available from: Forming a part of our portfolio of data centers, our Merlin data http://www.capgemini.com/resources/a-closer-look-at-merlin. center continues to operate as one of the most sustainable data centers in the world,. Based on state-of-the-art technology, Merlin 3.4.2.7 THE OTACE CLIENT SATISFACTION POLICY was opened in the UK in 2010 to ensure clients’ systems are run as efficiently as possible with reduced emissions (compared with Our internal client relationship management process, known their own in-house systems). Sustainability has been at the heart as OTACE (On Time and At or Above Client Expectations) is a of the project from the selection of its location, through its design key factor underpinning our client relationships. Our clients are and construction, to the day-to-day operations of the site. requested to specify their expectations from the Group, based on a set of indicators relating to the following: Committed to maximising the resource efficiency of our existing facilities, Capgemini has, for some time, been investing heavily in X type of service required; improving the power efficiency of our data centers, including: X nature of the working relationship; X sourcing renewable energy; X knowledge sharing. X converting AC mains power supply to DC; We document and then analyze these indicators with clients to produce ratings that are reviewed according to an agreed schedule. CAPGEMINI 120 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders OTACE provides an indication of strengths and areas for Our client focus and our Collaborative Business Experience are the improvement, as well as a deeper understanding of the various essence of the way we work with our clients. Client satisfaction parameters of client satisfaction on individual projects. In 2014, and their appreciation of the value we bring in to help them achieve more than 4,200 client assignments were monitored using sustainable results is essential to our business. This is reflected in OTACE. The results showed that 88% met or exceeded customer how our people feel: in our 2014 Global Employee Survey, 91% expectations, with a client satisfaction rate of 3.9 out of 5. of people strongly agreed that they “feel personally responsible for their client’s satisfaction.” This percentage increases steadily OTACE is progressively deployed in new units and the coverage in across the years. 2014 was 78% of total revenue. 3.4.3 OUR SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS Capgemini’s commitment to supplier relationships is reflected in During 2013, the Group competition law policy was further its comprehensive set of guidelines on purchasing ethics and the deployed and was the subject of a communication campaign. The selection of suppliers. Capgemini Procurement department is committed to complying with the applicable competition and anti-trust laws and regulations. Team members have been trained in appropriate supplier selection PURCHASING methods. In our purchasing activities, the Group takes into account Furthermore, in order to ensure traceability and systematic early 3 environmental issues, social impacts, human rights, and the fight involvement of the Procurement department in the procurement against corruption. The ten key principles of the United Nations process in general (procure to pay processes), an initiative Global Compact guide Capgemini’s activities throughout our requiring a purchase order to be issued before any invoice business. In other words, the Group is committed to ensuring payment was launched in 2013. that we only work with suppliers with ethical practices and which respect human rights. OUR SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PRINCIPLES Capgemini has set out “Guidelines on Ethical Procurement” and wishes to develop long-term relations with selected suppliers. Our suppliers are expected to conduct their relationships with us Should a supplier fail to respect these ethical guidelines, and any of our clients, commercial partners and other suppliers on Capgemini is then entitled to cancel the contract with the supplier. a fair and ethical basis and in compliance with our core principles of sustainability. These principles apply both to the products Our procurement procedures are based on the following principles: and services provided, to the suppliers’ activities and, where X treating suppliers fairly; appropriate, to their downstream supply chains. X selecting suppliers based on value, performance, price and Our core principles and actions can be found at the following sustainability; addresses: X selecting suppliers in accordance with a justifiable and X for ethics: http://www.capgemini.com/resources/our-ethics-fortransparent process; you; X preserving the confidentiality of supplier information; X for CR&S and sustainability with SMEs: http://www. X managing supplier risk; uk.capgemini.com/about/corporate-responsibility/businessX ensuring supplier contracts have clauses relating to sustainable information-for-small-medium-enterprises. procurement; X maintaining relationships with suppliers based wholly on SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT IN PRACTICE competition. Our centralized supplier data, contract and spend management Supplier diversity and equal opportunity is encouraged: we aim to allows us to identify key areas of sustainability risk and related allow qualified small and very small businesses the opportunity to opportunities for improvement during the overall lifetime of receive a share of the market. Our “eco-system” approach with the relationship with our suppliers and business partners. We major clients aims to foster this and level the entry barrier where are especially assessing all new suppliers, who are required to practical. complete a sustainability questionnaire depending on risks Contractors’ and suppliers’ staff is expected to work according identified. to the same CR&S sustainability criteria as our own employees; in tandem, we apply the same health and safety and diversity criteria to contractors and suppliers as to our own employees. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 121 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders In 2014, Group purchases from its top one hundred and top ten 2014 has been another year of Capgemini UK supporting the UK suppliers totaled respectively €1,186 million and €452 million. The Government’s SME (Small Medium Enterprises) aspiration of 25% number one, top five and top ten suppliers represented 5%, 13% of all public sector related expenditure to be placed with SMEs. and 19% of Group spend, respectively. In 2011 it was estimated that there were 200 SMEs who were used by Capgemini UK when supporting Government Department Below are three key examples of how Capgemini continues to clients. Through 2014 we had enabled 1756 live Tier 1 SMEs in implement its sustainable procurement. our purchasing system and 39% more had been spent during Capgemini India achieved its ISO 14001 certification in 2014. 2014 with these SME’s supporting UK government. This is While this was possible due to the coordination and support of evidence that our programme of activities to make doing business teams from across India, Procurement played a critical threewith Capgemini UK easier is effective and we will continue to dimensional approach in this whole initiative: progress this in 2015. X collaborate with vendors who understand our need of becoming We have continued to ensure compliance and mitigate risk to sustainable and help us to become an environmentally Capgemini UK. We have risk assessed 352 new suppliers of sustainable organization. Few instances to demonstrate this are whom 49 were found to be non-compliant to our policies and the Green IT that was supported by Lenovo, HP customizing standards, and were therefore not used. In addition a further 8 the solution to meet our needs such as duplex printing and suppliers were judged to be high risk with regards to sustainability smart printing. Vendors who demonstrate expertise in the area & investigated further, and 3 suppliers were investigated for their of water savings were also instrumental; adherence to the 2010 UK Bribery Act, all issues were successfully X ensure that we are hooked up with the authorized licensed resolved. In addition to our standard monitoring approach, during vendors who help us in disposing our waste in environmentally 2014 we introduced direct supplier audits for the first time friendly systems. Identifying a Pan India E-waste vendor as well assessing a range of suppliers both high and low risk to ensure as local vendors was a right step in this direction; that they were in compliance to our requirements and their actions X engage with our vendors who are Crux for this whole program. supported their statements to us. It is imperative, also emphasized by the standard ISO 14001, In France, the 2013-2015 agreement for integration of handicap that it is not just the employees but also people working on people signed with the social partners sets targets to both hire behalf of the organizations that also realize the importance of protected people and develop our external spend with suppliers being sustainable. In this regard, a survey was sent out to each from the protected worker sector. of our suppliers. The results of this are being collated which will In 2014 the procurement organization has supported Capgemini throw light on those areas that need focus. France to achieve the objective of 1.2M€ spend by setting up an Going forward we have realized the need to formulate strategies action plan targeting specific spend categories from the protected which will enable us to have a farsighted vision on this whole sector such as catering, printing, office furniture, maintenance subject of procurement, procure smartly, thereby yielding us and cleaning of buildings including recycling activities, as well profits, helping us achieve significant savings and attaining the as IS subcontracting. New suppliers have been identified and ambitious objectives and targets we have set. incorporated in our supply base. Procurement requests have been analyzed and directed to the selected suppliers. CAPGEMINI 122 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.5 Independent external analysis 3.5 Independent external analysis ASSURANCE REPORT BY ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, APPOINTED AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED LABOUR, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION PRESENTED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditor’s report issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Year ended 31 December 2014 X express limited assurance that the CSR Information, taken as a To the Shareholders, whole, is presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance 3 with the Guidelines (opinion on the fair presentation of the CSR In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Cap Gemini S.A., appointed Information). as Independent Third Party, accredited by the COFRAC registered Our work was performed by a team of approximately six people under number 3-1049, we hereby present to you our report on between November 2014 and February 2015 and took around the consolidated environmental, labour and social information nine weeks. We were assisted by our specialists in corporate (hereinafter the “CSR Information”) for the year ended December social responsibility. 31st, 2014, presented in the management report. This report has been prepared in accordance with Article L.225-102-1 of the We performed the procedures below in accordance with French Commercial Code. professional auditing standards applicable in France, with the decree dated 13 May 2013 determining the manner in which the independent third party should carry out his work, and with ISAE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COMPANY 3000(1) concerning our opinion on the fair presentation of CSR The Board is responsible for preparing the company’s Information. management report including CSR Information in accordance with 1. Statement of completeness of CSR Information the provisions of Article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code and with the guidelines used by the company (hereinafter On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the the “Guidelines”), summarized in the management report and relevant departments, we reviewed the company’s sustainable available on request from the company’s head office. development strategy with respect to the social and environmental impact of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any initiatives or programmes it has implemented as INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL a result. Our independence is defined by regulations, the French code We compared the CSR Information presented in the management of ethics governing the audit profession and the provisions of report with the list provided in Article R.225-105-1 of the French Article L.822-11 of the French Commercial Code. We have also Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that was not implemented a quality control system comprising documented disclosed, we verified that the explanations provided complied policies and procedures for ensuring compliance with the codes with the provisions of Article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the of ethics, professional auditing standards and applicable law and French Commercial Code. regulations. We verified that the CSR Information covers the consolidation scope, i.e. the company, its subsidiaries as defined by Article RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR L.233-1 and the entities it controls as defined by Article L.233-3 of On the basis of our work, it is our responsibility to: the French Commercial Code, within the limitations set out in the methodological information presented in the sections 3.2.1 and X attest that the required CSR Information is presented in the 3.3.4 of the chapter related to environmental, labour and social management report or, in the event that any CSR Information information of the management report. is not presented, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of Article R.225-105 of the French Based on these procedures and given the limitations mentioned Commercial Code (Statement of completeness of CSR above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been Information); disclosed in the management report. (1) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 123 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.5 Independent external analysis 2. Reasoned opinion on the fairness of the CSR X at the entity level for a representative sample of entities Information selected(2) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to Nature and scope of the work the consolidated indicators, their location and risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that the procedures were We conducted three interviews with the people responsible for followed correctly and to identify any undisclosed data, and preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in collecting the information and, where appropriate, with those order to verify the calculations made and reconcile the data with responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, the supporting documents. The selected sample represents in order to: 36% of headcount, between 25% and 41% of quantitative X assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, environmental information. completeness, reliability, impartiality and understandability, For the other consolidated CSR information, we assessed its taking into account best practice, where appropriate; consistency based on our understanding of the company. X verify that a data-collection, compilation, processing and control We also assessed the relevance of explanations given for any procedure has been implemented to ensure the completeness information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. and consistency of the Information and review the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes used, CSR Information. based on our professional judgement, were sufficient to enable us to provide limited assurance; a higher level of assurance would We determined the nature and scope of our tests and controls have required us to carry out more extensive work. Due to the according to the nature and importance of the CSR Information use of sampling techniques and other limitations intrinsic to the with respect to the characteristics of the company, the social and operation of information and internal control systems, we cannot environmental impact of its activities, its sustainable development completely rule out the possibility that a material irregularity has strategy and best practice. not been detected. With regard to the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important(1): Conclusion Based on our work, we did not identify any material anomalies X at parent entity level and subsidiaries and controlled entities likely to call into question the fact that the CSR Information, taken level, we consulted documentary sources and conducted as a whole, is presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. interviews to substantiate the qualitative information (organization, policy, action), we performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and consolidation of the data. We also verified that the data was consistent by crosschecking it with other information in the management report; Paris La Défense, 27th February 2015 KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner Climate Change & Sustainability Services Department (1) Labour indicators: Workforce broken down by geographical area, age, gender; average workforce; number of hires and attrition by gender; absenteeism ratio; breakdown of part time workforce; number of training hours and employees trained; employees who had a performance and career review. Environmental indicators: Direct energy consumption; greenhouse gas emissions related to direct energy consumption and work travel. Qualitative information: Occupational health and safety conditions; Equal opportunity; The organization of the company to integrate environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process regarding environmental issues; Action implemented against corruption; Data privacy. (2) Capgemini India FS & ACIS, Capgemini Italy, Capgemini Spain, Capgemini Sweden, Capgemini France. CAPGEMINI 124 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.6 Grenelle correlation table 3.6 Grenelle correlation table The following Grenelle II table details the indicators included in the legislation and which Capgemini has reported. Explanations for not reporting any indicator are also included. HR data indicators Y■/N■ Explanation a) Headcount X Total headcount; Distribution of employees by age, gender ■ See pages 89, 90 and 99 and geographical area X Recruitments and redundancies ■ See pages 90 and 107 X Remuneration and its changes ■ See page 91 b) Work organization X Working time organization ■ See page 92 3 X Absenteeism ■ See page 93 c) Labor relations X Organization of social dialogue including information procedures, ■ See pages 105 and 106 consultation and negotiation with the employees X Summary of collective agreements ■ See pages 105 and 106 d) Health and safety X Occupational health and safety conditions ■ See page 94 X Summary of collective agreements signed with trade unions or ■ See page 94 employee representatives regarding workplace health and safety X Occupational accidents, including accident frequency and severity ■ See pages 93 and 94 rates, and occupational diseases e) Training X Policies implemented regarding training ■ See pages 95 à 97 X Total number of training hours ■ See page 96 f) Equal opportunities X Measures implemented to promote gender equality ■ See pages 99 to 102 X Measures implemented to promote employment and integration ■ See pages 102 to 104 of disabled people X Policy against discrimination ■ See pages 89 to 99, and 104 g) Promotion and compliance with ILO fundamental conventions relative to: X The freedom of association and recognition of the right to ■ See pages 84 and 85 collective bargaining X The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and ■ occupation X The elimination of all forms of forced labor ■ X The abolition of child labor ■ CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 125 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.6 Grenelle correlation table Environmental indicators Y■/N■ Explanation a) General environmental policy X The organization of the company to take environmental issues ■ See pages 108 and 109 into account and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification processes relating to environmental issues X Information and training measures for employees regarding ■ See pages 108 and 109 the protection of the environment X Resources allocated to prevention of environmental risks ■ Due to the nature of our activities, our impact is and pollution mostly linked to associated carbon emissions. Hence the most relevant indicator has been identified as Greenhouse Gas Emissions and the set of actions implemented to reduce and optimize energy resources and sustainable resources in general X Amount of the environmental risks provisions and guarantees, ■ As above unless such information is likely to cause serious prejudice to the company in an ongoing litigation b) Pollution and waste management X Measures to prevent, reduce or repair discharges into the ■ As above atmosphere, water and soil, severely impacting the environment X Measures regarding waste prevention, recycling and disposal ■ See pages 111 to 115 X Consideration of noise and of any other activity specific pollution ■ As themes a, b c) Sustainable use of resources X Water consumption ■ See page 111 to 115 As water usage is not a significant environmental X Water supply adapted to the local constraints ■ aspect for Capgemini, it has been excluded from the data tables. The roll-out of our carbon accounting system requires the inclusion of water consumption and we are assessing whether this usage, in particular, relating to data center cooling systems, may have a significant impact. X Consumption of raw materials and measures implemented ■ Due to the nature of our business we do not to improve efficiency in their use consume raw materials X Energy consumption and measures implemented to improve ■ See pages 110 to 115 energy efficiency and renewable energy use X Land usage ■ As there is very little land or “green’ space at our office locations, data relating to the use of land is not considered applicable d) Climate Change X Greenhouse gas emissions ■ GHG emissions for a limited scope X Adaptation to consequences of climate change ■ We evaluate the risks in terms of energy costs. The aim going forward is to set reduction targets globally e) Biodiversity protection X Measures implemented to protect and conserve the biodiversity ■ As there is very little land or “green’ space at our office locations, data relating to the use of land is not considered applicable CAPGEMINI 126 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.6 Grenelle correlation table Social and community indicators Y■/N■ Explanation a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the company activity: X Regarding regional employment and development ■ See pages 116 to 119 X On the local populations ■ See page 118 b) Relations with stakeholders, including integration associations, educational institutions, associations for the protection of the environment, consumer organizations and local populations X Conditions for dialog with stakeholders ■ See pages 116 to 118 X Partnership and sponsorship actions ■ See pages 116 to 118 c) Subcontractors and suppliers X Integration of social and environmental issues ■ See pages 121 and 122 into the procurement policy X Importance of subcontracting and consideration of their social ■ See pages 121 and 122 and environmental responsibility in our relationships with subcontractors and suppliers 3 d) Fair business practices X Action taken against corruption ■ See page 85 X Measures implemented to promote consumer health and safety ■ We do not carry out consumer-facing activities and do not produce consumer products which may impact the health or safety of end-consumers e) Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights X Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights ■ See pages 84 and 85 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 127 CAPGEMINI 128 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 4 Financial Information 4.1 4.4 Analysis on Capgemini 2014 Cap Gemini S.A. Group consolidated results 130 ﬁnancial statements 197 4.1.1 General comments on the Group’s 4.4.1 Balance Sheet activity over the past year 130 at December 31, 2013 and 2014 197 4.1.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group 4.4.2 Income Statement for the years ended consolidated financial statements December 31, 2013 and 2014 199 and outlook for 2015 134 4.4.3 Notes to the financial statements 200 4.4.4 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements 217 4.2 4.4.5 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 218 4.4.6 Statutory Auditors’ additional report Consolidated accounts 136 on the issue of ordinary shares or 4.2.1 Consolidated income statement 136 securities granting access to the company’s share capital 219 4.2.2 Statement of income and expense recognized in equity 137 4.4.7 Statutory Auditors’ additional report on the share capital issue 4.2.3 Consolidated statement in favor of certain employees of financial position 138 and corporate officers of non-french 4.2.4 Consolidated statement subsidiaries 220 of cash flows 139 4.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 140 4.5 4.2.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 141 4.2.7 Statutory Auditors’ report on the Other ﬁnancial consolidated financial statements 194 and accounting information 221 4.5.1 Five-year financial summary 221 4.3 4.5.2 subsidiaries and investment 222 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 195 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 129 4 Financial Information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2014 Group consolidated results 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2014 Group consolidated results 4.1.1 GENERAL COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S ACTIVITY OVER THE PAST YEAR Fiscal year 2014 saw a fresh acceleration in the Group’s energy and utilities, retail and consumer goods sectors. The North performance, with a marked return to revenue growth, a significant America operating margin was €281 million in 2014 (12.6% of improvement in operating margins and strong free cash flow revenues, up 0.3 points), compared with €255 million in 2013. generation. The United Kingdom reported revenues of €2,197 million this In an economic context that remained difficult in Europe, year (20.8% of the Group total), up 4.1% like-for-like (and 9.7% Capgemini progressed steadily, driven by excellent growth in including relative fluctuations in the pound sterling and the euro). North American operations and the priority given to innovation and Growth was primarily driven by application services, thanks in competiveness in order to better respond to client expectations. particular to the dynamism of activities with the private sector, Overall, the Group generated revenues of €10,573 million in and by other managed services which benefited from the delay in 2014, up 3.4% like-for-like compared with 2013 (i.e. at constant the scheduled decrease in revenues on a major contract. On this Group structure and exchange rates). Adjusted for the impact basis, the operating margin is €249 million (11.3% of revenues, up of relative fluctuations in Group currencies and the euro and the 2.6 points), compared with €175 million in 2013. consolidation of the French company, Euriware, purchased this France reported revenues of €2,342 million in 2014 (22.1% of year, revenues rose 4.8% on 2013 published figures. the Group total), up 0.5% over the year (and 6.9% including the The 2014 operating margin rate is 9.2%, up 0.7 points on 2013 consolidation of Euriware), demonstrating slight growth despite a and therefore above the growth objective for this rate of between difficult economic environment. Local professional services (Sogeti) 0.3 and 0.5 points announced at the beginning of 2014. With and application services fell back, thankfully offset by the return to restructuring costs held stable (€68 million), the Group is able growth of consulting services activities and the good performance to report an operating profit of €853 million, thereby bringing the of other managed services. The 2014 operating margin is operating profit margin rate to 8.1%, compared with 7.1% in 2013. €197 million (8.4% of revenues) compared with €204 million in 2013 (9.3% of revenues). The net financial expense is €70 million (€102 million in 2013). The income tax expense is €210 million compared with €182 million Benelux reported revenues of €1,074 million (10.2% of the Group in 2013. total), representing a slight fall of 0.6% and nearing a stabilization of activity after several downturns in recent years. Revenues On this basis, profit for the year attributable to owners of the generated by the other managed services business increased Company is €580 million for 2014, up 31% year-on-year. significantly (16.6%), while the local professional services business The Group generated organic free cash flow(1) of €668 million (Sogeti) remained stable. The other businesses contracted over (€455 million in 2013 before the exceptional contribution to a the year, with nonetheless a progressive improvement throughout United Kingdom pension fund). the period. The operating margin is €113 million (10.5% of revenues, up 0.7 points on 2013). OPERATIONS BY MAJOR REGION The “Rest of Europe” increased 2.3% like-for-like (0.5% on North America reported revenues of €2,230 million in 2014 published figures), with revenues of €1,849 million (17.5% of the (21.1% of the Group total), a rise of 8.5% like-for-like (7.5% Group total). Activity was strong in the Nordic countries, Italy and at current Group structure and exchange rates). This region Portugal. It remained stable in Continental Europe and contracted enjoyed strong activity throughout the year, thanks to the strong once again in Spain, with nonetheless an upturn in the second momentum of application services (+9.3% like-for-like) and other half of the year. The operating margin is €160 million (8.6% of managed services (+11.4%), particularly in the financial services, revenues, up 0.9 points on 2013). This improvement was driven by growth in offshore activities, particularly in the Nordic countries. (1) Organic free cash flow is equal to cash flow from operations less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost. CAPGEMINI 130 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2014 Group consolidated results Finally, the Asia-Pacific and Latin America region (€881 million, Consulting services (4.2% of Group revenues) suffered a 3.4% 8.3% of Group revenues) reported growth of 5.0% like-for-like contraction in activities on a like-for-like basis, with nonetheless (and contracted 2.5% based on published figures, with currency a far more moderate fall in the fourth quarter. This decrease was fluctuations and in particular fluctuations in the Brazilian real, mainly due to the downturn in activity in North America, the United Indian rupee and Australian dollar accounting for the majority of Kingdom and Benelux, while France and the Rest of Europe are the difference between these two rates). In Asia-Pacific, growth now enjoying activity growth. The 70% utilization rate in the final was close to 11% (like-for-like) and remains driven by the quarter represents a marked improvement. On this basis, the 2014 development of financial services and the local Indian market. operating margin rate is 8.2% compared with 7.8% in 2013. In Latin America, activity levels remained stable on a like-for-like Local professional services (SOGETI) (14.9% of Group basis, with as forecast a return to double-digit growth in the fourth revenues) reported growth of 1.1% in revenues over 2014 as quarter. This performance is all the more the significant as the a whole, on a like-for-like basis. While the French subsidiary scheduled reduction in sales of IT equipment to a South American reported a slight downturn (-1.8%), Sogeti successfully reported client weighed heavily on results and was able to be offset by growth in all other regions and particularly in North America which the strong growth in application services activities. The operating grew nearly 5%. The utilization rate remained at a satisfactory margin is €54 million (6.1% of revenues, up 1.2 points) compared level (82%). The operating margin rate is 9.9% compared with with €44 million in 2013. 10.6% in 2013. This slight decrease is due to the integration of part of Euriware activities and the weakness in demand from the OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS aeronautical sector. Growing demand from clients to group application development Application services (55.4% of Group revenues) reported and maintenance services in a single contract led the Group to revenue growth of 3.8% like-for-like in 2014. Amongst other things, review the presentation of its segment reporting by business. this growth was driven by the dynamism of innovation services The distinction between technology services (which include and particularly those services regrouped within the SMAC (Social, application development) and outsourcing services (which include Mobile, Analytics and Cloud) offering as well as of applicative the maintenance activity) has therefore become artificial. maintenance services, thanks especially to our NextGenAM industrial offerings. North America, the United Kingdom and the Accordingly, from January 1, 2014, segment reporting by business is presented as follows: Asia-Pacific and Latin American region contributed substantially to this growth. The utilization rate remained at a favorable level 4 X Consulting services, which help to enhance the performance of (around 82%). The operating margin rate is 10.6%, up 0.9 points organizations based on in-depth knowledge of client industries on 2013. and processes (definition unchanged); Other managed services (25.5% of Group revenues) reported X Local professional services, which provide assistance and a like-for-like increase in revenues of 5.3% in 2014 thanks to support to internal IT teams within client companies (definition the growth of BPO (Business Process Outsourcing) activities unchanged); and infrastructure services. North America and Benelux enjoyed X Application services, which devise, develop, implement and growth rates in excess of 10%. The operating margin rate is maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system integration 8.8%, representing a 1.7 point improvement on last year (7.1%), and application maintenance activities; partly due to the improvement in the profitability of infrastructure X Other managed services, which integrate, manage and/or services. develop either fully or partially, client IT Infrastructure systems In summary, the following table presents the utilization rates (on (or those of a group of clients), transaction services, ona like-for-like basis) measuring the percentage of work time, demand services and/or business activities (Business Process excluding statutory holidays, of production employees. These Outsourcing, BPO). rates are relatively stable on 2013. 2013 2014 UTILIZATION RATES Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Consulting services 62% 69% 64% 67% 65% 69% 64% 70% Local professional services 80% 82% 83% 82% 81% 82% 82% 82% Application services 80% 81% 82% 82% 81% 82% 82% 83% CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 131 4 Financial Information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2014 Group consolidated results RESULTS BY BUSINESS Revenues (in millions of euros) 2012 2013 2014 Consulting services 500 456 442 Local professional services (Sogeti) 1,528 1,498 1,577 Application services 5,908 5,825 5,854 Other managed services 2,328 2,313 2,700 TOTAL 10,264 10,092 10,573 Operating margin (as a % of revenues) 2012 2013 2014 Consulting services 11.2% 7.8% 8.2% Local professional services (Sogeti) 10.7% 10.6% 9.9% Application services 8.6% 9.7% 10.6% Other managed services 7.0% 7.1% 8.8% HEADCOUNT Board of Directors also wished that the Secretary of the Group Committee be invited to attend its meetings. In addition, the At December 31, 2014, the total Group headcount is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s compensation was 143,643 employees compared with 131,430 employees one year approved by nearly 97% of shareholders, one of the highest earlier. This 12,213 increase (+9.3%) reflects: scores for a CAC 40 company; X 42,035 additions, comprising 39,925 new hires and X the refinancing of a credit facility on July 30, 2014 with a group 2,110 employees integrated in the Group headcount following of banks through a new multi-currency credit facility for an acquisitions (primarily Euriware); increased amount of €750 million, maturing July 30, 2019. This X 29,822 departures (including 24,646 resignations), representing facility was undrawn at December 31, 2014; an attrition rate of 17.8% of the headcount in 2014 (compared X the third season of “Super Techie Show” an international with 16.8% in 2013). television show broadcast in India and sponsored by Capgemini, which allows young engineers to showcase their technology ORDER BOOK skills. New orders recorded during the year totaled €10,978 million, an X the launch of the third employee share ownership plan (ESOP). increase of 13% on 2013 on a like-for-like basis. This transaction was proposed to approximately 96% of Group employees and aims to associate employees with the Group’s development and performance. Employee shareholdings SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF 2014 following the ESOP 2009 and ESOP 2012 plans currently Fiscal year 2014 was marked by the following events: represent 6.4% of the Capgemini share capital; X the recognition for the second year running of Capgemini as a X the rating agency, Standard & Poor’s, upgraded Capgemini’s “2014 World’s Most Ethical Company” by Ethisphere Institute, rating from “BBB” to “BBB+”, with a stable outlook. a US-based international think tank specializing in corporate On an operational level, the other significant events of 2014 were ethics. Each year the Ethisphere Institute draws up the world as follows: ranking of companies which are ahead of the pack in terms of January 20, 2014. Capgemini and VMware join forces to create ethical behavior in their business sector; cloud orchestration solutions: the two companies expand their X the appointment and renewal of all directors proposed to strategic partnership to develop new client offerings. the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting and the integration The new solutions resulting from this partnership will help of three new directors, Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle, Anne companies adopt cloud technologies more rapidly and benefit Bouverot and Xavier Musca. The terms of office of Paul from all their advantages. They will also help simplify the Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Serge management of cloud services often made complex by multiple Kampf, founding Chairman, were renewed. Daniel Bernard, providers and operators, while maximizing efficiency. Finally, these who has been an independent director and member of the solutions will help improve the performance and service quality of Board for nine years, was appointed Chairman of the Ethics information systems. & Governance Committee and Lead Independent Director. The CAPGEMINI 132 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2014 Group consolidated results February 11, 2014. Capgemini creates a new global service July 9, 2014. Capgemini announces the strengthening of its line to accompany companies in digitizing their customers’ partnership with Cloudera, the leader in Apache™ Hadoop ®experiences. Capgemini is combining its key digital assets based Big Data platforms, with the launch of two new offerings and capabilities under a new global service line entitled Digital combining Cloudera Enterprise, the Cloudera data management Customer Experience (DCX). DCX provides organizations with platform and Capgemini expertise in enhancing the value of the seamless offer they need to define their digital strategies and information. The two offerings will enable companies to enjoy adopt the appropriate platforms and solutions to fundamentally more rapidly the business benefits expected from their data via change how they interact with their customers. This new service the Cloudera Big Data platform. line consolidates Capgemini’s digital transformation expertise July 21, 2014. Capgemini announces an outsourcing partnership and intellectual property. Capgemini has already successfully with SPIE GmbH in Germany, Switzerland, Poland, Hungary and implemented a number of digital customer experience projects Greece. The SPIE group, a leading European independent service in various sectors, including for Hydro Quebec. Capgemini has provider in the energy and communications sectors, purchased also gathered precious information thanks to a partnership in September 2013 the Service Solutions division of the Hochtief forged three years ago with the MIT Center For Digital Business Solutions AG group, with which Capgemini had worked closely focusing on digital transformation. The DCX global service line will for many years. Under the four-year contract signed at the end be supported by a new dedicated Center of Excellence in India. of March 2014, Capgemini will provide SPIE GmbH with the IT Finally, Capgemini is strengthening its specialist digital teams services previously delivered to the Hochtief division together with through a global recruitment drive. other services previously managed by competitors. April 10, 2014. Capgemini signs a new five year contract November 26, 2014. Capgemini extends the contract initially won with Lloyd’s Register Group, the British maritime classification in 2011 with the Algar group, one of the largest conglomerates society, to deliver new infrastructure and application services. in Brazil, and successfully launches the operational phase of this The €43.5 million contract will enable the Lloyd’s Register to project. Capgemini is now the exclusive provider of BPO services optimize its current IT platforms and deliver an improved customer to Algar, confirming its position in Brazil as the leader in finance experience at a competitive cost. and accounting Business Process Outsourcing (BPO). This May 7, 2014. AREVA and Capgemini finalized major agreements €43 million extension comes in addition to the €31 million initial concerning a major outsourcing and systems integration contract worth €1 billion over 10 years and the acquisition of Euriware and contract signed in 2011 between Capgemini and Algar for a 13year period – one of the longest BPO contracts in the industry. 4 its subsidiaries by Capgemini Group. This acquisition is part of December 16, 2014. Prosodie-Capgemini, a specialist in an ambitious industrial and social plan including in particular a front office applications, launches with Pegasystems, a leader commitment on employment and the retention of its geographic in business process management solutions, the Customer locations. Interaction Efficiency offering, enabling businesses to manage May 26, 2014. Capgemini receives the SAP HANA Partner of the in Cloud mode, using a single integrated turnkey tool, all their Year award at the 2014 SAP Pinnacle Awards. SAP HANA is a customer relationships. Objective: increase satisfaction, optimize platform designed for the real time processing of large volumes the management of multi-channel interaction and enhance the of operating and transaction data. The SAP Pinnacle Awards value of the work of advisors. are presented to SAP partners that have strengthened their December 16, 2014. A long-term partner of the Intersport Group, partnership with SAP by supplying high-quality products, services Prosodie-Capgemini, a specialist in front office applications and and solutions to clients. Finalists and winners in 21 categories Backelite, an expert in digital services on new screens, will design were selected based on recommendations, customer feedback and develop using responsive web design techniques Intersport’s and performance indicators. Leveraging its global network, dedicated ski rental website, INTERSPORT-Rent. The leader in ski Capgemini has delivered numerous SAP HANA-based projects equipment rental over the internet, Intersport wishes to strengthen globally and has a comprehensive portfolio of service offerings to its digital communication with customers by offering them a crossprovide the value of SAP HANA to its clients, including services channel rental system from the start of the ski season. WOPE was around analytics and big data. Capgemini is also a leader in selected as the development solution for the ski rental website in projects involving SAP Business Suite powered by SAP HANA and responsive web design mode. This solution offers the best user has a range of “Path” solutions, which Capgemini has migrated to experience whether on a mobile device, tablet or computer and SAP HANA. maximizes performance. June 12, 2014. Capgemini signs a 5-year BPO contract with the US industrial group, Honeywell. Under this contract, Capgemini will deliver general accounting and procure-to-pay services from its Center of Excellence for Business Process & Outsourcing (BPO) in Bangalore, India, leveraging its Global Enterprise Model. Capgemini will also work to streamline processes and improve the performance of end-to-end finance procedures. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 133 4 Financial Information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2014 Group consolidated results December 29, 2014. Capgemini’s Aspire contract: novation contracts from January 1, 2015. These two contracts would of Fujitsu and Accenture contracts have represented estimated combined revenues of €270 million for Capgemini in 2015, with a very limited impact on profits. Capgemini amends its Fujitsu and Accenture contracts as This novation implements arrangements that were agreed in part of its agreement with HMRC (Her Majesty Revenue and 2012 in a Memorandum of Understanding between Capgemini Customs) in the United Kingdom. As previously announced, and HRMC and brings the Aspire contract closer in line with the Capgemini, HMRC, Fujitsu and Accenture have worked together latest outsourcing guidelines issued by the British government. to finalize the transfer to HMRC of the Fujitsu and Accenture Capgemini continues to work collaboratively with HMRC and this subcontracts entered into with Capgemini. This will enable latest amendment to the Aspire contract underlines Capgemini’s HMRC to take direct management of the Fujitsu and Accenture commitment to the UK public sector. 4.1.2 COMMENTS ON THE CAPGEMINI GROUP CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OUTLOOK FOR 2015 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT The net financial expense is €70 million, compared with €102 million in 2013. This decrease on 2013 is mainly due to a Consolidated revenues total €10,573 million for the year ended fall in interest expense on borrowings following the repurchase, December 31, 2014, up 3.4% like-for-like compared with conversion and redemption in the second half of 2013 of OCEANE 2013 (4.8% on published figures). Operating expenses total 2009 bonds convertible/exchangeable into new or existing €9,603 million, compared with €9,235 million last year. Cap Gemini S.A. shares. An analysis of costs by nature reveals: The income tax expense is €210 million, compared with X a €218 million increase in personnel costs (+3.6%) to €182 million last year. The effective tax rate decreased from 29.4% €6,301 million for 2014. Personnel costs represent 59.6% in 2013 to 26.8% in 2014. of revenues compared with 60.3% in 2013. The average Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company headcount rose 7.5% in 2014 to 137,747, compared with is €580 million, up 31.2% on 2013. Earnings per share is 128,126 in 2013. Offshore employees represent 47% of the €3.55 based on the 163,592,949 shares outstanding at total Group headcount, compared with 44% in 2013; December 31, 2014. X an increase of 5.8% or €125 million in “purchases and subcontracting” (21.6% of revenues compared with 21.4% last year). CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION An analysis of costs by function reveals: Equity attributable to owners of the Company totaled X the cost of services rendered is €7,960 million, or 75.3% of €5,057 million at December 31, 2014, up €599 million on revenues, down slightly by 0.4 points on 2013. This enabled an December 31, 2013. improvement in the gross margin to 24.7% of revenues in 2013; This increase was mainly due to: X selling costs total €855 million, or 8.1% of revenues, up slightly by 0.1 points on last year; X profit for the year of €580 million; X general and administrative expenses (€788 million) represent X the €229 million share capital increase under the 2014 employee 7.5% of revenues, an improvement of 0.4 points on 2013 as a share ownership plan; result of strict cost control measures. X the €255 million increase in foreign exchange translation The operating margin on this basis is €970 million in 2014, or reserves; 9.2% of revenues, compared with an operating margin rate of partially offset by: 8.5% in 2013. X the payment to shareholders of the 2013 dividend of Other operating income and expense (now including the €174 million; amortization of intangible assets recognized in business X the cancellation of Cap Gemini S.A. shares held in the amount combinations) represents an overall net expense of €117 million in of €181 million; 2014, compared with €137 million in 2013. X the recognition in equity of actuarial losses on provisions for Operating profit is €853 million, or 8.1% of revenues, compared pensions and other post-employment benefits of €210 million, with €720 million (7.1% of revenues) in 2013, representing an net of tax. increase of 18.4% year-on-year. Non-current assets increased €345 million on December 31, 2013, mainly due to: X a €176 million increase in goodwill due to the positive impact of foreign currency translation adjustments; CAPGEMINI 134 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2014 Group consolidated results X a €21 million net increase in property, plant and equipment, employment benefits, primarily attributable to the net actuarial including €20 million due to foreign currency translation loss resulting from the decrease in discount rates in Canada adjustments, and the United Kingdom between December 31, 2013 and X a €42 million increase in deferred tax assets; and December 31, 2014. X a €107 million increase in other non-current assets, primarily Accounts and notes payable mainly consist of trade payables due to: and related accounts, personnel costs and accrued taxes other than income tax and total €2,543 million at December 31, 2014, • a €46 million (the current portion amounts to €32 million) compared with €2,293 million at December 31, 2013. increase following the fair value remeasurement of cash flow hedging derivative instruments contracted pursuant to the Net cash and cash equivalents totaled €1,218 million central management of foreign exchange risk, recognized at December 31, 2014 compared with €678 million at through equity (at December 31, 2013, the fair value of these December 31, 2013. This €540 million increase was mainly due to: instruments was recorded in “Other non-current liabilities” in the X organic free cash flow generated in 2014 of €668 million amount of €18 million and in “Other current payables” in the (compared with €455 million in 2013 before the €235 million amount of €9 million), exceptional contribution to a UK pension fund); • the call option on Cap Gemini S.A. shares purchased on X a share capital increase of €229 million; October 18, 2013 in the amount of €25 million. X the €60 million positive impact of exchange rate fluctuations; Operating receivables (accounts and notes receivable) totaled €2,849 million at December 31, 2014, compared with partially offset by: €2,587 million at December 31, 2013, up 10%. Accounts X payment of the 2013 dividend of €174 million; receivable, net of advances from clients and amounts billed X a net cash outflow of €181 million in respect of treasury share in advance and excluding capitalized costs on projects, transactions; totaled €1,981 million at December 31, 2014 compared with X a €46 million increase in finance lease obligations. €1,800 million at December 31, 2013. They represented 67 days annual revenue (64 days at December 31, 2013). OUTLOOK FOR 2015 Non-current liabilities increased €342 million at December 31, 2014 (to €2,644 million compared with In a context of improving demand, the Group forecasts for 2015 a 4 €2,302 million last year). This increase was mainly due to the revenue growth, at current rates and perimeter, of 3% to 5% and €322 million rise in provisions for pensions and other postan operating margin rate between 9.5% and 9.8%. Organic free cash flow is expected to exceed €600 million. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 135 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts 4.2 Consolidated accounts 4.2.1 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 2013 2014 in millions of euros Notes Amount % Amount % Revenues 3-5 10,092 100 10,573 100 Cost of services rendered (7,636) (75.7) (7,960) (75.3) Selling expenses (807) (8.0) (855) (8.1) General and administrative expenses (792) (7.9) (788) (7.5) Operating expenses 6 (9,235) (91.5) (9,603) (90.8) Operating margin 857 8.5 970 9.2 Other operating income and expense(1) 7 (137) (1.4) (117) (1.1) Operating profit 720 7.1 853 8.1 Net finance costs 8 (47) (0.5) (15) (0.1) Other financial income and expense 8 (55) (0.6) (55) (0.5) Net financial expense (102) (1.0) (70) (0.7) Income tax expense 9 (182) (1.8) (210) (2.0) Share of profit of associates (1) (0.0) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 435 4.3 573 5.4 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 442 4.4 580 5.5 Non-controlling interests (7) (0.1) (7) (0.1) EARNINGS PER SHARE Average number of shares outstanding during the year 158,147,868 157,855,433 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 10 2.80 3.68 Number of shares outstanding at the year-end 160,317,818 163,592,949 Earnings per share at the year-end (in euros) 2.76 3.55 Diluted average number of shares outstanding 179,596,733 170,226,305 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 10 2.59 3.44 (1) Effective from January 1, 2014, amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations is included in “Other operating income and expense”. The comparative period has been adjusted to reflect this change in presentation. CAPGEMINI 136 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts 4.2.2 STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY in millions of euros 2013 2014 (1) Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension plans, net of tax (98) (210) Remeasurement of hedging derivatives, net of tax(2) 2 57 (2) Translation adjustments (162) 255 TOTAL INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY (258) 102 Profit for the year (reminder) 435 573 If this income and expense recognized in equity had been recognized in profit or loss, profit for the year would have been as follows: 177 675 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 191 682 Non-controlling interests (14) (7) (1) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, (2) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss. 4 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 137 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts 4.2.3 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION December 31, December 31, in millions of euros Notes 2013 2014 Goodwill 12-14 3,601 3,784 Intangible assets 12 166 158 Property, plant and equipment 13 494 515 Deferred taxes 15 1,023 1,065 Other non-current assets 17 153 260 Total non-current assets 5,437 5,782 Accounts and notes receivable 18 2,587 2,849 Current income taxes 69 46 Other current receivables 19 368 551 Cash management assets 20 77 90 Cash and cash equivalents 20 1,638 2,141 Total current assets 4,739 5,677 TOTAL ASSETS 10,176 11,459 December 31, December 31, in millions of euros Notes 2013 2014 Share capital 1,283 1,309 Additional paid-in capital 2,930 3,010 Retained earnings and other reserves (197) 158 Profit for the year 442 580 Equity (attributable to owners of the Company) 4,458 5,057 Non-controlling interests 33 26 Total equity 4,491 5,083 Long-term borrowings 20 906 914 Deferred taxes 15 158 158 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 23 962 1,294 Non-current provisions 24 16 24 Other non-current liabilities 25 260 254 Total non-current liabilities 2,302 2,644 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 20 133 102 Accounts and notes payable 26 2,293 2,543 Advances from customers and billed in advance 18 684 776 Current provisions 24 42 48 Current tax liabilities 58 115 Other current payables 27 173 148 Total current liabilities 3,383 3,732 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,176 11,459 CAPGEMINI 138 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts 4.2.4 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Cash flows for the period are discussed in Note 21, Cash flows. in millions of euros Notes 2013 2014 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 442 580 Non-controlling interests (7) (7) Depreciation, amortization and impairment of fixed assets 12 – 13 208 204 Change in provisions (284)(1) 2 Losses on disposals of assets 6 6 Expenses relating to share grants 20 28 Net finance costs 8 47 15 Income tax expense 9 182 210 Unrealized losses on changes in fair value and other 21 6 Cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income tax (A) 635 1,044 Income tax paid (B) (124) (97) Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and amounts billed in advance (58) (71) Change in capitalized costs on projects 1 19 Change in accounts and notes payable 39 26 Change in other receivables/payables (103) (106) Change in operating working capital (C) (121) (132) 4 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (D=A+B+C) 390 815 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 12 – 13 (143) (150) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 3 8 (140) (142) Cash inflows (outflows) on business combinations net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (11) 3 Cash outflows in respect of cash management assets (2) (12) Other cash (outflows) inflows, net 1 (2) (12) (11) NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (E) (152) (153) Proceeds from issues of share capital 229 Proceeds from issues of share capital subscribed by non-controlling interests 19 Dividends paid (157) (174) Net payments relating to transactions in Cap Gemini S.A. shares (28) (181) Proceeds from borrowings 406 160 Repayments of borrowings (747) (248) Interest paid 8 (56) (35) Interest received 8 26 30 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (F) (537) (219) NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (G=D+E+F) (299) 443 Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents (H) (88) 68 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR (I) 20 2,016 1,629 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR (G+H+I) 20 1,629 2,140 (1) Including the €235 million exceptional contribution for the accelerated financing of the funding shortfall on a pension plan in the United Kingdom. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 139 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts 4.2.5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ConsolTotal income and Equity idated expense recognized (attributNonAddiretained in equity able to contional earnings owners of trolling Number of Share paid-in Treasury and other Translation the CominteTotal in millions of euros shares capital capital shares reserves adjustments Other pany) rests equity At January 1, 2013 161,770,362 1,294 2,976 (92) 1,045 (110) (631) 4,482 36 4,518 Dividends paid out for 2012 (157) (157) (157) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 285,000 2 17 19 19 Adjustments to the put option granted to minority shareholders and changes in percentage interest (17) (17) 11 (6) Repurchase and conversion of “OCEANE 2009” bonds 1,188,167 10 31 50 (118) (27) (27) Derivative instrument on Cap Gemini S.A. shares, net of tax 34 34 34 Elimination of treasury shares (67) (67) (67) Share capital reduction by cancellation of treasury shares (2,925,711) (23) (77) 100 Transactions with shareholders (1,452,544) (11) (46) 83 (241) (215) 11 (204) Income and expense recognized in equity (155) (96) (251) (7) (258) Profit for the year 442 442 (7) 435 At December 31, 2013 160,317,818 1,283 2,930 (9) 1,246 (265) (727) 4,458 33 4,491 Dividends paid out for 2013 (174) (174) (174) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 5,530,539 44 184 8 30 266 266 Adjustments to the put option granted to minority shareholders (3) (3) (3) Derivative instrument on Cap Gemini S.A. shares, net of tax 9 9 9 Elimination of treasury shares (181) (181) (181) Share capital reduction by cancellation of treasury shares (2,255,408) (18) (104) 122 Transactions with shareholders 3,275,131 26 80 (51) (138) (83) (83) Income and expense recognized in equity 255 (153) 102 102 Profit for the year 580 580 (7) 573 AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 163,592,949 1,309 3,010 (60) 1,688 (10) (880) 5,057 26 5,083 CAPGEMINI 140 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts 4.2.6 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2014 Note 1 Accounting basis 142 Note 18 Accounts and notes receivable 172 Note 2 Consolidation principles and group structure 143 Note 19 Other current receivables 173 Note 3 Operating segments 145 Note 20 Net cash and cash equivalents 173 Note 4 Consolidated income statement 148 Note 21 Cash ﬂows 178 Note 5 Revenues 149 Note 22 Currency, interest rate Note 6 Operating expenses by nature 150 and counterparty risk management 179 Note 7 Other operating income and expense 150 Note 23 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts 181 Note 8 Net ﬁnancial expense 151 Note 24 Current and non-current provisions 186 Note 9 Income tax expense 152 Note 25 Other non-current liabilities 187 Note 10 Earnings per share 153 Note 26 Accounts and notes payable 187 Note 11 Equity 154 Note 27 Other current payables 187 Note 12 Goodwill and intangible assets 162 Note 28 Number of employees 188 Note 13 Property, plant and equipment 164 Note 29 Off-balance sheet commitments 188 Note 14 Asset impairment tests 166 Note 30 Related-Party Transactions 190 Note 15 Deferred taxes 167 Note 31 Subsequent events 190 Note 16 Financial instruments 170 Note 32 List of the main consolidated companies by country 191 Note 17 Other non-current assets 171 4 CAPGEMINI DOCUMENT DE RÉFÉRENCE 2014 141 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING BASIS The consolidated financial statements for the year ended Changes in presentation decided by the Group December 31, 2014 and the notes thereto were adopted by X Growing demand from clients to group application development the Board of Directors on February 18, 2015. The consolidated and maintenance services in a single contract led the Group to financial statements will be approved by the Combined review the presentation of its segment reporting by business. Shareholders’ Meeting, scheduled for May 6, 2015. The distinction between technology services, which include application development and outsourcing services, which A) IFRS standards-base include the maintenance activity, has therefore become artificial. Pursuant to European Commission Regulation no. 1606/2002 Accordingly, from January 1, 2014, the segment reporting by of July 19, 2002, the 2014 consolidated financial statements business presented in Note 3 is grouped as follows: have been prepared in accordance with international accounting standards (IFRS, International Financial Reporting Standards) as • Consulting Services, which help to enhance the performance of issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) organizations based on in-depth knowledge of client industries and endorsed by the European Union (EU). and processes, • Local Professional Services, which provide assistance and The Group also takes account of the positions adopted by Syntec support to internal IT teams within client companies, Numérique, an organization representing major consulting and computer services companies in France, regarding the application • Application Services, which devise, develop, implement and of certain IFRSs. maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system integration and application maintenance activities, The main accounting policies are presented at the beginning of each note to the consolidated financial statements. • Other Managed Services, which integrate, manage and/or develop either fully or partially, client IT Infrastructure systems B) New standards and interpretations applicable (or those of a group of clients), transaction services, onin 2014 demand services and/or business activities (Business Process a) New standards, amendments and interpretations Outsourcing, BPO). of mandatory application (published by the Comparative information for fiscal year 2013 has also been IASB, endorsed by the EU, entered into effect on restated to reflect this new classification. January 1, 2014) X Amortization of intangible assets recognized in business The accounting policies applied by the Group are unchanged on combinations is now included in “Other operating income and those applied for the preparation of the 2013 consolidated financial expense”. statements, with the exception of new standards, amendments and interpretations which entered into effect on January 1, 2014 C) Use of estimates and which had no impact on the Group financial statements. The preparation of financial statements involves the use of b) New standards, amendments and interpretations estimates and assumptions which may have an impact on the not adopted early (published by the IASB, endorsed reported values of assets and liabilities at the period end or on by the EU, not yet in effect at January 1, 2014) certain items of either the net profit or the income and expenses Th e potential impacts of the application of new standards, recognized directly in equity for the year. Estimates are based amendments and interpretations (particularly IFRIC 21, Levies) on on economic data and assumptions which are likely to vary over the Group consolidated financial statements will not be material. time and are subject to a degree of uncertainty. They mainly concern revenue recognition on fixed-price contracts accounted c) New standards, amendments and interpretations for on a percentage-of-completion basis, recognition of deferred not yet endorsed (published by the IASB, not tax assets, measurement of the recoverable amount of assets, yet endorsed by the EU, not yet in effect at January 1, 2014) pensions and other post-employment benefit obligations, the fair value of derivatives, and provisions. The Group did not elect to adopt early the standards, amendments, and interpretations published by the IASB but not yet endorsed by the European Union at December 31, 2014 or in effect at January 1, 2014. CAPGEMINI 142 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 2 CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES AND GROUP STRUCTURE Consolidation methods Foreign currency translation The accounts of companies directly or indirectly controlled The consolidated financial statements presented in this report by the parent company are fully consolidated. The parent have been prepared in euros. company is deemed to exercise control over an entity when it The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. into euros at year-end rates of exchange with the exception Investments in associates over whose management the parent of equity accounts, which are carried at their historical values. company directly or indirectly exercises significant influence, Income statements denominated in foreign currencies are without however exercising full or joint control, are accounted translated into euros at the average rates of exchange for for by the equity method. This method consists of recording the year. However, for certain material transactions, it may be the Group’s share in profit for the year of the associate in the relevant to use a specific rate of exchange. Differences arising Income Statement. The Group’s share in net assets of the from translation at these different rates are recognized directly associate is recorded under “Other non-current assets” in the in equity under “Translation reserves” and have no impact on Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. the Income Statement. Details of the scope of consolidation are provided in Note 32, Exchange differences arising on monetary items which form List of the main consolidated companies by country. an integral part of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recognized in equity under “Translation reserves” for their All consolidated companies prepared their accounts to net-oftax amount. December 31, 2014 in accordance with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. Exchange differences on receivables and payables denominated in a foreign currency are recorded in operating Inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation, as income or expense or financial income or expense, depending well as inter-company profits. The Group does not control any special purpose entities that on the type of transaction concerned. 4 The exchange rates used to translate the financial statements have not been consolidated. of the Group’s main subsidiaries into euros are as follows: Average rate Closing rate 2013 2014 2013 2014 Australian dollar 0.72942 0.67960 0.64838 0.67435 Brazilian real 0.35084 0.32053 0.30697 0.31049 Canadian dollar 0.73142 0.68225 0.68162 0.71109 Chinese renminbi yuan 0.12249 0.12235 0.11977 0.13270 Indian rupee 0.01292 0.01235 0.01171 0.01304 Norwegian krona 0.12834 0.11976 0.11957 0.11060 Polish zloty 0.23829 0.23899 0.24071 0.23402 Pound Sterling 1.17767 1.24055 1.19947 1.28386 Swedish krona 0.11564 0.10997 0.11288 0.10646 Swiss franc 0.81242 0.82333 0.81460 0.83167 US dollar 0.75317 0.75373 0.72511 0.82366 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 143 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts Goodwill and business combinations When the cost of a business combination is less than the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition negative goodwill is recognized immediately in the Income method. Under this method, the identifiable assets acquired Statement in “Other operating income and expense”. and liabilities assumed are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date and may be adjusted during the 12 months Acquisition-related costs are expensed in the Income following this date. Statement in “Other operating income and expense” in the year incurred. Goodwill is equal to the excess of the acquisition price (plus, where applicable, non-controlling interests) over the net Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment at least amount recognized in respect of identifiable assets acquired annually, or more frequently when events or changes in and liabilities assumed. Where an acquisition confers control circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. with remaining non-controlling interests (acquisition of less Exchange gains and losses on inter-company than 100%), the Group elects either to recognize goodwill transactions on the full amount of revalued net assets, including the share attributable to non-controlling interests (full goodwill method) The results and financial position of a foreign subsidiary are or on the share in revalued net assets effectively acquired only included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements after (partial goodwill method). This choice is made on an individual the elimination of inter-company balances and transactions. transaction basis. However, a foreign exchange gain or loss arising on an intercompany monetary asset or liability (e.g. an inter-company When a business combination with non-controlling interests receivable denominated in a currency different from the provides for the grant of a put option to these nonfunctional currency of the subsidiary) cannot be eliminated. controlling interests, an operating liability is recognized in the Such foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized in Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in the amount of the Income statement or in Income and expense recognized the estimated exercise price of the put option granted to nondirectly in equity, if the underlying forms an integral part of the controlling interests, through a reduction in reserves. Changes net investment in the foreign operation (e.g. a loan with no in this put option resulting from any changes in estimates or fixed maturity). the unwinding of the discount will also be recognized through reserves. Any additional acquisitions of non-controlling The fair values of hedging instruments relating to interinterests are considered a transaction with shareholders company operating transactions performed as part of the and, as such, identifiable assets are not remeasured and no centralized management of currency risk in the parent additional goodwill is recognized. company are eliminated. ACQUISITIONS / DISPOSALS IN FISCAL YEAR 2014 Strategic Systems & Products Corp. During the first-half 2014, the Group finalized the acquisition of the Euriware entire share capital of Strategic Systems & Products Corp. in the On May 7, 2014, the Group finalized the acquisition of Euriware United States. and its subsidiaries from the Areva group. At December 31, 2014 the purchase price allocation led to the recognition of negative These two companies contributed €153 million to Group revenues goodwill of €6 million in “Other operating income and expense”. in 2014. Their contribution to the Group operating margin was €8 million in 2014. Euriware and its subsidiaries had 1,800 employees at the acquisition date and reported revenues of €214 million in 2013 for the scope purchased, primarily realized with the Areva group. CAPGEMINI 144 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 3 OPERATING SEGMENTS Group Management analyzes and measures activity fiscal year in the seven strategic business units and therefore performance: the roll-out of uniform expertise and know-how in all countries and regions. X in the geographic areas where the Group is present; X in the different businesses (consulting services, local Accordingly, the Group presents segment reporting for the professional services, application services, other managed 8 geographic areas where it is located. services). Costs relating to operations and incurred by Group holding The geographic analysis enables management to monitor the companies on behalf of geographic areas are allocated to performance: the relevant segments either directly or on the basis of an allocation key. Items not allocated correspond to headquarter X of commercial development: it focuses on trends in expenses. major contracts and clients in Group markets across all its businesses. This monitoring seeks to coordinate the Inter-segment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length service offering of the different businesses in the countries, basis. given their considerable interaction and to measure the The performance of operating segments is measured services rendered. These analyses are performed by based on the operating margin. This indicator enables the Group Management within the Coordination Committee of measurement and comparison of the operating performance the geographic area, which brings together the business of operating segments, irrespective of whether their business managers operating in a given area; results from internal or external growth. X at operational and financial level: management of treasury The operating margin realized by the main offshore production and support services, the operating investment and centers (India and Poland) has been reallocated to the financing policies and the acquisition policy are decided and implemented by geographic area. geographic areas managing the contracts to enable a better assessment of the performance of these areas. 4 The business analysis enables the transversal management and monitoring of resources and service production during the SEGMENT REPORTING BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA The Group has operations in the following eight geographic areas: Geographic area Main countries North America Canada, United States France France, Morocco United Kingdom and Ireland Ireland, United Kingdom Benelux Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands Southern Europe Italy, Portugal, Spain Nordic countries Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden Germany and Central Europe Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Switzerland Asia-Pacific and Latin America Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Guatemala, India, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 145 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts ANALYSIS OF THE INCOME STATEMENT BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA United Germany AsiaKingdom and Pacific North and Southern Nordic Central and Latin HQ Elimi2014 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux Europe countries Europe America expenses nations Total Revenues ■ external 2,230 2,342 2,197 1,074 497 699 653 881 10,573 ■ inter-geographic area 113 173 149 62 24 20 161 698 (1,400) TOTAL REVENUES 2,343 2,515 2,346 1,136 521 719 814 1,579 (1,400) 10,573 OPERATING MARGIN 281 197 249 113 19 79 62 54 (84) 970 % of revenues 12.6 8.4 11.3 10.5 3.8 11.3 9.4 6.1 9.2 OPERATING PROFIT 274 158 232 95 5 76 54 43 (84) 853 United Germany AsiaKingdom and Pacific 2013 North and Southern Nordic Central and Latin HQ Elimi(in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux Europe countries Europe America expenses nations Total Revenues ■ external 2,074 2,190 2,004 1,080 484 705 651 904 10,092 ■ inter-geographic area 98 178 111 54 19 23 154 670 (1,307) TOTAL REVENUES 2,172 2,368 2,115 1,134 503 728 805 1,574 (1,307) 10,092 OPERATING MARGIN 255 204 175 105 21 64 57 44 (68) 857 % of revenues 12.3 9.3 8.7 9.8 4.2 9.1 8.8 4.9 8.5 OPERATING PROFIT 243 164 159 83 10 61 46 22 (68) 720 CAPGEMINI 146 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA The location of assets corresponds to the location of the Group’s clients, except for outsourcing centers such as in India. United Germany AsiaKingdom and Pacific At December, 31 2014 North and Southern Nordic Central and Latin Not Elimi(in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux Europe countries Europe America allocated nations Total Assets by geographic area ■ external 1,207 2,220 1,307 1,115 299 370 460 926 36 7,940 ■ inter-geographic area 76 66 56 20 10 9 38 98 25 (398) TOTAL ASSETS 1,283 2,286 1,363 1,135 309 379 498 1,024 61 (398) 7,940 o/w acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment(1) 21 40 28 20 6 20 9 52 196 Deferred tax assets 1,065 Current income taxes 46 Cash management assets 90 Cash and cash equivalents 2,141 Derivative instruments 177 TOTAL ASSETS 11,459 Liabilities by geographic area ■ external 684 1,154 1,488 302 204 213 256 682 8 4,991 ■ inter-geographic area 73 92 93 38 10 27 23 42 (398) TOTAL LIABILITIES 757 1,246 1,581 340 214 240 279 724 8 (398) 4,991 Equity 5,083 Deferred tax liabilities 158 Current tax liabilities 115 4 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 1,016 Derivative instruments 96 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 11,459 United Germany AsiaKingdom and Pacific At December, 31 2013 North and Southern Nordic Central and Latin Not Elimi(in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux Europe countries Europe America allocated nations Total Assets by geographic area ■ external 1,008 2,008 1,203 1,099 297 365 454 798 63 7,295 ■ inter-geographic area 44 128 34 22 7 9 38 101 1 (384) TOTAL ASSETS 1,052 2,136 1,237 1,121 304 374 492 899 64 (384) 7,295 o/w acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment(1) 17 32 34 23 5 15 12 41 179 Deferred tax assets 1,023 Current income taxes 69 Cash management assets 77 Cash and cash equivalents 1,638 Derivative instruments 74 TOTAL ASSETS 10,176 Liabilities by geographic area ■ external 542 1,027 1,224 300 181 201 250 603 3 4,331 ■ inter-geographic area 62 50 86 40 7 20 16 26 77 (384) TOTAL LIABILITIES 604 1,077 1,310 340 188 221 266 629 80 (384) 4,331 Equity 4,491 Deferred tax liabilities 158 Current tax liabilities 58 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 1,039 Derivative instruments 99 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 10,176 (1) Total acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment is different from the figure reported in the Statement of Cash Flows (€150 million in 2014 and €143 milllion in 2013), which excludes acquisitions of assets held under finance leases (€46 million in 2014 and €36 million in 2013). CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 147 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts SEGMENT REPORTING BY BUSINESS X Application Services, which devise, develop, implement and maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system integration Segment reporting by business is presented according to the and application maintenance activities; following classification: X Other Managed Services, which integrate, manage and/or X Consulting Services, which help to enhance the performance of develop either fully or partially, client IT Infrastructure systems organizations based on in-depth knowledge of client industries (or those of a group of clients), transaction services, on and processes; demand services and/or business activities (Business Process X Local Professional Services, which provide assistance and Outsourcing, BPO). support to internal IT teams within client companies; BREAKDOWN OF REVENUES BY BUSINESS 2013 2014 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Consulting services 456 4 442 4 Local professional services 1,498 15 1,577 15 Application services 5,825 58 5,854 55 Other managed services 2,313 23 2,700 26 REVENUES 10,092 100 10,573 100 BREAKDOWN OF OPERATING MARGIN BY BUSINESS 2013 2014 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Consulting services 35 7.8 37 8.2 Local professional services 159 10.6 156 9.9 Application services 566 9.7 623 10.6 Other managed services 165 7.1 238 8.8 Headquarter expenses (68) (84) OPERATING MARGIN 857 8.5 970 9.2 NOTE 4 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Income and expenses are presented in the Consolidated Other operating income and expenses include amortization Income Statement by function. Operating expenses are of intangible assets recognized in business combinations, broken down into the cost of services rendered (corresponding the charge resulting from the deferred recognition of the fair to costs incurred for the execution of client projects), selling value of shares granted to employees (including social security expenses, and general and administrative expenses. contributions and employer contributions), and non-recurring revenues and expenses, notably impairment of goodwill, These three captions represent ordinary operating expenses badwill, capital gains or losses on disposals of consolidated which are deducted from revenues to obtain operating margin, companies or businesses, restructuring costs incurred under one of the main Group business performance indicators. a detailed formal plan approved by the Group’s management, Operating profit is obtained by deducting other operating the cost of acquiring and integrating companies acquired by income and expenses from operating margin. the Group, and the effects of curtailments and settlements relating to defined benefit pension plans. CAPGEMINI 148 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company is impairment of investments in non-consolidated companies, then obtained by taking into account the following items: net interest costs on defined benefit pension plans, exchange gains and losses on financial items, and other X net finance costs, including interest on borrowings financial income and expense on miscellaneous financial calculated using the effective interest rate, less income from assets and liabilities calculated using the effective interest cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets; rate; X other financial income and expense, which primarily X current and deferred income tax expense; correspond to the impact of remeasuring financial instruments at fair value when these relate to items of X share of profit of associates; a financial nature, disposal gains and losses and the X share of non-controlling interests. NOTE 5 REVENUES The method for recognizing revenues and costs depends on The related costs are recognized as they are incurred. the nature of the services rendered: However, a portion of costs incurred in the initial phase of outsourcing contracts (transition and/or transformation costs) a) Time and materials contracts may be deferred when they are specific to a given contract, Revenues and cost of services are recognized as services are relate to future activity on the contract and/ or will generate rendered. future economic benefits, and are recoverable. These costs are allocated to work-in-progress and any reimbursement by b) Long-term fixed-price contracts Revenues, including systems development and integration the client is recorded as a deduction from the costs incurred. 4 contracts, are recognized using the “percentage-ofWhen the projected cost of the contract exceeds contract completion” method. Costs are recognized as they are revenues, a loss to completion is recognized in the amount incurred. of the difference. c) Outsourcing contracts Revenues receivable from these contracts are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under Revenues from outsourcing agreements are recognized over “Accounts and notes receivable” when invoiced to customers the term of the contract as the services are rendered. When and “Accrued income” when they are not yet invoiced. the services are made up of different components which are Advances from customers and billed in advance are included not separately identifiable, the related revenues are recognized in current liabilities. on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Group revenues total €10,573 million (€10,092 million in 2013), representing a year-on-year increase of 4.8%, based on the year-end Group structure and exchange rates and 3.4% on a like-for-like basis (constant Group structure and exchange rates). CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 149 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 6 OPERATING EXPENSES BY NATURE 2013 2014 in millions of euros Amount % of revenues Amount % of revenues Personnel expenses 6,083 60.3% 6,301 59.6% Travel expenses 428 4.2% 428 4.0% 6,511 64.5% 6,729 63.6% Purchases and sub-contracting expenses 2,159 21.4% 2,284 21.6% Rent, facilities and local taxes 329 3.3% 336 3.2% Other charges to depreciation, amortization and provisions and proceeds from asset disposals 236 2.3% 254 2.4% OPERATING EXPENSES 9,235 91.5% 9,603 90.8% BREAKDOWN OF PERSONNEL COSTS in millions of euros Note 2013 2014 Wages and salaries 4,801 4,976 Payroll taxes 1,219 1,256 Pension costs related to defined benefit pension plans and other postemployment benefit expenses 23 63 69 PERSONNEL EXPENSES 6,083 6,301 NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE in millions of euros Note 2013 2014 Amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations(1) (30) (20) Expense relating to share grants 11 (23) (36) Restructuring costs (68) (68) Integration and acquisition costs for purchased companies (2) (5) Other operating expenses (16) (9) Total operating expenses (139) (138) Other operating income 2 21 Total operating income 2 21 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE (137) (117) (1) Effective from January 1, 2014, amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations is included in “Other operating income and expense”. The comparative period has been adjusted to reflect this change in presentation. RESTRUCTURING COSTS Fiscal year 2014 restructuring costs primarily concern workforce reduction measures in the amount of €46 million (€44 million in 2013) and the streamlining of real estate and production assets in the amount of €21 million (€23 million in 2013). CAPGEMINI 150 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 8 NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE in millions of euros Note 2013 2014 Income from cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets 25 30 Interest on borrowings (55) (35) Net finance costs at the nominal interest rate (30) (5) Impact of amortized cost on borrowings (17) (10) Net finance costs at the effective interest rate (47) (15) Net interest cost on defined benefit pension plans 23 (42) (40) Exchange losses on financial transactions (5) (7) Gains (losses) on derivative instruments (1) 1 Other (7) (9) Other financial income and expense (55) (55) o/w financial income 52 45 o/w financial expenses (107) (100) NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE (102) (70) Interest on borrowings (€35 million) and the impact of amortized Note that fair value gains and losses on the conversion option cost on borrowings (€10 million) totals €45 million, mainly embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” bonds and the call option comprises: on own shares purchased in October 2013 are included in 4 the “Derivative instruments” line (see Note 20, Net cash and X coupons on the 2011 bond issue of €26 million (stable on cash equivalents). Given the “matching” nature of the main 2013), plus an amortized cost accounting impact of €1 million; characteristics of these two derivative instruments, their respective X an amortized cost accounting impact of €9 million on the fair value gains and losses fully offset each other, resulting in a nil “ORNANE 2013” bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/ impact on the Group net financial expense. or existing shares issued in October 2013 (zero-coupon bonds) compared with €2 million in 2013; X interest on finance leases of €5 million, primarily in the United Kingdom, the United States and Brazil (€7 million in 2013). CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 151 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 9 INCOME TAX EXPENSE The income tax expense is the sum of the current tax expense X recognized in income or expenses in the Income Statement, and the deferred tax expense. It is recognized in net profit, in income and expense recognized in equity, or directly in except where it relates to a business combination or items equity in the period, depending on the underlying to which recognized in equity or in income and expense recognized in they relate; equity. X measured taking account of known changes in tax rates Current income tax (and tax regulations) enacted or substantively enacted at the year-end. Adjustments for changes in tax rates to deferred The current tax expense is the estimated amount of tax taxes previously recognized in the Income Statement, in payable (or receivable) in respect of the taxable profit (or loss) income and expense recognized in equity or directly in for a period and any adjustment to the current tax amount of equity are recognized in the Income Statement, in income prior periods. It is calculated using tax rates that have been and expense recognized in equity or directly in equity, enacted or substantively enacted at the year-end. respectively, in the period in which these changes become Deferred taxes effective. Deferred taxes are: X recorded to take account of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities and their tax basis; The income tax expense for fiscal year 2014 breaks down as follows: in millions of euros Note 2013 2014 Current income taxes (161) (161) Deferred taxes 15 (21) (49) INCOME TAX EXPENSE (182) (210) The difference between the French standard rate of income tax and the effective Group tax rate can be analyzed as follows: 2013 2014 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Profit before tax 618 783 Standard tax rate in France (%) 38.0 38.0 Tax expense at the standard rate (235) 38.0 (297) 38.0 Difference in tax rates between countries 36 (5.8) 53 (6.8) Impact of: Deferred tax assets not recognized on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising in the period (51) 8.3 (34) 4.4 Net recognition of deferred tax assets on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising prior to January 1 102 (16.6) 93 (11.9) Utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards 11 (1.7) 9 (1.1) Taxes not based on taxable income (37) 6.0 (37) 4.6 Permanent differences and other items (8) 1.2 3 (0.4) ACTUAL TAX EXPENSE (182) 29.4 (210) 26.8 Effective rate of income tax 29.4% 26.8% CAPGEMINI 152 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts The heading “Taxes not based on taxable income” primarily consists of the Corporate Value-Added Contribution (Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Enterprises, CVAE) and the additional 3% contribution on dividends paid in France, State taxes in the United States and the regional tax on productive activities (IRAP) in Italy. NOTE 10 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share are measured as follows: X basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding treasury shares. The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted by the number of ordinary shares bought back or issued during the period and is calculated by reference to the date of redemption or issue of shares during the year; X diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year as used to calculate basic earnings per share, both items being adjusted, where appropriate, for the effects of all potential dilutive financial instruments corresponding to (i) bonds convertible/exchangeable into new or existing shares, (ii) redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants, (iii) performance shares (iv) free share grants and (v) bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares. BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company (in millions of euros) 2013 442 2014 580 4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 158,147,868 157,855,433 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 2.80 3.68 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE July 30, 2014, respectively. The related performance conditions will be assessed in February 2015 and July 2016; Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming conversion X shares to be delivered to French and foreign employees under into ordinary shares of all dilutive instruments outstanding during the year. The average share price in 2014 was €53.83. the 2012 performance share grant plan, the number of which is now definitive (958,500 shares). At December 31, 2014, In 2014, instruments considered dilutive for the purpose of the only remaining condition applicable to these shares is the calculating diluted earnings per share include: presence of the foreign beneficiaries in the Group at the delivery X the 5,958,587 “ORNANE 2013” convertible bonds issued date, scheduled for January 2017; on October 25, 2013, as the €6 million interest expense X the 102,379 shares falling within the scope of the free share recorded (net of taxes) on the bonds is lower per bond than grant plan open to all French employees, the terms of which basic earnings per share. These bonds were issued on were approved by the Board of Directors on October 8, 2014. October 25, 2013 and are convertible during the period from These shares are subject to the presence of the beneficiaries in October 25, 2013 (inclusive) to December 31, 2016 (inclusive) the Group in October 2016; in a limited number of defined circumstances and then at any X all 2,927,606 Redeemable Share Subscription or Purchase time from January 1, 2017 (inclusive) until the eighteen business Warrants (BSAAR) still outstanding, as the aggregate market day (exclusive) preceding January 1, 2019, when they will be price of the Cap Gemini S.A. share in 2014 is higher than the redeemable at par; aggregate of the €34 strike price and the €3.22 issue premium. X all 1,135,300 and 1,288,500 shares available for grant under the performance share grant plans, the terms of which were approved by the Board of Directors on February 20, 2013 and CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 153 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts in millions of euros 2013 2014 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 442 580 (1) Finance cost savings linked to the conversion of debt instruments, net of tax 22 6 Diluted profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 464 586 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) Weighted average number of ordinary shares 158,147,868 157,855,433 Adjusted for: “ORNANE 2013” convertible bonds (weighted average) 1,110,093 5,958,587 Performance shares and free shares that can be granted 2,918,860 3,484,679 Redeemable Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants (BSAAR) 2,991,204 2,927,606 “OCEANE 2009” convertible bonds (weighted average) 14,428,708 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 179,596,733 170,226,305 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 2.59 3.44 (1) “OCEANE 2009” and “ORNANE 2013” convertible bonds are taken into account as they are considered dilutive. NOTE 11 EQUITY Incentive instruments and employee share ownership b) Instruments proposed to employees a) Instruments granted to employees Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) Share subject to performance and presence conditions Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants were Performance shares are granted to a certain number of Group proposed to employees and corporate officers of the Group. employees, subject to performance (internal and external) and They confer entitlement to subscribe for Cap Gemini S.A. presence conditions. Share grants become definitive after shares at a strike price determined at their date of acquisition a vesting period of two or four years, depending on the tax by the employees and corporate officers of the Group. residence of the beneficiary. Employee savings plan The shares are measured at fair value, corresponding to the value of the benefit granted to the employee at the grant date. Leveraged employee share ownership plans offering the possibility to subscribe for shares at a discounted preferential The fair value of shares subject to external performance rate have been set up by the Group. When determining the conditions is calculated using the “Monte Carlo” model, which IFRS 2 expense measuring the benefit granted to employees, incorporates assumptions concerning the share price at the the Group adjusts the amount of the discount granted by the grant date, implicit share price volatility, the risk-free interest Group to employees on the subscription price based on the rate, the expected dividend yield and market performance following two items: conditions. X the cost of the non-transferability of shares granted to The fair value of shares subject to internal performance and/or employees during a period of five years. This cost is presence conditions is calculated using a model in compliance measured taking account of the five-year lock-in period. with IFRS 2, which incorporates assumptions concerning the It corresponds to the cost of a two-stage strategy under share price at the grant date, share transfer restrictions, the which the market participant enters into a forward sale risk-free interest rate and the expected dividend yield. effective at the end of the five-year lock-in period and The expense recognized also takes into account staff attrition simultaneously borrows the amount necessary to buy a rates for eligible employee categories, which are reviewed share available for immediate transfer. This borrowing is each year and internal performance conditions (non-market financed with the proceeds from the forward sale of the conditions). share and the dividends received during the lock-in period. This cost is calculated based on the following assumptions: This amount is recognized in “Other operating income and expense” in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. CAPGEMINI 154 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts • the subscription price is set by the Chairman and Chief mechanism. The benefit offered by the Group corresponds to Executive Officer pursuant to the powers delegated by the the amount of the discount on the share subscription price. Board of Directors. This subscription price is equal to the Treasury shares average Cap Gemini S.A. share price, adjusted for volume, during the twenty trading days preceding the decision of the Cap Gemini S.A. shares held by the Company or by any Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to which a discount consolidated companies are shown as a deduction from is applied, equity, at cost. Any proceeds from sales of treasury shares are taken directly to equity, net of the tax effect, so that the gain • the grant date is the date at which employees are fully or loss on the sale has no impact on the Income Statement informed of the specific characteristics and terms and for the period. conditions of the offer and particularly the subscription price, • the loan rate granted to employees and used to determine Derivative instruments on own shares the cost of the non-transferability of shares, is the rate at When derivative instruments on own shares satisfy IAS 32 which a bank would grant a consumer loan repayable on classification criteria for recognition in equity, they are initially maturity without allocation, to a private individual with an recognized in equity in the amount of the consideration average risk profile, for a term corresponding to the term received or paid. Subsequent changes in fair value are not of the plan; recognized in the financial statements, other than the related X the opportunity gain reflecting the possibility granted to tax effect. employees to benefit from market terms and conditions Where these instruments do not satisfy the aforementioned identical to those of the Group. criteria, the derivative instruments on own shares are In certain countries where the set-up of a leveraged plan recognized in assets or liabilities at fair value. Changes through an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (Fonds Commun in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. The fair value de Placement Entreprise) or directly in the name of the remeasurement of these instruments at the year-end is employee is not possible, the employee share ownership recognized based on external valuations. plan (ESOP) includes a Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) 4 INCENTIVE INSTRUMENTS AND EMPLOYEE SHARE B) Performance share plans OWNERSHIP The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of April 30, 2009, May 24, 2012 and then May 24, 2013, authorized the Board of A) Stock option plans Directors to grant shares to a certain number of Group employees, The Group no longer grants stock options since the plan on one or several occasions and within a maximum period of authorized in 2005. The last grant under this plan was performed 18 months, subject to performance and presence conditions. On in June 2008. October 1, 2010, December 12, 2012, February 20, 2013 and July 30, 2014, the Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the list of beneficiaries of these four plans. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 155 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: 2010 2012 2013 2014 International Plan International Plan International Plan International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,557,703 shares 2,426,555 shares 2,426,555 shares 1,590,639 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1.5% 1.5% 1% (1) (4) (4) Total number of shares granted 1,555,000 1,003,500 1,209,100 1,290,500(4) Date of Board of Directors’ decision October 1, 2010 December 12, 2012 February 20, 2013 July 30, 2014 Performance assessment dates At the end of the At the end of the At the end of the Three years for the internal first and second first and second first and second performance condition and years following the calendar years years following the two years for the external grant date following the grant grant date performance condition date Vesting period 2 years as from the 2 years and ½ 2 years and 1 2 years as from the grant grant date (France) month as from the week as from the date (France) or four years or four years as grant date (France) grant date (France) as from the grant date from the grant date or 4 years and ½ or 4 years and 1 (other countries) (other countries) month as from the week as from the grant date (other grant date (other countries) countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting 2 years, or 5 years date (France only) in the event of departure from the 4 years 4 years 4 years Group during the two years following the vesting date Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 42.80% 25.80% 38.70% 26.33% ■ Risk-free interest rate 1.67% 0.35% – 0.98% 0.59% – 1.28% 0.34% – 0.81% ■ Expected dividend rate 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 2.31% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group Yes Yes Yes Yes at the vesting date Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Black & Scholes Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions for shares without conditions or with internal performance conditions Range of fair values (in euros): ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) 32.32 – 32.96 n/a n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 21.54 – 32.96 14.35 – 28.67 16.18 – 32.14 26.46 – 48.26 Of which corporate officers n/a 16.18 18.12 29.32 CAPGEMINI 156 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts 2010 2012 2013 2014 International Plan International Plan International Plan International Plan Number of shares at December 31, 2013 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 584,055 981,500 1,178,300 o/w to corporate officers (2) 50,000 (4) 50,000 (4) Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year 1,290,500 o/w to corporate officers 50,000(4) Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 53,516 23,000 43,000 2,000 Number of shares vested during the year 530,539 (3) Number of shares at December 31, 2014 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) Plan expired 958,500 (5) 1,135,300 (6) 1,288,500 (7) Share price at the grant date (in euros) 37.16 33.15 36.53 53.35 (1) Of which 124,000 shares granted without performance conditions (8% of the total) pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total), (2) No performance shares were granted in 2010, (3) (4) (5) Balance on the “foreign” plan granted in October 2014, subject to presence conditions at that date (including 59,250 shares without performance conditions), Grant subject to performance conditions only, Of which 434,000 shares in respect of the French plan and 524,500 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan, 4 (6) Of which 376,600 shares in respect of the French plan and 758,700 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan, (7) Of which 420,250 shares in respect of the French plan and 868,250 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 157 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts a) Shares vested under the 2010 plan Under these conditions, if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. The 2010 plan expired in 2014 and led to the delivery on share is in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, only October 1, 2014 of 530,539 shares to beneficiaries not tax 60% of the initial allocation will be granted in respect of the central resident in France and still present in the Group at this date, out performance condition (or 30% of the initial grant). of a total initial grant of 1,026,500 shares. Accordingly, including The benchmark basket comprises the following securities, with the 350,509 shares delivered on October 1, 2012 to beneficiaries each security equally weighted: tax resident in France, a total of 881,048 shares were ultimately X 2012 and 2013 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / Steria / delivered under this plan, representing 56.7% of the volume initially CGI Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant; granted, as a result of both performance and presence conditions. X 2014 Plan: Accenture / CSC/ Atos / Tieto / CAC 40 index / CGI Reminder Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant. The external performance condition calculation led to the grant The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions of only 55% of the maximum number of shares initially defined is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance with the Monte in this respect. The internal performance condition calculated Carlo model, together with a discount for non-transferability for the based on the increase in the 2011 operating margin compared shares granted in France. with the 2010 operating margin at constant Group structure and exchange rates, led to the delivery of all shares defined in this Internal performance condition respect following a margin increase of 15.6%, above the maximum The internal performance condition is based on the generation threshold set. of Organic Free Cash Flow (OFCF) over a three-year period encompassing fiscal years 2012 to 2014 for the 2012 and 2013 b) Performance conditions of the 2012, 2013 and 2014 plans plans and fiscal years 2013 to 2015 for the 2014 plan. Accordingly, In accordance with the AMF recommendation of X no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance December 8, 2009 regarding the inclusion of an internal and condition if the cumulative increase in Organic Free Cash Flow external performance condition when granting performance over the reference period is less than €750 million for the 2012 shares, the Board of Directors decided from the 2010 plan to add and 2013 plans and €850 million for the 2014 plan; an internal condition to the external condition initially planned. X 100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if Organic The following internal and external performance conditions apply: Free Cash Flow is equal to or exceeds €1 billion for the 2012 and 2013 plans and €1.1 billion for the 2014 plan. The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant The internal performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant calculation. calculation. External performance condition The fair value of shares subject to internal performance conditions The external performance condition is applied in an identical is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted manner across the three plans and in line with the conditions where necessary in line with effective realization of this condition. applied to the first two plans, as follows: A discount for non-transferability is also applied for the shares X no shares are granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. granted in France. share during the period in question is less than 90% of the C) Free share plans performance of the basket of securities over the same period; At the Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 24, 2012 and X the number of shares ultimately granted: then May 24, 2013, the Board of Directors was given an 18-month • is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if the authorization to grant shares to certain Group employees, on one performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is at least equal to or several occasions subject only to a condition of presence. This 90% of the basket, authorization was partially used and the terms and conditions of • is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if the the grant and the list of beneficiaries were set by the Board of performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is equal to 100% of Directors meetings of July 25, 2012 and October 8, 2014. the basket, • varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a pre-defined schedule, where the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is between 90% and 100% of the basket in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in the second case, • is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is higher than or equal to 110% of the basket. CAPGEMINI 158 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: 2012 Plan France 2014 Plan France Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1.5% of the share capital on the 1% of the share capital on the date date of the Board of Directors’ of the Board of Directors’ decision decision i.e. a maximum of i.e. a maximum of 1,595,495 2,336,554 shares, of which a shares, of which a maximum of maximum of 15% granted without 15% granted without performance performance conditions conditions Total number of shares granted 202,538(1) 104,379(2) Date of the Board of Directors’ decision July 25, 2012 October 8, 2014 Grant condition assessment date Presence condition only (employee presence within the Group at the vesting date) Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date Democratic plan Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years 2 years Number of shares at December 31, 2013 that may vest 175,005 under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions Number of shares subject to presence conditions granted 104,379 during the year Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 17,719 2,000 Number of shares vested during the year 157,286 Number of shares at December 31, 2014 that may vest Plan delivered 102,379 under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions 4 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 26.30 52.69 Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.88% 0.34% ■ Expected dividend rate 3.00% 2.31% Fair value in euros (per share) €20.22 €43.91 (1) i.e. 8.6% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total), (2) i.e. 6.5% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). These transactions aim to develop employee share ownership by to trading on Euronext Paris, they could not be exercised or enabling all employees of French companies with at least three transferred except under the conditions specified in the issue months seniority at the grant date to receive shares and thereby agreement. The issue was disclosed in a prospectus approved become Cap Gemini S.A. shareholders at the end of the vesting by the AMF on May 14, 2009 under reference number N°09-140. period. More than 20,000 employees were concerned by each Since the date of admission of the BSAAR warrants to trading on share grant, with a differentiated share allocation based on annual the Euronext Paris market, 71,394 BSAAR warrants have been salary (four categories): the lowest paid employees receiving more exercised resulting in delivery of the same number of shares. shares than the highest paid employees. The Board of Director decisions were preceded each time by the E) International Employee Share Ownership signature of a company-wide agreement, in respect of payment of Plan – ESOP 2012 the profit-sharing bonus. The Group set up an employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2012) in the second half of 2012. On September 27, 2012, the D) Redeemable share subscription or purchase Group issued 6,000,000 new shares reserved for employees warrants (BSAAR) with a par value of €8, representing a share capital increase of During 2009, 2,999,000 warrants were subscribed by employees €153 million net of issue costs. The total cost of this employee and corporate officers of the Group (at a price of €3.22 per share ownership plan in 2012 was €0.8 million, attributable to warrant). The exercise period commenced the date of listing of the the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism for employees BSAAR warrants on the Euronext Paris market on July 23, 2013 in countries where the set-up of an Employee Savings Mutual and terminates on the seventh anniversary of the issue date. Fund (Fonds Commun de Placement Entreprise, FCPE) was not Between July 23, 2009 and the date the warrants were admitted possible or relevant. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 159 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts F) International Employee Share Ownership This employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2014) includes a Plan – ESOP 2014 12.5% discount. Under the delegation of authority granted by the Pursuant to the 30 th and 31 st resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors, the subscription price was set at €46.00 by Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, the Group set the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on November 17, 2014. up an employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2014) in the second This price corresponds to the daily average Cap Gemini S.A. share half of 2014. Nearly 132,000 Group employees in 20 countries, price adjusted for volumes observed over the twenty stock market representing approximately 96% of the Group headcount, were trading days preceding the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s invited to subscribe for Cap Gemini S.A. shares. Under the decision, less a 12.5% discount. plan, a minimum length of service of three months was required On December 18, 2012, the Group issued 5,000,000 new shares at November 20, 2014, acquired consecutively or not since reserved for employees with a par value of €8, representing January 1, 2013, to qualify as a candidate for subscription. This a share capital increase of €229 million net of issue costs leveraged plan offered employees the possibility of subscribing at (€1.0 million, net of tax). a discounted preferential rate and, via a bank which secured and In those countries where the set-up of an FCPE has been possible, supplemented the investment so that the total amount invested the IFRS 2 expense is nil, as the cost of non-transferability to the represented ten times the personal contribution of the employee, participant is greater than the total discount at the date of grant potentially generating a greater capital gain than would have been plus the opportunity gain. The IFRS 2 expense is attributable to the case had it been calculated based solely on the employee’s the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism for employees personal contribution. In return, the employee waives a portion of in countries where the introduction of a leveraged plan through any increase in the price of shares subscribed on his behalf, as an FCPE or directly in the name of the employee is not possible well as dividends and other financial rights that could be paid on or relevant. these shares throughout the entire term of the plan. In addition, the shares will be unavailable for a period of five years (except for Finally, it should also be noted that a decrease of 0.5 points in the cases of early release covered by plan rules in accordance with employee financing rate would not impact the IFRS 2 expense, applicable legislation). as the non-transferability cost would remain greater than the total discount at the grant date. The table below presents the main features of the ESOP 2014 employee share ownership plan, the amounts subscribed and the pricing assumptions (excluding SAR): 2014 Plan Plan features Grant date November 17, 2014 Plan maturity (in years) 5 Base price (in euros) 54.76 Subscription price (in euros) 46.00 Par value discount (in %) 12.50% Total discount at the grant date (in %) (a) 16.00% Amount subscribed by employees (in millions of euros) 23 Total amount subscribed (in millions of euros) 230 Total number of shares subscribed 5,000,000 Pricing assumptions Employee financing rate 6.12% 5-year risk-free interest rate 0.41% Repo and reverse repo rates 1.00% Retail rate / Institutional rate volatility difference 4.48% Cost of non-transferability to the participant (in %) (b) 26.58% Opportunity gain (in %) (c) 2.49% (1) Total cost for the Group (in %) (a-b+c) 0.00% (1) The expense is nil as the cost of non-transferability to the participant is greater than the total discount at the date of grant plus the opportunity gain. CAPGEMINI 160 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts IMPACT OF INCENTIVE INSTRUMENTS AND EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLANS The following table breaks down by type of incentive and employee share ownership instrument, the expense recognized in “Other operating income and expense” (including payroll taxes and employer contributions) and the residual amount to be amortized at each period end. 2013 2014 Expense of At Expense of At in millions of euros Note the period December 31 the period December 31 Performance share plans 21 37 32 57 Free share plans 2 1 3 3 Employee Share Ownership Plan – ESOP 1 TOTAL 7 23 38 36 60 TREASURY SHARES AND MANAGEMENT OF SHARE CURRENCY RISK AND TRANSLATION GAINS AND CAPITAL AND MARKET RISKS LOSSES ON THE ACCOUNTS OF SUBSIDIARIES WITH A FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY OTHER THAN The Group does not hold any shares for financial investment THE EURO purposes and does not have any interests in listed companies. Regarding risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency At December 31, 2014, treasury shares were deducted from accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, the consolidated financial consolidated equity in the amount of €60 million. These consist of statements are particularly impacted by fluctuations in the US (i) 835,116 shares purchased between January and October 2014 dollar, Canadian dollar and Indian rupee against the euro. The under the share buyback program and (ii) 288,418 shares relating positive impact on translation reserves is mainly due to the to the implementation of the liquidity agreement (the associated liquidity line is €10 million) and the contractual holding system for appreciation of the US dollar and the Indian rupee against the euro during 2014. 4 key employee of American activities. The Group does not hedge risks arising on the translation of the In view of the small number of treasury shares held, the Group is foreign currency accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose not therefore exposed to significant equity risk. Finally, as the value functional currency is not the euro. The main exchange rates used of treasury shares is deducted from equity, changes in the share for the preparation of the financial statements are presented in price do not impact the Consolidated Income Statement. Note 2, Group Structure: Foreign currency translation. The Group’s capital management strategy is designed to maintain a strong capital base in view of supporting the continued development of its business activities and delivering a return to shareholders, while adopting a prudent approach to debt as evidenced by the use of the debt-to-equity ratio as a key performance indicator (see Note 29 – Off-balance sheet commitments). At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Group had a positive net cash position. In order to best manage the structure of its capital, the Group can issue new shares, buy back its own shares, adjust the dividend paid to shareholders or enter into derivative instruments on its own shares. It is recalled that in October 2013, the Group sold a call option on Cap Gemini S.A. shares to a bank counterparty. At December 31, 2014, the derivative instrument is recognized in equity in the amount of €43 million, net of tax. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 161 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 12 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill and business combinations When the cost of a business combination is less than the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition negative goodwill is recognized immediately in the Income method. Under this method, the identifiable assets acquired Statement in “Other operating income and expense”. and liabilities assumed are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date and may be adjusted during the 12 months Acquisition-related costs are expensed in the Income following this date. Statement in “Other operating income and expense” in the year incurred. Goodwill is equal to the excess of the acquisition price (plus, where applicable, non-controlling interests) over the net Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment at least amount recognized in respect of identifiable assets acquired annually, or more frequently when events or changes in and liabilities assumed. Where an acquisition confers control circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. with remaining non-controlling interests (acquisition of less Customer relationships than 100%), the Group elects either to recognize goodwill on the full amount of revalued net assets, including the share On certain business combinations, where the nature of the attributable to non-controlling interests (full goodwill method) customer portfolio held by the entity and the nature of the or on the share in revalued net assets effectively acquired only business performed should enable the entity to continue (partial goodwill method). This choice is made on an individual commercial relations with its customers as a result of efforts transaction basis. to build customer loyalty, customer relationships are valued in intangible assets and amortized over the known term of When a business combination with non-controlling interests contracts held in portfolio at the acquisition date. provides for the grant of a put option to these noncontrolling interests, an operating liability is recognized in the Licenses and software Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in the amount of Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted the estimated exercise price of the put option granted to nonownership basis, as well as software and solutions developed controlling interests, through a reduction in reserves. Changes internally and which have a positive, lasting and quantifiable in this put option resulting from any changes in estimates or effect on future results, are capitalized and amortized over three the unwinding of the discount will also be recognized through to five years. reserves. Any additional acquisitions of non-controlling The capitalized costs of software and solutions developed interests are considered a transaction with shareholders internally are costs that relate directly to their production, and, as such, identifiable assets are not remeasured and no i.e. the salary costs of the staff that developed the relevant additional goodwill is recognized. software. CAPGEMINI 162 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts Other Customer Licenses and intangible in millions of euros Goodwill relationships software assets Total GROSS At January 1, 2013 3,753 212 224 234 4,423 Translation adjustments (100) (11) (12) (3) (126) Acquisitions / Increase 24 24 Internal developments 19 19 Disposals / Decrease (27) (1) (28) Business combinations (1) (1) Other movements (2) 2 At December 31, 2013 3,652 201 207 251 4,311 Translation adjustments 176 11 7 194 Acquisitions / Increase 24 24 Internal developments 20 20 Disposals / Decrease (13) (1) (14) Business combinations 8 1 13 22 Other movements (1) (2) (3) At December 31, 2014 3,835 213 236 270 4,554 ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT (1) At January 1, 2013 51 116 184 178 529 Translation adjustments (7) (9) (2) (18) 4 Charges and provisions 28 21 14 63 Disposals (27) (27) Other movements (3) (3) At December 31, 2013 51 137 166 190 544 Translation adjustments 10 6 16 Charges and provisions 17 21 17 55 Disposals (12) (12) Business combinations 11 11 Other movements (2) (2) At December 31, 2014 51 164 190 207 612 NET At December 31, 2013 3,601 64 41 61 3,767 AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 3,784 49 46 63 3,942 (1) Goodwill is subject to impairment only. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 163 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT A) Property, plant and equipment Residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at each period end. The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is recorded in assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial The sale of property, plant and equipment gives rise to Position and corresponds to the historical cost of these items, disposal gains and losses corresponding to the difference less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. No between the selling price and the net carrying amount of the items of property, plant and equipment have been revalued. relevant asset. Buildings owned by the Group are measured based on the B) Leases components approach. Leases that do not transfer to the Group substantially all the Subsequent expenditure increasing the future economic risks and rewards incidental to ownership are classified as benefits associated with assets (costs of replacing and/or operating leases, and give rise to lease payments expensed bringing assets into compliance) is capitalized and depreciated as incurred over the lease term. over the remaining useful lives of the relevant assets. Ongoing maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. However, when the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership, the lease is Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the classified as a finance lease and is recognized as an asset at estimated useful lives of the relevant assets. It is calculated the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present based on acquisition cost less any residual value. value of future minimum lease payments, with the related Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the obligation recorded in liabilities within borrowings. The asset following estimated useful lives: is depreciated over the period during which it is expected to be used by the Group and the obligation is amortized over the Buildings 20 to 40 years lease term. Deferred tax is recognized as appropriate. Fixtures and fittings 10 years Computer equipment 3 to 5 years Office furniture and equipment 5 to 10 years Vehicles 5 years Other equipment 5 years CAPGEMINI 164 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts Land, buildings and fixtures Computer in millions of euros and fittings equipment Other PP&E Total GROSS At January 1, 2013 605 610 210 1,425 Translation adjustments (21) (23) (16) (60) Acquisitions / Increase 43 83 10 136 Disposals / Decrease (42) (114) (15) (171) Other movements (13) (3) (4) (20) At December 31, 2013 572 553 185 1,310 Translation adjustments 18 20 11 49 Acquisitions / Increase 37 94 21 152 Disposals / Decrease (27) (42) (8) (77) Business combinations 16 17 4 37 Other movements (7) (7) At December 31, 2014 616 635 213 1,464 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At January 1, 2013 314 429 140 883 Translation adjustments (9) (16) (9) (34) Charges and provisions 46 82 17 145 Disposals (41) (110) (14) (165) Other movements (6) (5) (2) (13) 4 At December 31, 2013 304 380 132 816 Translation adjustments 10 13 6 29 Charges and provisions 46 87 16 149 Disposals (21) (35) (7) (63) Business combinations 10 13 2 25 Other movements (7) (7) At December 31, 2014 349 451 149 949 NET At December 31, 2013 268 173 53 494 AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 267 184 64 515 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT PURCHASED UNDER FINANCE LEASE Net (in millions of euros) 2013 2014 At January 1 172 156 Translation adjustments (4) 6 Acquisitions / Increase 36 46 Disposals / Decrease (1) Depreciation and impairment (44) (41) Business combinations 2 (1) Other movements (3) (65) AT DECEMBER 31 156 104 (1) Including €61 million following exercise of the lease finance option by S.A.R.L. Immobilière Les Fontaines, leading to the transfer of the asset from PP&E purchased under finance lease to assets owned outright. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 165 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 14 ASSET IMPAIRMENT TESTS Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment with a in a binding agreement or the market price in recent and definite useful life are tested for impairment when there is an comparable transactions; indication at the period end that their recoverable amount may X value in use is based on the discounted future cash flows to be less than their carrying amount. Goodwill and assets with be derived from these cash-generating units. an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least once The value in use of each cash-generating unit is measured a year. using the discounted future cash flow method, based on The impairment test consists of assessing the recoverable the various assumptions in the three-year strategic plan amount of each asset or group of assets generating cash extrapolated over a period of five years, including growth flows that are separate from the cash flows generated by other and profitability rates considered reasonable. Discount rates assets or groups of assets (cash-generating units or CGU). (based on the weighted average cost of capital) and long-term The cash-generating units identified by the Group are the growth rates for the period beyond five years are based in the geographic areas. majority of cases on the average of a representative sample The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the fair of projections by financial analysts who use these indicators value less costs to sell of the cash-generating unit and its to value the Group. When the recoverable amount of a cashvalue in use: generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is deducted from goodwill to the extent possible and X fair value is the amount obtainable in an arm’s length charged to operating profit under “Other operating expenses.” transaction and is determined with reference to the price GOODWILL PER CASH-GENERATING UNIT The cash-generating units adopted by the Group correspond to geographic areas representing the Group’s major markets and the main lines of development and strategic investment. December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 Net carrying Net carrying in millions of euros Gross value Impairment amount Gross value Impairment amount North America 597 (6) 591 687 (7) 680 France 1,035 (2) 1,033 1,057 (1) 1,056 United Kingdom and Ireland 528 528 569 569 Benelux 793 (12) 781 808 (12) 796 Southern Europe 50 50 50 50 Nordic countries 158 158 159 159 Germany and Central Europe 253 (31) 222 263 (31) 232 Asia-Pacific and Latin America 238 238 242 242 GOODWILL 3,652 (51) 3,601 3,835 (51) 3,784 CAPGEMINI 166 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts This goodwill was tested for impairment at December 31, 2014 In 2014, the Group used estimates produced by nine financial in line with the Group procedure for verifying the value of such analysts, all of whom were included in the 2013 group of financial assets. analysts. Long-term growth and discount rates used for Brazil and India have been calculated separately, taking account of the Value in use is measured using the discounted future cash flow specific characteristics of these countries. method and based on the following main assumptions: The change in discount rates arises from the three components X number of years over which cash flows are estimated: five used for the calculation: the risk-free rates, the risk premium years, based on data taken from the three-year strategic plan and the volatility of the Cap Gemini S.A. share price in relation to process, with extrapolation of this data for the remaining period; changes in its listed market (“beta”). X long-term growth rate used to extrapolate to perpetuity final year estimated cash flows: 5.5% for Brazil, 3.8% for India and No impairment losses were recognized at December 31, 2014 as 2.3% for the rest of the Group (stable on 2013); a result of these impairment tests. X discount rate: 9.0% for North America (9.6% in 2013), 8.9% for Furthermore, an analysis of the calculation’s sensitivity to a the United Kingdom (9.7% in 2013), 13.1% for Brazil (13.5% in combined change in the following key assumptions: 2013), 12.5% for India (stable on 2013) and 9.3% for the rest of X +/2 points in the revenue growth rate for the first five years; the Group (9.6% in 2013). X +/1 point in the operating margin rate for the first five years; Group long-term growth and discount rates are based in the X +/0.5 points in the discount rate; majority of cases on the average of a representative sample of projections by financial analysts who use these indicators to value X +/0.5 points in the long-term growth rate the Group. did not identify any recoverable amounts below the carrying amount for a cash-generating unit. NOTE 15 DEFERRED TAXES 4 Deferred tax assets are recognized when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the recognized tax asset can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each period end. This amount is reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that additional taxable profit will be available against which to offset all or part of the deferred tax assets to be utilized. Conversely, the carrying amount of deferred tax assets will be increased when it becomes probable that future taxable profit will be available in the long-term against which to offset tax losses not yet recognized. The probability of recovering deferred tax assets is primarily assessed based on a 10-year plan, taking account of the probability of realization of future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if, the subsidiaries have a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when the deferred taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 167 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts RECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Deferred tax assets and movements therein break down as follows: Provisions for pensions and Other Tax loss carryUS amortizable goodwill other postdeductible forwards excl. and tax loss carryemployment temporary Total deferred in millions of euros Note the US forwards benefits differences tax assets At January 1, 2013 441 204 296 124 1,065 Translation adjustments (1) (9) (11) (8) (29) Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 9 (46) (15) 29 (32) Deferred tax expense recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 40 (18) 22 Other movements (3) (3) At December 31, 2013 434 195 252 142 1,023 Business combinations 5 6 11 Translation adjustments 26 14 4 44 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 9 (58) (5) (4) (67) Deferred tax expense recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 5 48 53 Other movements (3) 1 3 1 AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 378 221 315 151 1,065 a) Deferred tax assets arising from tax loss carryAt December 31, 2014, the cumulative amount of US tax forwards (excluding the United States) losses carried forward, including the amortization charges Recognized tax loss carry-forwards (excluding the United States) already deducted for tax purposes referred to above, totaled total €378 million at December 31, 2014. They include tax losses €3,006 million (USD 3,649 million). To these tax loss carryof €327 million recognized in France. forwards are added future amortization charges deductible for tax purposes of €98 million (USD 119 million) at December 31, 2014. b) US deferred tax assets arising from amortizable goodwill and tax loss carry-forwards Recognized deferred tax assets total €221 million at December 31, 2014. After the utilization of USD 103 million The acquisition of Ernst & Young’s North American consulting (€78 million) in 2014 tied to the offset of tax-deductible business in 2000 gave rise to the amortization for tax purposes, amortization against the taxable profits of the US tax group, a over a period of 15 years, of the difference between the acquisition revaluation was performed in the same amount. Accordingly, the price of the business and the tax base of the assets and liabilities US dollar amount of recognized deferred tax assets is unchanged acquired. Since 2000, the annual amortization charge has been at December 31, 2014 compared with December 31, 2013 at deducted from US tax profits. Annual tax losses can be carried USD 269 million (€221 million). forward for a period of 20 years. Unrecognized deferred tax assets at December 31, 2014 amount to €970 million (USD 1,178 million). CAPGEMINI 168 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2013 2014 Tax loss carry-forwards, excluding the United States 226 218 US deferred tax on amortizable goodwill and tax loss carry-forwards 933 970 Deferred tax on other temporary differences 120 150 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 1,279 1,338 EXPIRY DATES OF TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS (TAXABLE BASE) 2013 2014 At December 31 (in millions of euros) Amount % Amount % Between 1 and 5 years 92 2 94 2 Between 6 and 10 years 1,092 23 1,335 27 Between 11 and 15 years 1,112 24 1,204 25 Beyond 15 years (definite expiry date) 696 15 461 9 Carried forward indefinitely 1,700 36 1,745 36 TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS (taxable base) 4,692 100 4,839 100 o/w recognized tax losses 1,624 35 1,550 32 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES 4 Deferred tax liabilities and movements therein break down as follows: Taxdeductible Other taxable goodwill Customer Amortized temporary Total deferred in millions of euros Note amortization relationships cost of bonds differences tax liabilities At January 1, 2013 50 31 5 77 163 Translation adjustments (2) (1) (2) (5) Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 9 2 (9) (4) (11) Deferred tax expense recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 13 13 Other movements 4 (6) (2) At December 31, 2013 54 21 5 78 158 Translation adjustments 4 1 5 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 9 1 (5) (14) (18) Deferred tax expense recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 12 12 Other movements 1 1 AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 59 16 5 78 158 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 169 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 16 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments consist of: effective interest rate. Financial assets measured at amortized cost are subject to impairment tests as soon as there are X financial assets, including certain other non-current assets, indicators of a loss in value. Any loss in value is recognized in accounts receivable, certain other current receivables, cash the Income Statement. management assets and cash and cash equivalents; X financial liabilities, including longand short-term borrowings Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are derecognized and bank overdrafts, certain accounts payable, and certain when the related risks and rewards of ownership have been other current payables and non-current liabilities; transferred, and when the Group no longer exercises control over the instruments. X derivative instruments. a) Recognition of financial instruments b) Derivative instruments Derivative instruments mainly comprise forward foreign Financial instruments are recognized at inception and on exchange purchase and sale contracts (in the form of tunnels, subsequent dates in accordance with the methods described where applicable), interest rate swaps and call options on own below. These methods draw on the following interest rate shares. definitions: Other derivative instruments X the coupon interest rate or coupon, which is the nominal interest rate on borrowings; Other derivative instruments are initially recognized at fair X the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly value. Except as described below in the case of instruments discounts the estimated cash flows through the expected designated as cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of term of the instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter derivative instruments, estimated based on market rates or period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or data provided by bank counterparties, are recognized in the liability at initial recognition. The effective interest rate takes Income Statement at the period end. into account all fees paid or received, transaction costs, When operating or financial cash flow hedges are eligible for and, where applicable, premiums to be paid and received; hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the hedging X the market interest rate, which reflects the effective interest instruments are recognized firstly in “Income and expense rate recalculated at the measurement date based on current recognized in equity” and subsequently taken to operating market parameters. profit when the hedged item itself impacts the Income Statement. Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are initially recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position c) Fair value measurement at their initial fair value. Fair value measurement methods for financial and nonThe subsequent measurement of financial assets and liabilities financial assets and liabilities as defined above are classified is based on either their fair value or amortized cost depending according to the following three fair value levels: on their classification in the Consolidated Statement of X Level 1: fair values measured based on quoted prices Financial Position. (unadjusted) observed in active markets for identical assets The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which or liabilities; an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between X Level 2: fair values measured using inputs other than quoted knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. prices in active markets, that are observable either directly Amortized cost corresponds to the initial carrying amount (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); (net of transaction costs), plus interest calculated using the X Level 3: fair values of assets or liabilities measured using effective interest rate, less cash outflows (coupon interest inputs that are not based on observable market data payments and repayments of principal, and redemption (unobservable inputs). premiums where applicable). Accrued interest (income As far as possible, the Group applies Level 1 measurement and expense) is not recorded on the basis of the financial methods. instrument’s nominal interest rate, but on the basis of its CAPGEMINI 170 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT CLASSIFICATION AND FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY The following table presents the net carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities and the fair value of financial instruments broken down according to the three classification levels defined above (except for financial instruments where the net carrying amount represents a reasonable approximation of fair value). Net carrying amount Fair value Amortized At December 31, 2014 (in millions of euros) Notes Fair value costs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Shares in non-consolidated companies 17 1 1 Shares in associates 17 3 3 Deposits and long-term receivables 17 71 Other non-current assets 17 44 Asset derivatives instruments 17 – 19 177 177 Accounts and notes receivables 18 2,849 Other current receivables 19 515 Cash management asses 20 90 90 Cash and cash equivalents 20 2,141 2,141 Financial liabilities Bonds 20 860 935 Finance lease obligations Other borrowings 20 20 105 50 4 Other non-current liabilities 25 159 Liability derivative instruments 25 – 27 96 96 Accounts payable 26 2,543 Other current liabilities 27 147 Bank overdrafts 20 1 1 NOTE 17 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2013 2014 Deposits, receivables and other long-term investments 63 71 Derivative instruments 22 71 141 Other 19 48 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 21 153 260 Deposits and long-term receivables consist mainly of “aides à la December 31, 2013) and (ii) the fair value of derivative instruments construction” (building aid program) loans and security deposits contracted as part of the centralized management of currency and guarantees relating to leases, as well as escrow accounts risk in the amount of €46 million (the current portion of €32 million guaranteeing tax and employee-related disputes and rental is recorded in Other current receivables, see Note 19). At deposits for premises. December 31, 2013, the fair value of these instruments was recorded in “Other non-current liabilities” in the amount of Derivative instruments consist of (i) the call option on own €18 million and in “Other current payables” in the amount of shares purchased by Cap Gemini S.A. on October 18, 2013, €9 million. valued at €95 million at December 31, 2014 (€71 million at CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 171 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 18 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2013 2014 Accounts receivable 1,630 1,834 Provisions for doubtful accounts (10) (20) Accrued income 864 943 Accounts and notes receivable, excluding capitalized costs on projects 21 2,484 2,757 Capitalized costs on projects 21 103 92 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE 2,587 2,849 Total accounts receivable and accrued income net of advances from customers and billed in advance, can be analyzed as follows in number of days: At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2013 2014 Accounts and notes receivable, excluding capitalized costs on projects 21 2,484 2,757 Advances from customers and billed in advance 21 (684) (776) TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NET OF ADVANCES FROM CUSTOMERS AND BILLED IN ADVANCE 1,800 1,981 In number of days’ annual revenues(1) 64 67 (1) In 2014, this ratio is adjusted to take account of the impact of entries into the scope of consolidation. In 2014, receivables totaling €33 million were assigned with transfer of credit risk as defined by IAS 39 to a financial institution (€36 million in 2013) and were therefore derecognized in the Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2014. AGED ANALYSIS OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE The low bad debt ratio (1.1% at December 31, 2014) reflects the fact that most invoices are only issued after the client has validated the services provided. At end-2014, past due balances totaled €398 million, representing 21.9% of accounts receivable less provisions for doubtful accounts. The breakdown is as follows: > 30 days in millions of euros < 30 days and < 90 days > 90 days Net accounts receivable 247 96 55 As a % of accounts and notes receivable, net of provisions for doubtful accounts 13.6% 5.3% 3.0% Past due balances concern accounts receivable from customers and the sheer diversity of the other smaller clients help limit credit which are individually analyzed and monitored. risk. The economic environment could impact the business activities of the Group’s clients, as well as the amounts receivable from these clients. However, the Group does not consider that CREDIT RISK any of its clients, business sectors or geographic areas present The Group’s 5 largest clients contribute around 15% of Group a significant credit risk that could materially impact the financial revenues (stable on 2013). The top 10 clients collectively account position of the Group as a whole. for 20% of Group revenues. The solvency of these major clients CAPGEMINI 172 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 19 OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2013 2014 Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax 171 258 Prepaid expenses 168 214 Derivative instruments 22 3 36 Other 26 43 OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES 21 368 551 At December 31, 2014, the heading “Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax” includes research tax credit receivables in France in the amount of €91 million (€71 million at December 31, 2013), after recognition of research tax credit income deducted from operating expenses of €22 million (€25 million in 2013). NOTE 20 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents presented in the Consolidated (assets presented separately in the Consolidated Statement of Statement of Cash Flows consist of short-term investments Financial Position due to their characteristics), less shortand and cash at bank less bank overdrafts, and also include the long-term borrowings. Account is also taken of the impact of fair value of hedging instruments relating to these items. hedging instruments when these relate to borrowings and own shares. Net cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents as defined above, and cash management assets 4 At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2013 2014 Short-term investments 1,177 1,668 Cash at bank 461 473 Bank overdrafts (liability) (9) (1) Cash and cash equivalents 21 1,629 2,140 Cash management assets 77 90 Bonds (848) (858) Obligations under finance leases (57) (56) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings (1) Long-term borrowings (906) (914) Bonds (2) (2) Obligations under finance leases (50) (49) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings (72) (50) Short-term borrowings (124) (101) Borrowings (1,030) (1,015) Derivative instruments(1) 2 3 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 678 1,218 (1) Including the fair value of the conversion option embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” bonds and the call option on own shares purchased by Cap Gemini S.A. on October 18, 2013. CASH MANAGEMENT ASSETS SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS Cash management assets consist of capitalization contracts with At December 31, 2014, short-term investments mainly consist of insurance companies (Generali, AG2R la Mondiale and Natixis money market mutual funds (FCP), certificates of deposit and term Life). These contracts may be cancelled by Cap Gemini S.A. at bank deposits, paying interest at standard market rates. any time without penalty. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 173 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts BORROWINGS b) 2011 Bond issue On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a bond issue A) Bonds maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoy all rights a) “ORNANE 2013” Bond issue from November 29, 2011. On October 18, 2013, Cap Gemini S.A. launched an offering The total amount of the issue was €500 million, comprising of bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing 5,000 bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. The bonds shares (Obligations à option de Remboursement en Numéraire bear interest at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing to 6.50% in et/ou en Actions Nouvelles et/ou Existantes, ORNANE) and the event of a down-grading of Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating. maturing on January 1, 2019. Bondholders enjoy all rights from The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the October 25, 2013. prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under The total amount of the issue was €400 million, comprising reference number n°11-546. 5,958,587 bonds with a nominal value of €67.13 each, The bonds are redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. They representing an issue premium of 42.5% compared with the may be redeemed before this date at the initiative of the Company, Company benchmark share price during the relevant period. subject to certain conditions set out in the issue prospectus On October 18, 2013, the Company purchased a call option on and particularly concerning the minimum redemption price. its own shares aimed at neutralizing the potential dilution related Bondholders may request the early redemption of all or part of to the ORNANE 2013 bond issue. In addition, and in order to their bonds in the event of a change in control of the Company, optimize the cost of the Group’s financial resources, the Company provided this change in control is accompanied by a downgrading sold a call option also on its own shares but with a higher strike of the Company’s financial rating. price. Together, these two transactions synthetically enhance the Early repayment may be requested at the initiative of a majority effective dilution threshold of the ORNANEs by approximately 5%. of bondholders, subject to the occurrence of certain events and The bonds will not bear any interest (zero coupon bonds). particularly failure to pay sums due in respect of the bond issue During the period from October 25, 2013 to December 31, 2016 or to comply with other obligations set out in the documentation (inclusive), bondholders may only exercise their share conversion (beyond any “grace” periods, if applicable), cross default (in excess rights in the limited circumstances listed in the prospectus. of a minimum threshold), liquidation, dissolution or sale of all of the Company’s assets. From January 1, 2017 (inclusive), bondholders may exercise their share conversion rights at any time up to the eighteenth trading An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating day (exclusive) preceding January 1, 2019. would not constitute an early repayment event. On the exercise by bondholders of their share conversion rights, Furthermore, Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will Cap Gemini S.A. may present, at its initiative, either: (i) a cash rank pari passu with all other bonds issued by the Company. amount up to the nominal value of the bonds and new and/or c) “OCEANE 2009” convertible bond issue existing shares thereafter, where applicable; or (ii) only new and/ On April 8, 2009, Cap Gemini S.A. issued bonds convertible/ or existing shares. exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini S.A. shares, The bonds will be redeemed at par on January 1, 2019 if share maturing on January 1, 2014 (“OCEANE 2009”). Bondholders conversion rights are not exercised by bondholders. enjoyed all rights from April 20, 2009. The bond issue is also subject to standard early redemption, early The total amount of the issue was €575 million, comprising repayment and pari passu clauses. 16,911,765 bonds with a nominal value of €34 each. The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the During fiscal year 2013, Cap Gemini S.A. repurchased prospectus approved by the AMF on October 18, 2013 under 14,280,305 “OCEANE 2009” bonds for an amount of €687 million, reference number n°13-557. pursuant to a reverse book-building process on October 18, 2013 Given the settlement terms of the “ORNANE 2013” bonds, an and a buyback procedure implemented between October 21 embedded conversion option is recognized in “Other non-current and October 25, 2013 (inclusive). In addition, between October liabilities”, with fair value movements taken to profit or loss. and December 2013, bondholders exercised Cap Gemini S.A. share conversion rights in respect of 2,628,564 bonds, resulting In parallel and given its terms and conditions, the call option on in the presentation of 1,440,397 existing shares and 1,188,167 own shares purchased on October 18, 2013 is recognized in new shares. Cap Gemini S.A. redeemed in full the remaining assets. Fair value movements are taken to profit and loss and 2,896 bonds outstanding on January 2, 2014. offset those on the embedded conversion option. CAPGEMINI 174 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts IMPACT OF BONDS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 2014 2011 “ORNANE 2011 “ORNANE At December 31 (in millions of euros) Bond issue 2013” bonds Bond issue 2013” bonds Equity component n/a n/a n/a n/a Option component in respect of the embedded conversion option n/a 70 n/a 95 Debt component at amortized cost 499 351 500 360 Effective interest rate 5.5% 2.7% 5.5% 2.7% Interest expense recognized in the Income Statement for the period 27 2 27 9 Nominal interest rate 5.3% 0.0% 5.3% 0.0% Nominal interest expense (coupon) 26 26 FAIR VALUE OF BONDS 2013 2014 2011 “ORNANE 2011 “ORNANE At December 31 (in millions of euros) Bond issue 2013” bonds Bond issue 2013” bonds Fair value 553 360 548 387 Market rate 1.4% 2.1% 0.4% 0.8% B) Obligations under finance leases 4 Earliest date of Latest Effective December 31, in millions of euros leases expiry date interest rate 2014 Obligations under finance leases: Computer equipment and other fixed assets February 2008 December 2019 5.22% 105 o/w long-term obligations 56 o/w short-term obligations 49 C) Breakdown of borrowings by currency At December 31, 2013 At December 31, 2014 Other Other in millions of euros Euro currencies Total Euro currencies Total 2011 Bond issue 499 499 500 500 “ORNANE 2013” bonds 351 351 360 360 Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities 52 21 73 1 49 50 Obligations under finance leases 35 72 107 41 64 105 Bank overdrafts (liability) 9 9 1 1 BORROWINGS 946 93 1,039 903 113 1,016 Obligations under finance leases are mainly denominated in Pound Sterling in the amount of €39 million (€51 million at December 31, 2013) and in US dollar in the amount of €16 million (€11 million at December 31, 2013). CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 175 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts D) Effective Interest Rate (EIR) Cap Gemini S.A. The facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn In 2014, the effective interest rate on the Group’s average amounts equal to 35% of the margin. Following the upgrade of outstanding borrowings was 4.3% (5.3% in 2013). At Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating to BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s on December 31, 2014, 98% of the Group’s borrowings are at fixed August 5, 2014, the margin applicable is now 0.35% and the fee rates, unchanged on December 31, 2013 and the remainder is at on undrawn amounts is 0.1225%. floating rates. An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating would have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. The E) Syndicated credit facility negotiated other main terms and conditions of the credit facility, in particular by Cap Gemini S.A. with respect to certain financial ratios, are detailed in Note 29, Off On January 13, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. signed a €500 million balance sheet commitments. multi-currency credit facility with a syndicate of 18 banks, maturing This credit facility was not drawn at December 31, 2014. on January 13, 2016. This facility was refinanced on July 30, 2014 with a group of 18 banks by a new multi-currency credit facility for an increased NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS BY MATURITY amount of €750 million, maturing on July 30, 2019. In the event AT REDEMPTION VALUE of exercise (subject to the approval of the banks) of two one-year The amounts indicated below correspond to the undiscounted extension options, exercisable at the end of the first and second value of future contractual cash flows. Future cash flows relating years, respectively, the maturity of the new facility will be extended to the 2011 bond issue and the “ORNANE 2013” bonds were by a maximum of two additional years. estimated based on contractual nominal interest rates (5.25% and The initial margin on the new credit facility is 0.45% (excluding the 0% respectively) and on the assumption that the bonds would be fee on drawn amounts which varies according to the portion of redeemed in full at maturity. The contractual cash flows associated the facility drawn), compared with the margin of 0.75% applied with “Obligations under finance leases” represent contractual previously at the same credit-rating level. This margin may be repayments of the liability. adjusted upwards or downwards according to the credit rating of Contractual Carrying Contractual Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Beyond in millions of euros maturity amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years At December 31, 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2,140 2,140 2,140 Cash management assets 2015 90 90 90 2011 Bond issue 2016 (500) (552) (26) (526) “ORNANE 2013” bonds 2019 (360) (400) (400) Obligations under finance leases 2015 to 2019 (105) (112) (53) (34) (25) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings 2015 (50) (52) (52) Borrowings (1,015) (1,116) (131) (560) (425) Derivative instruments on borrowings 3 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1,218 1,114 2,099 (560) (425) At December 31, 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 2014 1,629 1,629 1,629 Cash management assets 2014 77 77 77 2011 Bond issue 2016 (499) (576) (26) (26) (524) “ORNANE 2013” bonds 2019 (351) (400) (400) Obligations under finance leases 2014 to 2018 (107) (114) (53) (37) (24) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings 2014 to 2018 (73) (73) (72) (1) Borrowings (1,030) (1,163) (151) (64) (548) (400) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a 2 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 678 543 1,555 (64) (548) (400) CAPGEMINI 176 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND CREDIT LIQUIDITY RISK RISK The financial liabilities whose repayability could expose the Group Financial assets which could expose the Group to a credit or to liquidity risk are mainly the convertible bonds (“OCEANE 2013”) counterparty risk mainly consist of financial investments: in and the 2011 bond issue. accordance with Group policy, cash balances are not invested in equity-linked products, but in (i) negotiable debt securities To manage the liquidity risk that may result from financial liabilities (certificates of deposit), (ii) term deposits, (iii) capitalization becoming due and payable, at the contractual due date or early, contracts or (iv) short-term money market mutual funds (FCP), the Group has implemented a conservative financing policy mainly subject to minimum credit rating and diversification rules. based on: At December 31, 2014, short-term investments totaled X prudent use of debt leveraging, coupled with limited use of any €1,668 million and comprise mainly (i) money market mutual funds clauses that could lead to early repayment of borrowings; (FCP) meeting the criteria defined by the AMF for classification X maintaining a high level of available funds at all times in the “monetary category”; and (ii) negotiable debt securities (€2,231 million at December 31, 2014), which could be and term deposits maturing within three months or immediately increased by a multi-currency syndicated credit facility of available, issued by highly rated companies or financial institutions €750 million (undrawn at December 31, 2014); (minimum rating of A2/P2 or equivalent). Consequently, these X actively managing the due dates of financial liabilities in order to short-term investments do not expose the Group to any material limit the concentration of borrowings’ maturities; credit risk. X using diverse sources of financing, allowing the Group to reduce its reliance on certain categories of lenders. 4 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 177 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 21 CASH FLOWS The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows analyzes the year-on-year change in cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. Foreign currency cash flows are translated into euros at the average exchange rate for the year. Exchange gains or losses resulting from the translation of cash flows relating to foreign currency assets and liabilities at the year-end exchange rate are shown in “Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents” in the Statement of Cash Flows. At December 31, 2014, cash and cash equivalents totaled NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES €2,140 million (see Note 20, Net cash and cash equivalents), up In 2014, net cash from operating activities totaled €815 million €511 million on December 31, 2013 (€1,629 million). Excluding the (compared with €390 million in 2013, including the €235 million impact of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents exceptional contribution for the accelerated financing of a UK of €68 million, this increase is €443 million. Cash flow impacts are pension fund) and resulted from: shown in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. X cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income tax in the amount of €1,044 million; X payment of current income taxes in the amount of €97 million, X an increase in working capital requirements, generating a negative cash impact of €132 million. Changes in working capital requirements (WCR) and the reconciliation with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as follows: Statement of cash Working capital requirement components Neutralization of items Flows (Consolidated Statement of Financial Position) with no cash impact items Non working Impact Foreign Reclassifications(2) December 31, December 31, Net capital of WCR exchange and changes in in millions of euros Notes 2013 2014 impact items(1) items impact Group structure Amount Accounts and notes receivable, excl. capitalized costs on projects 18 2,484 2,757 (273) (7) (280) 77 66 (137) Capitalized costs on projects 18 103 92 11 (1) 10 6 3 19 Advances from customers and billed in advance 18 (684) (776) 92 92 (22) (4) 66 Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and amounts billed in advance (170) (8) (178) 61 65 (52) Accounts and notes payable (accounts payable) 26 (920) (1,015) 95 7 102 (40) (36) 26 Changes in accounts and notes payable 95 7 102 (40) (36) 26 Other non-current assets 17 153 260 (107) 78 (29) 3 8 (18) Other current receivables 19 368 551 (183) 48 (135) 12 1 (122) Other non-current liabilities 25 (260) (254) (6) (7) (13) (2) (4) (19) Accounts and notes payable (excluding accounts payable) 26 (1,373) (1,528) 155 2 157 (36) (39) 82 Other current payables 27 (173) (148) (25) 1 (24) (5) (29) Change in other receivables/payables (166) 122 (44) (23) (39) (106) CHANGE IN OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL (120) (2) (10) (132) (1) Consolidated Statement of Financial Position items explaining cash flows relating to investing and financing activities and the payment of the income tax expense are not included in working capital requirements. They also include the recognition of amounts not impacting cash, through an item not classified in working capital. (2) The Reclassifications heading mainly includes changes relating to the current and non-current reclassification of certain accounts and notes receivable and payable and changes in the position of certain tax and employee-related receivables and payables in assets or liabilities. CAPGEMINI 178 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES The main components of net cash used in investing activities of Net cash outflows as a result of financing activities totaled €153 million (compared with €152 million in 2013) reflect: €218 million (compared with cash outflows of €537 million in 2013) and mainly comprised: X net cash outflows of €98 million, primarily relating to acquisitions of computer hardware for client projects or the partial renewal of X a share capital increase of €229 million following the issue of IT installations and the renovation, extension and refurbishment new shares under the ESOP 2014 employee share ownership of office space; plan; X cash outflows of €44 million relating to acquisitions of intangible X net cash outflows of €181 million in respect of treasury share assets, net of disposals, mainly involving software for customer transactions; projects or for internal use and internally generated intangible X payment of the 2013 dividend of €174 million; assets (see Note 12, Goodwill and intangible assets); X cash outflows of €55 million to reimburse obligations under X cash outflows of €12 million in respect of cash management finance leases; assets. X cash outflows of €51 million to redeem commercial paper issued by Cap Gemini S.A. NOTE 22 CURRENCY, INTEREST RATE AND COUNTERPARTY RISK MANAGEMENT CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT X fees paid to the parent company by subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro. As the majority of these A) Exposure to currency risk and currency risk flows are hedged, the impact of changes in exchange rates on management policy the Income Statement is not material. a) Currency risk and hedging operating transactions c) Sensitivity of revenues and the operating margin to The growing use of offshore production centers located in India, in Poland and in Latin America, exposes the Group to currency risk fluctuations in the main currencies A 10% fluctuation in the Pound Sterling-euro exchange rate 4 with respect to some of its production costs. would trigger a corresponding 2.1% change in revenues and a The Group implements a policy aimed at minimizing and managing 2.6% change in the operating margin amount. Similarly, a 10% these currency risks, due in the majority to internal flows with fluctuation in the US dollar-euro exchange rate would trigger a India. The definition of the hedging policy and the management corresponding 1.8% change in revenues and a 2.2% change in of operational currency risk is centralized at parent company level. the operating margin amount. Currency risk is managed primarily based on periodic reporting by B) Hedging derivatives subsidiaries of their exposure to currency risk over the coming 1 to 3 years. On this basis, the parent company acting as an internal Amounts hedged at December 31, 2014 using forward purchase bank, grants internal currency guarantees to subsidiaries and and sale foreign exchange contracts, mainly concern the parent enters into currency hedges with its bank counterparties, primarily company with respect to the centralized management of currency through forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts. risk on operating transactions and inter-company financing transactions. These hedging transactions are generally recorded in accordance with cash flow hedge accounting rules. b) Currency risk and hedging financial transactions The Group is exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations in respect of: X inter-company financing transactions, mainly within the parent company: as inter-company lending and borrowing is generally hedged (in particular using forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts), the impact of changes in exchange rates on the Income Statement is negligible; CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 179 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts At December 31, 2014, the euro-equivalent value of forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts breaks down by transaction type and maturity as follows: > 6 months and < 12 in millions of euros < 6 months months > 12 months TOTAL Operating transactions 700 610 1,012 2,322 o/w ■ fair value hedge 197 197 ■ cash flow hedge 503 610 1,012 2,125 Financial transactions ■ fair value hedge 128 128 TOTAL 828 610 1,012 2,450 Hedges contracted in respect of operating transactions The maturities of the hedges range from 1 to 37 months and the mainly comprise forward purchase and sale foreign exchange main counterparty is Cap Gemini S.A. (for a euro-equivalent value contracts maturing between 2015 and 2018 with an aggregate of €2,293 million). euro-equivalent value of €2,322 million (€948 million at Hedges contracted in respect of financial transactions primarily December 31, 2013). The hedges were chiefly taken out in concern Cap Gemini S.A. in the amount of €128 million at respect of transactions in Indian rupee (INR 122,047 million), US December 31, 2014. They mainly comprise hedged inter-company dollar (USD 417 million), Polish zloty (PLN 634 million) and Pound loans for €115 million (€197 million at December 31, 2013) and Sterling (GBP 42 million). primarily correspond to loans denominated in US dollar, Australian dollar and Pound Sterling. C) Fair value of hedging derivatives At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2013 2014 Other non-current assets 17 71 141 Other current receivables 19 3 36 Other non-current liabilities 25 (88) (95) Other current payables 27 (11) (1) Fair value of hedging derivatives (25) 81 Relating to: ■ operating transactions (27) 78 ■ financial transactions 2 3 The main hedging derivatives comprise: X the fair value of derivative instruments contracted as part of the centralized management of currency risk recorded in Other nonX the call option on own shares purchased by Cap Gemini S.A. current assets in the amount of €46 million and in Other current on October 18, 2013 recorded in Other non-current assets receivables in the amount of €32 million. (€95 million at December 31, 2014); X the conversion option embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” bonds recorded in Other non-current liabilities (€95 million at December 31, 2014); CAPGEMINI 180 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts The change in the period in derivative instruments hedging operating transactions recorded in income and expense recognized in equity breaks down as follows: in millions of euros 2014 Hedging derivatives recorded in income and expense recognized in equity at January 1 (20) Amounts reclassified to operating profit in respect of transactions performed (15) Fair value of derivative instruments hedging future transactions 104 HEDGING DERIVATIVES RECORDED IN INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31 69 INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT C) Fair value of interest rate derivatives An interest rate swap contract covering 50% of a finance A) Interest rate risk management policy lease taken out by S.A.R.L. Immobilière Les Fontaines (Group The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk should be analyzed in international training center ) was entered into by the latter in 2003. light of its cash position: at December 31, 2014, the Group had This swap contact matured on July 31, 2014. €2,231 million in cash and cash equivalents, mainly invested at floating rates (or failing this, at fixed rates for periods of less than or equal to 3 months), and €1,016 million in gross indebtedness COUNTERPARTY RISK MANAGEMENT principally at fixed rates (98%) (see Note 20, Net cash and cash In addition, in line with its policies for managing currency and equivalents). The high proportion of fixed-rate borrowings is due to interest rate risks as described above, the Group also enters the weight of bond issues in gross indebtedness. into hedging agreements with leading financial institutions. Accordingly, counterparty risk can be deemed not material. B) Exposure to Interest rate risk: sensitivity At December 31, 2014, the Group’s main counterparties for analysis managing currency and interest rate risk are Barclays, BNP As 98% of Group borrowings were at fixed rates in 2014, any increase or decrease in interest rates would have had a negligible Paribas, CA CIB, Citibank, Commerzbank, HSBC, ING, JP Morgan, Natixis, Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander, and Société 4 impact on the Group’s net finance costs. Générale. Based on average levels of floating-rate short-term investments and cash management assets, a 100-basis point rise in interest rates would have had a positive impact of around €8 million on the Group’s net finance costs in 2014. Conversely, a 100-basis point fall in interest rates would have had an estimated €8 million negative impact on the Group’s net finance costs. NOTE 23 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS A) Defined contribution plans B) Defined benefit pension plans Defined contribution plans are funded by contributions paid Defined benefit pension plans consist of either: by employees and Group companies to the organizations X unfunded plans, where benefits are paid directly by the responsible for managing the plans. The Group’s obligations Group and the related obligation is covered by a provision are limited to the payment of such contributions which are corresponding to the present value of future benefit expensed as incurred. The Group’s obligation under these payments. Estimates are based on regularly reviewed plans is recorded in “Accounts and notes payable”. Defined internal and external assumptions. These unfunded plans contribution plans are operated in most European countries correspond mainly to retirement termination payments and (France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany healthcare assistance plans; and Central Europe, Nordic countries, Italy and Spain), in the X funded plans, where the benefit obligation is covered by United States and in the Asia-Pacific area. external funds. Group contributions to these external funds are made in accordance with the specific regulations in force in each country. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 181 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts Obligations under these plans are determined by independent Gains or losses on the curtailment or settlement of defined actuaries using the projected unit credit method. Under this benefit pension plans are recognized in “Other operating method, each period of service gives rise to an additional income” or “Other operating expenses.” unit of benefit entitlement and each of these units is valued The impact of discounting defined benefit obligations as well separately in order to obtain the amount of the Group’s final as the expected return on plan assets is recorded net in “Other obligation. financial income” or “Other financial expense.” The resulting obligation is discounted by reference to market Actuarial gains and losses correspond to the effect of changes yields on high quality corporate bonds, of a currency and term in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. consistent with the currency and term of the post-employment differences between projected actuarial assumptions and benefit obligation. actual data) on the amount of the benefit obligation or the For funded plans, only the estimated funding short-fall is value of plan assets. They are recognized in full in “Income covered by a provision. and expense recognized directly in equity” in the year in which they arise (with the related tax effect). Current and past service costs – corresponding to an increase in the obligation – are recorded within “Operating expenses” of the period. BREAKDOWN OF PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CHANGE IN THE OBLIGATION, PLAN ASSETS AND THE EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits comprise obligations under funded defined benefit plans (particularly in the United Kingdom and Canada) and obligations primarily relating to retirement termination payments (particularly in France, Germany, Sweden and India). Movements during the last two fiscal years were as follows: Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros Notes 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 3,355 3,428 (2,153) (2,466) 1,202 962 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 206 225 (101) (116) 105 109 Service cost 6 63 69 63 69 Interest cost 8 143 156 (101) (116) 42 40 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity 60 618 17 (362) 77 256 Change in actuarial gains and losses 60 618 60 618 Impact of changes in financial assumptions 59 603 59 603 Impact of changes in demographic assumptions 11 21 11 21 Experience adjustments (10) (6) (10) (6) Return on plan assets(1) 17 (362) 17 (362) Other (193) 161 (229) (194) (422) (33) Contributions paid by employees 7 7 (7) (7) Benefits paid to employees (95) (98) 83 89 (12) (9) Contributions paid (376) (96) (376) (96) Translation adjustments (114) 235 78 (179) (36) 56 Business combinations 15 15 Other movements 9 2 (7) (1) 2 1 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 3,428 4,432 (2,466) (3,138) 962 1,294 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. CAPGEMINI 182 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts ANALYSIS OF THE CHANGE IN PROVISIONS FOR X 8,096 former and current employees not accruing pensionable PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT service (8,301 in 2013); BENEFITS X 2,417 retirees (2,190 in 2013). A) United Kingdom The plans are subject to the supervision of the UK Pension Regulator; the funding schedules for these plans are determined In the United Kingdom, post-employment benefits primarily consist by an independent actuary as part of actuarial valuations usually of defined benefit pension plans. The plans are administered within carried out every three years. Capgemini UK Plc., the employer, trusts which are legally separate from the employer. They are gives firm commitments to the trustees regarding the funding of governed by a board of directors comprising independent trustees any deficits identified, over an agreed period. and representatives of the employer. The responsibility to fund these plans lies with the employer. The The plans provide pensions and lump sums to members on defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to the increase retirement and to their dependents on death. Members who leave in liabilities that could result from changes in the life expectancy service before retirement are entitled to a deferred pension. The of members, fluctuations in interest and inflation rates and, more main plan closed to accrual of benefits for the majority of members generally, a downturn in financial markets. on March 31, 2008. In exchange, these individuals were given the opportunity to join a defined contribution pension plan. The average maturity of pension plans in the United Kingdom is 22 years. Employees covered by defined benefit pension plans break down as follows: In accordance with local regulations, the non-renewal of certain contracts in full or in part could require Capgemini UK Plc. to bring X 995 current employees accruing pensionable service (1,057 in forward the funding of any deficits in respect of the employees 2013); concerned. Net provision in the Consolidated Statement of in millions of euros Obligation 2013 2014 Plan assets 2013 2014 Financial Position 2013 2014 4 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 2,387 2,512 (1,626) (1,911) 761 601 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 119 130 (79) (89) 40 41 Service cost 14 14 14 14 Interest cost 105 116 (79) (89) 26 27 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity 90 468 46 (329) 136 139 Change in actuarial gains and losses 90 468 90 468 Impact of changes in financial assumptions 92 456 92 456 Impact of changes in demographic assumptions 11 11 Experience adjustments (2) 1 (2) 1 (1) Return on plan assets 46 (329) 46 (329) Other (84) 142 (252) (151) (336) (9) Contributions paid by employees 1 1 (1) (1) Benefits paid to employees (38) (54) 38 54 Contributions paid (318) (54) (318) (54) Translation adjustments (47) 195 29 (149) (18) 46 Business combinations Other movements (1) (1) PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 2,512 3,252(2) (1,911) (2,480) 601 772 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. (2) The year-on-year increase in the present value of the obligation is mainly due to the impact of a fall in the benchmark discount rate (4.5% to 3.6%). CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 183 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts a) Main actuarial assumptions DISCOUNT RATE, SALARY INFLATION RATE AND INFLATION RATE in % 2013 2014 Discount rate 4.5 3.6 Salary inflation rate 3.4 3.1 Inflation rate 3.4 3.1 In 2014, the benchmark indexes used to calculate discount rates were similar to those used in previous years. Mortality tables used are those commonly used in the United Kingdom. b) Plan assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2013 2014 Shares 1,082 57% 1,363 55% Bonds and hedging assets 780 41% 1,085 44% Other 49 2% 32 1% TOTAL 1,911 100% 2,480 100% Shares correspond to investments in equities or diversified growth investments, the majority of which in developed markets. Bonds and hedging assets consist of bonds and bank loans. A portion of these investments seeks to hedge interest rate risk on the plan liabilities; this matching portfolio consists in UK government bonds (GILT), owned directly or borrowed via sale and repurchase agreements. c) Sensitivity analysis Impact on the obligation at December 31, 2014 in millions of euros Increase Decrease Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate (334) 389 Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 264 (296) Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the mortality rate 39 (45) d) Contributions Future contributions Accelerated financing of the deficit of one of the UK Contributions to defined benefit pension funds in the United pension funds in 2013 Kingdom in respect of 2015 are estimated at €57 million, including In July 2013, the Group launched the accelerated financing of the funding of pension plan deficits over the period defined with the deficit of one of the UK pension funds through an exceptional the trustees as part of the regular actuarial valuations. contribution of €235 million. CAPGEMINI 184 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts B) Canada In Canada, post-employment benefits consist of defined benefit non-renewal of certain contracts in full or in part could require the pension plans and other pension and similar plans. The plans’ Canadian entities to bring forward the funding of any deficits in assets are held in trust separately from the employer’s assets. respect of the employees concerned. Nonetheless, the responsibility to fund the plans lies with the In Canada, employees covered by defined benefit pension plans employer. The plans expose the Group to the increase in liabilities break down as follows: that could result from changes in the life expectancy of members, fluctuations in interest and inflation rates and, more generally, a X 809 current employees accruing pensionable service (847 in downturn in financial markets. 2013); X 79 former and current employees not accruing pensionable The average maturity of pension plans in Canada is 17 years. service (81 in 2013); The plans are subject to regular actuarial valuations performed at X 262 retirees (251 in 2013). least every three years. In accordance with local regulations, the Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 569 499 (389) (403) 180 96 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 44 42 (17) (20) 27 22 Service cost 19 17 19 17 Interest cost 25 25 (17) (20) 8 5 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity (26) 102 (23) (24) (49) 78 4 Change in actuarial gains and losses (26) 102 (26) 102 Impact of changes in financial assumptions (37) 103 (37) 103 Impact of changes in demographic assumptions 13 10 13 10 Experience adjustments (2) (11) (2) (11) Return on plan assets(1) (23) (24) (23) (24) Other (88) 4 26 (23) (62) (19) Contributions paid by employees 4 4 (4) (4) Benefits paid to employees (35) (26) 33 25 (2) (1) Contributions paid (46) (25) (46) (25) Translation adjustments (59) 26 45 (19) (14) 7 Business combinations Other movements 2 (2) PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 499 647(2) (403) (470) 96 177 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. (2) The year-on-year increase in the present value of the obligation is mainly due to the impact of a fall in the benchmark discount rate (4.9% to 4.0%). a) Main actuarial assumptions DISCOUNT RATE, SALARY INFLATION RATE AND INFLATION RATE in % 2013 2014 Discount rate 4.9 4.0 Salary inflation rate 3.0 3.0 Inflation rate 2.0 2.0 In 2014, the benchmark indexes used to calculate discount rates were similar to those used in previous years. Mortality tables used are those commonly used in Canada. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 185 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts b) Plan assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2013 2014 Shares 248 62% 287 61% Bonds 145 36% 172 37% Other 10 2% 11 2% TOTAL 403 100% 470 100% Shares correspond to investments in equities or diversified growth investments, mainly in North America. Bonds are primarily comprised of Canadian government bonds. c) Sensitivity analysis Impact on the obligation at December 31, 2014 in millions of euros Increase Decrease Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate (59) 69 Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 40 (38) Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the mortality rate 2 (2) d) Future contributions Contributions to the Canadian defined benefit pension funds in respect of 2015 are estimated at €31 million, including the funding of pension plan deficits defined as part of the regular actuarial valuations. NOTE 24 CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT PROVISIONS A provision is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at the year-end if, and only if, (i) the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event; (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and (iii) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are discounted when the impact of the time value of money is material. Movements in current and non-current provisions break down as follows: in millions of euros 2013 2014 At January 1 64 58 Charge 33 25 Reversals (utilization of provisions) (17) (12) Reversals (surplus provisions) (19) (14) Other (3) 15 AT DECEMBER 31 58 72 At December 31, 2014, current provisions (€48 million) and non-current provisions (€24 million) mainly concern risks relating to projects and contracts amounting to €56 million (€45 million at December 31, 2013) and risks relating to tax and labor disputes amounting to €16 million (€13 million at December 31, 2013). CAPGEMINI 186 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 25 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2013 2014 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 34 27 Derivative instruments 22 88 95 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 118 120 Other 20 12 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 21 260 254 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies consist for €116 million of put options granted to Caixa Participacões and EMC in 2012 and 2013 on their investments in CPM Braxis and earn-outs granted at the time of certain acquisitions. Derivative instruments primarily consist of the conversion option embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” bonds, valued at €95 million at December 31, 2014. NOTE 26 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES PAYABLE At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2013 2014 Accounts payable 920 1,015 Accrued taxes other than income tax 358 386 Personnel costs Other 994 21 1,128 14 4 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES PAYABLE 21 2,293 2,543 NOTE 27 OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2013 2014 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 18 15 Derivative instruments 22 11 1 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 90 90 Other 54 42 OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES 21 173 148 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies consist for €81 million of the initial put option (net of price adjustments and the impact of the unwinding of the discount) granted to the remaining minority shareholders from which CPM Braxis was purchased in 2010 (€83 million at December 31, 2013). This put option is exercisable between October 2013 and October 2015. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 187 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 28 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 2013 2014 Employees % Employees % North America 9,664 7 10,064 7 France 21,616 17 22,667 17 United Kingdom and Ireland 9,123 7 9,007 7 Benelux 8,942 7 8,674 6 Southern Europe 7,269 6 7,350 5 Nordic countries 4,394 3 4,231 3 Germany and Central Europe 9,885 8 10,302 8 Asia-Pacific and Latin America 57,075 45 65,299 47 Not allocated 158 153 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 128,126 100 137,747 100 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 2013 2014 Employees % Employees % North America 9,710 7 10,384 7 France 21,705 17 23,600 17 United Kingdom and Ireland 9,130 7 8,766 6 Benelux 8,775 7 8,547 6 Southern Europe 7,187 5 7,446 5 Nordic countries 4,277 3 4,145 3 Germany and Central Europe 10,095 8 10,484 7 Asia-Pacific and Latin America 60,394 46 70,122 49 Not allocated 157 149 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 131,430 100 143,643 100 NOTE 29 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS RELATING In addition, certain clients enjoy: TO GROUP OPERATING ACTIVITIES X limited financial guarantees issued by the Group and totaling €1,367 million at December 31, 2014 (€1,059 million at A) Commitments given on client contracts December 31, 2013); The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees X bank guarantees borne by the Group and totaling €105 million for a number of major contracts. These include the contracts at December 31, 2014 (€81 million at December 31, 2013). signed with HM Revenue & Customs, Schneider Electric Industries, Euroclear, the Metropolitan Police, Ontario Power Generation Inc., Environment Agency, Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc., the Department of Work and Pensions, EMC and Michelin. CAPGEMINI 188 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts B) Commitments given on non-cancellable leases Vehicles and other nonComputer cancellable in millions of euros equipment Offices leases Total Y+1 14 172 57 243 Y+2 9 144 38 191 Y+3 6 109 21 136 Y+4 1 83 6 90 Y+5 51 51 Y+6 and beyond 66 66 AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 30 625 122 777 At December 31, 2013 31 668 133 832 Lease payments recognized in the Income Statement in 2014 totaled €319 million (€317 million in 2013). C) Other commitments given At December 31, 2013 and 2014 the Group complied with these Other commitments given total €93 million at December 31, 2014 financial ratios. (€91 million at December 31, 2013) and mainly comprise: The credit facility agreement also includes covenants restricting X bank guarantees given to the tax authorities in connection with the Cap Gemini S.A.’s ability to carry out certain operations. tax disputes mainly in India; These covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, asset X firm purchase commitments relating to goods or services in India and the United Kingdom. sales, mergers and similar transactions. Cap Gemini S.A. also 4 committed to standard obligations, including an agreement to D) Commitments received on client contracts maintain pari passu status. Pursuant to a contract signed in 2010, Capgemini Group received C) Borrowings secured by assets a limited financial guarantee of €50 million from the client. Some borrowings are secured by assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS RELATING December 31, 2014, these related to finance leases for an amount TO GROUP FINANCING of €105 million and other borrowings in the amount of €20 million. A) Bonds CONTINGENT LIABILITIES With regard to the 2011 bond issue and the “ORNANE 2013” bonds detailed in Note 20, Net cash and cash equivalents, During 2014 and in previous fiscal years, certain Group companies Cap Gemini S.A. has committed to standard obligations and underwent tax audits leading in some cases to tax reassessments. particularly to maintain pari passu status with all other negotiable A number of proposed adjustments have been challenged and bonds that may be issued by the Company. litigation and pre-litigation proceedings were in progress at the period end. In general, no provisions have been set aside for B) Syndicated credit facility obtained by these disputes in the consolidated financial statements in so far as Cap Gemini S.A. and not drawn to date Capgemini and its advisors can justify their positions and consider Cap Gemini S.A. has agreed to comply with the following financial the likelihood of winning the disputes to be high. This is particularly ratios (as defined in IFRS) in respect of the credit facility disclosed the case, in France, for the 2009 and 2010 research tax credits, in Note 20, Net cash and cash equivalents: in respect of which the tax authorities have rejected the portion X the consolidated net debt to consolidated equity ratio must be concerning private clients. less than 1 at all times; X the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which consolidated net finance costs are covered by consolidated operating margin) must be equal to or greater than 3 at December 31 and June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then ended). CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 189 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 30 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS ASSOCIATES X entities controlled or jointly controlled by a member of key management personnel, or over which he/she has significant Associates are equity-accounted companies over which the influence or holds significant voting rights. Group exercises significant influence. At December 31, 2014, O2C Pro LLC is the only company equity-accounted by the Moreover, it is worth noting that the minority shareholders, Group since its acquisition in 2011. Transactions with this equity Bradesco S.A. and Caixa Participacões, are also the main clients associate in 2014 were performed at arm’s length and were of of CPM Braxis, accounting for approximately 41% of its revenues. immaterial volume. GROUP MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION OTHER RELATED-PARTIES The table below provides a breakdown of the 2013 and 2014 In 2014, no material transactions were carried out with: compensation of members of management bodies present at each year-end, encompassing the Group operating management X shareholders holding significant voting rights in the share capital structure, i.e. 20 members in 2014 (20 members in 2013) and the of Cap Gemini S.A.; compensation and attendance fees paid to Directors and nonX members of management, including Directors; voting Directors. in thousands of euros 2013 2014 Short-term benefits excluding employer payroll taxes(1) 17,445 19,320 o/w attendance fees to salaried Directors 51 53 o/w attendance fees to non-salaried Directors and non-voting Director (2)(3) 485 725 Short-term benefits: employer payroll taxes(4) 6,288 7,495 Post-employment benefits(5) 586 845 (6) Share-based payment 3,846 5,493 (1) Includes gross wages and salaries, bonuses, profit-sharing, attendance fees and benefits in kind, (2) Note that Paul Hermelin has waived receipt of his attendance fees since 2011, (3) 12 directors in 2013 and 12 in 2014, (4) Short-term benefits include employer social security contributions, the 30% contribution due in respect of the grant of performance shares as well as the contribution paid on high executive compensation, (5) Primarily contractual retirement termination payments, (6) Representing the annual expense relating to the grant of performance shares. NOTE 31 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors will recommend a dividend payout to Cap Gemini S.A. shareholders of €1.20 per share in respect of 2014. A dividend of €1.10 per share was paid in respect of fiscal year 2013. CAPGEMINI 190 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts NOTE 32 LIST OF THE MAIN CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES BY COUNTRY FC = Full consolidation EM = Equity method Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2014 % interest Method ARGENTINA Capgemini Argentina S.A. 100.00% FC AUSTRALIA Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC AUSTRIA Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 100.00% FC BELGIUM Capgemini Belgium N.V./S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Belgium S.A. 100.00% FC BRAZIL Capgemini Business Services Brasil – Assessoria Empresarial Ltda. 100.00% FC Consultoria de Gestao Gemini Ltda. 100.00% FC CPM Braxis Tecnologia Ltda. 53.92% FC CPM Braxis S.A. 53.92% FC CANADA Capgemini Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Gestion Capgemini Québec Inc. 100.00% FC Inergi LP New Horizon System Solutions LP 100.00% 100.00% FC FC 4 Société en Commandite Capgemini Québec 100.00% FC CHILE Capgemini Business Services Chile Ltda. 100.00% FC CHINA Capgemini (China) Co. Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini (Hangzhou) Co. Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services (Asia) Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services (China) Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Hong Kong Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Kun Shan Co. Ltd. 100.00% FC Praxis (Beijing) Technology Co. Ltd. 100.00% FC COLOMBIA Capgemini Colombia 100.00% FC CZECH REPUBLIC Capgemini Czech Republic s.r.o. 100.00% FC DENMARK Capgemini Sogeti Danmark AS 100.00% FC FINLAND Capgemini Finland Oy 100.00% FC Sogeti Finland Oy 100.00% FC CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 191 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2014 % interest Method FRANCE Cap Gemini S.A. Parent company Sogeti Corporate Services S.A.S 100.00% FC Backélite S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Consulting S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini OS Electric S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Service S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Université S.A.S. 100.00% FC Euriware S.A. 100.00% FC Immobilière Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. 100.00% FC Open Cascade S.A.S. 100.00% FC Prosodie S.A.S. 100.00% FC SCI Paris Etoile 100.00% FC Sogeti France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti High Tech S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti S.A.S. 100.00% FC GERMANY Capgemini Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services GmbH 100.00% FC Sogeti Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Sogeti High Tech GmbH 100.00% FC GUATEMALA Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 100.00% FC HUNGARY Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft 100.00% FC INDIA Capgemini Business Services (India) Pvt Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini India Pvt Ltd. 100.00% FC IRELAND Sogeti Ireland Ltd. 100.00% FC ITALY Capgemini BS S.p.A. 100.00% FC Capgemini BST S.p.A. 100.00% FC Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 100.00% FC JAPAN Capgemini Japan K.K. 100.00% FC LUXEMBOURG Capgemini Reinsurance International S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Luxembourg S.A. 100.00% FC MALAYSIA Capgemini Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100.00% FC MOROCCO Capgemini Technology Services Maroc S.A. 100.00% FC MEXICO Capgemini Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 100.00% FC NETHERLANDS Capgemini Educational Services B.V. 100.00% FC Dunit B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini N.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC Sogeti Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC CAPGEMINI 192 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2014 % interest Method NORWAY Capgemini Norge AS 100.00% FC IBX Norge AS 100.00% FC Sogeti Norge AS 100.00% FC PHILIPPINES Capgemini Phillippines Corp. 100.00% FC POLAND Capgemini Polska Sp z.o.o. 100.00% FC PORTUGAL Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informatica S.A. 100.00% FC ROMANIA Capgemini Services Romania s.r.l. 100.00% FC RUSSIA Datavision NN 100.00% FC SAUDI ARABIA Capgemini Saudi Ltd. 100.00% FC SINGAPORE Capgemini Singapore Pte Ltd. 100.00% FC SLOVAKIA Capgemini Slovensko, s.r.o. 100.00% FC SPAIN Capgemini España, S.L. 100.00% FC Prosodie Ibérica 100.00% FC Sogeti España, S.L. 100.00% FC SWEDEN Capgemini AB (Sweden) 100.00% FC Capgemini Sverige AB 100.00% FC IBX Group AB 100.00% FC Skvader Systems AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige Mitt AB 100.00% FC 4 SWITZERLAND Capgemini Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Capgemini Middle East FZ LLC 100.00% FC Thesys Technologies LLC 49.00% FC Thesys Technologies Middle East FZE 100.00% FC UNITED KINGDOM Capgemini Financial Services UK Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini UK Plc. 100.00% FC Sogeti UK Ltd. 100.00% FC UNITED STATES Capgemini America Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services USA LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services International Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services USA Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Government Solutions LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini North America Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technologies LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini US LLC 100.00% FC O2C Pro, LLC 49.00% EM Sogeti USA LLC 100.00% FC Strategic Systems & Products Corporation 100.00% FC VIETNAM Capgemini Vietnam Co. Ltd. 100.00% FC CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 193 4 Financial Information 4.2 Consolidated accounts 4.2.7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended December 31, 2014 To the Shareholders In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting we hereby report to you, for the year ended December 31, 2014, on: X the audit of the accompanying consolidated financial statements of CAP GEMINI S.A.; X the justification of our assessments; X the specific verification required by law. These consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. I – OPINION ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2014 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to Note I to the consolidated financial statement which notably sets out the change in presentation of the consolidated income statement following the classification of the Amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combination into the “Other financial income and expense”. II – JUSTIFICATION OF OUR ASSESSMENTS In accordance with the requirements of article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: X note 5 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the methods used to account for revenues and costs related to long-term contracts. As part of our assessments, we ensured that the above-mentioned accounting rules and principles adopted by your Group were properly applied and verified that the information provided in the note above was appropriate. We also obtained assurance that the estimates used were reasonable; X goodwill of €3,784 million is recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. The approach adopted by the Group as well as the accounting principles and methods applied to determine the value in use of these assets are described in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. As part of our assessments, we verified whether the approach applied was correct and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations were consistent overall; X deferred tax assets amounting to €1,065 million are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements describes the methods used to calculate the value of these assets. As part of our assessments, we verified the overall consistency of the information and assumptions used to perform these calculations. These assessments were made as part of our audit of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. These assessments were made in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. III – SPECIFIC VERIFICATION As required by law, we have also verified in accordance with professional standards applicable in France the information presented in the Group’s management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 27, 2015 Paris La Défense, February 27, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner CAPGEMINI 194 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements INCOME STATEMENT Shareholders’ equity is €9,513 million, up €1,096 million on last year. This increase essentially reflects the difference between: The Company reported operating income for the year ended December 31, 2014 of €248 million (including €237 million in X profit for 2014 (€1,161 million); royalties received from subsidiaries) compared with €241 million X the €230 million share capital increase following the issue last year (including €233 million in royalties). of 5 million new shares under the share issue reserved for Operating profit is €177 million, compared with €182 million in employees (ESOP 2014); and 2013. X a €122 million share capital reduction following the cancellation of 2,255,408 shares purchased for cancellation; Net financial income totaled €1,020 million (compared with €160 million in 2013) and reflects the difference between: X the May 21, 2014 dividend payment of €1.10 per share on the 158,237,939 shares making up the Company’s share capital X income of €1,233 million, mainly comprising reversals of at May 16, 2014, representing a total payment of €174 million provisions for equity interests (€992 million), foreign exchange (taking into account the 825,976 treasury shares held by the gains on the pooling of currency risk at Group level (€143 million) Company at the dividend payment date). and dividends received from subsidiaries (€83 million); Borrowings totaled €1,745 million at December 31, 2014, up X expenses of €213 million, mainly comprising charges to €73 million compared with December 31, 2013. This increase was provisions for equity interests (€42 million), a provision on a call mainly due to: option on own shares sold on October 18, 2013 (€24 million), foreign exchange losses on the pooling of currency risk at X the €80 million increase in bank overdrafts on the accounts included in the Group’s cash pooling arrangement (Cash pooling 4 Group level (€115 million) and the interest expense on the 2011 bond issue (€27 million). international), for which the Company acts as the centralizing agent, offset in full by an opposite position of the same amount This €860 million improvement in net financial income year-on-year in the cash and cash equivalents of the Company; was mainly due to net reversals of provisions for equity interests. X the €44 million increase in outstanding inter-company loans; The net non-recurring expense is €2 million compared with X the redemption of commercial paper issued in 2013 in the €188 million in 2013. amount of €51 million. After an income tax expense of €34 million (compared with Cash and cash equivalents net of borrowings totaled negative income tax income of €11 million in 2013), reflecting the income €5 million at the end of 2014, compared with negative €414 million tax expense of the tax consolidation group, the Company reported at December 31, 2013. This €409 million decrease was mainly a net profit of €1,161 million. due to: X the collection of brand royalties and other income of BALANCE SHEET €259 million; Net investments rose from €9,214 million last year to X the share capital increase reserved for employees (ESOP 2014) €10,200 million at December 31, 2014. This €986 million increase of €230 million; is mainly attributable to: X the decrease in current account advances to Group subsidiaries X net reversals of provisions for equity interests of €950 million; of €152 million; X share capital increases by European and Asia-Pacific X dividends received from subsidiaries of €81 million; subsidiaries in the amount of €62 million; X the net repayment of loans granted to certain subsidiaries in X a €51 million increase in other long-term investments 2014 of €77 million; corresponding to the net impact of treasury share transactions X payments relating to the acquisition of shares for cancellation during the year; under the share buyback program authorized by the Combined X a net decrease of €77 million in loans granted to subsidiaries. Shareholders’ Meetings of May 23, 2013 and May 7, 2014 of €180 million; X payment of the 2013 dividend for €174 million; CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 195 4 Financial Information 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. X payments in respect of share capital increases performed by company Euriware and its subsidiaries, previously held by European subsidiaries of €52 million. AREVA; In addition to the above, the following two disclosures are required X exter nal accounts payable of Cap Gemini S.A. total by law: €0.76 million, 84% of which (€0.6 million) are not yet due. Group accounts payable total €5.3 million, 99% of which are not yet X in May 2014, Capgemini France S.A.S., a subsidiary of Cap due. Gemini S.A. finalized the acquisition of the French IT services APPROPRIATION OF EARNINGS During its meeting of February 18, 2015, the Board of Directors decided to recommend to the next Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, the following appropriation of net profit for the year: Net profit for the year €1,161,201,146.56 Allocation to the legal reserve €0 i.e. a balance of €1,161,201,146.56 Retained earnings of previous years €486,443,710.88 i.e. Distributable earnings at December 31, 2014 of €1,647,644,857.44 This amount will be allocated to: ■ payment of a divided of €1.20 per share: €196,311,538.80 ■ retained earnings for the balance: €1,451,333,318.64 Giving a total of: €1,647,644,857.44 This dividend of €1.20 for each of the 163,592,949 shares X the issue of 530,539 new shares after the vesting of bearing dividend rights on January 1, 2014, will be fully eligible performance shares on October 1, 2014, noted by the Board for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2 of the of Directors on October 8, 2014, bringing the share capital to French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts). Taking account €1,276,755,632 divided into 159,597,454 shares; of the recommendations of certain investors, and so as not to X a share capital reduction by cancellation of 1,001,505 treasury encourage security lending/borrowing transactions around the shares decided by the Board of Directors’ meeting of October 8, date of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting scheduled for 2014, bringing the share capital to €1,268,743,592 divided into May 6, 2015, the Board of Directors proposes an ex-dividend 158,592,949 shares; date of Monday, May 18, 2015 and a dividend payment date X the issue of 5,000,000 new shares on December 18, 2014 of Wednesday, May 20, 2015. If, at the time of payment of the following the share capital increase reserved for employees dividend, the Company still holds some of its own shares, the (ESOP 2014), bringing the share capital to €1,308,743,592 dividend amount for these shares will be allocated to retained divided into 163,592,949 shares at December 31, 2014. earnings. Furthermore, pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, it is recalled that dividends paid over the past three Pursuant to Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code fiscal years were as follows: (Code de commerce), the Board of Directors informs shareholders that, based on notifications received, two shareholders held more X €176,349,599.80 for 2013 (€1.10 per share); than 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights at the X €162,055,362.00 for 2012 (€1 per share); year-end: X €155,770,362.00 for 2011 (€1 per share). X the limited liability company, Amundi Group, acting on behalf all of these dividends were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate set of the Capgemini ESOP FCPE (employee savings mutual fund) out in Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code. which it manages (international employee share ownership plan)(1); SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE X the US company, BlackRock Inc.(2), acting on behalf of clients and managed funds. During 2014, the share capital increased from €1,282,542,544 to €1,308,743,592 following: X a share capital reduction by cancellation of 1,253,903 treasury share decided by the Board of Directors’ meeting of May 6, 2014, bringing the share capital to €1,272,511,320 divided into 159,063,915 shares; (1) Amundi reported that it fell below and then exceeded the 5% share capital and voting rights threshold on December 16 and December 18, 2014, respectively. These movements were tied to the divestment by the “ESOP CAPGEMINI” fund on December 16, 2014 following the expiry of the “ESOP 2009” plan, immediately followed by the reinvestment by the same fund in the share capital increase reserved for employees performed on December 18, 2014 (ESOP 2014). (2) BlackRock’s investment is held on behalf of clients, but the investment manager has the discretionary power to exercise the voting rights attached to the shares held, except at the express request of clients to retain control of their voting rights. CAPGEMINI 196 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. ﬁnancial statements 4.4.1 BALANCE SHEET AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 AND 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Depreciation, amortization and in thousands of euros Net Gross provisions Net Assets Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 2,370 36,712 (33,629) 3,083 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 9,042,997 14,844,426 (4,789,457) 10,054,969 (1) Receivable from controlled entities 167,426 90,264 90,264 Other financial fixed assets(1) 3,245 54,402 (45) 54,357 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 9,216,262 15,026,028 (4,823,131) 10,202,897 Accounts and notes receivable(1) 71 (71) Other receivables (1) Receivable from related and associated companies(1) 99,156 165,831 97,829 33,270 97,829 33,270 4 Miscellaneous receivables(1) 26 Marketable securities 669,086 1,075,139 1,075,139 Cash and cash equivalents 589,013 665,189 665,189 CURRENT ASSETS 1,523,113 1,871,499 (71) 1,871,428 Prepaid expenses(1) 42,686 33,992 33,992 Deferred charges 10,524 10,026 10,026 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 19 2,391 2,391 OTHER ASSETS 53,228 46,409 46,409 TOTAL ASSETS 10,792,603 16,943,936 (4,823,202) 12,120,733 (1) of which due within one year 317,607 252,224 252,108 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 197 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Share capital (fully paid-up) 1,282,543 1,308,744 Additional paid-in capital 5,772,277 5,851,791 Legal reserve 129,416 130,874 Other reserves 559,573 559,573 Retained earnings 495,667 486,444 Profit for the year 164,839 1,161,201 Tax-driven provisions 12,888 14,627 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 8,417,203 9,513,254 PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND LOSSES 28,566 54 891 (2) Convertible bonds 400,098 400,000 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 (2) Bank loans and borrowings 619,904 649,100 (2) Payable to controlled entities 152,302 196,053 BORROWINGS(2) 1,672,304 1,745,153 Accounts and notes payable(2) 3,808 4,440 Tax and social security liabilities(2) 3,118 2,563 (2) Payable to related and associated companies 631,544 764,182 Other payables(2) 493 642 Prepaid income 35,567 35,567 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 41 OTHER LIABILITIES 674,530 807,435 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,792,603 12 120 733 (2) of which due within one year 1,411,267 1,605,980 CAPGEMINI 198 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 4.4.2 INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 AND 2014 in thousands of euros 2013 2014 Royalties 232,683 236,631 Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions, expense transfers 7,755 3,133 Other income 707 8,552 Total operating income 241,145 248,316 Other purchases and external charges 44,952 41,823 Taxes, duties and other levies 7,983 8,512 Depreciation and amortization 2,569 720 Charges to provisions 2,447 10,447 Other expenses 727 9,669 Total operating expenses 58,678 71,171 OPERATING PROFIT 182,467 177,145 Investment income(1) 55,043 83,321 (1) Income from other marketable securities and amounts receivable on non-current assets 2,901 3,482 Other interest income(1) 8,557 9,690 Reversals of provisions 227,992 992,022 Foreign exchange gains 163,984 143,033 Net proceeds on disposals of marketable securities 1,216 1,010 Total financial income 459,693 1,232,558 4 Depreciation, amortization and provisions relating to financial items 105,741 68,600 (2) Interest and similar expenses 42,825 29,204 Foreign exchange losses 151,649 115,023 Total financial expenses 300,215 212,827 NET FINANCE INCOME (EXPENSE) 159,478 1,019,731 RECURRING PROFIT BEFORE TAX 341,945 1,196,876 Non-recurring income from operations 1,271 22 Non-recurring income from capital transactions 3,483 2,385 Total non-recurring income 4,754 2,407 Non-recurring expenses on operations 189,249 1,157 Non-recurring expenses on capital transactions 1,812 1,631 Exceptional depreciation, amortization and provisions 2,144 1,740 Total non-recurring expenses 193,205 4,528 NET NON-RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) (188,450) (2,120) INCOME TAX EXPENSE 11,344 (33,555) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 164,839 1,161,201 (1) of which income concerning related companies 60,143 89,358 (2) of which interest concerning related companies 1,839 1,570 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 199 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 4.4.3 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I – ACCOUNTING POLICIES value. At the year-end, accrued interest receivable or interest received in advance on certificates of deposit and commercial The annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, paper is recognized in accrued income or prepaid income, 2014 are prepared and presented in accordance with Regulation respectively. No. 2014-03 issued by the French Accounting Standards Authority (Autorité des Normes Comptables, ANC). They are Capitalization contracts subscribed by the Company are also also prepared in accordance with the principles of prudence and included in marketable securities. accruals, and assuming that the Company is able to continue as Foreign currency transactions a going concern. Receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents Items in the financial statements are generally measured using the denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the historical cost method. year-end exchange rate or at the hedging rate. Any differences The Company’s main accounting policies are described below: resulting from the translation of foreign currency receivables and payables at these rates are included in the balance sheet under Intangible assets “Unrealized foreign exchange gains/losses”. A provision for foreign Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted exchange losses is set aside to cover any unrealized losses. ownership basis, as well as software developed for internal use which has a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect on future Receivables and payables results, are capitalized and amortized over a maximum period of Receivables are measured at their nominal amount, and a three years. At the year-end, the value of computer software and provision for impairment set aside when their net realizable value user rights is compared to their value in use for the Company. falls below their net carrying amount. Unbilled payables are recognized excluding VAT. Financial fixed assets The gross value of equity interests and other long-term Tax consolidation investments carried in the balance sheet comprises their The Company and French subsidiaries at least 95% owned by acquisition cost, including any transaction fees. A provision for the Group have elected to file consolidated tax returns pursuant impairment is set aside when the value in use falls below the to Article 223 A of the French General Tax Code. Any tax savings acquisition cost. The value in use is calculated based on either realized by the Group primarily on account of losses incurred by the present value of discounted future cash flows adjusted for net consolidated entities are treated as a gain for the Company in the debt, the Company’s share in net assets, or in certain cases, with period in which they arise. reference to the market value of comparable transactions. Financial instruments Treasury shares Currency and interest rate positions are taken using financial Treasury shares held by Cap Gemini S.A. as part of the liquidity instruments presenting minimum counterparty risk listed on agreement are recorded on the balance sheet within longorganized markets or over-the-counter. Gains and losses on term investments at the lower of cost and net realizable value. financial instruments used in hedging transactions are recognized Realizable value is the average market price for Cap Gemini to match the gains and losses arising on the hedged items. The S.A. shares in December. Other treasury shares held for other fair value of financial instruments, which is not recognized in the objectives of the share buyback program are recorded in listed accounts of the Company in accordance with French accounting shares. principles, is estimated based on market prices or pricing data provided by banks. Marketable securities Forward financial instruments, and options on own shares, are Marketable securities are shown on the balance sheet at the initially recognized in the balance sheet at acquisition cost and lower of cost and net realizable value. The realizable value of listed subsequently remeasured to fair value. Where there is indication of securities is based on the average share price in December. The impairment, a provision for financial risk is set aside in accordance realizable value of unlisted securities is based on their net asset with the principle of prudence. 200 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. II – NOTES TO THE CAP GEMINI S.A. BALANCE SHEET AND INCOME STATEMENT 1. Non-current assets Gross value Gross value in thousands of euros (January 1) Increase Decrease (December 31) Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 35,891 821 36,712 Sub-total 35,891 821 36,712 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 Sub-total 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 14,782,243 62,183 14,844,426 Receivable from controlled entities 167,426 49,616 (126,778) 90,264 Other financial fixed assets 3,249 443,309 (392,157) 54,402 Sub-total 14,952,917 555,108 (518,935) 14,989,091 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 14,989,032 555,929 (518,935) 15,026,027 Equity interests Other financial fixed assets Equity interests comprise shares in the Company’s subsidiaries. This account comprises treasury shares held under the liquidity The main change during the year reflects share capital increases agreement. This agreement relates to the share buyback program in Europe of €51,500 thousand and in the Asia-Pacific region of approved by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on May 7, €10,683 thousand. 2014. Accordingly, a total of 3,863,461 shares were acquired 4 and 3,799,199 shares were sold between January 1, 2014 and Receivable from controlled entities December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2014, Cap Gemini S.A. Amounts receivable from controlled entities consist of loans held 133,062 treasury shares (68,800 at December 31, 2013), granted by the Company to subsidiaries primarily in Latin valued at €7,896 thousand, America (€38,420 thousand), North America (€18,755 thousand), Europe (€17,270 thousand) and the Asia-Pacific region (€15,818 During 2014, the Company continued to purchase treasury shares thousand). in the amount of €180,155 thousand (including acquisition costs). These were mainly purchased for cancellation in the amount of The main changes in this heading reflect: 1,253,903 shares between January and May for a total of €65,164 X a loan of €33,431 thousand granted to a Brazilian subsidiary; thousand and 1,001,505 shares between September and October for a total of €56,798 thousand. The Board of Directors’ meetings X loans totaling €8,767 thousand granted to subsidiaries in the of May 6, 2014 and October 8, 2014, using the authorizations Asia-Pacific region; granted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 23, X a loan of €6,999 thousand granted to a UK subsidiary; 2013 and May 7, 2014, decided to reduce the share capital by X partial repayment of a loan granted to a US subsidiary in the cancelling Cap Gemini shares purchased for cancelation in the amount of €89,775 thousand; amount of 1,253,903 shares on May 6, 2014 and 1,001,505 X repayment of the residual balance on a loan granted to a French shares on October 8, 2014. subsidiary in the amount of €14,796 thousand; At December 31, 2014, other financial fixed assets also include X a share capital increase by conversion of an advance on share 835,116 shares with a value of €46,506 thousand earmarked for capital increases in the amount of €10,682 thousand in the various objectives. Asia-Pacific region; X partial repayment of a loan granted to a Latin American subsidiary in the amount of €6,160 thousand. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 201 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 2. Depreciation, amortization and provisions for non-current assets Depreciation, Depreciation, amortization amortization and provisions and provisions in thousands of euros (January 1) Charge Reversal (December 31) Intangible assets Amortization of trademarks, patents and similar rights 33,521 108 33,629 Financial fixed assets Provisions for equity interests 5,739,246 42,210 (992,000) 4,789,457 TOTAL DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND PROVISIONS 5,772,767 42,318 (992,000) 4,823,086 In 2014, the charge to provisions for equity interests concerns three European subsidiaries in the amount of €42,210 thousand. Provision reversals of €992,000 thousand concern the US subsidiary, Capgemini North America. 3. Marketable securities Marketable securities break down as follows at December 31, 2014: in thousands of euros Net asset value Nominal value Carrying amount Listed securities Investment funds (FCP) 655,485 655,485 655,485 Unlisted securities Term deposits 330,250 330,250 330,250 Other marketable securities Capitalization contracts 89,404 89,404 89,404 TOTAL 1,075,139 1,075,139 1,075,139 Other marketable securities comprise three capitalization fund contracts subscribed in July 2010, August 2010 and November 2014 with leading insurance companies in Europe for €20,000 thousand, €50,000 thousand and €10,000 thousand, respectively. The residual balance represents capitalized interest at December 31, 2014. 4. Maturity of receivables at year-end More than one in thousands of euros Gross amount One year or less year Non-current assets Receivable from controlled entities 90,264 57,958 32,306 Other financial fixed assets 54,402 54,402 Current assets Accounts and notes receivable 71 71 Income tax receivable 96,848 96,848 VAT receivable 982 982 Receivable from related companies 33,270 33,270 Prepaid expenses 33,992 8,693 25,299 TOTAL 309,829 252,224 57,605 Prepaid expenses mainly comprise the call option on own shares purchased on October 18, 2013 in the amount of €43,200 thousand. The premium paid is amortized over the contract term. 202 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 5. Deferred charges Amount at Amount at in thousands of euros January 1 Increase Amortization December 31 Issuance fees on syndicated credit facility, 2011 Bond issue and ORNANE bonds 10,524 3,133 (3,631) 10,026 TOTAL 10,524 3,133 (3,631) 10,026 Issuance fees on the syndicated credit facility, 2011 Bond issue of exercise (subject to the approval of the banks) of two one-year and ORNANE bonds are amortized on a straight-line basis over extension options, exercisable at the end of the first and second the term of the debt. years, respectively, the maturity of the new facility will be extended by a maximum of two additional years. Issuance fees for this new On July 30, 2014, Cap Gemini S.A. refinanced its multisyndicated credit facility total €3,133 thousand. currency credit facility with a group of 18 banks for an amount of €750 million, and with a maturity on July 30, 2019. In the event 6. Share capital and additional paid-in capital Additional paid-in in thousands of euros Number of shares Share capital capital At December 31, 2013 (par value of €8) 160,317,818 1,282,543 5,772,277 + Capital increase, grant of performance shares 530,539 4,244 (4,244) + Capital increase for cash reserved for employees 5,000,000 40,000 190,000 Charge to the legal reserve following the capital increase reserved for employees (1,458) 4 Offset of share issue costs, net of tax (864) Capital decrease following cancellation of shares (2,255,408) (18,043) (103,919) AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 (par value of €8) 163,592,949 1,308,744 5,851,791 Share capital increase through the grant of based solely on the employee’s personal contribution. In return, performance shares the employee waives a portion of any increase in the price of On October 8, 2014, the Board of Directors noted the creation shares subscribed on his behalf, as well as dividends and other of 530,539 new Cap Gemini shares on October 1, 2014 through financial rights that could be paid on these shares throughout the the grant of performance shares to employees not tax resident entire term of the plan. In addition, the shares will be unavailable in France under the 2010 Cap Gemini share grant plan subject for a period of five years (except for cases of early release covered to performance and presence conditions and the related share by plan rules in accordance with applicable legislation). capital increase of €4,244 thousand. Under the delegation of authority granted by the Board of Share capital increase reserved for employees, share Directors, the subscription price was set at €46.00 by the issue costs and charge to the legal reserve Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on November 17, 2014. This price corresponds to the daily average Cap Gemini share Pursuant to the 30 th and 31 st resolutions adopted by the price adjusted for volumes observed over the twenty stock market Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, the Group trading days preceding the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s set up an employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2014) in the decision, less a 12.5% discount second half of 2014. Nearly 132,000 Group employees in 20 countries, representing approximately 96% of the Group On December 18, 2014, the Group issued 5,000,000 new shares headcount, were invited to subscribe for Cap Gemini shares. reserved for employees with a par value of €8, representing Under the plan, a minimum length of service of three months was a share capital increase of €229 million net of issue costs required at November 20, 2014, acquired consecutively or not (€0.9 million, net of tax). since January 1, 2013. This leveraged plan offered employees The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, using the powers the possibility of subscribing at a discounted preferential rate and, delegated to him, decided, concomitantly to the share capital via a bank which secured and supplemented the investment so increase, the offset of the related share issue costs against the that the total amount invested represented ten times the personal corresponding additional paid-in capital and the deduction from contribution of the employee, potentially generating a greater additional paid-in capital of the amount necessary to increase the capital gain than would have been the case had it been calculated legal reserve to one-tenth of the new share capital amount. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 203 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. Share capital reduction by cancellation of shares 7. Stock option plans purchased The Group no longer grants stock options since the plan In 2014, the Company continued to purchase treasury shares authorized in 2005. The last grant under this plan was performed for cancellation in the amount of 2,255,408 shares (€121,962 in June 2008. thousand). 8. Performance share plan The Board of Directors’ meetings of May 6, 2014 and October 8, 2014, using the authorization granted by the Combined The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of April 30, 2009, May 24, Shareholders’ Meetings of May 23, 2013 and May 7, 2014, 2012 and then May 24, 2013 authorized the Board of Directors decided to reduce the share capital by cancelling Cap Gemini to grant shares to a certain number of Group employees, on one shares purchased for cancelation (1,253,903 shares on May 6 and or several occasions and within a maximum period of 18 months, 1,001,500 shares on October 8). The capital reductions totaled subject to performance and presence conditions. On October 1, €65,164 thousand and €56,798 thousand, respectively. 2010, December 12, 2012, February 20, 2013 and July 30, 2014, the Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the list of beneficiaries of these four plans. The main features of these plans are set-out in the table below: 204 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 2010 International Plan 2012 International Plan 2013 International Plan 2014 International Plan Maximum number of shares 1,557,703 shares 2,426,555 shares 2,426,555 shares 1,590,639 shares that may be granted % of share capital at the date of 1% 1.50% 1.50% 1% the Board of Directors’ decision (1) (4) (4) Total number of shares granted 1,555,000 1,003,500 1,209,100 1,290,500(4) Date of Board of Directors’ October 1, 2010 December 12, 2012 February 20, 2013 July 30, 2014 decision Performance assessment dates At the end of the first and At the end of the first and At the end of the first and Three years for the internal second years following the second calendar years second years following the performance condition and grant date following the grant date grant date two years for the external performance condition Vesting period Two years as from the grant 2 years and ½ month as 2 years and 1 week as from Two years as from the grant date (France) or four years from the grant date (France) the grant date (France) or 4 date (France) or four years as from the grant date (other or 4 years and ½ month as years and 1 week as from the as from the grant date countries) from the grant date (other grant date (other countries) (other countries) countries) Mandatory lock-in period Two years, or five years in the effective as from the vesting date event of departure from the 4 years 4 years 4 years (France only) Group during the two years following the vesting date Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 42.80% 25.80% 38.70% 26.33% ■ Risk-free interest rate 1.67% 0.35% – 0.98% 0.59% – 1.28% 0.34% – 0.81% ■ Expected dividend rate 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 2.31% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within Yes Yes Yes Yes the Group at the vesting date Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) 4 conditions Pricing model used to calculate Black & Scholes for shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions the fair value of shares without conditions or with internal performance conditions Range of fair values (in euros) Free shares 32.32 – 32.96 n/a n/a n/a (per share and in euros) ■ Performance shares 21.54 – 32.96 14.35 – 28.67 16.18 – 32.14 26.46 – 48.26 (per share and in euros) ■ Of which corporate officers n/a 16.18 18.12 29.32 Number of shares that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions at December 31, 2013 (performance and presence) 584,055 981,500 1,178,300 o/w to corporate officers: (2) 50,000(4) 50,000(4) Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year 1,290,500 o/w to corporate officers: 50,000(4) Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 53,516 23,000 43,000 2,000 Number of shares vested during the year 530,539(3) Number of shares at that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions December 31, 2014 (performance and presence) Plan expired 958,500(5) 1,135,300(6) 1,288,500(7) Share price at the grant date 37.16 33.15 36.53 53.35 (in euros) (1) Of which 124,000 shares granted without performance conditions (8% of the total) pursuant to the relevant resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). (2) No performance shares were granted in 2010. (3) Balance on the “foreign” plan granted in October 2014, subject to presence conditions at that date (including 59,250 shares without performance conditions). (4) Grant subject to performance conditions only. (5) Of which 434,000 shares in respect of the French plan and 524,500 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan. (6) Of which 376,600 shares in respect of the French plan and 758,700 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan. (7) Of which 420,250 shares in respect of the French plan and 868,250 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 205 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. Shares vested under the 2010 plan X is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if the The 2010 plan expired in 2014 and led to the delivery on relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is higher than or October 1, 2014 of 530,539 shares to beneficiaries not tax equal to 110% of the basket. resident in France and still present in the Group at this date, out of Under these conditions, if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. a total initial grant of 1,026,500 shares. share is in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, only 60% of the initial allocation will be granted (or 30% of the initial Accordingly, including the 350,509 shares delivered on October 1, grant). 2012 to beneficiaries tax resident in France, a total of 881,048 shares were ultimately delivered under this plan, representing The benchmark basket comprises the following securities, with 56.7% of the volume initially granted, as a result of both each security equally weighted: performance and presence conditions. X 2012 and 2013 Plans: Accenture/ CSC/ Atos/ Tieto/ Steria/ CGI Recap: Group/ Infosys/ Sopra/ Cognizant; The external performance condition calculation led to the grant X 2014 Plan: Accenture/ CSC/ Atos/ Tieto/ CAC 40 index/ CGI of 55% of the maximum number of shares initially defined in this Group/ Infosys/ Sopra/ Cognizant respect. The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions The internal performance condition calculated based on the is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance with the Monte increase in the 2011 operating margin compared with the 2010 Carlo model, together with a discount for non-transferability for the operating margin at constant Group structure and exchange shares granted in France. rates, led to the delivery of all shares due in this respect following Internal performance condition a margin increase of 15.6%, above the maximum threshold set. The internal performance condition is based on the generation Performance conditions of the 2012, 2013 and 2014 of Organic Free Cash Flow (OFCF) over a three-year period plans encompassing fiscal years 2012 to 2014 for the 2012 and 2013 In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, plans and fiscal years 2013 to 2015 for the 2014 plan. Accordingly, 2009 regarding the inclusion of an internal and external X no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance performance condition when granting performance shares, the condition if the cumulative increase in Organic Free Cash Flow Board of Directors decided from the 2010 plan to add an internal over the reference period is less than €750 million for the 2012 condition to the external condition initially planned. and 2013 plans and €850 million for the 2014 plan; The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant X 100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if Organic calculation. Free Cash Flow is equal to or exceeds €1 billion for the 2012 and 2013 plans and €1.1 billion for the 2014 plan. External performance condition The external performance condition is applied in an identical The internal performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant manner across the three plans and in line with the conditions calculation. applied to the first two plans, as follows: The fair value of shares subject to internal performance conditions No shares are granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini share is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted during the period in question is less than 90% of the performance where necessary in line with effective realization of this condition. of the basket of securities over the same period. A discount for non-transferability is also applied for the shares granted in France. The number of shares ultimately granted: 9. Free share plans X is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if the performance of the Cap Gemini share is at least equal to 90% At the Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 24, 2012 and of the basket; then May 24, 2013, the Board of Directors was given an 18-month authorization to grant shares to certain Group employees, on one X is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if the or several occasions subject only to a condition of presence. This performance of the Cap Gemini share is equal to 100% of the authorization was partially used and the terms and conditions of basket; the grant and the list of beneficiaries were set by the Board of X varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and Directors’ meetings of July 25, 2012 and October 8, 2014. between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a predefined schedule, where the performance of the Cap Gemini share is between 90% and 100% of the basket in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in the second case; 206 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: 2012 Plan France 2014 Plan France Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1.5% of the share capital 1% of the share capital on on the date of the Board the date of the Board of of Directors’ decision i.e. a Directors’ decision i.e. a maximum of 2,336,554 shares, maximum of 1,595,495 shares, of which a maximum of 15% of which a maximum of 15% granted without performance granted without performance conditions conditions Total number of shares granted 202,538(1) 104,379(2) Date of the Board of Directors’ decision July 25, 2012 October 8, 2014 Grant condition assessment date Presence condition only (employee presence within the Group at the vesting date) Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date Democratic plan Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years Number of shares at December 31, 2013 that may vest under this plan 175,005 in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions Number of shares subject to presence conditions granted during the year 104,379 Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 17,719 2,000 Number of shares vested during the year 157,286 Number of shares at December 31, 2014 that may vest under this plan Plan delivered 102,379 in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions Share price at the grant date (in euros) 26.30 52.69 Main market conditions at the grant date 4 ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.88% 0.34% ■ Expected dividend rate 3.00% 2.30% Fair value in euros (per share) €20.22 €43.91 (1) i.e. 8.6% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). (2) i.e. 6.5% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). These transactions aim to develop employee share ownership by salary (four categories); the lowest paid employees receiving more enabling all employees of French companies with at least three shares than the highest paid employees. months seniority at the grant date to receive shares and thereby In both instances, the Board of Director decisions were preceded become Cap Gemini S.A. shareholders at the end of the vesting by the signature of a company-wide agreement, in respect of period. More than 20,000 employees were concerned by each payment of the profit-sharing bonus. share grant, with a differentiated share allocation based on annual CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 207 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 10. Change in shareholders’ equity At Appropriation At December 31, of profit for Other December 31, in thousands of euros 2013 2013 movements 2014 Share capital 1,282,543 26,201 1,308,744 Additional paid-in capital 5,772,277 79,514 5,851,791 Legal reserve 129,416 1,458 130,874 Other reserves 559,573 559,573 Retained earnings 495,667 (9,223) 486,444 Dividends paid 174,062 (174,062) Profit for the year 164,839 (164,839) 1,161,201 1,161,201 Tax-driven provisions 12,888 1,740 14,627 TOTAL 8,417,202 1,096,052 9,513,254 The appropriation of the net profit for 2013 led to the distribution X additional paid-in capital in the amount of €190,000 thousand on May 21, 2014 of a dividend of €1.10 on each of the pursuant to the aforementioned transaction. Issue costs, net 158,237,939 shares making-up the share capital at May 16, 2014, of tax, of €907 thousand were offset against this balance and for a total of €174,062 thousand. The amount not paid out on the €1,458 thousand was transferred to the legal reserve to bring it 825,976 shares held by the Company on May 21, 2014 of €2,288 to one-tenth of the new share capital balance at December 18, thousand (the company having cancelled 1,253,903 shares on 2014; May 6, 2014) was appropriated to retained earnings. X the share capital reduction of €121,962 thousand following the Other movements mainly concern: cancellation of 2,255,408 shares purchased for cancellation; X the share capital increase of €40,000 thousand following the X the €1,740 thousand charge to tax-driven provisions, issue of 5 million new shares pursuant to the share issued corresponding to the accelerated tax depreciation of equity reserved for employees (ESOP 2014); interests. 11. Provisions for contingencies and losses Reversal At in thousands of euros At January 1 Charge (utilized) December 31 Provisions for contingencies and losses ■ relating to foreign exchange losses 19 2,390 19 2,390 ■ on derivative instruments: option on own shares 28,547 23,954 52,501 TOTAL 28,566 26,344 19 54,891 Charges for the period totaled €26,344 thousand and concern a provision for financial risks of €23,954 thousand on a call option on own shares sold on October 18, 2013 and a provision for foreign exchange losses of €2,390 thousand in respect of a loan granted to a Brazilian subsidiary. 12. Bond issues and Convertible bonds in thousands of euros 12/ 31/2013 12/ 31/2014 OCEANE 2009 98 0 2011 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 ORNANE 2013 400,000 400,000 TOTAL 900,098 900,000 208 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. a) “OCEANE 2009” convertible/exchangeable bonds Early redemption at the Company’s option issued on April 20, 2009 The bonds are redeemable at the Company’s option under On April 8, 2009, Cap Gemini S.A. issued bonds convertible/ certain conditions set out in the issue prospectus and particularly exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini shares, maturing concerning the minimum redemption price. on January 1, 2014 (“OCEANE 2009”). Bondholders enjoyed all Early redemption at the option of bondholders rights from April 20, 2009. Bondholders may request the early redemption of all or part of The total amount of the issue was €575 million, represented by their bonds in the event of a change in control of the Company, 16,911,765 bonds with a nominal value of €34 each, resulting in provided this change in control is accompanied by a downgrading an issue premium of 35% compared to the Company benchmark of the Company’s financial rating. share price (weighted average share price between April 8 and the date on which the bond terms and conditions were finalized). The Early repayment bonds bear interest at 3.5% per year. The terms and conditions of At the initiative of a majority of bondholders, particularly in this issue were set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on the event of a failure to pay sums due or to comply with other April 8, 2009 under reference number n°09-084. obligations set out in the documentation (beyond any “grace” Early repayment and exercise of share allotment rights periods, if applicable), cross default (in excess of a minimum threshold), liquidation, dissolution or sale of all of the Company’s Under the reverse book-building process on October 18, 2013 assets. and a repurchase procedure carried out from October 21 to October 25, 2003 inclusive, Cap Gemini purchased 14,280,305 An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating “OCEANE 2009” bonds at a unit price of €48.08 per OCEANE would not constitute an early redemption event. bond, corresponding to the arithmetic average of the daily average Pari passu status price of the Cap Gemini share weighted for trading volumes on the NYSE Euronext regulated market in Paris between October 18 Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will rank pari (inclusive) and October 25, 2013 (inclusive), plus a premium of passu with all other bonds issued by the Company. €0.15, giving a total of €686,597 thousand. The “OCEANE 2009” c) “ORNANE 2013” bonds issued on October 25, 2013 bonds repurchased were cancelled in accordance with the terms of the issue prospectus. In addition, between October 2013 and December 2013 holders of 2,628,564 “OCEANE 2009” bonds On October 18, 2013, Cap Gemini launched a bond issue redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares 4 (Obligations à option de Remboursement en Numeraire et/ou en exercised their share allotment rights resulting in the presentation Actions Nouvelles et/ou Existantes, ORNANE) and maturing on of 1,440,397 treasury shares and 1,188,167 new shares issued January 1, 2019. Bondholders enjoy all rights from October 25, for this purpose on December 20, 2013. Accordingly, 2,896 2013. The total amount of the issue was €400,000 thousand, “OCEANE 2009” bonds remained outstanding at December 31, comprising 5,958,587 bonds with a nominal value of €67.13 2013, representing €98 thousand. each, representing an issue premium of 42.5% compared with Cap Gemini redeemed in full the remaining 2,896 bonds the Company benchmark share price at the launch date. The outstanding on January 2, 2014. bonds do not bear any interest (zero coupon bonds) and will be b) Bond issued on November 29, 2011 redeemed at par on January 1, 2019. (2011 Bond issue) The Bonds may be redeemed early at the initiative of the Company On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a euro bond under certain terms and conditions. issue maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoy all In the event of exercise of their share allotment rights, bondholders rights from November 29, 2011 (2011 Bond issue). will receive a cash amount and potentially an amount payable in The total amount of the issue was €500 million, comprising 5,000 new and/or existing Cap Gemini S.A. shares. The Company also bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. The bonds bear has the possibility to present solely new and/or existing shares. interest at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing to 6.50% in the The purpose of the issue was to partially finance the repurchase event of a down-grading of Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating. by the Company of the outstanding OCEANE bonds convertible The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the and/or exchangeable for new or existing shares, maturing on prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under January 1, 2014. reference number n°11-546. The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the The main features of the 2011 Bond issue are as follows: prospectus approved by the AMF on November 18, 2013 under reference number n°13-557. Redemption at maturity The bonds are redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 209 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. The main features of the “ORNANE 2013” bonds are arithmetic average calculated over 20 consecutive days among as follows: the 40 days preceding the publication of the early redemption Bond term notice, of the opening price of the Company’s shares on the 5 years and 68 days from the issue date. Euronext Paris market multiplied by the applicable conversion rate at each date, exceeds 130% of the nominal value of the Exercise of share allotment rights bonds; a) Bondholders may exercise their share allotment right (as defined X At any time, for some or all of the bonds, without limit as to below) during the period October 25, 2013 to December 31, price or quantity, by repurchase on or off market or through a 2016, inclusive, solely in the following circumstances: repurchase or exchange offering; • at any time during a relevant calendar quarter, if the arithmetic X At any time, for all outstanding bonds and subject to a notice average of the closing price of the Company’s share calculated period of 45 calendar days, if the number of outstanding bonds over a period of 20 consecutive trading days among the 30 is less than 15% of the number of bonds issued. trading days preceding the last trading day of the preceding Early redemption at the option of bondholders in the event of a change in calendar quarter, as determined by the calculation agent, control exceeds 130% of the conversion price (equal to the nominal value of the bond divided by the conversion rate, i.e. 1 share per In the event of a change in control of the Company, bondholders bond, subject to adjustments) applicable the last trading day of may request the early redemption of all of part of their bonds, the preceding calendar quarter; in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF. • in the event of early amortization of all outstanding bonds at the initiative of the Company; Early repayment in the event of default • where the Company ignores the negative opinion of Possible, particularly, in the event of default by the Company. bondholders in general meeting consulted on a change in the Pari passu status legal form or corporate purpose of the Company; Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will rank pari • where the Company plans a distribution of dividends, reserves passu with all other marketable bonds issued by the Company. or additional paid-in capital in cash or kind, the value of which per Company share exceeds 25% of the arithmetic average of 13. Bank loans and borrowings the average share price weighted for daily trading volumes over Bank loans and borrowings total €649,100 thousand and a period of 20 consecutive trading days; comprise (i) the balances on certain euro and foreign currency • in the event of a public offering targeting the Company’s shares bank accounts used in connection with the Group’s worldwide found to be compliant by the AMF and likely to lead to a change cash pooling arrangements in the amount of €646,467 thousand, in control; offset in the amount of €649,462 thousand by opposite balances • In the event of an early repayment event; and presented in cash and cash equivalents of the Company, (ii) bank overdrafts in the amount of €97 thousand and (iii) accrued interest • at any time during a period of 5 trading days following any of €2,536 thousand. period of 20 consecutive trading days during which the Bond price determined on the closing of daily trading in the Syndicated credit facility secured by Cap Gemini S.A. Company’s share has been, each trading day, less than 95% of On January 13, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. signed a €500 million the multiple of (i) the daily closing price of the Company’s share, multi-currency credit facility with a syndicate of 18 banks, maturing and (ii) the conversion rate. on January 13, 2016. b) From January 1, 2017 (inclusive), bondholders may exercise This facility was refinanced on July 30, 2014 with a group of 18 their share allotment right at any time up to the eighteenth banks by a new multi-currency credit facility for an increased trading day (exclusive) preceding January 1, 2019. amount of €750 million, maturing on July 30, 2019. In the event Redemption at maturity of exercise (subject to the approval of the banks) of two one-year Unless the bonds are redeemed early pursuant to the terms extension options, exercisable at the end of the first and second and conditions set out in the prospectus, and where the share years, respectively, the maturity of the new facility will be extended allotment right is not exercised, the bonds will be redeemed in by a maximum of two additional years. full at par, i.e. €67.13 per bond, on January 1, 2019 (or the next The initial margin on the new credit facility was 0.45% (excluding working day, if this day is not a working day). the fee on drawn amounts which varies according to the portion of the facility drawn), compared with the margin of 0.75% applied Early redemption at the Company’s option previously at the same credit-rating level. This margin may be X At any time, from October 25, 2016 and up to the maturity of adjusted upwards or downwards according to the credit rating the bonds, for all outstanding bonds and subject to a notice of Cap Gemini. The facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn period of 45 calendar days, by redemption at par, if the amounts equal to 35% of the margin. CAPGEMINI 210 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. Following the upgrade of Cap Gemini’s credit rating to BBB+ by The credit facility agreement also includes covenants restricting Standard & Poor’s on August 5, 2014, the margin applicable is Cap Gemini S.A.’s ability to carry out certain operations. These now 0.35% and the fee on undrawn amounts is 0.1225%. covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, asset An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini’s credit rating would sales, mergers and similar transactions. Cap Gemini S.A. also have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. committed to standard obligations, including an agreement to Cap Gemini has agreed to comply with the following financial maintain pari passu status. ratios (as defined in IFRS) in respect of this credit facility: At December 31, 2014, this credit facility had not yet been drawn. X the consolidated net debt to consolidated equity ratio must be less than 1 at all times; X the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which consolidated net finance costs are covered by consolidated operating margin) must be equal to or greater than 3 at December 31 and June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then ended). 14. Maturity of payables at year end More than one in thousands of euros Gross amount One year or less year Convertible bonds 400,000 0 400,000 Bond issue ■ 2011 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 Sub-total 900,000 0 900,000 Bank loans and borrowings ■ Bank overdrafts 97 97 4 ■ Bank overdrafts (Group cash pooling arrangement) 646,467 646,467 ■ Accrued interest 2,536 2,536 Sub-total 649,100 649,100 Group loans and borrowings ■ Loans 196,053 185,053 11,000 ■ Other payables 764,182 764,182 Sub-total 960,235 949,235 11,000 Accounts and notes payable 4,440 4,440 Tax and social security liabilities 2,563 2,563 Other payables 642 642 TOTAL 2,516,980 1,605,980 911,000 Group loans of €196,053 thousand mainly comprise: X a three-month revolving loan from Capgemini FS USA Inc. of €65,053 thousand. This loan is denominated in US dollar and hedged against currency risk; X two three-month revolving loans from Capgemini Deutschland GmbH and Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH of €110,000 thousand and €10,000 thousand, respectively. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 211 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 15. Accrued income and charges Accrued charges reported in the balance sheet break down as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Borrowings ■ Accrued interest payable 2,536 Other liabilities ■ Accounts and notes payable 3,677 ■ Tax and social security liabilities 578 TOTAL 6,792 Accrued income reported in the balance sheet break down as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Cash and Cash equivalents ■ Accrued interest receivable 4,475 TOTAL 4,475 16. Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency receivables and payables Provision for Reported in foreign exchange in thousands of euros Reported in assets liabilities losses On other receivables/payables 2,391 41 2,391 TOTAL 2,391 41 2,391 17. Net finance income (expense) in thousands of euros Amount Provisions relating to financial items Charge (68,600) Reversal 992,022 Sub-total 923,422 Dividends received 83,321 Sub-total 83,321 Other financial income and expense Net income from short-term investments 5,240 Loan income (capitalization contracts) 2,021 Revenue from loans, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements 6,921 Net foreign exchange gains (losses) 28,010 Interest on borrowings, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements (2,060) Interest on the Bond issue (26,585) Interest on issued commercial paper (550) Other (9) Sub-total 12,988 NET FINANCE INCOME (EXPENSE) 1,019,731 CAPGEMINI 212 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. Charges to provisions for financial items of €68,600 thousand Provision reversals of €992,022 thousand comprise the reversal of primarily concern provisions for impairment of equity interests in a provision for impairment of equity interests in respect of the US the amount of €42,210 thousand, relating to a Spanish subsidiary subsidiary in the amount of €992,000 thousand. (€26,800 thousand), an Austrian subsidiary (€8,300 thousand) and The dividends of €83,321 thousand correspond to dividends a French subsidiary (€7,110 thousand) and a provision for financial received during the period by the Company from French, Dutch, risks on the share option contract of €23,954 thousand. Swedish, Portuguese, Polish and Moroccan subsidiaries. 18. Net non-recurring income (expense) in thousands of euros Amount Net proceeds on disposals of treasury shares under the liquidity agreement 1,655 Other 22 Sub-total 1,677 Accelerated depreciation (1,740) Loss on delivery of treasury shares to bondholders (1,275) Other (782) Sub-total (3,797) NET NON-RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) (2,120) 19. Income tax expense In France, Cap Gemini S.A. is the parent company of a French tax consolidation group comprising 20 companies. In 2014, Cap Gemini S.A. recognized an income tax expense in respect of the tax consolidation of €33,476 thousand. 4 In the absence of tax consolidation, Cap Gemini S.A. would have recognized a theoretical income tax expense of €43,501 thousand. Tax losses carried forward by Cap Gemini S.A. amounted to €860,766 thousand at December 31, 2014. BREAKDOWN OF THE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 2014 Net profit Income tax in thousands of euros before tax expense at 34% Recurring profit before tax 1,196,876 (411,886) Net non-recurring income (expense) (2,120) 730 Accounting profit for the year before tax 1,194,756 (411,156) Tax differences (940,944) 323,811 Tax credits ■ Training/family/patronage tax credit ■ Research tax credit Offset of tax losses carried forward (127,406) 43,845 Tax consolidation of subsidiaries 9,945 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (33,555) CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 213 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. IMPACT OF TAX-DRIVEN VARIATIONS in thousands of euros Amount Profit for the year 1,161,201 Income tax expense (net) 33,555 Profit before tax 1,194,756 Change in tax-driven provisions: ■ Accelerated depreciation (1,740) Other tax-driven valuations n/a PROFIT EXCLUDING TAX-DRIVEN VALUATIONS (BEFORE TAX) 1,193,016 CHANGE IN DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES Deferred tax on temporary differences Current year in thousands of euros amount Prior year amount Non-deductible provisions ■ Organic sales tax 105 95 Provisions for contingencies and losses ■ Provision for foreign exchange losses 2,391 19 Net asset value differences on UCITS 0 3 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 41 0 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 2,391 19 Remeasurement differences on receivables and payables and fair value measurement of derivatives 142,165 100,800 Amortization of derivative on own shares 8,330 1,548 TOTAL 155,423 102,483 Tax rate for temporary differences 34.43% 34.43% DEFERRED TAX 53,512 35,285 Deferred tax assets ■ Deferred tax depreciation ■ Tax losses carried forward 860,767 988,173 ■ Long-term capital losses DEFERRED TAX 296,362 340,228 III – OTHER INFORMATION 20. Off-balance sheet commitments a) Commitments given to subsidiaries Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to its subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 break down as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Financial items 113,257 Operating items 1,166,035 Tax items 15,060 TOTAL 1,294,352 Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted to subsidiaries in respect of financial items provide them with access to local cash facilities in the form of credit lines. Total draw-downs on these credit lines at December 31, 2014 amounted to €17,011 thousand. CAPGEMINI 214 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. b) Other commitments c) Financial instruments The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees Currency hedges/Derivative instruments for a number of major contracts. These include the contracts At December 31, 2014, the values of external currency derivative signed with HM Revenue & Customs, Schneider Electric instruments negotiated in respect of foreign currency denominated Industries, Euroclear, the Metropolitan Police, Ontario Power internal financing arrangements, primarily break down as follows: Generation Inc., Environment Agency, Renault S.A.S. and The X six euro/US dollar swaps with a positive value of €2,972 Department of Work and Pensions. thousand for a nominal amount of USD 114 million (€94 million), Cap Gemini S.A., together with all of its subsidiaries and any X a euro/Mexican pesos swap with a positive value of €83 entities which it directly or indirectly owns more than 50%, are thousand for a nominal amount of MXN 52 million (€3 million). insured for the financial implications of any civil or professional liability claims that may be filed against them as a result of their At December 31, 2014, external currency derivatives hedging activities. The insurance is part of a worldwide program comprising brand royalties invoiced to subsidiaries had a negative value of a number of policies taken out with leading insurance companies. €300 thousand and mainly concerned the US dollar, pound The terms and conditions of this insurance program (including sterling, Australian dollar and Swedish krona. maximum coverage) are regularly reviewed and adjusted to reflect At December 31, 2014, external currency derivative instruments changes in revenues, business activities and risk profiles. The entered into pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group program’s largest policy, amounting to €30 million, is reinsured level, had a net positive value of €78,346 thousand. with a consolidated captive reinsurance subsidiary. At December 31, 2014, off-balance sheet commitments given to Cap Gemini S.A. granted a financial guarantee in connection with subsidiaries on internal currency derivative instruments entered the agreement signed on May 25, 2004 with France Telecom to into pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group level, had a transfer the management of part of the latter’s telecommunications positive value of €39,620 thousand. network for a term of eight years, renewed on January 1, 2012 for a term of 6 years. 21. Related companies 4 in thousands of euros Amount Balance sheet items Equity interests 14,844,426 Receivable from controlled entities 90,264 Payable to controlled entities 196,053 Related and associated companies ■ receivable 33,270 ■ payable 764,182 Income Statement items Investment income 83,321 Income on Group loans 3,482 Other interest income 2,555 Interest expense 1,570 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 215 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 22. Dilution tied to the Redeemable share 24. Subsequent events subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors At December 31, 2014, the 2,927,606 redeemable share will recommend a dividend payment of €1.20 per share in respect subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) still outstanding are of 2014. dilutive, as the aggregate of the €34 strike price and €3.22 issue premium is higher than the average market price of the Cap 25. Remuneration of members of the Board of Gemini share in 2014. Directors The total amount of attendance fees paid to Directors and nonIf all these redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants voting directors in 2014 is €595,500 (or €389,371 after deduction (BSAAR) were exercised, the dilutive impact at December 31, of withholding tax for beneficiaries not tax resident in France and 2014 would be 1.76% after exercise. the 21% flat-rate income tax advance payment and social security 23. Consolidating company contributions for beneficiaries tax resident in France). Cap Gemini S.A. is the consolidating company for the Capgemini Group. 26. Fees paid to the statutory auditors and members of their network in thousands of euros Amount Statutory audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements 972 Other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement 43 Sub-Total 1,015 Other services Legal, tax and employee-related advisory services Other Sub-Total TOTAL 1,015 CAPGEMINI 216 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 4.4.4 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. The Statutory Auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether qualified or not. This information is presented below the opinion on the financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account captions or on information taken outside of the financial statements. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. (Year ended December 31, 2014) To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended December 31, 2014, on: X the audit of the accompanying financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A.; X the justification of our assessments; X the specific verifications and information required by law; The financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. I – OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes verifying, on a test basis or by other selection methods, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide 4 a basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Company’s financial position and its assets and liabilities at December 31, 2014, and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with the accounting rules and principles applicable in France. II – JUSTIFICATION OF OUR ASSESSMENTS In accordance with the requirements of Article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matter: Equity interests as reported in the balance sheet amounted to €10,055 million at December 31, 2014. Note I to the financial statements sets out, in particular, the accounting rules and methods used to determine the value in use of these investments. As part of our assessments, we verified whether the approach applied was correct and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations were consistent overall. These assessments were made in the context of our audit of the financial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. III – SPECIFIC VERIFICATIONS AND INFORMATION In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, we have also performed the specific verifications required by law. We have no matters to report to you as to the fair presentation and consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in the documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. Concerning the information disclosed pursuant to Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code on the compensation and benefits paid to corporate officers and any other commitments made in their favor, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements or the information used as a basis for preparing the financial statements and, where appropriate, with the elements gathered by your Company from companies controlling your Company or controlled by it. Based on these procedures, we attest to the accuracy and fairness of such information. In accordance with the law, we have verified that the management report contains the appropriate disclosures on acquisitions of investments and controlling interest and the identity of shareholders and holders of voting rights. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 27, 2015 Paris La Défense, February 27, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 217 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 4.4.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT ON REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments that is issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report on regulated agreements and commitments should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. It should be understood that the agreements reported on are only those provided by French corporate law (Code de Commerce) and that the report does not apply to those related party transactions described in IAS 24 or other equivalent accounting standards Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as statutory auditors of your Company, we hereby report to you on regulated agreements and commitments. The terms of our engagement require us to communicate to you, based on information provided to us, the principal terms and conditions of those agreements and commitments brought to our attention or which we may have discovered during the course of our audit, without expressing an opinion on their usefulness and appropriateness or identifying such other agreements and commitments, if any. It is your responsibility, pursuant to Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), to assess the interest involved in respect of the conclusion of these agreements and commitments for the purpose of approving them. Our role is also to provide you with the information stipulated in Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the implementation during the past year of agreements and commitments previously approved by the shareholders’ meeting, if any. We conducted the procedures we deemed necessary in accordance with the professional guidelines of the French National Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) relating to this engagement. These procedures consisted in agreeing the information provided to us with the relevant source documents. Agreements and commitments submitted to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting We hereby inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment authorized during the year to be submitted to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to Article L.225-38 of the French Commercial Code. Agreements and commitments previously approved by Shareholders’ Meeting Pursuant to Article R.225-30 of the French Commercial Code, we have been informed that the following agreements and commitments, previously approved by Shareholders’ Meetings of prior years, have remained in force during the year. Type: Supplementary collective defined benefit pension scheme set up by the company in favor of certain senior executives regarded as having made a significant and lasting contribution to the development of Capgemini Group. Purpose and terms: On December 13, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the creation of a collective defined benefit pension scheme in favor of certain senior executives of the Group, enabling them to obtain, upon their retirement, a supplementary pension that may not exceed 40% of their reference earnings. The beneficiary’s total cumulative pension benefits may not exceed 50% of the reference earnings which are capped at 60 times the annual ceiling for social security. Mr. Paul Hermelin has been registered as a beneficiary of this plan. During 2014, this corporate officer did not receive any compensation pursuant to this agreement. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 27, 2015 Paris La Défense, February 27, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner CAPGEMINI 218 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 4.4.6 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ ADDITIONAL REPORT ON THE ISSUE OF ORDINARY SHARES OR SECURITIES GRANTING ACCESS TO THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France (Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 – 30th resolution) To the Shareholders, In our capacity as statutory auditors of your Company and in accordance with Article R.225-116 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby present a report in addition to our report of March 28, 2014 on the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the Company’s share capital, with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, reserved for members of a Capgemini Group company savings plan, decided by your Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. This Meeting delegated to the Board of Directors, for a period of 26 months, the authority to set the terms and conditions of this transaction. Your Board of Directors used this delegation at its meeting of July 30, 2014 to issue a maximum of 5,000,000 shares with a par value of €8 each. The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a report in accordance with Articles R.225-115 and seq. of the French Commercial Code. Our role is to express an opinion on the fairness of the quantified data extracted from interim financial statements, on the cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information pertaining to the issuance as presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we considered necessary in accordance with the professional guidelines of the French National Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) applicable to this engagement. Such procedures consisted in verifying: 4 X the fairness of the quantified information extracted from the interim consolidated financial statements prepared under the responsibility of the Board of Directors for the half-year ended June 30, 2013, in accordance with the same accounting policies and presentation methods adopted in the most recent consolidated financial statements. Our review of these interim consolidated financial statements consisted in making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters, verifying that the financial statements were prepared in accordance with the same accounting principles and the same valuation and presentation methods as the most recent consolidated financial statements and applying analytical procedures; X compliance of the transaction terms and conditions with the delegation granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting; X the information presented in the supplementary report of the Board of Directors on the choice of items included in the calculation of the issue price of the securities and the definitive amount. We have nothing to report on: X the fairness of the quantified information extracted from these interim consolidated financial statements and presented in the supplementary report of the Board of Directors; X the compliance of the transaction terms and conditions with the delegation granted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 and the information presented to shareholders; X the choice of items included in the calculation of the issue price of the securities and the definitive amount; X the presentation of the impact of the issue on the position of holders of shares assessed with respect to consolidated equity; X the cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights on which you previously voted. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, December 19, 2014 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 219 4 Financial Information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. 4.4.7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ ADDITIONAL REPORT ON THE SHARE CAPITAL ISSUE IN FAVOR OF CERTAIN EMPLOYEES AND CORPORATE OFFICERS OF NON-FRENCH SUBSIDIARIES This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France (Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 – 31st resolution) To the Shareholders, In our capacity as statutory auditors of your Company and in accordance with Article R.225-116 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby present a report in addition to our report of March 28, 2014 on the issue of shares, with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, in favor of certain employees and corporate officers of non-French subsidiaries, decided by your Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. This Meeting delegated to the Board of Directors, for a period of 18 months, the authority to set the terms and conditions of this transaction. Your Board of Directors used this delegation at its meeting of July 30, 2014 to issue a maximum of 1,600,000 shares with a par value of €8 each. The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a report in accordance with Articles R.225-115 and seq. of the French Commercial Code. Our role is to express an opinion on the fairness of the quantified data extracted from interim financial statements, on the cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information pertaining to the issuance as presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we considered necessary in accordance with the professional guidelines of the French National Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) applicable to this engagement. Such procedures consisted in verifying: X the fairness of the quantified information extracted from the interim consolidated financial statements prepared under the responsibility of the Board of Directors for the half-year ended June 30, 2013, in accordance with the same accounting policies and presentation methods adopted in the most recent consolidated financial statements. Our review of these interim consolidated financial statements consisted in making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters, verifying that the financial statements were prepared in accordance with the same accounting principles and the same valuation and presentation methods as the most recent consolidated financial statements and applying analytical procedures; X compliance of the transaction terms and conditions with the delegation granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting; X the information presented in the supplementary report of the Board of Directors on the choice of items included in the calculation of the issue price of the securities and the definitive amount. We have nothing to report on: X the fairness of the quantified information extracted from these interim consolidated financial statements and presented in the supplementary report of the Board of Directors; X the compliance of the transaction terms and conditions with the delegation granted by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 and the information presented to shareholders; X the choice of items included in the calculation of the issue price of the securities and the definitive amount; X the presentation of the impact of the issue on the position of holders of shares assessed with respect to consolidated equity; X the cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights on which you previously voted. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, December 19, 2014 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 220 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Financial Information 4.5 Other financial and accounting information 4.5 Other ﬁnancial and accounting information 4.5.1 FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY (in thousand of euros) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 I – SHARE CAPITAL AT YEAR-END Share capital 1,246,163 1,246,163 1,294,163 1,282,543 1,308,744 Number of common shares outstanding 155,770,362 155,770,362 161,770,362 160,317,818 163,592,949 Maximum number of future shares to be created: ■ through exercise of equity warrants 9,079,500 6,484,125 5,242,822 5,910,064 6,412,285 ■ through conversion fo convertible bonds 28,722,575 26,372,575 16,911,765 5,961,483 5,958,587 II – OPERATIONS AND RESULTS OF THE CURRENT YEAR Operating revenue 201,567 241,094 230,370 241,145 248,316 Operating revenue and financial revenue 278,822 339,560 763,415 700,839 1,480,875 Income before taxes, amortization and provisions 208,598 225,363 189,839 38,404 284,241 Income tax Net income/(losses) (15,740) 136,889 2,962 171,563 21,562 247,759 (11,344) 164,839 33,555 1,161,201 4 * Distributed income 155,770 155,770 161,770 176,350 196,312 III – EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) Earnings after taxes, but before amortization and provisions 1.44 1.43 1.04 0.31 1.53 Net earnings 0.88 1.10 1.53 1.03 7.10 * Dividend per share 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.03 1.20 IV – EMPLOYEE DATA Average number of employee during the year Cap Gemini S.A. does not have any employees Total payroll Total benefits * Subject to approval by the Combined shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 221 4 Financial Information 4.5 Other financial and accounting information 4.5.2 SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENT Other Book value shareholders’ of shares equity (including net Number Loans & Guaranincome for of shares advances tees 2013 Divi(in millions of euros) Capital the year) % interest owned Gross Net granted given Revenue dends Subsidiaries Capgemini North America Inc 1 3,400 100.00% 982,000 6,618 3,764 19 CGS HOLDINGS Ltd 682 0 100.00% 558,777,061 721 721 Gemini Consulting Holding Ltd 0 10 100.00% 1,083 23 23 Capgemini Oldco Ltd 13 28 100.00% 1,033,938,858 801 380 Capgemini AB (Sweden) 3 346 100.00% 25,861 387 387 9 Capgemini NV (Benelux) 2 318 100.00% 21,582,376 1,467 996 10 Capgemini Business services BV 0 2 100.00% 485 31 31 Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 129 1 95.59% 3 629 629 12 Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 0 6 100.00% 50,551 56 43 20 Capgemini Suisse AG 0 3 100.00% 500 45 30 72 54 Capgemini Polska Sp Z.o.o (Poland) 4 32 100.00% 129,160 25 25 177 11 Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft 0 1 100.00% 1 2 2 5 Capgemini Czech Republic s r o 1 3 98.77% 21,255 8 8 10 Capgemini France S.A.S. 89 686 100.00% 5,713,954 1,324 1,324 6 29 Capgemini Technology Services Maroc 3 5 99.99% 329,996 3 3 30 1 SOGETI S.A.S. 261 362 100.00% 52,106,876 754 754 30 Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 18 12 100.00% 3,575,000 543 50 10 17 201 Capgemini España S.L. (Sociedad Unipersonal) 42 9 85.73% 363,217 319 173 26 227 Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informatica, SA 8 5 100.00% 1,698,842 44 19 26 0 Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 1 3 99.80% 12,900,034 1 1 19 Capgemini Argentina S.A. 1 2 1.16% 126,369 0 0 15 Capgemini Asia-Pacific Pte. Ltd. (Singapour) 105 (38) 100.00% 156,122,611 229 58 27 0 Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) 128 (110) 100.00% 1,502,342 172 172 9 67 157 Capgemini Business Services (India), Ltd. 0 48 99.90% 4,995 25 25 81 Capgemini Service S.A.S 8 (3) 100.00% 8,000,000 164 5 15 228 S.C.I. Paris Etoile 0 5 99.99% 9,999 48 31 3 2 Immobilière les Fontaines S.A.R.L 3 5 99.90% 1,004,628 52 52 7 Capgemini Université S.A.S. 0 0 100.00% 2,500 0 0 19 Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 3 (1) 100.00% 210,000 3 3 23 Capgemini Consulting Cyprus Ltd 0 (0) 100.00% 101 0 0 Capgemini Latin America S.A.S. 332 (1) 100.00% 33,249,750 341 341 5 Capgemini Reinsurance International 20 100.00% 10,000 5 5 11 Other foreign compagnies nm nm nm nm nm nm nm Investments As of December 31, 2014, investments held by Cap Gemini S.A. are not material nm: non material 222 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5 CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.1 5.3 Cap Gemini S.A. Current ownership Share Capital 224 structure 233 5.1.1 Share capital (amount, Changes in the ownership table of movements and delegations structure over the past three years 234 of authority) 224 Shareholders’ agreements 234 5.1.2 Financial authorizations 225 5.1.3 Other share equivalents outstanding 226 5.1.4 Employee Shareholders 226 5.4 5.1.5 Potential dilution resulting from the exercise of all securities granting access to the Company’s share capital 228 Share buyback program 235 5.4.1 Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares 235 5.2 Cap Gemini S.A. and the stock market 229 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 223 5 CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini S.A. 5.1 Cap Gemini S.A. Share Capital 5.1.1 SHARE CAPITAL (AMOUNT, TABLE OF MOVEMENTS AND DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY) AMOUNT OF CAPITAL At December 31, 2014, the Company’s share capital amounted to €1,308,743,592, divided into 163,592,949 fully paid-up ordinary shares with a par value of €8 each. Shares may be held in either registered or bearer form, at the shareholder’s discretion. CHANGES IN THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Additional partner Share capital capital Number of shares (in euros) (in euros) AT DECEMBER 31, 2009 154,177,396 1,233,419,168 5,683,806,792 Share capital increase for cash: ■ Shares issued on exercise of stock options 1,592,966 12,743,728 33,595,907 AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 155,770,362 1,246,162,896 5,717,402,699 AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 155,770,362 1,246,162,896 5,717,402,699 Share capital increase for cash: ■ Shares issued reserved for employees 6,000,000 48,000,000 106,560,000 ■ Issue costs for shares reserved for employees (1,068,864) Allocation to legal reserve (4,800,000) AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 161,770,362 1,294,162,896 5,818,093,835 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued after the vesting of performance shares 285,000 2,280,000 (6,240) ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes ■ Shares issued following the conversion of OCEANE 2009 bonds 1,188,167 9,505,336 30,892,342 Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (2,925,711) (23,405,688) (76,702,738) AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 160,317,818 1,282,542,544 5,772,277,199 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued reserved for employees 5,000,000 40,000,000 190,000,000 ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes (864,294) ■ Shares issued after the vesting of performance shares 530,539 4,244,312 (4,244,312) Allocation to legal reserve (1,458,070) Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (2,255,408) (18,043,264) (103,919,200) AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 163,592,949 1,308,743,592 5,851,791,323 224 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini S.A. 5.1.2 FINANCIAL AUTHORIZATIONS AUTHORIZATIONS GRANTED BY THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE SHARE CAPITAL The following table summarizes (pursuant, to Article L.225-100 of the French Commercial Code) authorizations still in effect and those that have expired since the last Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. Authorization date Used Maximum amount and resolution Expiry during Type of securities (in euros)(1) (2) number date 2014 Amount a) Ordinary shares paid up by capitalizing additional 1.5 billion (par value) 05/07/2014/21st 07/07/2016 No paid-in capital, reserves, profit or other eligible amounts b) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 500 million (par value) 05/07/2014/23rd 07/07/2016 No to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right to 4.5 billion allocation of debt instruments, with PSR (issue amount) c) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 125 million (par value) 05/07/2014/24th 07/07/2016 No to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right to 1.25 billion allocation of debt instruments without PSR, public (issue amount) offer d) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 125 million (par value) 05/07/2014/25th 07/07/2016 No to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right to 1.25 billion allocation of debt instruments without PSR, private (issue amount) placement e) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 125 million (par value) 05/07/2014/26th 07/07/2016 No to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right to 1.25 billion allocation of debt instruments without PSR, issue (issue amount) price set by the Board of Directors 10% of the share capital “Greenshoe” option (b) to (e) 27th f) Ordinary shares or shares combined with securities 10% of the share capital 05/07/2014/28th 07/07/2016 No granting access to the Company’s share capital, as payment for contributions in kind to the Company g) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access 125 million (par value) 05/07/2014/29th 07/07/2016 No to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right to allocation of debt instruments, as payment for shares 1.25 billion (issue amount) 5 tendered to a public exchange offer made by the Company Overall limit 500 million (b) to (g) including “Greenshoe option” (par value) (40% of the share capital) 4.5 billion (issue amount) Ordinary shares issued within the scope of the international employee share ownership plan: h) members of Group savings plans 48 million (par value) (2) 05/07/2014/30th 07/07/2016 ESOP 2014 Yes 40 million (par i) not restricted to members of Group savings plans, 16 million (par value) (2) 05/07/2014/31st 11/07/2015 ESOP 2014 value) but subject to similar conditions Yes j ) Performance shares 1% of the share capital 05/23/2013 11/23/2014 Yes 10 million (par value) PSR: Pre-emptive Subscription Rights (1) Recap of overall limits: – a maximum par value amount of €500 million and a maximum issue amount of €4.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights, – including a maximum par value amount of €125 million and a maximum issue amount of €1.25 billion for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights, – issues performed pursuant to h), i) and j) above are not included in these general limits. (2) Total share capital issues decided pursuant to h) and i) are capped at a maximum par value amount of €48 million. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 225 5 CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini S.A. USE OF AUTHORIZATIONS DURING THE FISCAL In addition, the Board used the authorizations to perform share YEAR capital increases reserved for employees (30th and 31st resolutions adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014). Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Extraordinary Pursuant to these authorizations, the Board of Directors’ meeting Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2013, the Board of Directors’ of July 30, 2014 decided in principle a share capital increase meeting of July 30, 2014 decided the issue of 1,290,500 reserved for employees and corporate officers of the Company performance shares to 517 managers and employees of the and its French and non-French subsidiaries that are members of Group, and 16 members of the Executive Committee including the Group Savings Plan and the employees and corporate officers Paul Hermelin. of its non-French companies and delegated to the Chairman and The Board of Directors set at four years the minimum holding Chief Executive Officer the necessary powers to carry out these period for vested shares following the vesting period for share issues. This latter decided the issue of 5 million new shares beneficiaries tax-resident in France, unchanged on the previous to employees. The issue was subscribed in full and the share plan (for further details, please refer to Section 5.1.4 of this capital increase was performed on December 18, 2014. Registration Document). 5.1.3 OTHER SHARE EQUIVALENTS OUTSTANDING BONDS REDEEMABLE IN CASH AND/OR IN NEW REDEEMABLE SHARE SUBSCRIPTION OR AND/OR EXISTING SHARES (ORNANE) PURCHASE WARRANTS (BSAAR) On October 18, 2013, Cap Gemini launched an offering of During 2009, 2,999,000 warrants were subscribed by employees bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares and corporate officers of the Group at a price of €3.22 per (Obligations à option de Remboursement en Numeraire et/ou en warrant. This issue was disclosed in a prospectus approved by Actions Nouvelles et/ou Existantes, ORNANE) for a total nominal the AMF on May 14, 2009 under reference number 09-140. The amount of €400 million and comprising 5,958,587 bonds with warrants could not be exercised or transferred during a four-year a nominal value of €67.13 each, maturing on January 1, 2019 period commencing July 23, 2009, except under the conditions (ORNANE 2013). The terms and conditions of this issue were set specified in the issue agreement. The warrants are listed and out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on October 18, 2013 traded on the Euronext Paris market since July 23, 2013 and will under reference number n°13-557. be until July 23, 2016. On the exercise by bondholders of their share allotment rights, 2,927,606 warrants remained outstanding at December 31, 2014. Cap Gemini may present, at its initiative, either (i) a cash amount up to the nominal value of the bonds and new and/or existing shares thereafter, where applicable, or (ii) only new and/or existing shares. 5.1.4 EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDERS STOCK OPTIONS number of shares being referred to hereafter by the letter “N”). Up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, these performance shares may Cap Gemini no longer grants stock options. The last stock option be granted to the executive corporate officer of the Company, plan expired in June 2013. it being specified that the portion of shares that must be held by him until the end of his term of office is set by the Board of PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANT Directors. By exception, and for an amount not exceeding 15% of “N”, shares may be granted to employees of the Company and its Performance share grant in 2014 French and non-French subsidiaries – excluding members of the The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2013 General Management Team “The Executive Committee” – without authorized the Board of Directors to grant performance shares performance conditions. to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its Pursuant to this authorization, the Board of Directors’ meeting of French and non-French subsidiaries, during a period of 18 July 30, 2014 decided the issue of 1,290,500 performance shares months commencing May 24, 2013 and expiring November 24, to 517 managers and employees of the Group, 15 members of 2014. The number of shares granted (existing and to be issued) the Executive Committee (excluding Paul Hermelin) and Paul was not to exceed 1% of the share capital at the date of the Hermelin. Paul Hermelin is required to hold one-third of vested Board of Directors’ decision to grant such shares (this maximum shares until the end of his term of office, in so far as he already 226 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini S.A. holds Cap Gemini S.A. shares representing more than twice his in France and a four-year vesting period for beneficiaries not tax annual theoretical fixed and variable salary. The Board of Directors resident in France, which therefore expired on October 1, 2014. set at four years the minimum holding period for vested shares Since 2010, performance share grants are subject to an internal following the vesting period for beneficiaries tax-resident in France, and external performance condition. These conditions are detailed unchanged on the previous plan. in the resolution presented to the Combined Shareholders’ As for the 2012 and 2013 grant plans, the internal performance Meeting authorizing the Board of Directors to grant performance condition is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over a three-year shares. period, reflecting the Board of Directors’ desire to prioritize longThe external performance condition is assessed based on the term goals in the context of these grants. comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share compared The external performance condition is assessed over a minimum with a basket of comparable companies in our business sector in period of two years, allowing the beneficiary retention objective at least five different countries. These companies are as follows: to be reconciled with that of maintaining the attractiveness of the Accenture, Atos, CSC, CGI, Cognizant, Infosys, Sopra, Steria instruments. In addition, this period allows an economic return to and Tieto. No shares vest in respect of the external performance be assured taking into account the cost in France of granting this condition if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is type of incentive instrument. The vesting of the shares in France less than 90% of the average performance of the basket over at the end of a two-year period is followed by a four-year lock-in a two-year period, while 30% of shares vest if this performance period, thereby ensuring the substantial and long-term alignment is equal to that of the basket and 50% of shares vest if this of the interests of beneficiaries of these shares with those of performance is 110% or more of that of the basket. shareholders. The internal performance condition focused on the increase in In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF the operating margin between 2011 and 2010, at constant group Code, performance share grants will be undertaken at the same structure and exchange rates. calendar periods from now on and will be decided by either the While the internal performance condition for this plan was satisfied Board of Directors’ meeting held at the end of July or the following in full, the external performance condition was only partially meeting. attained and only enabled the vesting in October 2014 of 530,539 Free share grants to employees without shares to beneficiaries not tax resident in France. performance conditions in 2014 Ultimately, a total of 881,048 shares vested to all beneficiaries On October 8, 2014, pursuant to the same authorization, the under the 2010 grant plan out of an initial grant of 1,555,000 Board of Directors decided to grant a total of 104,379 shares shares, i.e. 56.7% of the initial volume granted and 0.57% of the subject only to a condition of presence, to French employees of share capital at the grant date. the Economic and Social Union (Union Economique et Sociale, UES) with more than three months seniority at the grant date. INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDING This volume represents 6.5% of the amount authorized by the SYSTEM Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2013 available for grant without performance conditions, i.e. well below The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 26, 2011 5 the maximum volume of 15% authorized for grant without and May 7, 2014 authorized the Board of Directors to issue a performance conditions. In addition, pursuant to the authorization maximum of 6 million shares by way of a share capital increase granted by the Extraorindary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, reserved for employees and corporate officers of the Company 2012, on July 25, 2012 the Board of Directors granted 202,538 and its French and non-French subsidiaries who are members of shares subject only to a condition of presence, to French the Capgemini Group Company Savings Plan. The international employees of the Economic and Social Union with more than three employee shareholding transaction performed in 2012 was months seniority at the grant date. At the end of the two-year subscribed in the amount of 6 million shares – directly and vesting period, 157,286 shares vested, representing 77.7% of the indirectly via an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) – by amount initially granted. Beneficiaries must hold these shares for Group employees from 19 countries. The international employee a further two years and five years where the shares have been shareholding transaction performed in 2014 was subscribed invested in the Group Savings Plan. in the amount of 5 million shares – directly and indirectly via an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) – by Group employees Vesting of performance shares in 2014 from 20 countries. On October 1, 2010, pursuant to the authorization granted by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 30, 2009, the Board of Directors granted 1,555,000 shares subject to performance and presence conditions. These performance shares were granted subject to a two-year vesting period for beneficiaries tax-resident CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 227 5 CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini S.A. Pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-102 of the French employees and corporate officers who subscribed to the 2009 Commercial Code, the Board of Directors informs you that transaction which expired on December 16, 2014 or employees employees and corporate officers who subscribed to the 2012 and corporate officers whose shares are held in the Group Savings transaction (ESOP 2012) and the 2014 transaction (ESOP 2014) Plan under the 2012 free share plan, together held 6.19% of the through a Capgemini Group Company Savings Plan, as well as Company’s share capital at December 31, 2014. 5.1.5 POTENTIAL DILUTION RESULTING FROM THE EXERCISE OF ALL SECURITIES GRANTING ACCESS TO THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL If the maximum number of shares were issued at December 31, 2014 in respect of performance and free share grant plans, BSAAR warrants and “ORNANE 2013” bonds, the dilution would be 7.1%. The dilution in respect of performance and free share grants plans is 2.1%. 228 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.2 Cap Gemini S.A. 5.2 Cap Gemini S.A. and the stock market At December 31, 2014, the share capital of Cap Gemini S.A. capital reduction through the cancellation of 2,255,408 treasury comprised 163,592,949 shares (ISIN code: FR0000125338). shares. Cap Gemini shares are listed on the “Euronext Paris” market Cap Gemini shares are included in the CAC 40 and the Euronext (compartment A) and are eligible for the SRD deferred settlement 100 indexes and the Dow Jones STOXX and Dow Jones Euro system of the Paris Stock Exchange. The increase in the number STOXX European indexes. Between January 1 and December 31, of shares between 2013 and 2014 was due to the issue of 2014, the Cap Gemini share price on “Euronext Paris” increased 5,000,000 new shares under the international employee share from €48.62 to €59.48. ownership plan (ESOP 2014) partially made-up for by a share CAP GEMINI S.A. SHARE OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 (based on a shareholder survey) Non-French French Board members and Individual Treasury shares institutional institutional Group employees shareholders investors investors 8.9 % 23.8 % 5.3 % 61.4 % 0.6 % CAP GEMINI S.A. 5 Capgemini Sogeti Consulting services Application services Local professional services Other managed services CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 229 5 CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.2 Cap Gemini S.A. STOCK MARKET CAPITALIZATION From January 2013 to February 2015 In billions of euros 13 12 11 Source : Bloomberg 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 n b rch Au Ma Ju Ju gu ril ney ly st Ja n Ja Fe ApSeOc No Dé pt. Ja t. v. c. n Fe b Ma Ma Au Fe Ap Ma Ju Se rch Ju gu Oc Noneb ril y ly st pt. t. v. Dé c. 2013 2014 2015 SHARE PERFORMANCE From December 31, 2012 to February 27, 2015 In euros 72 70 CAP GEMINI : 119.9% 68 CAC 40 : 36.0% 66 STOXX Europe 600 : 40.2% 64 62 60 58 56 54 52 Source: Bloomberg 50 48 46 44 42 40 38 36 34 32 19 10 12 /0 /0 /2 2/ 4/ 01 20 20 2 13 13 30 19 07 /0 /0 /0 5/ 7/ 9/ 20 20 13 13 27 16 04 /1 /1 0/ 2/ 20 20 20 13 13 13 26 15 /0 /0 /0 2/ 3/ 5/ 20 20 20 14 14 04 /0 7/ 20 14 31 / 23 12 01 20 /0 /1 /1 /0 8/ 0/ 2/ 1/ 20 20 20 20 14 14 14 14 15 230 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.2 Cap Gemini S.A. NUMBER OF TRADES PER MONTH From January 2013 to February 2015 22 20 15 10 Source: Bloomberg 5 0 n. b. rch ril y Ma ne ly Ju g. pt. t. Oc v. No c. n. b. rch ril y Ma ne ly Ju g. pt. t. Oc v. No c. n. b. Ja Fe Ma Ap Ju Au Se De Ja Fe Ma Ap Ju Au Se De Ja Fe 2013 2014 2015 5 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 231 5 CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.2 Cap Gemini S.A. SHARE PRICE AND TRADING VOLUME The following table presents an analysis of trading in the Company’s shares over the last 24 months: Trading volume Share price (in euros) Number of shares Value Number of Average (millions Month trading days High Average Low Total (daily) of euros) March 13 20 39.005 37.664 35.150 16,834,288 841,714 631.8 April 13 21 35.856 34.660 32.915 18,392,255 875,822 635.8 May 13 22 40.100 38.673 35.405 18,069,541 821,343 694.8 June 13 20 39.460 37.731 36.260 17,746,826 887,341 671.8 July 13 23 42.750 39.983 37.175 16,103,362 700,146 646.6 August 13 22 43.575 42.485 40.475 13,819,139 628,143 586.4 September 13 21 45.615 43.896 41.340 14,319,649 681,888 628.3 October 13 23 49.320 45.861 42.875 21,598,015 939,044 1,003.8 November 13 21 49.000 47.740 46.005 14,764,025 703,049 704.5 December 13 20 49.770 47.214 45.505 9,459,752 472,988 444.6 January 14 22 53.740 51.042 48.435 14,880,581 676,390 761.7 February 14 20 57.870 54.009 50.240 12,508,925 625,446 678.7 March 14 21 57.240 55.281 53.140 12,856,242 612,202 710.1 April 14 20 54.560 52.436 50.360 15,959,318 797,966 835.3 May 14 21 54.200 51.439 47.790 16,278,356 775,160 834.2 June 14 21 54.680 53.535 51.890 10,110,982 481,475 541.4 July 14 23 55.740 52.462 49.860 15,103,918 656,692 792.8 August 14 21 55.240 53.190 51.010 11,251,170 535,770 597.2 September 14 22 58.960 56.218 53.750 14,461,862 657,357 817.2 October 14 23 56.980 52.105 48.400 21,310,725 926,553 1,104.6 November 14 20 59.380 55.664 51.140 14,276,819 713,841 792.0 December 14 21 61.700 58.990 54.790 12,907,321 614,634 759.0 January 15 21 65.380 60.967 57.030 14,145,906 673,615 863.9 February 15 20 72.400 66.831 63.400 14,582,238 729,112 984.4 Source: Bloomberg DIVIDENDS PAID BY CAP GEMINI Dividend distribution In% of net Number Dividend Year ended December 31 In € million income of shares per share 2010 156 56% 155,770,362 €1.00 2011 156 39% 155,770,362 €1.00 2012 162 44% 161,700,362 €1.00 2013 176 40% 160,317,818 €1.10 * 2014 196 34% 163,592,949 €1.20 * Recommended dividend submitted to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015. 2015 PROVISIONAL FINANCIAL CALENDAR This provisional calendar is provided for information purposes only First quarter 2015 revenues: April 29, 2015 and may be subject to subsequent amendments. First half 2015 results: July 30, 2015 Third quarter 2015 revenues: October 29, 2015 2015 results: February 18, 2016 232 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.3 Current ownership structure 5.3 Current ownership structure The ownership structure at December 31, 2014 is presented rights. On the most recent occasion, it increased its interest below. No shares carry double voting rights. At December 31, above the 1% threshold; 2014, Cap Gemini held 968,178 of its own shares. X HSBC Global Asset Management (France) disclosed that it had At December 31, 2014, there were 13,722 holders of registered reduced its interest below the threshold of 1% of the Company’s shares. share capital and voting rights; Based on information received by the Company during the year, X HSBC Holdings plc disclosed that it had raised its interest two shareholders held more than 5% of the Company’s share above the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and capital and voting rights at the year-end: voting rights; X NATIXIS ASSET MANAGEMENT disclosed that it had reduced X the limited liability company, Amundi Group(1), acting on behalf and raised its interest on numerous occasions (7 in total) below of the Capgemini ESOP FCPE (Employee Savings Mutual Fund) and above the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital which it manages (international employee share ownership and voting rights. On the most recent occasion, it increased its plan); interest above the 1% threshold; X BlackRock Inc.(2) acting on behalf of clients and managed funds. X THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND disclosed that it had raised In accordance with Article 10 of the Company’s bylaws, the its interest above the threshold of 3% of the Company’s share companies listed below made the following disclosures to the capital and voting rights and then reduced its interest below Company during the fiscal year: the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting X AMUNDI disclosed that it had raised its interest above the rights; threshold of 4% of the Company’s share capital and voting X STATE STREET CORPORATION disclosed that it had raised rights; its interest above the threshold of 2% of the Company’s share X AVIVA disclosed that it had raised its interest above the capital and 1% of the Company’s voting rights(3) threshold of 2% of the Company’s share capital and voting X UBS AG disclosed that on numerous occasions (8 in total) it had rights; reduced its interest below the threshold of 2% of the Company’s X BANK OF AMERICA disclosed that it had raised and then share capital and voting rights and then successively reduced reduced its interest above and then below the threshold of 1% and raised its interest below and above the threshold of 1% of of the Company’s share capital and voting rights; the Company’s share capital and voting rights; X X CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS LTD disclosed that it had reduced and then raised its interest below and then above the WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT COMPANY disclosed that it had reduced and raised its interest on numerous occasions (4 in 5 threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting total) below and above the threshold of 1% of the Company’s rights. On the most recent occasion, it decreased its interest share capital and voting rights. On the most recent occasion, it below the 1% threshold; reduced its interest below the 1% threshold. X CRÉDIT SUISSE disclosed that it had raised and reduced its Shares held by members of the Board of Directors represent interest on numerous occasions (4 in total) above and below 2.75% of the Company’s share capital. the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting (1) Amundi disclosed that it had reduced and raised its interest below and above the threshold of 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights on December 16 and 18, 2014 respectively. These disclosures are tied to the disinvestment by the ESOP CAPGEMINI fund on December 16, 2014 on expiry of the ESOP 2009 plan, immediately followed by the reinvestment of this fund in the share capital increase reserved for employees on December 18, 2014 (ESOP 2014). (2) BlackRock’s investment is held on behalf of clients, but the investment manager has the discretionary power to exercise the voting rights attached to the shares held, except at the express request of clients to retain control of their voting rights. (3) The disclosure states that State Street no longer controls some of the voting rights for shares under management. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 233 5 CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.3 Current ownership structure CHANGES IN THE OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE OVER THE PAST THREE YEARS At December 31, 2012 At December 31, 2013 At December 31, 2014 Number of % share % voting Number of % share % voting Number of % share % voting shares capital rights shares capital rights shares capital rights Serge Kampf 4,897,492 3.0 3.0 4,650,000 2.9 2.9 4,340,240 2.7 2.7 Paul Hermelin 227,048 0.1 0.1 227,048 0.1 0.1 147,048 0.1 0.1 (1) Public (bearer + registered) 143,391,840 88.6 88.6 145,189,110 90.6 90.6 148,018,412 90.5 90.5 Employee shareholders 10,682,199 6.6 6.6 10,182,860 6.4 6.4 10,119,071 6.2 6.2 Treasury shares (2) 2,571,783 1.6 1.6 68,800 0.0 0.0 968,178 0.6 0.6 Own shares TOTAL 161,770,362 100 100 160,317,818 100 100 163,592,949 100 100 (1) Including share capital held by managers. (2) At December 31, 2014, Cap Gemini S.A. held 968,178 of its own shares acquired under the share buy-back program. In accordance with French corporate law, these shares are stripped of voting shares. The Company does not hold any “own shares” other then those classified as treasury share . Based on a study of identifiable bearer shares carried out at December 31, 2014, the Company has 3,387 identifiable holders of bearer shares holding at least 500 shares. No shares carry double voting rights. Each share carries entitlement to one vote irrespective of whether the share is held in registered or bearer form. Law No. 2014-384 of March 29, 2014 to liberate the real economy (known as the “Florange” law), partially codified in Article L.225-123 of the French Commercial Code with respect to double voting rights, generalized, in companies whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market, double voting rights for all fully paid-up shares held in registered form for at least two years by the same shareholder, in the absence of a clause to the contrary in the bylaws adopted subsequent to the enactment of this law (i.e. March 29, 2014). In the 10th resolution presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015, the Board of Directors proposes to exercise this derogation option and therefore to amend Article 8, paragraph 1 of the bylaws to provide that Cap Gemini shares would retain entitlement to one vote. SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS There are no shareholder agreements or pacts in force. 234 CAPGEMINI2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAP GEMINI and its shareholders 5.4 Share buyback program 5.4 Share buyback program 5.4.1 AUTHORIZATION TO BUY BACK THE COMPANY’S SHARES Shareholders are reminded that last year, the Ordinary In addition, the Company continued to purchase its own shares in Shareholders’ Meeting renewed the authorization granted to the 2014. Excluding the liquidity contract, the Company held 835,116 Company to buy back its shares. This authorization was used in of its own shares at December 31, 2014, following the various 2014 in connection with the liquidity agreement entered into on transactions described below: February 15, 2010 and more generally as part of the continued X purchase of 3,311,408 shares representing 2.02% of the share purchase by the Company of its own shares. capital at December 31, 2014, at an average price of €54.23 The liquidity agreement seeks to improve the liquidity of the Cap per share; Gemini S.A. share and stabilize the share price. In 2014, a total of X cancellation on May 6, 2014 of 1,253,903 shares representing 3,863,461 shares were purchased on behalf of Cap Gemini S.A., 0.77% of the share capital at December 31, 2014; at an average price of €53.41 per share, representing 2.36% of X cancellation on October 8, 2014 of 1,001,505 shares the share capital at December 31, 2014. During the same period, representing 0.61% of the share capital at December 31, 2014; 3,799,199 Cap Gemini S.A. shares were sold at an average price of €53.09 per share, representing 2.32% of the share capital at X transfer of 157,286 shares to employees under the free share December 31, 2014. At the year-end, the liquidity account balance grant plan; comprised 133,062 treasury shares (0.08% of the share capital) X transfer of 63,598 shares to holders of redeemable share for a total of approximately €10 million. subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) who exercised their Cap Gemini S.A. share allotment rights in 2014. 5 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 235 236 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.1 6.3 Resolutions presented Statutory Auditors’ reports 254 at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 238 Statutory Auditors’ report on the cancellation of shares bought back by the Company. Combined Shareholders’ Meeting May 6, 2015 – Eighth resolution 254 Statutory Auditors’ report 6.2 on the authorization to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) to employees and corporate officers. Resolutions presented Combined Shareholders’ Meeting at the Extraordinary May 6, 2015 – Ninth resolution 255 Shareholders’ Meeting 246 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 237 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Each draft resolution is preceded by the corresponding section of the Board of Directors’ report on the draft resolution Unofficial translation from French. The English translation is for information purpose only. In the event of discrepancies the French language version of this document shall prevail. RESOLUTION 1 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF THE 2014 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In this resolution, we ask you to approve the Company financial statements of Cap Gemini for the year ended December 31, 2014, which show a net profit for the year of €1,161,201,146.56. FIRST RESOLUTION The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with X the Chairman’s report; and quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and X the Statutory Auditors’ report on their audit of the Company after having read: financial statements; X the management report of the Board of Directors; approves the Company financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014, showing net profit for the year of €1,161,201,146.56. RESOLUTION 2 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF THE 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In this resolution, we ask you to approve the consolidated financial statements of Cap Gemini for the year ended December 31, 2014, which show a net profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company of €580 million. SECOND RESOLUTION The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with X the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and statements, after having read: approves the consolidated financial statements for the year X the Group management report of the Board of Directors for 2014, ended December 31, 2014, showing net profit for the Group of and €580 million. RESOLUTION 3 REGULATED AGREEMENTS In this resolution, we ask that you duly note the absence of any new regulated agreements during the year. The only regulated agreement that continued in effect this year was the registration of Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin as beneficiaries of the supplementary pension scheme for senior executives, authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 10, 2007. Pursuant to Order no. 2014-863 of July 31, 2014 relating to company law, issued in application of Article 3 of Law no. 2014-1 of January 2, 2014, the Board of Directors examined this agreement and decided that it was not necessary to amend the plan. THIRD RESOLUTION The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after having read the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements governed by Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), records that no such agreement has been entered into during the past year. 238 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting RESOLUTION 4 NET INCOME APPROPRIATION AND DIVIDEND During its meeting of February 18, 2015, the Board of Directors decided to recommend to the next Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting that the dividend be set at €1.20 per share for a total of €196,311,538.80, based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2014. The balance of the profit for the year, i.e. €1,451,333,318.64, shall be added to retained earnings. This dividend of €1.20 for each of the 163,592,949 shares bearing dividend rights on January 1, 2014, will be fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts). Taking account of the recommendations of certain investors, and so as not to encourage security lending/borrowing transactions around the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors proposes an ex-dividend date of May 18, 2015 and a dividend payment date of May 20, 2015. Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, the Board of Directors reminds shareholders that dividends paid over the past three fiscal years were as follows: €176,349,599.80 for 2013 (€1.10 per share), €162,055,362 for 2012 (€1 per share) and €155,770,362 for 2011 (€1 per share). All of these dividends were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate set out in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code. FOURTH RESOLUTION The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rule for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, approves the recommendations of the Board of Directors to appropriate the profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 as follows: ■ net profit for the year €1,161,201,146.56 ■ no allocation to the legal reserve as it is fully funded i.e. a balance of: €1,161,201,146.56 ■ retained earnings of previous years: €486,443,710.88 i.e. distributable earnings of: €1,647,644,857.44 ■ allocated to: payment of a dividend of €1.20 per share: €196,311,538.80(1) retained earnings for the balance: €1,451,333,318.64 giving a total of: €1,647,644,857.44 (1) The total amount of the distribution is calculated based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2014, i.e. 163,592,949 shares, and could therefore change if this number varies between January 1, 2015 and the ex-dividend date. It should be noted that the dividend, set at €1.20 per share Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, dividends paid for each of the 163,592,949 shares bearing dividend rights over the past three fiscal years were as follows: €176,349,599.80 on January 1, 2014, will be fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate for 2013 (€1.10 per share), €162,055,362 for 2012 (€1 per share) referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code (Code and €155,770,362 for 2011 (€1 per share). All of these dividends 6 Général des Impôts). were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate set out in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code. The ex-dividend date is May 18, 2015 and the dividend will be payable from May 20, 2015. If, at the time of payment of the dividend, the Company holds some of its own shares, the dividend for these shares will be added to retained earnings. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 239 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting RESOLUTION 5 ADVISORY VOTE ON THE COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION DUE OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF FISCAL YEAR 2014 TO MR. PAUL HERMELIN, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Pursuant to the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in June 2013 with which Cap Gemini complies, the compensation of each executive corporate officer due or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2014 must be presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting for an advisory vote. The following table summarizes the 2014 compensation components to Mr. Paul Hermelin, subject to shareholder advisory vote pursuant to the “say on pay” policy. COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION DUE OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF FISCAL YEAR 2014 TO MR. PAUL HERMELIN, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SUBJECT TO SHAREHOLDERS’ ADVISORY VOTE Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Fixed €1,452,000 The gross fixed compensation of €1,452,000 for fiscal year 2014 was approved by the Board of Directors compensation (paid in 2014) on February 19, 2014 at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. It represents 60% of the total theoretical compensation if objectives are attained and is reviewed at long intervals in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This amount is unchanged since 2013 when it was increased by 10% to reflect the change in Mr. Hermelin’s role, who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the extension of his responsibilities and changes in and the internationalization of the Group since 2008, when his compensation was last modified. The annualized increase in his theoretical compensation since 2008 and therefore in his fixed compensation is 1.6% per annum. This compensation falls within the average for CAC 40 executives. Annual variable €1,168,652 During the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 18, 2015, the Board, based on the audited and approved compensation (paid in 2015) accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, assessed the amount of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s variable compensation for fiscal year 2014, of a target amount if objectives are attained of €968,000, i.e. 40% of his total theoretical compensation and comprising two equal components, V1 and V2, that may vary between 0% and 200% of the theoretical amount. V1 component: this component is calculated in accordance with quantifiable criteria and the following respective weightings, all relating to the financial results: 1) % attainment of the revenue objective: 30% weighting; 2) % attainment of the operating margin rate: 30% weighting; 3) % attainment of pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; 4) 2014 Free Cash Flow: 20% weighting. These objectives were assessed with respect to the budgeted objectives set by the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 19, 2014. Attainment rates for these four objectives were 100.1%, 101.7%, 108.1% and 121.5% respectively, which taking account of the relative weighting of each objective, gives a weighted attainment rate of 106.4%. The Group’s historical calculation formula accelerates actual performance upwards and downwards such that: ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is less than or equal to 70%, the V1 component will be nil; ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is greater than or equal to 130%, the V1 component will be equal to twice its theoretical amount. Accordingly, with this formula, a one point change in the weighted attainment rate increases or decreases the variable component by 3.33%. Therefore, application of the formula to the weighted attainment rate of 106.4% in 2014 results in the multiplication of the theoretical variable component by 121.5%, giving an amount of 968,000/2*1.215= €587,852. V2 component: The following appraisal was performed based on the Compensation Committee work, which reviewed the qualitative objectives grouped into three categories: “Governance” for 25%, “Profitable growth of the Group” for 50% and “Talent and succession plans” for 25%. For the first category (Governance), basing its appraisal on the assessment of the Board of Directors’ performance at the end of 2014 by the Lead Independent Director and the recommendations of the AFEPMEDEF Code, the Board highlighted the implementation of the recommendations resulting from the Board assessment performed in 2013 by an external consultant, such as the appointment of a Lead Independent Director, a new allocation of duties between the Committees, increased female representation on the Board and a decrease in the average age of its members, as well as the invitation accorded to the Secretary of the International Works Council to attend meetings of the Board and the Compensation Committee. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category had been attained. 240 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Annual variable For the second category (Profitable growth), the Board based its appraisal as far as possible on objective compensation and quantifiable items and primarily the Group 2015 strategic transformation dash board, a quantitative tool (continued) comprising key transformation indicators (changes in the offering portfolio percentage of sales realized with strategic accounts, industrialization including the offshore and innovation lever). The dash board is approved by the Board of Directors in the context of the Group 3-year plan. In 2015, changes in management report indicators were in line with the objectives set. The second profitable growth criteria comprises the optimization of the balance sheet financial structure in line with the Group’s strategy and the employee share ownership plan, which was a success. Finally, revenue, margin and cash trends all of which are in line with or exceed guidance presented to the market at the beginning of 2014, represent the third pillar of profitable growth. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category had been exceeded. For the third category (Talent), the Board took account of the record recruitment of 89 “Vice-Presidents” and, in particular, the recruitment of a Group Talent Officer, the promotion of 112 new Vice-Presidents, the Talent management strategy presented by the new Group HR Director favoring executive manager turnover and mobility reflected by numerous job transfers during the last year and the 5 point increase year-on-year in the percentage of women promoted Vice-President. Given these achievements, the Board took due note of the progress made and considered that the objective set had been attained. This objective will remain a priority in 2015. The Board approved a weighted performance of 120%, therefore leading to a V2 component of €580,800. Accordingly, variable compensation of €1,168,652 was approved by the Board for 2014, i.e. 80% of his fixed compensation for the same year and 120.7% of the theoretical variable compensation. Total fixed and variable compensation for 2014 is therefore €2,620,652, i.e. 108.3% of the theoretical compensation and may be summarized as follows. Paul Hermelin 2014 variable compensation calculation V1 : quantitative component based on budgeted financial targets Indicators Weight % attainment Weighted Total Revenues 30% 100.1% 30.0% Operational Margin ( %) 30% 101.7% 30.5% Pre-tax net profit 20% 108.1% 21.6% Organic Free Cash Flow 20% 121.5% 24.3% Total weighted R/B before flex 106.4% Total weighted R/B after 70/130 flex (10/3* weighted R/B-7/3) 121.5% Variable V1 on target 484,000 Computed V1 587,852 V2 : qualitative component based on 2014 personal objectives Categories Weight Weighted total Governance 25% Profitable growth 50% 120.0% Talent & succession plans 25% Variable V2 on target 484,000 6 Computed V2 580,800 TOTAL 2014 VARIABLE COMPENSATION 1,168,652 As a % of total variable compensation on target 120.7% As a % of fixed compensation 80.5% The variable compensation due in respect of a given year is calculated based on the audited accounts approved by the Board at the beginning of Y+1 and is paid at the end of the first quarter of Y+1, or in the present case in March 2015. Deferred NA There is no deferred variable compensation. variable compensation CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 241 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Multi-year NA There is no multi-year variable compensation mechanism. variable compensation Exceptional NA No exceptional compensation was paid. compensation Stock options, Performance 50,000 shares granted subject to performance and presence conditions. performance shares The vesting of performance shares is contingent on the realization of both an external performance condition shares or any €1,466,026 and an internal performance condition. The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant other form (accounting and is based on the comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share over a two-year period against of long-term value) the average performance of a basket comprising 8 comparable companies in the same business sector compensation and from at least 5 countries (Accenture/CSC/Atos/Tieto/Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Cognizant) and the CAC 40 index (new in 2014). Accordingly, no shares vest if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than 90% of the performance of the basket, while 100% of shares vest only if this relative performance is at 110% or above. If performance is similar to that of the market only 30% of the initial grant vests. The internal performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant and is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over the three-year period from 2013 to 2015. The minimum amount necessary for shares to vest is €850 million. Above this threshold, shares vest progressively on a straight-line basis, with the maximum grant requiring Organic Free Cash Flow of €1.1 billion or more. The IFRS value of this grant potentially represents one year’s fixed compensation. The number of shares that may vest to the executive corporate officer is 0.03% of the share capital. Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013. (Tenth resolution) Grant authorized by the Board of Directors on July 30, 2014. Stock options = N/A No stock options or other items were granted. Other items = N/A Attendance Voluntary The Board of Directors took due note of Paul Hermelin’s decision to waive his right to collect attendance fees fees waiver as a director of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2014 (as both Serge Kampf and he have done for the last five years and Serge Kampf did once again in 2014). Valuation of €3,600 Unemployment insurance contributions paid on behalf of Paul Hermelin. benefits in kind Contributions paid 242 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting FIFTH RESOLUTION Advisory vote on the components of compensation due or due or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2014 to Mr. Paul awarded in respect of fiscal year 2014 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as presented Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in the Management Report section entitled “Components of compensation due or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2014 to Mr. The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, subject to quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, shareholder advisory vote”. issues a favorable opinion on the components of compensation RESOLUTION 6 BOARD OF DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE FEES Your Board wishes its composition to reflect the international expansion of the Company’s activities and the human diversity of its employees. The attendance fees proposed to directors must be consistent with international standards. We therefore ask you to increase the total envelop of attendance fees. In this resolution, we ask that you set the maximum amount of annual attendance fees allocated to the Board of Directors at one million euros, applicable until a new Shareholders’ Meeting decision. This authorization would supersede that granted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011 and not revalued since, which capped total annual attendance fees at €800,000. SIXTH RESOLUTION At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, sets the total annual amount of attendance fees allocated to the Board of Directors per fiscal year at one million euros. 6 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 243 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting RESOLUTION 7 AUTHORIZATION TO BUY BACK THE COMPANY’S SHARES Shareholders are reminded that last year, the Ordinary X grant or sell the shares thus acquired to employees and/or Shareholders’ Meeting renewed the authorization granted to corporate officers, in connection with the grant of performance the Company to buy back its shares. This authorization was shares, a company savings plan or an international employee used in 2014 in connection with the liquidity agreement entered share ownership plan; into on February 15, 2010. The purpose of this agreement is to X remit the shares thus purchased to holders of securities improve the liquidity of the Cap Gemini share and stabilize the granting access to the Company’s share capital upon exercise share price. In 2014, a total of 3,863,461 shares were purchased of the rights attached thereto; on behalf of Cap Gemini S.A., at an average price of €53.41 per share, representing 2.36% of the share capital at December 31, X purchase shares to be retained with a view to remitting them 2014. During the same period, 3,799,199 Cap Gemini shares in the future in exchange or payment for potential external were sold at an average price of €53.09 per share, representing growth transactions; 2.32% of the share capital at December 31, 2014. At the yearX cancel any of the shares purchased, subject to the adoption end, the liquidity account balance comprised 133,062 treasury of the eighth resolution presented to this Combined shares (0.08% of the share capital at December 31, 2014). Shareholders’ Meeting. In addition, the Company continued to purchase its own shares The Board of Directors is therefore seeking an authorization for in 2014 and, excluding the liquidity contract, held 835,116 of the Company, with the power of delegation subject to applicable its own shares at December 31, 2014, following the various regulations, to buy back or arrange the purchase of its own shares transactions described below: representing up to 10% of its share capital, during a period of 18 X purchase of 3,311,408 shares representing 2.02% of the share months. The total amount of such purchases may not exceed capital at December 31, 2014, at an average price of €54.23 €1,960 million and the maximum authorized unit purchase price per share; is €120 per share, these purchases taking place within the scope X cancellation on May 6, 2014 of 1,253,903 shares representing of Articles L. 225-209 and seq. of the French Commercial Code 0.77% of the share capital at December 31, 2014; and European Regulation 2273/2003 of December 22, 2003 pursuant to Directive 2003/6/EC of January 28, 2003, known as X cancellation on October 8, 2014 of 1,001,505 shares the “Market Abuse” directive in relation to buy-back programs representing 0.61% of the share capital at December 31, 2014; and the stabilization of financial instruments. X transfer of 157,286 shares to employees under the free share The acquisition, disposal and transfer transactions described grant plan; above may be carried out by any method in accordance with X transfer of 63,598 shares to holders of redeemable share applicable laws and regulations – including through the use subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) who exercised of derivative instruments or by means of a block purchase or their Cap Gemini share allotment rights in 2014. transfer of shares – and be carried out at any time, except during As the authorization granted by the Ordinary Shareholders’ public offers for Company shares. Meeting of May 7, 2014 is only valid for 18 months, we are asking This new authorization shall supersede, for its unused portion, shareholders to replace it with a similar authorization to allow the the previous authorization. Company to: It forms part of the ongoing active management of dilution. X manage the secondary market and encourage the liquidity of the Cap Gemini share within the scope of the liquidity Pursuant to the law, a description of the share buyback program agreement; will be published prior to the Shareholders’ Meeting. 244 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting SEVENTH RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of of a share capital increase paid up by capitalizing additional 18 months, to enable the Company to buy back its own paid-in capital, reserves, profit or other amounts, in the form of shares within the limit of a number of shares equal to a allocating shares to shareholders without consideration during maximum of 10% of the share capital, a maximum amount the period of validity of this authorization (as well as in the event of €1,960 million and a maximum purchase price of €120 of a stock-split or reverse stock-split), the maximum unit price per share will be adjusted based on the ratio of the number of shares issued and outstanding before the transaction to that number In accordance with Articles L. 225-209 and seq. of the French after the transaction and the maximum number of shares Commercial Code and with European Commission Regulation indicated above will be adjusted based on the ratio of the No. 2273/2003 of December 22, 2003, the Combined number of shares issued and outstanding after the transaction Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and to that number before the transaction; majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after having read the Board of Directors’ report, authorizes the Company – X resolves that the maximum number of shares that may be for the reasons and subject to the terms and conditions detailed acquired under this resolution may not exceed 10% of the below – to purchase or arrange the purchase of its own shares. Company’s share capital at any time. It is specified, however, that: This authorization is given to allow the Company, if required, to: • within the context of this authorization, the number of treasury X manage the secondary market and share liquidity through an shares should be taken into account to ensure that the investment services provider within the scope of a liquidity Company does not own, at any time, over 10% of the number agreement in accordance with the AMAFI ethics charter of shares issued and outstanding at that date, recognized by the AMF (French Financial Markets Authority); • the number of treasury shares to be tendered in payment or X grant or sell shares thus purchased to employees and/or exchange in the context of a merger, de-merger or contribution corporate officers (on the terms and by the methods provided may not represent more than 5% of the share capital, and by law), in particular in connection with a plan involving the grant • when shares are bought back to encourage liquidity under the of shares without consideration, a company savings plan or an conditions defined in the General Regulations of the AMF, the international employee share ownership plan; number of shares taken into account in the calculation of the X remit the shares thus purchased to holders of securities 10% limit is the number of shares purchased, less the number granting access to the Company’s share capital upon exercise of shares sold during the authorization period. of the rights attached thereto, in accordance with applicable The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting gives full powers to the regulations; Board of Directors (including the power of delegation subject to X purchase shares to be retained with a view to remitting them in applicable law) to: the future in exchange or payment for potential external growth transactions, X decide and implement this authorization; X cancel the shares thus purchased, subject to the adoption of X place any and all, buy and sell orders and enter into any and all the eighth resolution presented to this Combined Shareholders’ agreements, in accordance with applicable regulations; Meeting. X carry out any and all filings and other formalities, in particular the The acquisition, disposal and transfer transactions described keeping of registers of share purchases and sales, and generally above may be carried out by any method in accordance with do whatever is necessary. applicable laws and regulations – including through the use of derivative instruments or by means of a block purchase or transfer The Board of Directors will detail in its Annual Report to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting all transactions carried out 6 of shares – and be carried out at any time, except during public under this authorization, which is given for a period of eighteen offers for Company shares. months as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes the authorization given in the nineteenth resolution The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting: adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. X resolves that the total amount of purchases may not exceed €1,960 million and that the maximum unit purchase price may not exceed €120 per share with a par value of €8. In the event CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 245 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting RESOLUTION 8 AUTHORIZATION TO CANCEL SHARES PURCHASED UNDER THE BUYBACK PROGRAMS The Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 authorized the Board of Directors to cancel, up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital, on one or several occasions, at its sole discretion, all or some of the treasury shares held by the Company pursuant to Article L 225209 of the French Commercial Code and to reduce the share capital accordingly. This authorization was used twice in 2014 for a total of 2,255,408 shares: X firstly by the Board of Directors on May 6, 2014: cancellation of 1,253,903 treasury shares bringing the share capital to €1,272,511,320 divided into 159,063,915 shares; X then by the Board of Directors on October 8, 2014: cancellation of 1,001,505 treasury shares bringing the share capital to €1,268,743,592 divided into 158,592,949 shares. Shareholders are asked today to renew for a period of 24 months the authorization granted to the Board of Directors to cancel shares bought back up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital by 24-month period, this share capital amount being adjusted for any transactions performed after the date of the Shareholders Meeting. EIGHTH RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of for any transactions performed after the date of this Combined twenty-four months, to cancel shares bought back by the Shareholders’ Meeting and to reduce the share capital accordingly. Company under the share buyback programs The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting gives full powers to the In accordance with Article L.225-209 of the French Commercial Board of Directors to use the authorization given in this resolution, Code, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance deduct from additional paid-in capital or any distributable reserves with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ the difference between the purchase price of the cancelled shares Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ report and their par value, allocate the portion of the legal reserve that and the Statutory Auditors’ special report, authorizes the Board becomes available as a result of the capital reduction, amend the of Directors to cancel, on one or several occasions at its sole bylaws and carry out all necessary formalities. discretion, all or some of the Company’s shares held by it (the This authorization is granted for a period of twenty-four months Company) pursuant to Article 225-209, provided that the aggregate as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes number of shares cancelled in any given period of 24 months the authorization given in the twentieth resolution adopted by the does not exceed 10% of the Company’s share capital adjusted Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. 246 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting RESOLUTION 9 AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT PERFORMANCE SHARES Desirous to continue its motivation policy and involving Performance share grants in 2014 employees and managers in the development of the Group, The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2013 the Board of Directors is seeking a new authorization to grant authorized the Board of Directors to grant performance shares to further performance shares, existing or to be issued, subject to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French internal and external performance conditions, during the coming and non-French subsidiaries, during a period of 18 months 18 months, with, in the case of shares to be issued, the waiver commencing May 24, 2013 and expiring November 24, 2014. by shareholders of their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor The number of shares granted (existing and to be issued) could of the beneficiaries of the grants, up to a maximum of 1% of the not exceed 1% of the share capital at the date of the Board of share capital. Directors’ decision to grant such shares (this maximum number The detailed performance conditions are presented in the draft of shares being referred to hereafter by the letter “N”). Up to a ninth resolution presented to you for vote. In summary: maximum of 10% of “N”, these performance shares could be granted to the executive corporate officer of the Company, it The external performance condition is assessed based on the being specified that the portion of shares that must be held until comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share compared the end of his term of office is set by the Board of Directors. with a basket containing at least five comparable companies in our business sector from at least five different countries. No By exception, and for an amount not exceeding 15% of “N”, shares vest in respect of the external performance condition if shares could be granted to employees of the Company and its the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than French and non-French subsidiaries – excluding members of the 90% of the average performance of the basket over a three-year General Management Team – “The Executive Committee” without period, while 30% of shares vest if this performance is equal to performance conditions. that of the basket and the maximum 50% of shares vest if this On July 30, 2014, pursuant to this authorization, the Board of performance is 110% or more of that of the basket. Directors decided to grant a total of 1,290,500 performance Compared with the previous authorization granted by shares to 517 managers and employees of the Group, 15 the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013, members of the Executive Committee (excluding Paul Hermelin) implementation of which is reported on below, the Board of and Paul Hermelin. Paul Hermelin is required to hold one third of Directors proposes to extend by one year the assessment period the vested shares until the end of his term of office. The Board of for the external performance condition, increasing it from two to Directors set at four years the minimum holding period for vested three years and thereby responding favorably to the request by shares following the vesting period for beneficiaries tax-resident investors to include internal and external performance conditions in France, unchanged on the previous plan. covering a minimum period of three years. As for the 2012 and 2013 grant plans, the internal performance The internal performance condition is measured by the amount of condition was based on Organic Free Cash Flow over a threeaudited and published organic free cash flow for the three-year year period, reflecting the Board of Directors’ desire to prioritize cumulative period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017, long-term goals in the context of these grants. The external excluding Group payments to make up the shortfall on its defined performance condition was assessed over a minimum period of benefit pension funds. two years. The vesting of the shares in France at the end of a two-year period is followed by a four-year lock-in period, thereby The resolution limits to 10% the maximum number of shares that ensuring the substantial and long-term alignment of the interests may be granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and of beneficiaries of these shares with those of shareholders. the Deputy Chief Executive Officers, if any, it being specified that in this case, the Board of Directors will, in accordance with Free share grants to employees without performance applicable laws, decide the portion of shares that must be held conditions in 2014 by each individual until the end of his/her term of office. On October 8, 2014, pursuant to the same authorization, the The resolution also authorizes the Board of Directors to grant up Board of Directors decided to grant a total of 104,379 shares to 15% of the maximum number of shares to Group employees, other than members of the general management team (the subject only to a condition of presence, to French employees of the Economic and Social Union (Union Économique et Sociale, 6 Executive Committee), without performance conditions. UES) with more than three months seniority at the grant date. In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF This volume represents 6.5% of the amount authorized by the Code, performance share grants will be undertaken at the same Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2013 available calendar periods from now on and will be decided by either for grant without performance conditions, i.e. well below the Board of Directors’ meeting held at the end of July or the the maximum volume of 15% authorized for grant without following meeting. performance conditions. Recap of the use of authorizations previously granted by Shareholders’ Meetings The use by the Board of Directors of previous resolutions for the grant of performance shares is presented in the Group Management Report (“Performance share grants”) and summarized below. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 247 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Vesting of performance shares in 2014 On October 1, 2010, pursuant to the authorization granted by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 30, 2009, the Board of Directors granted 1,555,000 shares subject to performance and presence conditions. These performance shares were granted subject to a two-year vesting period for beneficiaries tax-resident in France and a four-year vesting period for beneficiaries not tax resident in France, which therefore expired on October 1, 2014. The external performance condition was assessed based on the comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share compared with a basket of comparable companies in our business sector from at least five different countries. These companies are as follows: Accenture, Atos, CSC, CGI, Cognizant, Infosys, Sopra, Steria and Tieto. No shares vest in respect of the external performance condition if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than 90% of the average performance of the basket over a two-year period, while 30% of shares vest if this performance is equal to that of the basket and a maximum 50% of shares vest if this performance is 110% or more of that of the basket. The internal performance condition for the 2010 grant focused on the increase in the operating margin between 2010 and 2011, at constant group structure and exchange rates. While the internal performance condition for this plan was satisfied in full, the external performance condition was only partially attained and only enabled the vesting in October 2014 of 530,539 shares to beneficiaries not tax resident in France. Ultimately, a total of 881,048 shares vested to all beneficiaries under the 2010 grant plan out of an initial grant of 1,555,000 shares, i.e. 56.7% of the initial volume granted and 0.57% of the share capital at the grant date. NINTH RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of a) of at least two years, in which case the beneficiary will be eighteen months, to grant performance shares, existing or required to hold the shares for an additional minimum period of to be issued, to employees and corporate officers of the two years from the date on which they vest, or, Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, up to a b) of at least four years, in which case there will be no minimum maximum of 1% of the Company’s share capital (with, in the holding requirement. case of shares to be issued, the waiver by shareholders of The Board of Directors may decide between the above two options their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor of beneficiaries and apply them alternately or concurrently, depending on regulatory of the grants) provisions in force in the country of residence of the beneficiaries. In accordance with Articles L. 225-197-1 and seq. of the French However, the shares will vest before the expiry of the above periods Commercial Code, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting and with no minimum holding period in the event of the death or in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary incapacity of the beneficiary, corresponding to a Category 2 or 3 Shareholders’ Meetings, and after having read the Board of disability in France, as defined in Article L.341-4 of the French Social Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ special report: Security Code (Code de la Sécurité Sociale); 1. authorizes the Board of Directors (with the power of sub4. resolves that the exact number of shares vesting to beneficiaries delegation to the extent authorized by law) – subject to at the end of the Vesting Period, compared with the total number the achievement of the performance conditions defined in of shares (“Initial Allocation”) indicated in the allocation notice sent paragraph 4 of the present resolution and for a number of shares to beneficiaries will be equal to: with a par value of €8 not exceeding 1% of the share capital i) for half, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, multiplied at the date of the decision (this maximum number of shares by the percentage achievement of the chosen external being referred to hereafter by the letter “N”) – to allocate shares performance target, it being specified that: of the Company (existing or to be issued), to employees and X unless the Board of Directors subsequently makes a duly corporate officers of the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries; reasoned decision to the contrary, the performance target to be met in order for the shares to vest will be the performance 2. resolves that up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, these performance of the Cap Gemini share measured over a minimum threeshares may also be allocated, in accordance with applicable laws, year period compared to the average performance, measured to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief over the same period, of a basket containing at least five Executive Officers of the Company, it being specified that in this shares of listed companies operating in the same sector as case, the Board of Directors will, in accordance with applicable the Group in a minimum of five countries in which the Group laws, decide the portion of shares that must be held by each is firmly established (France, the United States, etc.), individual until the end of his/her term of office; 3. resolves that these performance shares will only vest at the end of a vesting period (the “Vesting Period”): 248 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting X this relative performance will be measured by comparing the is at least €1,940 million and will vary on a straight-line basis change in the stock market performance of the Cap Gemini between nil and half of the Initial Allocation for a cumulative share with the change in the average performance of the organic free cash flow between these two limits; it being companies comprising the basket over the same period, understood that organic free cash flow is defined as cash such that: flow from operations less acquisitions (net of disposals) of • the number of shares that will ultimately vest: intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost (as presented in the – will be equal to 50% of the Initial Allocation of shares if the consolidated statement of cash flows), relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is at least equal to 110% of the basket, 5. resolves that by exception, and for an amount not exceeding 15% of “N”, shares may be allocated to employees of the – will vary between 30% and 50% of the Initial Allocation if the Company and its French (within the meaning, particularly, of relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is between Article L.225-197-6, paragraph 1, of the French Commercial 100% and 110% of the average performance of the basket, Code) and foreign subsidiaries, excluding members of the with an additional 2% of shares vesting for each additional general management team (the Executive Committee) without percentage point between these limits, performance conditions; – will be equal to 30% of the Initial Allocation of shares if the 6. notes that this authorization involves the waiver by shareholders relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is equal to of their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor of beneficiaries 100% of the basket, of performance shares if the allocation concerns shares to be – will vary between 20% and 30% of the Initial Allocation if the issued; relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is between 7. gives powers to the Board of Directors to implement this 90% and 100% of the average performance of the basket, authorization (including the power of delegation where with an additional 1% of shares vesting for each additional authorized by law), and in particular to: percentage point between these limits, • set the share allocation date, • no shares will vest in respect of shares subject to this external performance condition, if, over the calculation reference period, • draw up one or more list(s) of beneficiaries and the number of the performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than 90% of shares allocated to each beneficiary, the average performance of the basket of securities measured • determine whether the shares granted for nil consideration are over the same period; existing shares or shares to be issued and, where applicable, ii) for half, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, multiplied amend this choice before the vesting of shares, by the percentage achievement of the chosen internal • decide, in the event that equity transactions are carried out performance target, it being specified that: before the shares vest, whether to adjust the number of shares – unless the Board of Directors subsequently makes a allocated in order to protect the rights of the beneficiaries and, if duly reasoned decision to the contrary, the performance so, define the terms and conditions of such adjustment, target to be met in order for the shares to vest will be the • perform, where the allocations concern shares to be issued, the amount of audited and published organic free cash flow for necessary share capital increases by capitalization of reserves the three-year cumulative period from January 1, 2015 to and/or additional paid-in capital of the Company when the December 31, 2017, excluding Group payments to make up shares ultimately vest, set the dates from which shares bear the shortfall on its defined benefit pension funds, dividend rights, deduct from reserves and/or additional paid– no shares will vest in respect of this half of the Initial in capital of the Company the amounts necessary to bring Allocation subject to this internal performance condition, if the the legal reserve to 10% of the new share capital after each cumulative organic free cash flow for the three fiscal years is increase and amend the bylaws accordingly, less than €1,500 million, – the number of shares that will ultimately vest will be equal • carry out all formalities and, more generally, to do whatever is necessary. 6 to the full amount of this half of the Initial Allocation if the This authorization is granted for a period of eighteen months as cumulative organic free cash flow for the three fiscal years from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 249 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting RESOLUTION 10 AMENDMENT OF THE BYLAWS TO PROVIDE THAT EACH SHARE, EVEN IF HELD IN REGISTERED FORM, RETAINS ENTITLEMENT TO ONE VOTE Article 8, paragraph 1, of the Company’s bylaws provides that each share, in addition to the voting right attached to it, carries the right to a fraction of earnings, and any liquidation surplus, based on the number and par value of outstanding shares. Law No. 2014-384 of March 29, 2014 to liberate the real economy (known as the “Florange” law), partially codified in Article L.225-123 of the French Commercial Code with respect to double voting rights, generalized, in companies whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market, double voting rights for all fully paid-up shares held in registered form for at least two years by the same shareholder and registered shares granted for nil consideration to a shareholder in respect of shares held in registered form for more than two years pursuant to a share capital increase by capitalization of reserves, profits and/or additional paid-in capital, in the absence of a clause to the contrary in the bylaws adopted subsequent to the enactment of this law (i.e. March 29, 2014). The Florange law therefore reverses the principle pursuant to which companies whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market could, on a voluntary basis and without being so required by law, grant by way of the bylaws a double voting right to all shares held in registered form by the same shareholder for more than two years and/or shares granted for nil consideration to a shareholder in respect of shares held in registered form for more than two years pursuant to a share capital increase. Nonetheless, this generalization of double voting rights is limited by the Florange law in the sense that companies whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market may derogate from this rule by adopting in their bylaws, subsequent to the enactment of this law, a clause providing that their shares shall retain entitlement to one vote. After having carefully deliberated, in light of market practice in France and of foreign companies in its sector, the Board of Directors considered, taking account of shareholder concerns, that it was appropriate to exercise this derogation option by providing that Cap Gemini shares would retain entitlement to one vote. Accordingly, we ask you in this resolution to amend Article 8, paragraph 1, of the Company’s bylaws to introduce a provision whereby (i) fully paid-up shares held in registered form for at least two years by the same shareholder and (ii) registered shares granted for nil consideration to a shareholder in respect of shares held in registered form for more than two years pursuant to a share capital increase by capitalization of reserves, profits and/or additional paid-in capital will retain entitlement to one vote. As this resolution concerns an amendment to the bylaws, it is subject to quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. TENTH RESOLUTION Amendment of Article 8, paragraph 1, of the bylaws – Rights Article 8, paragraph 1, of the bylaws is amended as follows: attached to shares – to provide that each share, even if held Former wording of Article 8, paragraph 1: in registered form, retains entitlement to one vote “In addition to the voting right attached to each share in accordance As authorized by Article L.225-123, paragraph 3 of the French with the law, each share carries the right to a fraction of earnings, Commercial Code, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting and any liquidation surplus, based on the number and par value of in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary outstanding shares”. Shareholders’ Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ report, resolves that (i) fully paid-up shares held in New wording of Article 8, paragraph 1: registered form for at least two years by the same shareholder and “Each share carries the right to a fraction of earnings, and any (ii) registered shares granted for nil consideration to a shareholder liquidation surplus, based on the number and par value of in respect of shares held in registered form for more than two years outstanding shares. Each share carries entitlement to one vote, pursuant to a share capital increase by capitalization of reserves, including fully paid-up shares held in registered form for at least profits and/or additional paid-in capital, will retain entitlement to one two years by the same shareholder and registered shares granted vote. for nil consideration to a shareholder in respect of shares held in registered form for more than two years pursuant to a share capital increase by capitalization of reserves, profits and/or additional paidin capital”. The rest of the article remains unchanged. 250 CAPGEMINI2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting RESOLUTION 11 TECHNICAL AMENDMENT OF THE BYLAWS – DISCLOSURE THRESHOLDS Where an individual or corporate shareholder, acting alone or in concert, comes to hold a number of shares crossing certain disclosure thresholds expressed as a percentage of the share capital or voting rights of the Company, this shareholder is subject to a legislative obligation to inform the Company of the increase or decrease in its interest in the share capital of the Company. This legal obligation may be combined with obligations per the bylaws, where the bylaws of the company contain such obligations, as is the case in Article 10 of Cap Gemini’s bylaws. In determining whether the legal investment threshold triggering a disclosure obligation has been crossed, the shareholder subject to a reporting obligation must take into account not only shares and voting rights held directly in the Company, but also those deemed held by “equivalence”, i.e. shares and voting rights held by other persons on behalf of the shareholder, by companies controlled by the shareholder within the meaning of Article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code, by a third party with which the shareholder acts in concert, shares potentially resulting from the settlement of derivative instruments, etc. Such instances of equivalence are listed in Article L.233-9 of the French Commercial Code for legal thresholds and are subject to frequent legislative amendment. Article 10, paragraph 3 of the Company’s bylaws provides a non-comprehensive list for statutory disclosure threshold purposes, of instances of equivalence to shares or voting rights held by a shareholder subject to disclosure threshold obligations. Accordingly, the Board of Directors asks this year, in the interests of consistency and simplification, that you amend Article 10, paragraph 3, of the Company’s bylaws in order to bring these instances of equivalence into line with those provided by law, by introducing a reference to applicable legal provisions. The calculation method for legal thresholds and thresholds per the bylaws will therefore apply without any ambiguity. As this resolution concerns an amendment to the bylaws, it is subject to quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. ELEVENTH RESOLUTION Amendment of Article 10, paragraph 3, of the bylaws – Former wording of Article 10, paragraph 3: Disclosure thresholds – Technical amendment “Disclosure thresholds are assessed taking into account shares The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with held by (i) companies which own over 50% of the disclosing quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, company, either directly or indirectly, (ii) companies which are over and after having read the Board of Directors’ report, notes that the 50%-owned by the disclosing company, either directly or indirectly, purpose of the proposed amendment is solely to bring the wording and (iii) companies which are over 50%-owned either directly or of the bylaws into line with prevailing legal provisions and resolves indirectly by a company which itself directly or indirectly owns over to amend Article 10, paragraph 3, of the bylaws “Disclosure 50% of the disclosing company”. thresholds” in order to align the shares and voting rights deemed New wording of Article 10, paragraph 3: equivalent to shares and voting rights held by shareholders subject to disclosure obligations with legal provisions: “Disclosure thresholds are assessed taking into account shares and voting rights deemed equivalent by law to shares and voting rights held by shareholders subject to disclosure obligations”. The rest of the article remains unchanged. 6 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 251 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting RESOLUTION 12 TECHNICAL AMENDMENT OF THE BYLAWS – SETTING THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS When drafting its Charter, the Board of Directors became aware that in the absence of precision in the Company’s bylaws, the number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers that may be appointed could be restricted to one, thereby limiting the possibility for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (or Chief Executive Officer) to be assisted, if necessary, by several Deputy Chief Executive Officers. Pursuant to Article L.225-53, paragraph 2, of the French Commercial Code, the bylaws may set the maximum number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers, up to a maximum of five. You are therefore asked today to add a new paragraph 5) to Article 15 of the Company’s bylaws, setting the maximum number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers at five, in order to retain maximum flexibility in the bylaws and the Board Charter of your Company, even in the absence at the current time of any plan to appoint one or more Deputy Chief Executive Officers. As this resolution concerns an amendment to the bylaws, it is subject to quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. TWELFTH RESOLUTION Amendment of Article 15 of the bylaws – Basis of the “5) At the recommendation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Company’s General Management – Setting the maximum Officer or the Chief Executive Officer, as appropriate, the Board of number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers – Technical Directors may appoint, from among its members or elsewhere, one amendment or more private individuals tasked with assisting the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Executive Officer, with the title of In accordance with Article L.225-53, paragraph 2, of the French Deputy Chief Executive Officer. Commercial Code, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary The number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers may not exceed five. Shareholders’ Meetings and after having read the Board of The scope and term of powers entrusted to the Deputy Chief Directors’ report in particular as regards the fact that in the Executive Officers shall be determined by the Board of Directors, absence of indication in the bylaws, no more than one Deputy Chief in agreement with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the Executive Officer may be appointed and in order to retain maximum Chief Executive Officer. flexibility in the Company’s bylaws, resolves to set the maximum number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers at five and, accordingly, In dealings with third parties, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer shall adds a new paragraph 5) to Article 15 of the bylaws “Basis of the have the same powers as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Company’s General Management”, as follows: or the Chief Executive Officer.” The rest of the article remains unchanged. 252 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting RESOLUTION 13 TECHNICAL AMENDMENT OF THE BYLAWS – CONDITIONS TO PARTICIPATE AT GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING The thirteenth resolution presented seeks to amend Article 19, paragraph 3, of the Company’s bylaws to bring it into compliance with Decree no. 2014-1466 of December 8, 2014 with regards to the date of registration of persons authorized to attend Shareholders’ Meetings, changing it from an accounting entry for the shares at 12:00 a.m. (Paris time) on the third working day preceding the shareholders’ meeting, to the registration of the shares in the share register at 12:00 a.m. (Paris time) on the second working day preceding the Shareholders’ Meeting. The Board of Directors considered it more appropriate to amend the bylaws to include a reference to the “time period set by applicable laws and regulations” rather than retain a wording detailing the current prevailing text. Accordingly, the new wording would be appropriate in the event of subsequent amendments to the rule. As this resolution concerns an amendment to the bylaws, it is subject to quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION Amendment of Article 19, paragraph 3, of the bylaws – In the case of bearer shares, the authorized intermediary shall General Shareholders’ Meeting – Technical amendment provide a participation certificate.” In accordance with Article R. 225-71 and seq. of the French New wording of Article 19, paragraph 3: Commercial Code, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting “The right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings is evidenced by in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary the registration of the shares in the name of the shareholder (or of Shareholders’ Meetings and after having read the Board of the intermediary acting on his/her behalf if domiciled outside France) Directors’ report, resolves to amend Article 19, paragraph 3, of the in the Company’s share register or in the register of bearer shares bylaws, “General Shareholders’ Meeting”, as follows: held by the applicable authorized intermediary. Such registration Former wording of Article 19, paragraph 3: must be recorded within the time period set by applicable laws and regulations and any related notices must be filed at one of the “The right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings is evidenced by addresses indicated in the notice of meeting. an accounting entry for the shares in the name of the shareholder (or of the intermediary acting on his/her behalf if domiciled outside In the case of bearer shares, the authorized intermediary shall France) in the Company’s share register or in the register of bearer provide a participation certificate.” shares held by the applicable authorized intermediary. Such entries The rest of the article remains unchanged. must be recorded by 12:00 a.m. (Paris time) on the third working day preceding the Meeting and any related notices must be filed at one of the addresses indicated in the notice of meeting. RESOLUTION 14 POWERS TO CARRY OUT FORMALITIES 6 Finally, the Board of Directors proposes that you confer on it the powers necessary to carry out the formalities following this Shareholders’ Meeting. FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, authorizes the bearer of a copy or extract of the minutes of this meeting to execute all filing, publication and other formalities required under French law. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 253 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.3 Statutory Auditors’ reports 6.3 Statutory Auditors’ reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CANCELLATION OF SHARES BOUGHT BACK BY THE COMPANY COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING MAY 6, 2015 – EIGHTH RESOLUTION This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in the French language and is provided solely for English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company and in accordance with Article L.225-209 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the cancellation of shares bought back by the Company, we hereby present our report with our comments on the reasons for and terms of the proposed capital decrease. Shareholders are asked to grant the Board of Directors for a 24-month period commencing the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, full powers to cancel the shares acquired under the Company’s share buyback program pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned article, provided that the aggregate number of shares cancelled in any given 24-month period does not exceed 10% of the Company’s share capital. We performed the procedures we considered necessary with regard to the professional standards of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) applicable to such transactions. These procedures consisted in verifying that the reasons for and terms of the proposed capital decrease, which does not undermine shareholder equality, comply with applicable legal provisions. We have no comments to make on the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed capital reduction. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 17, 2015 Paris La Défense, March 17, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 254 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 6.3 Statutory Auditors’ reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT FREE SHARES (EXISTING OR TO BE ISSUED) TO EMPLOYEES AND CORPORATE OFFICERS COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING MAY 6, 2015 – NINTH RESOLUTION This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in the French language and is provided solely for English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company and in accordance with Article L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby present our report on the authorization to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, as submitted to you for approval. Based on its report, the Board of Directors is asking for authorization, for an 18-month period, to perform free grants of existing shares or shares to be issued. The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a report on this transaction which it wishes to perform. Our role is to express our comments, if any, on the information presented on the proposed transaction. The Board of Directors’ report states that the grant of existing shares or shares to be issued to employees of Cap Gemini S.A. and its French and foreign subsidiaries, will be subject to the achievement of performance targets and a maximum number of shares with a par value of €8 not exceeding 1% of the share capital. It also states that the grant of shares to corporate officers of Cap Gemini S.A. will be limited to 10% of the aforementioned amount. We performed the procedures we considered necessary with regard to the professional standards of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) applicable to such transactions. These procedures primarily consisted in verifying that the proposed terms and conditions presented in the Board of Directors’ report comply with applicable legal provisions. We have no comments to make on the information presented in the Board of Directors’ report on the proposed authorization to grant free shares. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 17, 2015 Paris La Défense, March 17, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. 6 Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 255 256 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 7 Additional Information 7.1 7.2 Legal information 258 Group Management structure 262 7.1.1 Corporate name and head office 258 7.1.2 Legal form and governing law 258 7.1.3 Date of incorporation and term 258 7.3 7.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) 258 7.1.5 Incorporation details 259 7.1.6 Consultation of legal documents 259 Persons responsible 7.1.7 Fiscal year 259 for the information 263 7.1.8 Appropriation and distribution 7.3.1 Person responsible for financial of income 259 information 263 7.1.9 Shareholders’ Meetings 259 7.3.2 Persons responsible for the audit 7.1.10 Disclosure thresholds 260 of the financial statements 263 7.1.11 Shareholder identification 260 7.3.3 Declaration by 7.1.12 Voting rights 260 the person responsible for the Registration Document 265 7.1.13 Changes in shareholder rights 261 7.1.14 Rights, privileges and restrictions relating to shares 261 7.1.15 Provisions of the bylaws or other provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control 261 7.1.16 Provisions of the bylaws governing administrative and management bodies 261 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 257 7 Additional Information 7.1 Legal information 7.1 Legal information 7.1.1 CORPORATE NAME AND HEAD OFFICE Corporate name: Cap Gemini Head office: 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris 7.1.2 LEGAL FORM AND GOVERNING LAW The Company is a société anonyme (joint stock company) governed by the French Companies Act of July 24, 1966 (Law no. 66–537) and Decree no. 67–236 of March 23, 1967. 7.1.3 DATE OF INCORPORATION AND TERM To prepare and facilitate the IPO on the Paris stock exchange of Cap Gemini Sogeti (incorporated in 1967) a new company, Cap Gemini, grouping together all investments representing the operating activities of the Group was incorporated on September 17, 1984. This company was registered with the Companies & Trade Registry on October 4, 1984. The Company was set up for a period of ninety-nine years from the date of its registration with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry. It may be wound up in advance or have its term extended by decision of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. 7.1.4 CORPORATE PURPOSE (ARTICLE 3 OF THE BYLAWS) The Company’s purpose is to assist companies in France INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT and abroad in managing and developing their businesses by The Company designs and installs information systems. Its providing them with the benefit of its knowledge of their industry, services include the development of customized software, the its knowhow in the area of business process engineering and installation of software applications available on the market or re-engineering, and its expertise in the area of information developed internally, the integration of systems incorporating technologies. hardware, communication systems, customized software, To fulfill this purpose, the Company carries out on behalf of clients, software packages and other components. The Company also either directly, or through its subsidiaries or affiliates(1), one or more supports clients’ IT projects by providing consulting, project of the following activities: management, training and assistance services. MANAGEMENT CONSULTING OUTSOURCING Working closely with clients, the Company provides change The Company manages all or part of its clients’ IT resources management assistance to companies by helping them to redefine on their behalf. Where requested by clients, the Company or redirect their strategy, change their product and service lines, may perform all or part of this service using its own hardware, re-engineer their structures and business processes, restore telecommunications systems and other equipment. staff motivation and achieve other changes. To this end, the The Company may also manage the IT-based services offered to Company uses all the possibilities offered by the latest information its clients’ own clientele. In addition, it may work in partnership technologies whenever appropriate. with clients within a structure conducting all or some of these activities. (1) Including Technical Assistance/Local Professional Services under the Sogeti tradename and representing the Group’s fourth business. 258 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Additional Information 7.1 Legal information In order to fulfill its corporate purpose, the Company may decide X invest and manage the Company’s available funds, make cash to: advances, and provide any and all guarantees or collateral on behalf of subsidiaries and affiliates; X create specialist subsidiaries or acquire interests in the capital of other companies and manage their business in exchange for X obtain or acquire and use any and all patents and manufacturing a fee. Management services include the provision of technical, processes and sell, contribute or license any such patents and marketing, legal and financial assistance, promotion of a processes. consistent image, organization of financial structures, assistance In broader terms, the Company’s purpose includes carrying in negotiations to help these companies win new contracts, out any and all commercial, industrial, securities, real estate or training, research and development support, etc.; financial transactions related directly or indirectly to any of the above purposes or any similar or related purpose or which is likely to facilitate the fulfillment or furtherance of these purposes. 7.1.5 INCORPORATION DETAILS The Company is registered with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry (Registre du Commerce et des Sociétés) under number 330 703 844. Its APE business identifier is 7010Z. 7.1.6 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS Documents relating to the Company, including the bylaws, the financial statements, the reports of the Board of Directors (or the Management Board, the Directoire, from May 24, 1996 through May 23, 2000) to the Shareholders’ Meetings, and the Statutory Auditors’ reports are available for consultation at the Company’s head office at 11, rue de Tilsitt – 75017 Paris. 7.1.7 FISCAL YEAR The Company’s fiscal year commences on January 1 and ends on December 31. 7.1.8 APPROPRIATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME The Shareholders’ Meeting has sole discretionary powers to will be paid in the form of new shares credited as fully paid, in decide on the appropriation of distributable income, as defined by compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The above French company law. Consequently, the Shareholders’ Meeting provisions also apply to the distribution of interim dividends, may decide to appropriate all or part of distributable income to subject to compliance with French company law. revenue reserves, special reserves or retained earnings, or to In addition, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute a distribute all or part of the amount to shareholders. dividend out of distributable reserves, subject to compliance with The Shareholders’ Meeting also decides the terms and conditions French company law. of payment of dividends. In particular, shareholders may be offered a stock dividend alternative, in which case the related dividends 7.1.9 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGS Pursuant to Decree no. 2014-1466 of December 8, 2014 Shareholders’ Meeting and any related notices must be filed at 7 applicable to Shareholders’ Meetings convened after January 1, one of the addresses indicated in the notice of meeting. In the 2015, the right to participate at Shareholders’ Meetings is case of bearer shares, the authorized intermediary shall provide a now evidenced by the registration of shares in the name of participation certificate the shareholder (or of the intermediary acting on his/her behalf In the 13th resolution presented to the Combined Shareholders’ if domiciled outside France) in the Company’s share register Meeting of May 6, 2015, the Board of Directors asks shareholders or in the register of bearer shares held by the applicable to amend Article 19, paragraph 3, of the Company’s bylaws to authorized intermediary. Such registration must be recorded at bring it into compliance with this decree. 12:00 a.m. (Paris time) on the second working day preceding the CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 259 7 Additional Information 7.1 Legal information Shareholders may participate in Shareholders’ Meetings in person, teletransmission means enabling their identification, including the by proxy or by casting a remote vote in accordance with the terms internet, in accordance with the conditions set out in applicable and conditions set by applicable regulations. regulations at the time of use. Where an electronic form is submitted, the shareholder’s signature may take the form of a Shareholders who have informed the Company that they wish secure signature or a reliable identification procedure guaranteeing to participate in a Meeting in person, remotely or by proxy may the link with the related action and potentially consisting of a user not alter their method of participation. However, attendance at a identification and password. Where applicable, this decision of Meeting by a shareholder in person shall cancel any votes cast by the Board of Directors shall be communicated in the notice of proxy or remotely. meeting published in BALO (French Journal of Mandatory Legal To be taken into account, remote votes or proxy forms must Announcements). be received by the Company at least three days prior to the Where a shareholder has given proxy to a third party and has date of the Meeting. If the Board of Directors so decides when also voted remotely, if there is any difference in the two votes, the convening the Meeting, shareholders voting by proxy or remotely remote vote will be taken into account and the proxy ignored. may participate in voting using any telecommunication or 7.1.10 DISCLOSURE THRESHOLDS The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 on which the failure to disclose is rectified. This request and the added specific disclosure obligations to the Company’s bylaws. decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting must be recorded in the The bylaws now state that shareholders are required to notify minutes of the Meeting. the Company if their interest in the Company’s share capital In the 11th resolution presented to the Combined Shareholders’ or voting rights is increased to above or reduced to below 1% Meeting of May 6, 2015, the Board of Directors asks shareholders, or any multiple thereof. The crossing of the threshold must be in the interests of consistency and simplification, to amend notified to the Company within fifteen (15) days of the date when Article 10, paragraph 3, of the Company’s bylaws in order to align the shares causing the threshold to be attained or crossed are instances where shares and voting rights held by third parties registered in the shareholder’s account. In the event of failure to are deemed equivalent to shares and voting rights held by the comply with these disclosure rules, at the request of one or several shareholder subject to disclosure requirements for the purposes shareholders with combined holdings representing at least 1% of share capital thresholds per the bylaws, with those provided of the Company’s share capital or voting rights, the undisclosed by law, by introducing a reference to applicable legal provisions. shares will be stripped of voting rights. This sanction will apply for all Shareholders’ Meetings for a period of two years from the date The calculation method for legal thresholds and thresholds per the bylaws will therefore apply without any ambiguity. 7.1.11 SHAREHOLDER IDENTIFICATION The Company is authorized to obtain details of identifiable holders an individual or the name, address and date of registration for a of bearer shares. company, of any holders of shares and securities granting access, immediately or in the future, to shares carrying voting rights at The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 added Shareholders’ Meetings. The Company may also obtain details of a new Article to the Company’s bylaws according to which the how many shares are held by each shareholder and any applicable Company may request from the share transaction clearing restrictions on these shares. organization, the name, address, nationality and year of birth for 7.1.12 VOTING RIGHTS Shares carry voting rights based on the proportion of capital admitted to trading on a regulated market, double voting rights represented. All shares have the same par value and they therefore for all fully paid-up shares held in registered form for at least two all carry one vote per share. years by the same shareholder, in the absence of a clause to the contrary in the bylaws adopted subsequent to the enactment of No shares carry double voting rights. this law (i.e. March 29, 2014). Each share carries entitlement to one vote irrespective of whether In the 10th resolution presented to the Combined Shareholders’ the share is held in registered or bearer form. Meeting of May 6, 2015, the Board of Directors proposes to Law No. 2014-384 of March 29, 2014 to liberate the real exercise this derogation option and therefore to amend Article 8, economy (known as the “Florange” law), partially codified in paragraph 1 of the bylaws to provide that each Cap Gemini share Article L.225-123 of the French Commercial Code with respect to would retain entitlement to one vote. double voting rights, generalized, in companies whose shares are 260 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Additional Information 7.1 Legal information 7.1.13 CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS Changes in the share capital or the rights attached to shares are subject to compliance with French company law alone, as the bylaws do not contain any specific provisions in this respect. 7.1.14 RIGHTS, PRIVILEGES AND RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO SHARES In addition to the voting right conferred by law, each share confers entitlement to a portion of the profits and any liquidation surplus, in direct proportion to the number and par value of outstanding shares. No preferential rights are attached to any specific class of shares or category of shareholder. 7.1.15 PROVISIONS OF THE BYLAWS OR OTHER PROVISIONS THAT COULD DELAY, DEFER OR PREVENT A CHANGE IN CONTROL Not applicable. 7.1.16 PROVISIONS OF THE BYLAWS GOVERNING ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES Appointment of directors and duration of terms of In both cases, the term of office expires at the end of the first office Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following the Chairman’s birthday. The Company has a Board of Directors comprised of a minimum Where the functions of Chairman and those of Chief Executive of three and a maximum of eighteen members, who must be Officer are separated, the functions of Chief Executive Officer individuals. Directors are appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting for expire the day of the first Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following a period of four years. his/her seventieth birthday. In addition, a director representing employee shareholders is also Minimum investment of directors in the share appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting for a period of four years capital of the Company when, at the end of a fiscal year, the percentage of share capital Pursuant to Article 11.2) of the bylaws, each director must hold held by employees of the Company and companies related to it at least one thousand (1,000) shares in the Company throughout within the meaning of Article L.225-180 of the French Commercial their term of office. Code, represents over 3% of the Company‘s share capital. The director representing employee shareholders is elected by Majority rules within the Board of Directors Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting from a choice of two candidates Decision are taken in accordance with quorum and majority rules nominated in accordance with the provisions of the law and the provided by law, except for the decision regarding the two possible bylaws. This director is not taken into account in determining the methods for the Company’s General Management. Where voting maximum number of directors pursuant to Article L.225-17 of the is tied, the Chairman of the Company has the casting vote. French Commercial Code. General Management Age limit for directors The General Management of the Company is assumed by either Pursuant to Article 11.4) of the bylaws, the number of the Chairman of the Board of Directors (who therefore holds directors over seventy-five (75) years of age at the end of each the title of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer), or by another Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the company financial individual appointed by the Board of Directors, who holds the statements, may not exceed one-third (rounded up to the nearest title of Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors chooses whole number where appropriate) of the total number of directors between these two possible methods for the Company’s General Management, voting with a two-thirds majority of all directors. in office. Age limit for the Chairman of the Board of On April 4, 2012, at the recommendation of the Chairman at the 7 Directors time, Serge Kampf, the Board of Directors decided to reunite the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and appointed The age limit for the exercise of the duties of Chairman of the the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Hermelin, to the position of Board of Directors is as follow: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (for further details please X seventy (70) years of age when he/she also holds the position of refer to Chapter 2 of this Registration Document). Chief Executive Officer; and Internal Rules of Operations and Board Special X seventy-nine (79) years of age when he/she does not hold the Committees position of Chief Executive Officer. Please refer to Chapter 2 of this Registration Document. CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 261 7 Additional Information 7.2 Group Management structure 7.2 Group Management structure The Group management structure comprises: ■ a Group Management Board (GMB) with 6 members: Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Aiman Ezzat Finance Hubert Giraud Human Resources Patrick Nicolet Infrastructure Services/Operating Control Latin America Salil Parekh Application Services One/Operating Control Sogeti Olivier Sevillia Application Services Two/Operating Control Capgemini Consulting, Prosodie and BPO ■ an Executive Committee comprising the GMB and 12 additional members: John Brahim “Big Data” Pierre-Yves Cros Development Lanny Cohen Technologies Philippe Grangeon Marketing and Communications Cyril Garcia Consulting André Cichowlas Production/Methods and Support Aruna Jayanthi India and Large Accounts Sweden Jean-Baptiste Massignon Corporate Secretarial Services Paul Nannetti Global Sales and Portfolio Luc-François Salvador Asia-Pacific Chris Stancombe Business Process Outsourcing Hans Van Waayenburg Local Professional Services (Sogeti) ■ and Group directors reporting directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Christophe Bonnard Large Accounts – France Navin Goel * Large Accounts – USA Philippe Christelle Internal Audit Christine Hodgson Large Accounts – United Kingdom Michael Schulte Large Accounts – Germany * Navin Goel has been appointed on January 29, 2015 and as such is not included in the information presented in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014. 262 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Additional Information 7.3 Persons responsible for the information 7.3 Persons responsible for the information 7.3.1 PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION Aiman EZZAT Chief Financial Officer 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 PARIS Tél.: 01 47 54 50 00 7.3.2 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL STATUTORY AUDITORS SUBSTITUTE STATUTORY AUDITORS PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mr. Jean-Christophe GEORGHIOU Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex, Comptes de Versailles. Substitute for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex, appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. represented by Mrs. Françoise Garnier Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. 1996. KPMG Audit I.S. SAS Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ 3, cours du Triangle, Immeuble Le Palatin, 92939 Paris La Défense Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. Cedex KPMG S.A. Substitute for KPMG S.A., Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. Comptes de Versailles. Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Immeuble le Palatin, 3, cours du Triangle, 92939 Paris La Défense Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. Cedex, represented by Mr. Frédéric Quélin First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002. Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. 7 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 263 7 Additional Information 7.3 Persons responsible for the information FEES PAID BY THE GROUP TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS KPMG PwC Amount % Amount % in thousands of euros (excluding VAT) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Audit Statutory audit, certification of the consolidated and separate financial statements 2,870 2,985 58% 69% 2,470 2,548 75% 57% ■ Issuer 455 407 9% 9% 518 425 16% 10% ■ Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 2,415 2,578 49% 60% 1,952 2,123 59% 47% Other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement (1) 425 428 9% 10% 39 561 1% 12% ■ Issuer 42 295 1% 7% 1 416 0% 9% ■ Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 383 133 8% 3% 38 145 1% 3% Sub-total 3,295 3,413 67% 79% 2,509 3,109 76% 69% Other services Legal, tax and employee-related advisory services 145 123 3% 3% 102 17 3% 0% (2) Other 1,486 760 30% 18% 677 1,392 21% 31% Sub-total 1,631 883 33% 21% 779 1,409 24% 31% TOTAL 4,926 4,296 100% 100% 3,288 4,518 100% 100% (1) Fees presented in other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement mainly consist of due diligence procedures performed in respect of acquisitions and financial transactions. (2) The majority of these fees concern assignments performed at the request of our customers pursuant to the standard ISAE 34-02 and concern the audit of applications and/or processes outsourced to the Group. 264 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Additional Information 7.3 Persons responsible for the information 7.3.3 DECLARATION BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT “I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information contained in the Registration Document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements for 2014 have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, and that the information provided in the Management Report listed in chapter 8, section 8.3 gives a fair description of the material events, results and financial position of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company may be confronted. The statutory auditors issued a report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 presented in this document. This report is presented on page 194 and contains an observation not qualifying the audit opinion on the change in presentation of the consolidated income statement tied to a change in the classification of charges to amortization of intangibles assets recognized in business combination in other operating income and expenses. I obtained a statement from the Statutory Auditors at the end of their engagement affirming that they have read the whole of the Registration Document and examined the information in respect of the financial position and the historical accounts contained therein. The statement from the Statutory Auditors is not qualified and does not contain any observations”. Paris, April 1, 2015 Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 7 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 265 266 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 8 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.1 8.3 Information required under Cross-reference table Commission Regulation (EC) for the Management Report no.809/2004 268 required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial Code 270 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table 269 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 267 8 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 Page 1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 263 to 265 2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 2 and 263 3 SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3 4 RISK FACTORS 25, 26 to 31, 161, 172, 179 to 181 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER History and development of the Company 6 and 7 Legal information concerning the company 258 to 261 Investments 25 and 162 to 167 6 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Principal activities 8 to 12 and 17 to 24 Principal markets 15 to 16 and 145 to 148 The IT services market and competition 15 to 16 7 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Brief description of the group and position of the issuer 13 to 14 List of significant subsidiaries 191 to 193 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 13 9 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 130 to 135 and 195 to 196 10 CAPITAL RESOURCES Information concerning the issuer’s capital resources 196,154 to 161 and 224 to 228 Explanation of the sources and amounts of, and a description of, the issuer’s cash flows 139 and 178 to 179 Borrowing requirements and funding structure and information regarding any restrictions on the use of capital resources 173 to 177 and 189 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES N/A 12 TREND INFORMATION 135 13 PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES 135 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 2, 35 to 57 and 261 to 262 15 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 52, 58 to 69 and 190 16 BOARD PRACTICES 35 to 37 and 44 to 52 17 EMPLOYEES Number of employees 87 to 90, 132 and 188 67 to 69, 154 to 161, 204 to 202, 207 Employee shareholdings and stock options and 226 to 228 18 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 229 and 234 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 13, 53 and 190 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES Historical financial information 1 and 3 Financial statements 136 to 194 and 197 to 217 Auditing of historical annual financial information 194, 217 and 265 Dividend policy 196, 232 and 259 Legal proceedings and arbitration 29 and 186 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share capital 196 and 224 to 226 Memorandum and articles of association 258 to 261 22 MATERIAL CONTRACTS 18 to 19 and 132 to 134 23 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND STATEMENT BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST N/A 24 DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 258 to 261 25 INFORMATION ON SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS 222 N/A: not applicable 268 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table Page 1 Company financial statements 197 to 216 2 Consolidated financial statements 136 to 190 3 Management Report presented by the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini 270 to 271 4 Declaration by the person responsible for the annual financial report 265 5 Statutory auditors’ report on the Company financial statements 217 6 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 194 7 Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 218 8 Statutory auditors’ fees 216 and 264 9 35 to 39, 44 to 53, Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on corporate governance, internal control and risk management 54 to 56 and 70 to 78 10 Statutory Auditors’ report on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors 79 to 80 8 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 269 8 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial Code Page Situation and activity of the Group in 2013 Comments on the fiscal year Analysis of changes in the business, results and the financial position of the Company and the Group 130 to 135 and 195 to 196 Major events between the year end and the date of preparation of the management report 190 and 216 Developments and outlook for the future 135 Research and development N/A Company financial statements Balance sheet and Income Statement 197 to 199 Expenses and charges stipulated in Article 223 quater of the French General Tax Code N/A Supplier settlement periods 196 Acquisitions of investments or controlling interests during the fiscal year in companies whose registered office is located in France 196 Five-year financial summary 221 Subsidiaries and investments 222 Main risk factors Risks related to operations 26 to 28 Legal risks 28 to 29 Equity risk 29 Credit and counterparty risk 29 Liquidity risk 29 Financial and market risk 30 Risks associated with employee-related liabilities 30 Insurance 30 to 31 Governance Organization of group management activities 35 to 36 List of offices and duties exercised in companies by corporate officers during the last fiscal year 40 to 43 Compensation and benefits paid to corporate officers during the last fiscal year 52 and 58 to 69 Commitments given in favor of executive corporate officers 58 to 69 Options and performance shares granted to executive corporate officers 59 to 60, 63 and 67 to 69 2013 compensation of Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 58 to 64 Summary of transactions carried out in 2013 by members of the Board of Directors and other senior managers involving Cap Gemini shares 56 to 57 Corporate social responsibility Information on employees and the social impact of Cap Gemini activities 87 to 107 Key environmental and social indicators 108 to 122 N/A: not applicable CAPGEMINI 270 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report Page Information on the share capital Changes in the ownership of share capital and voting rights during the last three fiscal years 196, 229 and 234 Ownership structure and changes during the fiscal year 224 Employee shareholding 226 to 228 Crossing of legal thresholds reported to the Company 196 Shareholder agreements concerning the share capital of the Company 234 Buyback by the Company of its own shares 235 Information on share subscription options granted to executive corporate officers and employees 60 to 69 and 226 to 228 Information on free share grants to executive corporate officers and employees 60 to 69 and 226 to 228 Summary schedule of current delegations of authority to increase the share capital and use of these delegations during the fiscal year 225 to 226 Dividends and other revenue distributed during the last three fiscal years 196, 232 and 259 Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, internal 35 to 39, 44 to 53, 54 Control and risk management. to 56 and 70 to 78 8 CAPGEMINI 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 271 CAPGEMINI 272 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT www.capgemini.com
