DOING BUSINESS BETTER Responsible Business Report 2014 CONTENTS THINK PLANET THINK PEOPLE 25% 30% Message from the President & CEO....................... 1 About Rezidor....................................................................2 Highlights 2014..................................................................3 Materiality and Stakeholders.....................................4 Organisation and Governance..................................8 ENERGY SAVINGS WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP Pillar 1 – Think Planet......................................................9 IN 5 YEARS POSITIONS BY 2016 Pillar 2 – Think People...............................................20 Pillar 3 – Think Together...........................................30 THINK TOGETHER 780,000€ Summary of Progress..................................................36 Appendices: 254 Eco-Labelled Hotels..........................................38 GRI Standard Disclosures Table............................40 Global Compact Compliance.................................. 42 RAISED FOR CHARITY Responsible Business Timeline............................. 43 SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES OF THIS REPORT CONTACT The Rezidor 2014 Responsible Business Report describes the most releIf you have any comments, queries or questions, vant corporate responsibility and sustainability aspects of our operaplease contact: tions, not the full range of our actions and data. The information in this report refers to the year 2014 unless otherwise stated. Unless otherwise Inge Huijbrechts, Vice President Responsible Business indicated, achievements mentioned in this report cover all hotels which inge.huijbrechts@carlsonrezidor.com are managed, leased or franchised by the Rezidor Hotel Group. This includes 340 properties which were in operation on 31 December 2014. Christiane Reiter, Senior Director ­Corporate Communication For new hotels that were opened in 2014 or hotels that discontinued christiane.reiter@carlsonrezidor.com operations during the year, data is only reported for the months they were in operation. Rezidor has limited the reporting boundaries to areas in which the company has full control over data collection and informaThe Rezidor Hotel Group ­– Corporate Support Office tion quality. Downstream impacts are generally excluded as we do not Avenue du Bourget 44 currently have reliable tools to measure their effect. Financial data preB-1130 Brussels sented in our Responsible Business Report is derived from audited Belgium annual accounts. For all external reporting, currencies have been conTel: +32 2 702 9000 verted to Euros (€). Our financial reporting accounting principles and Fax: +32 2 702 9300 currency conversion rates are stated in Rezidor’s 2014 Annual Report. The Responsible Business Report has not been independently reviewed by auditors or any other third party. I REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT & CEO DOING BUSINESS BETTER Thank you for your interest in Rezidor and our Responsible Business Programme! At Rezidor, Responsible Business means all hotels within five years. Think Planet taking both a current and long-term view savings reached 11% in 2014, and this has of our business, and integrating economic, helped us to significantly reduce utility environmental and social considerations costs for heating, light and power. into our decision making. We are now extending our engagement Due to our Scandinavian roots, by strongly focusing on water. Water 2014 – the first hotel in the world where Responsible Business has a long tradition scarcity will become a bigger challenge 30% of all staff members are deaf. at Rezidor. It is a core element of our than climate change, and we want to take Whether they are newcomers or long­philosophy and an essential part of our responsibility for this precious resource. time Rezidorians, we care for the 40,000 vision: to be recognised as the most Our goal is to build on our successful hoteliers in our network. In 2014 we responsible organisation – caring for our water saving programmes of the past launched the ambitious Women in Lead­ planet and acting in a sustainable way. few years – we have reduced our ership project with the target to have 30% Responsible Business is also fully embedwater consumption by 27% since 2007. of our senior leadership positions occuded in our 4D Strategy which is based on In 2014 we started our Water Steward-­ pied by women by 2016. We also rolled four pillars: Develop Talent, Delight Guests, ship journey by signing the UN CEO out ‘Our Promise’ – Rezidor’s first Drive the Business, and Deliver Results. Water Mandate. Rezidor was the first Employee Value Proposition created The three core areas of our Responsiinternational hospitality company to join ‘by our people for our people’. ble Business Programme are perfectly this network. Our Responsible Business commitment aligned with our 4D Strategy: Rezidor’s growth success story would would not be complete without the • Think Planet – minimising our environnot be complete without Responsible engagement of the local communities in mental footprint Business. We concentrate on emerging which we operate. In 2014 we surpassed • Think People – taking care of the health markets like Africa and Russia/CIS. In these our previous record and raised 780,000 € and safety of guests and employees regions we take responsibility through for charity through 700 fundraising and • Think Together – respecting social and sustainable development and construction volunteering activities. I was personally ethical issues in the company and the projects, and through the creation of able to contribute through an exciting communities in which we operate. thousands of jobs and training positions fundraising climb of Mount Kilimanjaro in for our local newcomers. We focus on February last year. In 2014 we continued our energy saving inclusive business for local underpriviI hope you can sense the Yes I Can! Think Planet initiative, an engaging and leged youth with programmes such as ­passion for Responsible Business which is ambitious group-wide Responsible the Youth Career Initiative. Rezidor is also shared by our entire team. Enjoy reading ­Business project which aims to reduce very proud to have opened the Park Inn more about our 2014 Responsible Business our energy consumption by 25% across by Radisson Newlands, Cape Town in results and our plans for 2015 and beyond. “Responsible Business is in Rezidor’s DNA: we care for our people and our planet and are one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies.” Wolfgang M. Neumann President & CEO REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 1 ABOUT REZIDOR ABOUT REZIDOR The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the most dynamic hotel operators in the world with a presence in 73 countries. The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the in Europe, the Middle East and Africa The Corporate Support Office of The most dynamic hotel companies world(EMEA), along with the Club Carlson loyRezidor Hotel Group is based in Bruswide and a member of the Carlson alty programme for frequent hotel guests. sels, Belgium. ­Rezidor Hotel Group. The Group features In early 2014 and together with Carlson, Our Responsible Business programme a portfolio of 432 hotels in operation and Rezidor has launched the new brands is implemented in all managed and under development with 95,609 rooms Radisson Red (lifestyle select) and leased hotels and corporate offices in 73 countries. Quorvus Collection (luxury). and strongly encouraged in franchised By the end of 2014, the Group operIn November 2006, Rezidor was listed properties. ated 340 hotels with approximately on Nasdaq Stockholm, Sweden. ­Carlson, 76,600 rooms in 60 countries. a privately held global hospitality and Rezidor operates the core brands travel company, based in Minneapolis Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson (USA), is the majority shareholder. 432 HOTELS 95,609 ROOMS 73 COUNTRIES 40,000 HOTELIERS 2 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 2014 was marked by many successes in the three pillars of our Responsible Business programme: Think Planet – Minimising our Environmental Footprint • Think Planet energy savings reach 11% • Rezidor signs the UN CEO Water Mandate • The proportion of eco-labelled hotels in the Group reaches 75% (254 hotels) • Meetings Minus Carbon offsets 23,000 tons of carbon in Carlson Rezidor Hotels worldwide Think People – Health and Safety of Guests and Employees • Employee satisfaction increases further to 87.5% • Women in Leadership project launched • Rezidor proposes its Value Proposition for employees, called ‘Our Promise’ • Partnering with Safehotels Alliance for approval of self-assessments and certification of key properties Think Together – Business Ethics and Community Engagement • Rezidor is one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for 5 years in a row • 780,000 € raised for Charity • 700 activities and 10,000 volunteers during September’s RB Action Month • #Blu Routes by Radisson Blu inspires our guests with local running and cycling tracks Responsible Business performance indicators: Indicator 2014 2013 2012 Energy/m (kWh) * 2 256 281 284 Energy/occupied room (kWh) * 85 91 92 Water/guest-night (liters) * 335 340 343 Waste to landfill/guest-night (kg) * 1.26 1.96 1.84 Carbon Footprint per guest-night (kg CO2e) 21.4 22.8 22.1 Climate Analysis Employee Satisfaction 87.5 87 86.5 Safety Security Self-Assessment* 90.5 87 96.1 * Rezidor managed and leased hotels REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 3 MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Rezidor has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2009, and became the first hotel company to sign the UN CEO Water Mandate in 2014. Our Responsible Business policies, stratthe decisions that stakeholders make in Hospitality caters for guests from a egy and activities are in line with the ten relation to Rezidor. wide number of source countries. The principles of the UN Global Compact and BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, China and going forward will incorporate the elements Significant Impact of Tourism India) account for most of our guests. An of Water Stewardship as expressed in the According to the World Travel & Tourism industry of this size has a considerable UN CEO Water Mandate. Council (WTTC), Travel & Tourism is growimpact on social, economic and environStriving to be a successful, sustainable ing faster than any other sector. The secmental conditions around the world. business requires a dedicated appreciator already accounts for 9% of global GDP We have identified three critical global tion of the environment in which we operand 266 million jobs. Over the next ten impacts and trends that affect our busiate. Our most significant impacts are years Travel & Tourism’s global impact on ness and value chain: climate change, listed here and are important both for our GDP is set to rise by 4% per annum. In water and employment. long-term success as a company and 2014, international tourist arrivals reached also for our stakeholders, as they affect 1.1 billion travellers. 4 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Climate Change The United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) has forecast that if the tourism industry continues to operate in the way it does today, energy use and emissions will double by 2050. Buildings are already responsible for 30% of global energy consumption, yet most are very inefficient. Energy savings of between 20 and 30% could be achieved if commercial buildings were designed to be more energy efficient. The tourism sector also faces risks from the consequences of climate change. The risks are mainly linked to hotel locations, an increase in severe weather patterns, and to increasing legislative pressures and taxation on carbon emissions. Rezidor believes this gives us a clear responsibility to take serious action on climate change. We achieve this by setting ambitious energy saving targets, by investing in green technology and by adhering to the UN Global Compact and Caring for Climate initiative. We also want to offer innovative solutions to our customers and involve guests in lowering the overall climate impact of travel. industry by signing the UN CEO Water employment crisis: young people are Water Mandate and taking a wider engagement three times more likely to be unemployed Water is considered one of the biggest on Water Stewardship. than adults, and almost 73 million youth issues of the 21st century. Water use has Stewardship helps companies identify worldwide are looking for work. Extendbeen growing at more than twice the rate and manage water-related business risks ing local training and employment opporof population increase in the last century. and allows them to contribute to and help tunities to disadvantaged groups in sociTourism, and in particular hotels have a enable more sustainable management of ety, in particular unemployed youth, is high water consumption and an important shared freshwater resources. part of our Responsible Business proimpact on local water availability, espegramme through programmes like the cially in water-stressed areas. A Global Employer in Youth Career Initiative. UNEP estimates that water use in tourism Local Communities The wide array of countries in which we will increase by a factor 2.5 by 2050. With Workforces are increasingly global. operate and the diverse backgrounds of the existing climate change scenario, The hospitality industry in general, and our employees means that we must comply almost half the world’s population will be Rezidor in particular, employ people with local laws, ensure non-discrimination, living in areas of high water stress by 2030. from very diverse ethnic and cultural and make sure our staff operate to the highSince many years Rezidor has recognised backgrounds. With hotels in 73 countries est ethical principles wherever they are the urgent need to continuously reduce across EMEA, Rezidor’s staff represent located. water consumption in our operations. 143 different nationalities. At Rezidor we believe diversity is an We integrate the latest water-saving techWe employ most of our staff locally. asset. We can learn from each other as a nologies in our new-build hotels and Local employment, on-the-job training company and as individuals, develop talduring major renovations. and people development are an importent worldwide, and progress further as a In 2014 and in line with our vision, ant aspect of the way we do business. global workforce. ­Rezidor took the lead in the hospitality The world is facing a worsening youth REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 5 MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder Engagement and first step, a survey to over 200 internal Responsible Business Policy and external stakeholders to identify the RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS APPROACH Rezidor has identified eight Responsible most relevant social and environmental Since we created our Responsible ­Business Business stakeholder groups. We maintain issues, revealed water consumption and programme in 2001, Rezidor has focused its activities on three pillars: clear commitments to each group as labour standards to be the most material. expressed in our Responsible Business These topics were chosen for the Think Planet: policy on www.rezidor.com. Through Stakeholder Dialogue Day, an industry Minimising our impact on our daily operations and dedicated first, held in November 2014 and bringing the environment. exchanges with each stakeholder group, together some of the world’s largest hotel we continuously listen to their expectacompanies and not-for-profit organisaThink People: Taking care of the health tions for the present and the future. tions and specialists. and safety of guests and In 2014 the hotel industry, represented As an active member of ITP, Rezidor employees. by the International Tourism Partnership was one of the steering group members (ITP), initiated a stakeholder dialogue for the organisation of the Stakeholder Think Together: ­process to help inform our sustainability Dialogue. Results of the Dialogue will furBusiness Ethics and plans for the future and to identify new ther influence our Responsible Business ­Community Engagement. solutions for member companies. The programme in the future. Stakeholder Responsible Business Policy Employees We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical and social issues in their work and private lives. Customers We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in Responsible Business activities at our hotels. Property Owners We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, environmental and social ­objectives. Shareholders We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate and transparent information on Responsible Business ­p­erformance, related risks and opportunities. Suppliers We strive to purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their lifecycle, from s­ uppliers that ­demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Authorities We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding labour laws, health and safety, human rights and the environment. Community We take an active role in the international Responsible Business community, and contribute to the local communities where we operate. Environment We do our utmost to continuously improve our performance in the areas of energy and water use, chemical and resource ­consumption, and waste generation. Our goal is to reduce our impact on the environment and minimise our carbon footprint. 6 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Memberships and awards Hotel awards Together with Carlson, we are joint members • UN CEO Water Mandate In 2014 Rezidor hotels were awarded of the following organisations: with numerous local awards: • International Tourism • Best Employer in Hospitality in the UK. Partnership (ITP) The CEO Water Mandate seeks to mobilise Caterer.com, an industry leading webITP brings together the a critical mass of business leaders to site, has recognised Rezidor as the world’s leading internaadvance corporate Water Stewardship, in ­Best Employer in Hospitality in the tional hotel companies to provide a voice partnership with the United Nations, civil UK for the second time in three years. for environmental and social responsibility society organisations, governments and in the industry. Rezidor was one of the • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel Ostrava other stakeholders. As the first hospitality founding members of ITP in 2004. Together was awarded as the Czech Republic‘s company, the Rezidor Hotel Group with Carlson we continue to play a leading TOP Responsible Hotel and announced its involvement with the UN role in the hospitality industry’s forum on ­Restaurant 2014. CEO Water Mandate and to be part of the Responsible Business. group’s 115 members. Through the UN CEO • Top Job Employer 2014 in Germany: Water Mandate organisations engage to • World Travel & Tourism Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin and work on six areas of Water Stewardship: Council (WTTC) ­Radisson Blu Hotel, won Top Job Price Direct Operations, Supply Chain, Collective An international organias best employer in hospitality in Action, Public Policy, Community Engagesation of travel industry ­Germany and 2nd price as best ment and Transparency. executives which promotes employer overall. global travel and tourism. • UN Women’s Empowerment Principles • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa Galway Rezidor signed the UN • Signatory to the Code of Conduct for the named in top 5 Greenest Hotels in Women’s Empowerment Protection of Children from Sexual ­Ireland by Green Hospitality. Principles, a set of princiExploitation in Travel ples for business offering • Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel wins and Tourism guidance on how to ­Georgian Green Business Award by The Code started as a empower women in the the Ministry of Natural Recourses and project of ECPAT (End workplace, marketplace ­Environment Protection on Earth Day, Child Prostitution, Child and community. They are the result of a colApril 22. Pornography and Traflaboration between the United Nations ficking of Children for Entity for ­Gender Equality and the EmpowSexual Purposes) and is supported by the erment of Women (UN Women) and the UNWTO and UNICEF. Carlson was the first United Global Compact. hospitality company to sign the Code in 2004. Together, we adhere to the Code’s • OMX GES Sustainability Index principles in all our hotels. Rezidor is listed on OMX GES • UN Global Compact Sustainability Index. ­signatory since 2009 The principles and require• Ethisphere Award ments of the Global ComRezidor was pact inform our Responsinamed for the ble Business targets and 5th consecuactions. The Compact is the world’s largest tive year as voluntary corporate responsibility initiative, one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. with over 10,000 businesses and other The World’s Most Ethical Companies desigstakeholders from 140 countries. The UN nation recognises companies that truly go Global Compact requires companies to beyond making statements about doing embrace, support and enact a set of ten business ethically and translate those core principles relating to human rights, words into action. WME honourees not only promote ethical business standards and labour principles, the environment and practices internally, they exceed legal anti-corruption. ­compliance minimums and shape future industry standards by introducing best ­practices today. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 7 ORGANISATION AND GOVERNANCE Radisson Blu, Maputo, Mozambique ORGANISATION AND GOVERNANCE Rezidor’s Responsible Business policy is embedded at all levels of the organisation. We combine both a top-down and bottom-up approach to ensure maximum engagement in operations and the greatest impact for the Group as a whole. Corporate CEO and Executive Committee Responsible Business reports to the Chief Operating Officer of Rezidor. The Executive ­Committee is frequently updated on strategies, plans and progress. Support Office Responsible Business ­Department Sets the Responsible Business strategy and follow-up, and ensures cross-departmental ­c­­ooperation. The team works very closely with the Area Support Office teams. Regions Regional Responsible Business ­Coordinators There are a total of 23 Regional Responsible Business Coordinators who set regional targets in line with the Group strategy. They also follow-up on progress. Area Vice Presidents are closely involved. Hotels Responsible Business ­Coordinators Each hotel has a Responsible Business Coordinator and Responsible Business team. The Responsible Business Coordinator and the team jointly define the Responsible Business action plans in line with both regional and Group priorities. 8 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PLANET TOGETHER FOR A GREENER FUTURE Engage 25% energy savings in 5 years in Water Steward23,000 tons ship of carbon offset REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 9 THINK PLANET THINK PLANET As a sustainability pioneer, Rezidor launched the hotel industry’s first environmental policy in 1989. That was followed in 2001 with the first comprehensive Responsible Business programme. Both initiatives clearly stated the Rezidor Group’s pledge to minimise the environmental footprint of its operations. ENERGY 2014 Results Energy Top Performers One of the key ways we can achieve this In 2014 Rezidor hotels achieved a 11,4% Rezidor focuses on integrated energy goal is by reducing our use of energy. reduction in kWh/m2 and 11% in kWh/OR projects with leading providers such as In the period from 2007 to 2011, Rezidor compared to 2011. Siemens and Johnson Controls. Leased hotels reduced their energy consumption The strongest Think Planet area is hotels which take advantage of these (kWh/m2) by 7.8%. Western Europe and North West Africa. investment projects significantly outperIn 2012, Rezidor launched Think Planet, Properties in this region have achieved form the Group. Together they have an ambitious energy saving initiative. a 23.5% reduction in kWh/m2 and 16.4% reduced their energy consumption by Think Planet is designed to help us in kWh/OR. The UK and Ireland, Nordics 21% in kWh/m2. reduce energy consumption by 25% and Central-Europe regions have all before the end of 2016. reduced energy consumption per occuMany of our hotels have already intropied room by 15% or more. THINK PLANET ENERGY duced progressive, environmentally The excellent performance in these Think Planet Energy is based on friendly measures which reduce energy areas is counterbalanced by the weaker four pillars: use. Think Planet helps us to spread performance of Eastern Europe includ1. T  hink Planet habits: Ensuring employthese initiatives into all of our hotels. ing Russia and CIS and the Middle East ees develop good energy use habits Think Planet also enables us to prioritise and Sub Saharan Africa region. In these such as switching off appliances and the implementation of energy saving investunderperforming areas, average energy lights when not in use. Good habits are ments which have the biggest impact. consumption is high, attitudes to saving promoted through back-of-house postLike all energy users, Rezidor hotels energy are less embedded, and ers, training videos, and special promotions such as a quiz. are faced with significant increases in energy-saving investments are slower to materialise. 2. Think Planet tools: Easy to implement energy costs and government carbon energy saving tools which provide a taxation. Therefore, Think Planet is not Rezidor’s strong growth in Russia, the quick return on investment. just good for the planet, it’s also good Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa 3. Think Planet investments: Testing business. Thanks to Think Planet, since 2011, and our planned future innovative energy saving technologies ­Rezidor has been able to reduce its growth in these regions, will continue such as wireless guestroom controls. energy costs for heat, light, and power to impact our positive Think Planet­ 4. LED lighting retrofit: A group-wide iniby € 3.16M since 2013. ­performance. tiative to fit Philips LED light bulbs and take advantage of the supplier’s technical guidance. Results overall and per area Indicator * 2014 2013 2012 2011 Kilowatt hours per square meter (kWh/m2) 256 281 284 289 Kilowatt hours per occupied room (kWh/OR) 85 91 92 95 * Managed and leased hotels 10 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PLANET Some of our leading Think Planet hotels include: IN 2014 REZIDOR HOTELS Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice has achieved a staggering 42% reduction in kWh/m2 since 2011 through a combined investINVESTED ABOUT €2.5 MILLION ment program which involved: • Installation of an efficient condensing boiler • Installation of the Sprinx Cheetah LED LIGHTING variable kitchen ventilation system • LED installation programme which has seen 600 LEDs placed in public areas IN and corridors • Chiller replacement and optimisation of the cooling tower • Optimisation of building controls • Energy management and monitoring Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London Leading in LED installations has achieved 30% energy savings per • The Radisson Blu Ulysse Resort & Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø is a 269square meter since 2011. The hotel has Thalasso, Djerba equipped its main room hotel in the very north of Norway. successfully tested a retrofit of wireless restaurant Kalypso with LED lights in The hotel has saved 1.1 million kWh of room controls. The controls sense when 2014. The savings generated by this energy since 2011 which equates to 23% the room is empty and reduces room installation funded the replacement of of its energy consumption per square air-conditioning to an eco-level. conventional lights with LEDs in the meter. This has been achieved through hotel’s four other restaurants. combined actions including: Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne uses • The 500-room Radisson Blu Scandina• Staff engagement and a focus on 53 kWh/OR – a very energy efficient rate. via Hotel, Oslo has done a massive LED energy savings The hotel has met the Think Planet target installation as part of a building optimis• An upgrade of the building manageand reduced its energy consumption ation project with Siemens Building ment system by 15% since 2011. This has been Technologies. Since 2011 the hotel • New controls for pavement heating achieved by: replaced 6,100 lights with LEDs. In • New boilers and valves, and improved • Control optimisation of the air handling 2015 the hotel plans to invest another insulation units using CO2 sensors, and variable 100,000 € in LED lighting. • Replacement of existing lighting with flow 1,450 LED lights for the front-of-house • Improving the building management • In December 2014 the hotel installed system the Sprinx Cheetah variable kitchen •R  eplacement of pumps ventilation system •E  nergy monitoring and control. ENERGY USE IN KWH/M2* ENERGY USE IN KWH/OR* HOTELS (ENERGY USE PER SOURCE)* 300 289 284 281 120 256 95 92 91 217 85 Electricity, 59% 200 80 71 Natural gas, 22% District heating, 12% 100 40 District cooling, 3% Heating Oil, 2% 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 LPG, 2% Target Target * Based on managed and leased hotels. * Based on managed and leased hotels. * Based on managed and leased hotels. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 11 THINK PLANET THE 500-ROOM Responsible Renovation and Construction Rezidor is one of the most dynamic hotel RADISSON BLU RESORT companies in the industry. On average we open a new hotel every three weeks. When building a new hotel or renovating an existing property, it is important that & CONGRESS CENTRE IN SOCHI (RUSSIA) WITH 4,000 m2 attention is paid to resource efficiency. We want to create buildings with the lowest possible carbon footprint. At Rezidor, MEETING AND this is done in close cooperation with property owners, builders and architects. For all newly built hotels and major renovations, Rezidor applies Think Planet principles. These are captured in our EVENT SPACE HAS Responsible Renovation and Construction Guidelines. The guidelines cover all relevant issues relating to the construction site and the building itself including: • Use of sustainable and renewable energy sources and improving the ACHIEVED BREEAM GOOD ­thermal insulation of facades to minimise heat loss and gain • Heat recovery systems THE NEW RADISSON BLU HOTEL AT MOSCOW’S SHEREMETYEVO AIRPORT • Rainwater recovery systems IS THE FIRST HOTEL WITH A DIRECT LINK TO THE TERMINALS • Building management systems – AND A SHINING THINK PLANET EXAMPLE • Effective waste and recycling Opened in late 2014, the Radisson Blu The hotel also features a state-of-the­management Hotel, Moscow Sheremeteyo Airport has art building management system which • 100% LED lighting for outside signage. installed high-efficiency LED or compact controls lights, air-conditioning and fluorescent lighting in almost every area bathroom floor heating. of the hotel. All downlights, technical lightThe kitchen of the stylish Altitude toping and decorative lighting is low-energy. floor bar uses induction cooking, while Facade lighting is led and controlled by the extensive meeting and events seca daylight sensor. The lights in all guest tion serves stylish and top-class water corridors are equipped with motion sensors. which is bottled in-house. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT WITH WEEKLY LUMITIPS AND THE LUMI SOLUTION GAME Lumi the Firefly is the energetic Think • The Lumi quiz – by answering five Planet mascot who lights the vital enerenergy related questions correctly, gy-saving spark in our staff. A firefly is the employees had a chance to win an iPad ideal mascot for Think Planet: these little each month. insects generate light 100% efficiently. • Lumi tips – every week Lumi gave the To develop the energy savings habits of employees a tip on how to save energy our staff, the 2014 Think Planet employee or water, or reduce waste. engagement program included: • Think Planet Solutions Game: an online game to help General Managers and hotel teams to identify the correct Think Planet solutions. 12 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PLANET WATER Think Planet Water Rezidor Commits to Water StewardThink Planet Water is a new Rezidor At the end of 2014 the following ship by Signing the CEO Water ­initiative which is designed to help our water saving equipment has Mandate hotels reduce their water consumption. been introduced in our hotels: Ensuring everyone in the world has Between 2007 and 2012, Rezidor access to clean drinking water is one of reduced water consumption (in liters/ 84% of hotels are equipped the greatest challenges facing humanity guest-night) by 27%, an impressive figure. with low-flow taps and water in the 21st century. To address this chalTo ensure these savings continue to ­optimised showers lenge, the United Nations (UN) Global grow, we have set a Think Planet Water Compact established the CEO Water target to reduce consumption by another 76% of hotels are equipped Mandate in 2007. A unique public-private 5% by the end of 2015 to achieve 323 with water efficient and/or dual initiative, the CEO Water Mandate is liters/guest night. flush toilets designed to assist companies in the In 2014, our hotels reduced their development, implementation, and diswater consumption by 1.5% to 335 liters/ 12% of hotels have waterclosure of water sustainability policies guest night. saving devices in toilet cisterns and practices. To help our hotels achieve this target, Rezidor has been a member of the UN the Group recently launched a Think 15% of hotels use waterless Global Compact since 2009. During 2014, Planet Water action plan and toolkit urinals Rezidor also signed the CEO Water Man­comprised of: date, making it the first hospitality com• Tools and solutions for guest rooms, 7  % of hotels capture rainwater pany to join the group. Our commitment kitchens, pools, landscaping and to the mandate forms part of Rezidor’s ­technical plant-rooms. continued mission to be the most sustain• Three training movies featuring our able and responsible hospitality company mascot Lumi to train housekeeping, in the market. laundry and kitchen staff. Rezidor’s signing of the UN CEO water mandate will see us begin work on six Water Stewardship commitments: 1 . Direct operations 2.Supply chain and watershed management WATER WORKSHOP SHOWS NEW 3. Collective action WATER MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS 4. Public policy Water is becoming an increasingly 5. Community engagement scarce resource globally, not in the 6. Transparency. least in the emerging markets where Rezidor continues to grow rapidly. For the first time, partners from the fields of hospitality, hotel technology, architecture and design have met to holistically examine how water is used in the hotel industry. The workshop was organised in cooperation with Grohe, Europe’s largest­­manufacturer of s­ anitary WATER CONSUMPTION IN LITRES/GUEST-NIGHT* fittings. Discussions focused on three main 400 362 343 340 335 323 areas: designing for water sustainability 300 in new builds; retrofitting to optimise existing properties; and changing the 200 behaviour and expectations of hotel guests. 100 0 Watch some testimonials on 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target ­thinkplanet.­rezidor.com * Based on managed and leased hotels. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 13 THINK PLANET Park Inn by Radisson, Lund, Sweden In the Radisson Blu Ulysse Resort, Djerba (Tunisia) Switching to CLAX, reduced: SAVING WATER, ENERGY AND ­CHEMICALS IN LAUNDRIES • Electricity use by Each day, 300 to 600 cubic meters of water is reused. The amount depends on the woThe worldwide cooperation with Diversey (now part of Sealed Air) leads to significant energy, electricity and water savings in our 48 on-property laundries (OPL). 36% Diversey produces CLAX laundry c­ hemicals which are used in our OPLs with the • Gas use by following benefits: • Automatic dosing and automatic formula selection removes the need for manual selection and intervention. 25% • Energy savings: The maximum washing temperature with Clax Advance is 60°C instead of 80°C. Less electricity and steam is required to reach the lower tempera• Water use by ture. • Water savings: Rinse and neutralisation cycles are reduced from two to one, ­saving 25% three liters of water per kg of linen. • Optimised labour time: One fewer rinse cycle reduces washing time by approxi• Cost per kg of laundry mately 5–8 minutes. Over a day, that allows one more wash per machine. • Longer linen lifetime: A lower washing temperature means a longer linen lifetime. by 30% 14 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PLANET WASTE Solid waste is generated by many activilected by a specialised recycling comAt the end of 2014: ties in our hotels including food preparation, consumption of pre-packaged items, pany. The hotel’s waste to landfill has been reduced by 50%. The hotel imple89% of our hotels have a dedicated waste sorting area guest waste, and cleaning. Rezidor promented the reduction program as part of actively seeks ways to reduce and recycle waste, and to reduce the residual waste their Green Key eco-label accreditation. 75% of hotels had waste sorting facilities on housekeepwhich goes to landfill or incineration. Reducing Food Waste ing trolleys In our Living Responsible Business It is estimated that a third of all food is training, all Rezidor employees are trained wasted. The social and environmental in ways to minimise waste and on the costs of this waste are enormous. Food waste hierarchy: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. waste has a detrimental impact on the In the area of waste (both residual and environment as it wastes the materials, WASTE TO LANDFILL IN KG PER GUEST-NIGHT* recycled) data quality declined in 2014. water and energy used in its production. During the year, Rezidor only received Starting early 2014, Rezidor hotels in 2,0 1,94 1,84 1,96 reliable data from 68 managed and Central Europe have focused on food 1,5 leased hotels. For these hotels, residual 1,26 waste as a key issue. waste (expressed in kg/guest-night) Chefs in the region have developed a 1,0 decreased to 1.26 kg/guest-night, signifispecific food waste reduction workshop. 0,5 cantly lower than 2013 levels. The head chefs from all 74 hotels in the 0 The overall recycling rate for these 68 area have received the training which 2011 2012 2013 2014 managed and leased hotels is 17%. combines food waste tracking, innovation * Based on 68 managed and leased hotels. in menu design, and close cooperation –0,35 Total Waste Halved with suppliers. 2015 The Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Dubrovnik This training results in an average 20% Target started a waste management programme reduction in waste-per-cover in the parto sort and separate different types of ticipating hotels. waste. Paper, plastic, glass and metals are now completely separated and colSOAP AND THE CITY Due to a hotel brand change in 2014, ­Rezidor had a stock of 12,000 bottles of high class unused amenities available. Together with Serve the City – an international charity serving the weaker and homeless in cities – Rezidor brought these fresh, unused body-care products to underprivileged people. The 12,000 packs of unused guest amenities were distributed by volunteers from 21 ­Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson hotels, together with Serve the City. The distribution occurred on World Environment Day in ten different cities: Amsterdam, Berlin, Brussels, Budapest, Dublin, Edinburgh, London, Luxembourg, Madrid, and Tallinn. The total value of the 12,000 donated products was 42,000 €! Many of our hotels are already distributing amenities which have not been fully used to local charities. In the future, we plan to build on these successes and roll out Soap & the City more widely. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 15 THINK PLANET FIRST GREEN LEAF LAURELS FOR SOUTH AFRICAN HOTELS By the start of 2015, five hotels in ­Sub-­Saharan Africa had received the Green Leaf™ label. Green Leaf™ guarantees the hotel’s performance on energy, water, waste, health and safety, supplier involvement and guest communication. The hotel’s performance is validated by two on site audits. Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo, achieves the Green Key ECO-LABELS • Treating all waste water the Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson Celebrating 20 Years of Green Key • Recycling a maximum amount of waste hotels were the first in their respective The internationally recognised Green Key countries to receive this accreditation. Regular audits ensure the hotel is mainlabel guarantees guests that Rezidor taining its commitment to Rezidor’s Think operates our hotels in a Think Planet way. New Countries join Green Key Planet strategy. This requires us to reduce the environRezidor’s strong partnership with Green As part of their Green Key eco-label, mental footprint of our business without Key International enables the organisation hotels offer sustainable sightseeing compromising comfort or quality. to introduce its eco-label to new countries. options. For example, the Radisson Blu In 2014, Green Key celebrated 20 years In 2014 the following new countries and Hotel, Amsterdam has signed a partnerof operations. Rezidor is proud that 195 regions joined the Green Key network ship with the Blue Boat Company. All of Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson with R ­ ezidor eco-labelled hotels: their sightseeing boats are wheelchair hotels in 30 countries have been certified • A strakhan (south-east Russia) accessible and are driven by electric with the Green Key eco-label. Our target • Kazakhstan motors powered by green energy. is to have an eco-label for all our hotels • Serbia You can read more Green Key by the end of 2015. stories on our Think Stories blog at: Since the first Green Key hotel in SUSTAINABLE FOOD 254 http://thinkstories.rezidor.com ­Denmark in 1994, the certification has Rezidor informs our guests about been assigned to over 2,300 hotels and Green Key Partnership Extended other sites in 47 countries. to Nordic Countries Hotels with the Green Key eco-label All Rezidor hotels in the Nordic countries comply with 90 sustainability criteria are in the process of joining the large including: global community of Green Key eco-­ • Eco-friendly lighting in at least 50% of labelled hotels. At the beginning of 2015, the property •R educing energy and water consumption 46 hotels had received their Green Key ECO-LABELLED HOTELS eco-label. In Norway, Finland and Iceland, 16 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PLANET Responsible Business activities at our hotels and makes it easy for them to parSUSTAINABLE SEAFOOD ticipate. We provide a healthy environWith supplies of more than 70% of the ment and offer healthy, nutritious, organic world’s commercial marine fish either fully and Fairtrade food and beverages. exploited or overfished, we must source our seafood sustainably. In Sweden alone, approximately Rezidor’s Food Policy 52,000 kilograms of fresh fish and seaAs a leading global hotel group and one food is used per year in our hotels. of the world’s Most Ethical Companies, Regional fish supplier Leröy supports our Rezidor believes that we have a responsiResponsible Business policy in the Nordics and does not sell any fish on the bility to operate our food and drink (F&D) WWF Red List of threatened species to business sustainably. Our Food Policy our hotels. REZIDOR HOTELIERS PROTECT ensures that we: Leröy offers a sustainable alternative BIODIVERSITY • Eliminate the use of products from such as ecologically farmed halibut or fish Bees are responsible for pollinating 76% endangered species including: with the Marine Conservation Society of our food crops and 80% of cut-flowers. (MSC) mark. In Sweden, our hotels buy a They are critical to local biodiversity. – Shark fin and shark meat lot of herring which is MSC-certified. Bee populations are under pressure – Whale meat When WWF decided to add shrimps to the from increasing urbanisation and pollu– Bluefin tuna Red List during 2014, Leröy was able to tion. To encourage biodiversity in their – Deep sea fish such as Redfish and supply our hotels with shrimp from local areas, many Rezidor hotels are now Orange Roughy MSC-approved catches. The factory sponsoring beehives or ‘hosting’ them where the shrimps are hand-peeled is on the property: – Frogs’ legs. also MSC certified. •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux• Consult a good fish guide (such as the Port became a beekeeper by sponsorWWF Red List) when planning menus. ing a beehive in Provence. • Incorporate food waste and portion • Radisson Blu Hotel, Arlandia part of control in our F&D training programmes. ­Sustainable Destination Sigtuna has • ‘Eat the Seasons’ – ensuring seasonal installed two beehives on the property. • Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Noordwijk food is served wherever possible. aan Zee has two beehives housing • Increase our Think Planet energyand 32,000 bees on their roof. One of the water-conservation and waste-avoidteam members became a trained beeance awareness. keeper so they could tend the bees. • Since 2013, the Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg has hosted a number of beeLouise Gustafsson, our Regional Purhives on the roof. chasing Manager in S ­ weden, works together with our chefs to ensure they understand the reasons behind our seafood purchasing policy. 11% 10% of all food and drink served in our hotels is organic of all food and drink items served in our hotels are Fair(mainly vegetables, eggs trade (mainly coffee, tea, and wine). chocolate, sugar and wine). REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 17 THINK PLANET CARBON FOOTPRINT Company Carbon Footprint ESCONET planting in Kenya Rezidor’s greenhouse gas emissions primarily result from energy consumption and mainly consist of carbon dioxide. Since 2006, our carbon dioxide and equivalent emissions have been calculated. The assessment focuses on energy-related emissions only and contains both Scope-1 and -2 emissions. Thanks to our good progress with Think Planet, Rezidor has been able to reduce its Group carbon footprint to 21.4 kg of CO2-equivalent (CO2e) per guest-night. MEETINGS MINUS CARBON In Kenya, funds are used to support the Meetings Minus Carbon is a unique and free Escarpment Environment Conservation service for meeting planners which is man­Network (ESCONET) which aims to effectively aged through Carlson Rezidor’s partner, mobilise the community in the Great Rift ­C arbon Footprint Ltd. Carbon credits are ­Valley and boost its capacity to rehabilitate, purchased and invested in projects in both conserve and protect natural ecosystems. India and Kenya. By supporting Meetings Minus Carbon Effectively each tonne of carbon generated you are helping to: is offset twice – once in Verified Carbon • Offset CO2 emissions ­Standard (VCS) wind energy projects in • Reduce poverty India, and again in a tree-planting initiative • Provide wildlife habitats in Kenya’s Great Rift Valley. • Create a brighter future for orphans and Since Meetings Minus Carbon was launched ­people living with HIV/AIDS. on Earth Day 2013, the programme has offset Club Carlson‘s 13 million members also have the HOTEL CARBON FOOTPRINT 23,000 tonnes of carbon in wind energy option to use their points to offset the carbon MEASUREMENTS projects and planted 23,000 trees. generated by their private travel or hotel stay. In 2012, the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative (HCMI) was launched by the International Travel Partnership (ITP) and the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), together with all major hospitality companies. Rezidor is an active member of the HCMI working group and has rolled-out the methodology to all managed and leased hotels. HCMI is also the basis for the Meetings Minus Carbon programme. Carbon Footprint 2014 2013 2011 Kilograms CO2e per guest-night 21.4 22.8 24.8 Kilograms CO2e per square meter 92.8 103.8 107.0 18 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PLANET SUPPLIERS Controls International, Sprinx, Grohe, Code of Conduct Grundfoss, and Diversey provide the ECOVADIS SILVER Rezidor works closely with our global ­latest sustainable products. At the same EcoVadis is the first collaborative platform suppliers to set strict environmental pertime they focus on sustainable producwhich enables companies to monitor the formance criteria and minimise the social tion methods and operations. sustainability performance of their suppliand environmental impacts of the proders across 150 sectors and 99 countries. It aims to improve the environmental and ucts and services we purchase. THINK PLANET REPORTING social practices of companies by leveragAll Rezidor suppliers are required to Rezidor collects monthly environmental ing the influence of global supply chains. sign the Supplier Code of Conduct which performance data for managed and Each company is assessed through a becomes part of the supplier agreement. leased hotels. This information is shown in questionnaire which is customised to the They also have the opportunity to profile the Think Planet section of our financial size of the company, its industry sector and countries of operation. The questiontheir Responsible Business performance reporting system. Area management and naire covers five areas: business pracin RezPIN, Rezidor’s central purchasing general managers receive monthly perfortices, the environment, social policies, platform. mance statistics. All hotels (leased, manethics and supply chains. Area and local hotel suppliers are also aged and franchised) are also assessed Rezidor achieved a Silver recognition required to sign the Supplier Code of through the annual Responsible Business placing us among the top 30% Ecovadis performers. Conduct. Over half (55%) of our hotels Status Report which contains 90 questions actively check on the Responsible Busion the status of Think Planet, Think People ness p ­ erformance of their suppliers. and Think Together. A yearly report on their overall Responsible Business perforKey Think Planet Suppliers mance is provided to hotels with particular As part of Think Planet’s energy, water emphasis on Think Planet. and waste reduction programmes, ­Rezidor works with key sustainable supENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE pliers to provide integrated projects and Rezidor checks all of our 340 hotels for solutions for our hotels. Suppliers such as environmental compliance. No issues with Siemens Building Technologies, Johnson environmental compliance arose in 2014. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 19 THINK LOREMPEOPLE IPSUM PEOPLE ARE OUR CORE CAPITAL 30% Women in Leadership 87.5% employee satisfaction 2,250 employees trained in our by 2016 Business School 20 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PEOPLE THINK PEOPLE With operations in 73 countries, keeping hotel guests and staff safe in ­sometimes risky local situations is an essential part of our business. We are also a passionate team of 40,000 hoteliers and believe strongly in developing our people from within. SAFETY AND SECURITY Incident response focuses on our In 2007, Rezidor developed and introemployees. We give them the training, Number of hoteliers: 40,000 duced a formula known as TRIC=S to tools and confidence they need to react Number of nationalities: 143 localise our approach to safety and immediately when something unusual Employees by gender: 45% female, security. TRIC=S stands for: occurs. The goal is to ensure that small 55% male Threat assessment + Risk evaluation incidents do not escalate. However, we Women in senior leadership roles: 16% are aware that crises can happen. Rezidor’s target is 30% by 2016 and mitigation + Incident response preparedness + Crisis management, Employees in our hotels focus on Number of employees trained in our managing four risks: Business School: 2,250 communication and continuity = Safe, 1. Guest Safety and Security Responsible Business training in hotels secure and sellable hotels. (mandatory): 76% of employees trained in 2. Employee Safety and Security updated Responsible Business course The development of TRIC=S started in 3. Fire Safety Number of disabled employees: 185, 1997 when we announced that the role of 4. Operational Security Employed in 92 of our hotels corporate safety and security was shifting from a reactive and centralised comSince it was originally developed, the mand-and-control model to a more proTRIC=S formula has often been cited as TRIC = S active, decentralised and dynamic role. a model of good practice for managing The change enabled safety and security corporate safety and security. TRIC=S to play a support role to our growing was chosen by the Leadership and Mannumber of hotels in many different locaagement Council at ASIS International – A FORMULA TAILOR-MADE FOR tions. (world’s largest association for security A SAFE, SECURE, DECENTRALISED TRIC=S offers a formula for individual professionals) as a good practice case AND DYNAMIC ORGANISATION application rather than a one-size-fits-all study for their webinar series on Organiprescription. Its main benefit is that sational Resilience. In 2009, an external TRIC=S is not limited by jurisdiction, survey carried out by BGN Risk of London organisation or other constraints. Threat also concluded that TRIC=S was fit for assessments are based on gathering purpose. local information from a wide variety of There is an increasing awareness that sources. This includes close cooperation the TRIC=S approach is not just fit for ALWAYS CARE with the local communities in which we ­purpose, it is also good for our business. Knowing that the TRIC=S approach to operate, expert analysts, and with our As the world evolves and communication safety and security is backed-up by guests and staff. Since 2012, the online and information increases, difficult decithese studies is important and gives us risk evaluation and mitigation system has sions need to be taken more quickly. It increased confidence. The formula is been freely available to all hotels in the is becoming increasingly important that ­simple and the evidence that supports its Carlson Rezidor brands, and in every these decisions can be taken further out usefulness is clear. location around the world. in the organisation. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 21 THINK PEOPLE In order to communicate this to all of our hotels certification process. A number employees we have also chosen a simple, of criteria is being covered including PARK INN BY RADISSON DONETSK clear message as our motto: Always Care. security equipment, staff awareness and AND RADISSON BLU MAMMY If you care about people, care about proptraining, fire security, and first aid. Safe­ YOKO HOTEL, FREETOWN SHARE erty and care about the world around you, hotels is also evaluating Carlson Rezidor’s 2014 ADVERSITY AWARD you will be better able to take care of our existing self-assessment hotel security The Rezidor Adversity Award is preguests, our hotels and our colleagues. program which is accessible to all hotels sented each year by the Board of This a message our employees underin the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. ­Directors to hotels with outstanding stand and provides a firm foundation for To ensure all criteria are met, Carlson team performance in the face of ­adversity. Rezidor. Rezidor has worked closely with SafeIn 2014 the award was shared hotels to align the brand expectations by Erdem ­Bilgin, General Manager Carlson Rezidor Enhances Safety and and self-assessment program with the the Park Inn by Radisson Donetsk Security with the Safehotels Alliance Safehotels standard. (Ukraine), and Nuno Neves, General Carlson Rezidor has become the first Achieving Safehotels certification will Manager of the Radisson Blu Mammy Yoko Hotel, Freetown (Sierra Leone), major international hotel chain to sign an demonstrate that a hotel focuses on key recognising the p ­ erformance of the agreement with the Safehotels Alliance elements of guest security. It also demonhotels during the civil war in Ukraine – a globally recognised security certificastrates that the property has the right and the response to the Ebola outtion company. response if there is an emergency. To break in Sierra Leone. In January 2015, selected Carlson maintain certification hotels must be ­Rezidor hotels in 23 countries across audited and re-certified by the indepenthe EMEA region began the formal Safedent Safehotels auditors annually. NUNO NEVES – MAINTAINING THE YES I CAN! SPIRIT IN THE FACE OF CRISIS As a result of the crisis, I had to take some buffets, daytime entertainment and evening necessary cost-cutting measures. The payroll movies. The promotion received great had to be reduced and I had two choices: ­coverage in the local media and was a huge either terminate the whole staff, or find an success. alternative. I decided that the best solution During the crisis our hotel has had the honfor everyone would be to keep the entire our of welcoming Ban Ki-Moon, UN Secretary In June 2013, Nuno Neves was appointed team. We trained them well and they are our General, and Tony Blair, former prime minister General Manager of the new Radisson Blu hotel’s greatest asset. of the UK. I sought support from both the owners and The bottom line is that where there is a the unions and then held a general staff will, there is a way. We must face each chalIn June 2013, Nuno Neves was appointed meeting where I explained the situation. The lenge with the same level of feeling and Nuno Neves General Manager of the new Radisson Blu staff all accepted the suggested salary ­attitude while remembering that success is Mammy Yoko hotel in Freetown, Sierra reduction. Since that day, our team spirit has not final, and failure is not fatal.” Leone. With the hotel scheduled to open in been fantastic: we are a family where everyApril 2014, Nuno and his team faced more one is motivated. than the usual challenges of opening a new property. As the crisis has continued, we have welcomed many international guests from organ“It is the courage to “Just three months after the Radisson Blu Mammy Yoko opened, the Ebola outbreak hit! isations involved in treating people with Ebola and stopping its spread. continue that counts! When everyone else seemed to be leavIn mid-September there was a three-day Winning through ing Sierra Leone, I decided to stay with my lockdown in Sierra Leone. Everyone had to team. I also brought my family from Portugal stay in one place so that health workers depends on engagto spend their summer vacation in Freetown. I knew how important it was to the local could visit them. I seized the moment and created a special promotion for the local ing our true ‘Yes I community, including the owners and our staff, that the hotel remained open, whatever community which was targeted mainly at expats. We invited them to spend the three Can!’ spirit all the way was going on around us. With daily rumours and large-scale flight cancellations, life was lockdown days in our hotel. We organised an all-inclusive programme, running from morn– both in the present very uncertain and unpredictable. ing to evening. It included themed nightly and in the future!” 22 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PEOPLE Rezidor employees at work REZIDOR’S EMPLOYEE VALUE It was developed by our people for PROPOSITION our people in an exciting process which To recognise our commitment to diverinvolved a multi-national and multi-­ YES I CAN! sity, individuality and passion, Rezidor cultural taskforce with members from A GREAT WAY TO WORK AND LIVE has developed ‘Our Promise’ – a new all levels and regions of the company. Yes I Can! Is the core service philosophy and vital Employee Value Proposition. During the early part of 2015, Our of the Rezidor Hotel Group. But it is so ­Promise was rolled-out across all Rezidor much more than just a slogan. Yes I Can! Our Promise summarises Rezidor’s is a way of life for our staff and ensures offer to our people and aims to promote hotels with specific events in each region. their professional – and personal – employee engagement with the comdevelopment. pany. It strengthens the human nature of Employee Satisfaction the true Rezidorian spirit, our attitude and Rezidor aims to be the employer of our work ethics. Our Promise also recogchoice for our people. We care for our nises that personal and long-lasting relaemployees, involve them in our planning tionships are at the core of our business and decision-making processes, and ask and crucial for our success. for their feedback. Our annual Climate Analysis, a Group-wide employee satisOur Promise features six strong pillars: faction survey (conducted by an external 1. We are powered by passion independent party), found that employee 2. We genuinely care satisfaction in 2014 remained high at 87.5 3. We innovate to shape our future (out of a maximum of 100). The 2014 sur4. We act responsibly vey included 26,100 participants from 5. We stand together 268 business units. This is an outstand6. We grow talent, talent grows us. ing result within the hospitality and other service industries worldwide. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 23 THINK PEOPLE Participants of the 2014 Business School in Oslo PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT themselves, collaborate with others, and The Business School @ Carlson Rezidor As a service provider, people are our get the best results from their people. celebrates 75+ Editions core capital. The quality of the service we Called Pro Active Leadership (PAL), the Created in 1996, The Business School @ deliver to our guests depends on the willinteractive course helps General ManagCarlson Rezidor is the learning platform ingness and ability of our employees to ers, District Directors and Area Vice Presfor employees within the Group. The satisfy customer needs and expectations. idents to optimise their performance and School provides structured and consisThe first pillar of our 4D strategy is achieve their personal, professional and tent training and development, and Develop Talent. Rezidor believes in business objectives. ­fosters Rezidor’s corporate culture. developing talent from within. We offer a PAL offers a unique opportunity for The Business School @ Carlson Rezidor range of tools to help each employee to Rezidor’s managers to share ideas and offers a thought-provoking, stimulating realize their full potential. These include experiences with their peers, learn from and enjoyable time for all who take part. the Rezidor five-step development plan, each other, and a chance to reflect on ­International Business Schools take place the Business School @ Carlson Rezidor their own leadership effectiveness. four times a year over one week. Each and our online platform ‘Learning Link’. Over the past two years Rezidor has school is led by internal trainers as well trained all of its General Managers in PAL. as external specialists. Area Business Pro Active Leadership Challenges A majority of Corporate Support Office Schools are organised as the need Rezidor’s Leaders and Area Support teams at director arises. During 2014 Rezidor launched a new level and above have also received the In 2014, The Business School trained a workshop which challenges our senior training. total of 2,250 employees. executives to examine their ability to lead 24 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PEOPLE Developing Competency-based every one of us is unique. We believe Interview Techniques in creating a working environment A new course was launched by Rezidor where the things that make us differin 2014 to help heads of departments ent are always valued. These princimake consistent selection and assessples are voiced very clearly in our ment decisions during interviews. The Code of Business Ethics, our Human training programme develops practical Rights policy and our Employment interview skills such as preparation, Principles – all public documents to be questioning, feedback and listening. found on www.rezidor.com. The course also introduces Rezidor’s Rezidor recognises that our uniquePerformance Management Process & ness comes from both visible differSystem (Halogen). It focuses on proper ences such as age and gender, and objective setting, development planless visible differences such as beliefs ning, consistent performance evaluaand sexuality. We know that if we tion, and coaching. encourage everyone in the company Odile De Groot to feel involved and respected, the DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION richness of their ideas and perspecYOUNG LEADER OF THE YEAR Diversity and Inclusion: tives will create long-term value. Rezidor Hotel Group prides itself on our Our Guiding Principles In 2014 we employed 143 nationalicommitment to develop and grow the hospitality leaders of the future. To reinAt Rezidor we celebrate the diversity of ties. 55% of our employees are men; force this commitment we have nomiour people and respect that each and 45% are women. nated a Young Leader each year since 1999. The award encourages young managers who are continuously searching for new challenges in their careers and who are looking for ways to exceed their previous achievements. It also fosters a healthy spirit of commitment and competition. Our experience has shown that encouragement and recognition of high-performing talent helps us to retain and motivate our employees. In 2014, Odile De Groot, now Director of Food & Drink Service and Events in the soon to open Radisson Blu Hotel Nairobi, Janis Valodze Filiz Smith was named Young Leader of the Year. MENTOR–MENTEE PROGRAMME DEVELOPS THE NEXT GENERATION OF LEADERS “If you have the Rezidor’s Mentor-Mentee programme is The programme supports the company’s passion, motivation culture of promoting from within to meet designed to identify and develop high potential employees so they can acquire the needs of our growing business. and spirit to never the skills they need to become General Managers. Mentees are paired with existJanis Valodze and Filiz Smith were mengive up, you will ing General Managers who are selected as mentors because of their extensive experitees and passed their final assessment in 2014. Janis is now the General Manager at achieve what you ence, strong leadership qualities, and their the Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga, while set out for”. motivation and ability to develop others. Filiz is Acting General Manager at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds. Odile De Groot REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 25 THINK PEOPLE more apparent than in the male-dominated ditions, personalised development plans, and hotel industry where women hold less than a more open approach to mobility. one in five leadership positions. Maria Tullberg, General Manager of the Rezidor is no exception. Despite the Radisson Blu Arlandia and Sky City Hotels, fact that almost half of our workforce is female, comments: “This is not about men versus women occupy less than 20% of senior manwomen or women versus men. We’re talking agement positions within the organisation. about changes that will benefit everyone. And Our goal is to have 30% of senior managethings are going to have to change fast to ment positions occupied by women by 2016. achieve our goal. But I’m sure we can do it.” To help us reach this target we have identiTo help reach our target, we have created fied Women in Leadership (WiL) Champions in WiL Circles. They are a core group of 10-12 each of our areas of operation and at the people, mostly at General Manager and Area Maria Tullberg core of Rezidor. There are two champions in Support Office levels, who d ­ iscuss ways to each area, one male and one female. increase the number of women in senior leadWOMEN IN LEADERSHIP We’re also looking at innovative solutions ership positions in their areas. Those in the In many companies the proportion of women that will enable women to take advantage of WiL Circles then go back to their office or in the workforce decreases the higher up the the opportunities available. That means takhotel and create more circles… fostering a corporate ladder you go. Nowhere is this ing a more flexible approach to working conpositive ripple effect throughout the company. PARK INN BY RADISSON CAPE TOWN NEWLANDS IS THE FIRST HOTEL IN THE WORLD TO HAVE 30% DEAF TEAM MEMBERS Through a partnership with the Deaf Federation of South Africa (DEAFSA), the Park Inn by ­Radisson Cape Town Newlands is showcasing its dedication to community involvement and responsibility. The hotel employs 30% deaf staff who work in both back and front of house roles. “This is a big accomplishment in the world of hospitality,” explains the hotel’s General Manager, Clinton Thom. “We are very proud of the opportunities and training that our partnership with DEAFSA has created. We hope to see other hotel groups follow our lead and support talent development in the hotel industry, irrespective of physical l­imitations.” Naturally, the Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Newlands has a strong emphasis on accessibility. It offers five wheelchair-friendly rooms and a series of ramps. The Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Newlands warmly welcomes yo­u in sign language: http://thinkstories.rezidor.com/?p=651 “This is a big accomplishment in the world of hospitality” 26 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS Within the international hospitality industry, Rezidor is recognised for its unique business approach inspired by our Yes I Can! service philosophy. In 2009, Rezidor signed the United Nations Global Compact which requires companies to embrace, support and enact a set of ten core principles relating to human rights, labour principles, the environment and anti-corruption. During 2014, Rezidor grouped key human rights and employment principles into two new policies. The policies complement our Code of Business Ethics and clarify the principles we live and work by in our 340 hotels. The new policies are: Mohammed Tawil (with tie) and colleagues • Human Rights Policy. This covers ­Rezidor’s engagement on issues such RADISSON BLU AND PARK INN BY RADISSON YAS ISLAND employ as ethical business conduct, protection an ­intellectually disabled Future Center Graduate of childrens’ rights, combating human ­ During March 2014, Rezidor’s Business laundry department of the Park Inn by trafficking and protection of the rights ­Leadership team attended our Annual ­Radisson Yas Island. In close cooperation of employees. ­Business Conference (ABC) in Abu Dhabi. with his parents and the school, Moham•E  mployment Principles. This document As part of the event, the team volunteered med’s training continued three days a week covers Rezidor’s promises to its employto paint the Future Center, a school for for two hours each day. During his training ees such as non discrimination, freedom intellectually and physically handicapped Mohammed became more confident and children. The Future Center prepares chilwas always eager to learn more. of association and development of talent dren for life and often has students who are After completing his preparation, the from within. ready to take up a job after graduation. Abu Dhabi hotel offered him a permanent Both policies are publicly available, comDuring the volunteer day, the headmispart-time contract. On 12 October, Mohammunicated on internal channels, and tress of the Future Center asked if the med started work and is now employed ­Rezidor hotels in Abu Dhabi would be willfrom Monday to Thursday for four-hours a made available to all hotels and employing to offer a job to a student who had just day. For the first time in his life, Mohammed ees. A mandatory webinar training and graduated. Both hotels immediately said yes! has a real job and is earning his own Q&A session was offered to all hotel On 20 May 2014, Future Center graduate income. Human Resource teams, General Managers Mohammed Tawil started his training in the and Responsible Business Coordinators. Empowering Employees and Social Dialogue held, where issues such as the Group’s REZIDOR HOTELS OFFER 2,665 Rezidor summarises its Employment finances, performance, future ventures ­Principles in a public document available and other important issues are discussed on www.rezidor.com. with employee representatives. In line with the European Union DirecRezidor strives to handle all operative on Works Councils (94/45/EC, the tional changes in a transparent and open Works Council Directive), Rezidor has established a European Works Council, manner, with the goal of giving our employees fair influence. When taking ACCESSIBLE ROOMS which has been entered into by repreover an existing hotel, we endeavour to sentatives of our central management retain the majority of the employees of and employees. Annual meetings are the previous hotel brand. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 27 THINK PEOPLE Park Inn by Radisson Tete trainees GLOBAL EMPLOYMENT In 2014, Carlson (the parent company of Reducing Youth Unemployment Carlson Rezidor) in partnership with the Rezidor and Carlson Family FoundaCarlson Family Foundation announced a tion help grow Youth Career Initiative 100,000 US$ grant to the International After successfully implementing the Tourism Partnership and YCI. The grant Youth Career Initiative (YCI) in a number will be used to extend the YCI Trafficking of Rezidor hotels, Rezidor became lead in Persons Project so that trafficking survipartner of YCI in 2013. vors can be integrated into existing YCI YCI is a 24-week education programme programmes. The grant from Carlson and which empowers disadvantaged young the Carlson Family Foundation will allow people and trains them for their future YCI to offer life-changing experiences to professional and social life. The initiative many more young students in the future. helps students between 18 and 21 years You can find out more about YCI at: of age who have dropped out of school, www.youthcareerinitiative.org lack the financial means to complete their education, or are at risk of exploitation. YCI provides the students with life and work skills that help them gain employRadisson Blu Hotel Ethiopia’s YCI class ment and which will enable them to make positive life decisions. 85% OF GRADUATES CONTINUE RADISSON BLU HOTEL, DAKAR LAUNCHES YOUTH CAREER INITIATIVE As a lead partner with YCI, the Rezidor Hotel Group welcomed nine young trainees at the ­Radisson Blu Hotel, Dakar from February to August 2014. The students were chosen by the local SOS Children’s Village as part of the country’s first YCI programme. FURTHER TRAINING IN THE HOTEL 28 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK PEOPLE YCI Holds Workshop on Human e ­ xecutive management team, SOS EthioAfrinord Joint Venture Provides Trafficking in Ethiopia pia which work directly with the YCI proEmployment in Africa In selected countries, YCI training programme as local coordinators, and AGAR Rezidor and four Nordic Development grammes also include trafficking survishelter which works with human trafficking Funds (DFIs) have extended their coopervors. In each of these locations, YCI runs survivors in Addis Ababa. ation to support hotel projects in Africa a workshop before for the hotel and nonthat are operated by Rezidor. The agreeprofit partner staff. Park Inn by Radisson Tete, ment builds on a financial joint venture The aim of the workshop is to ensure Mozambique Trains 112 Young Adults that was created in 2005 and since then all attendees are aware of the global Park Inn by Radisson Tete, Mozambique has successfully supported hotel develissue of human trafficking, and how the began a new social programme for unemopments in South Africa, Kenya, Ethiopia, hotel industry is affected. It provides staff ployed people from the Moatize mining Sierra Leone and Mali – creating 1,500 with the ability to show a suitable level of region to provide them with work experinew permanent jobs; 40% of them for understanding, confidentiality and sensience. Over six months, 112 young people women. tivity to trafficking survivors. took part in the training. The initiative was CREATING run in partnership with Vale, a mining The training is divided into four modules: company which operates in the region 1. An overview of human trafficking 1,500 and is one of the hotel’s main corporate 2. H uman trafficking and the hospitality customers. industry Over the six week course, the trainees 3. The victims: experience, rescue and worked in three departments: Kitchen recovery and Pastry; Bar and Restaurant; and 4. Supporting the re-integration of surviHousekeeping and Laundry. For most the vors and the role of YCI. programme represented their first work NEW PERMANENT JOBS The workshop at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Addis Ababa was attended by the hotel’s experience. Many showed talent and were recruited at the end of the training. IN AFRICA DESIGNING THE COOLEST JAMES BOND HIDE-OUT WITH HOTEL UNDERGROUND Radisson Blu has been working with Class of Your Own during 2014 to foster the next generation of sustainable hotel designers through the ‘Hotel Underground’ competition. Secondary school students aged around 15 were asked to design a sustainable hotel cool enough for James Bond. In total 97 schools registered for the competition. Many great ideas were submitted for a ­sustainable, original and spectacular hotel suitable for Bond. The winner was St Ambrose College with their ‘00 Heaven’ hotel concept. Their underground hotel used solar panels on the roof to generate energy and heat water. The students made sure the hotel was suitable for James Bond by including secret passageways where he could hide out. St Ambrose Colleges winning team REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 29 LOREMTHINK IPSUM TOGETHER PROUDLY CONTRIBUTING TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES 780,000 € 700 activities 10,000 volunteer actions raised for charity 30 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK TOGETHER THINK TOGETHER There are important social needs in many communities we ­operate in. Rezidor hotels contribute by giving volunteer ­assistance and funding. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT as our worldwide corporate charity. tionalised children. The charity has a par­ Rezidor Hotels have an important respon­ Cooperation with this worldwide organi­ ticular focus on helping girls and young sibility as corporate citizens in their local sation, founded by HRH Queen Silvia of mothers. communities. Our hotels contribute by Sweden, dates back to 2007 and engages Rezidor’s mission is to provide our mil­ giving volunteer assistance and funding. our hotels each year in fundraising for lions of guests with a comfortable and We focus on projects for youth/children, Childhood. restful stay away from home. Childhood education, and those which provide shelter. World Childhood Foundation is a nonaims to help children who are abused profit organisation dedicated to serving and exploited to ensure that they are Supporting World Childhood the most vulnerable children in the world. given a safe and secure childhood, or ­Foundation since 2007 This includes street children, sexually simply put, a home. These parallel aspira­ Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group supports abused and exploited children, children tions mean that Rezidor’s support to World Childhood Foundation (Childhood) trafficked for sexual purposes, and institu­ Childhood fits well with who we are as a company and as a corporate citizen. In 2014, Rezidor hotels raised 137,000 € for World Childhood Foundation. A WORLD CHILDHOOD FOUNDATION PROJECT HELPS PREVENT CHILD ABUSE Rezidor hotels raise 780,000 € Just one example of Childhood’s 100 proj­ ects around the globe is Good Parent – During the whole year, employees volun­ Good Start in Poland. Through early identifi­ teer their time for projects in their local cation of and support to parents at risk of community or organise events to raise neglecting or abusing their young children, money for charity. In 2014, the Group’s Good Parent – Good Start helps prevent hotels across Europe, Middle East and child abuse. The project improves the com­ petence and coordination of professionals Africa raised more than 780,000 € for working with young children and their par­ local organisations and World Childhood ents. It also offers direct support to parents, Foundation. One of the highlights is the such as parenting skills workshops, consul­ annual Responsible Business Action tations, video training, holiday camps, and Month (RBAM) in September which is bonding and playgroups. ­celebrated by all Carlson Rezidor hotels www.childhood.org around the world. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 31 THINK TOGETHER 1 3 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ACTION MONTH 2 4 5 1. BOX APPEAL HELPS THOSE IN 3. GALA EVENT AND ART AUCTION 5. A GIVING HEART IN NEED IN THE MIDDLE EAST FOR MAKE-A-WISH A HEALTHY BODY As part of RBAM, fifteen Radisson Blu To celebrate the 25th anniversary of the In the spirit of keeping a healthy mind and Park Inn by Radisson hotels in six Make-A-Wish Foundation, the Radisson in a healthy body, over 700 employees Middle East countries took part in our Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Düsseldorf ran or walked for charity during RBAM. annual ‘Box Appeal’. In 2014 the Box organised a gala event and art auction. One p ­ articular activity that stands out Appeal distributed 20,000 boxes filled Over 65,000 € was raised for the Founwas the Poland Business Run which with necessities to labourers and people dation during the event. was initiated and co-organised by the in need. This represents a donation-inRadisson Blu Hotel, Krakow. Over the kind of approximately 400,000 €. 4. ‘SHE’ PHOTO-BOOK PROFILES years, the Run has grown and now takes STRONG AFRICAN WOMEN place in five cities and involves more 2. 17 RUSSIAN HOTELS RAISE than 10,000 runners. Together with partDuring RBAM, the Rezidor Hotel Group 35,000 € FOR CHILDREN ners the hotel raised 180,000 € which published a beautiful photo-book titled will be used to purchase artificial limbs Seventeen Rezidor hotels in Moscow, SHE which features images of strong for disabled young people. Sochi and St. Petersburg organised African women. SHE is dedicated to the ­family days to raise money for a Russian World Childhood Foundation. The book charity which supports children. The was sold in hotels and presented as a gift Family days took place in all three cities to corporate clients and partners. The and welcomed more than 1,000 employphotos in SHE were taken by Rezidor’s ees and their families. Together they very own Vice President Legal, Nicole raised an impressive 35,000 €. Cambré. Nicole is also an award-winning photographer. In December, she won the Nature category in the National Geographic Photography Contest 2014 with her photograph titled ‘The Great Migration’. 32 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK TOGETHER G(IRLS)20 – FATHERS WOLFGANG M. NEUMANN CLIMBS MOUNT KILIMANJARO ­EMPOWERING DAUGHTERS FOR SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGES IN KENYA In 2014 Rezidor became the sole cor­ porate sponsor of a global campaign called Fathers Empowering Daughters. The campaign was developed by G(irls)20 a global non-profit organisation that aims to cultivate a new gene­ ration of female leaders. The Fathers Empowering Daughters project was launched in the run-up to the G20 meeting of world leaders held in ­Australia during August 2014. The campaign calls on fathers from around the world to showcase the ways in which they empower their daughters to succeed and achieve – whatever age, whatever dream. It also encourages daughters to share stories about how their fathers have empowered them. The global campaign features fathers and daughters who present Wolfgang M. Neumann, Rezidor’s Presisecurity of a home: The kids live in family their stories in a series of self-recorded dent & CEO, is not only a hotelier with style orphan homes, and are educated in videos. It began with high profile heart and soul, but also a passionate the village’s own kindergarten and fathers such as Richard Branson, mountaineer. Every two years he takes school. For more information, visit: Ziauddin Yousafzai (Malala’s father) on a new personal challenge and always www.sos-childrensvillageskenya.org/ and well-known d ­ aughters including links it to a charitable cause. In February Through his climb, Wolfgang raised Chelsea Clinton and Shakira. 2014, Wolfgang climbed Kilimanjaro, with 27,000 US$ for the charity. With this For every social media interaction, 5,895 metres the world’s tallest freeamount, one family home in Nairobi can Rezidor donated 10 US$ towards the standing mountain. At the summit he flew be fully supported for a year. This is the education of G(irls)20 delegates. the ‘Yes I Can’ flag! He combined this start of a long-term charity relationship exciting tour with a fundraising project which the soon-to-be-opened Radisson for the SOS Children’s villages in Kenya. Blu Hotel, Nairobi will take on. SOS Children’s Villages – an internaCarlson Family Foundation has tional charity organisation founded in donated an additional 10,000 US$ to Austria – gives abandoned and SOS Children’s Villages to be used in an orphaned children around the world the area affected by Ebola. RADISSON BLU INTRODUCES #BLUROUTES FOR FITNESS ­ENTHUSIASTS There’s no need to skip workouts while travelling. Our Radisson Blu hotels have intro­ duced a new programme which provides guests with local running and cycling routes. #BluRoutes start and end at the hotel. They are designed to help guests maintain their exercise routines while travelling. Each route has been carefully laid out by hotel staff who have a passion for sport. This ensures that our guests are experiencing the best running or cycling route that the local area has to offer. #BluRoutes can be accessed via the Radisson Blu One Touch app. Guests may also access #BluRoutes via the hotel’s website, or request a printed map from reception. For a full list of participating hotels go to www.radissonblu.com/bluroutes REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 33 THINK TOGETHER ETHICS The World’s Most Ethical Companies Rezidor Named as Ethical Business for designation recognises companies that Fifth Consecutive Year go beyond making statements about In 2014, Rezidor was listed as one of the doing business ‘ethically’ and translate World’s Most Ethical Companies by the those words into action. Recipients not Ethisphere Institute, a US think-thank only promote ethical business standards dedicated to business ethics. This is the and practices internally, they exceed fifth consecutive year in which Rezidor legal compliance minimums and shape has received this prestigious honour. future industry standards by introducing Ethical companies are identified by a best practices today. committee of leading attorneys, profes­ The recognition provides companies sors, government officials, and organisa­ with an opportunity to be recognised for tion leaders. The methodology for the their global ethics and compliance pro­ World’s Most Ethical ranking covers grammes. They are the companies who seven distinct categories: Corporate Citi­ lead, forcing other companies to follow or zenship and Responsibility; Corporate fall behind. Such companies use ethical Governance; Innovation that Contributes leadership as a profit driver. Each one to Public Well Being; Industry Leadership; embodies the true spirit of Ethisphere’s Executive Leadership and Tone from the credo: ‘Good. Smart. Business. Profit.’ Top; Legal, Regulatory and Reputation For more information go to Track Record; and Internal Systems and www.ethisphere.com. Ethics/Compliance Programme. 100% PINK ROOMS TO SUPPORT BREAST CANCER RESEARCH Joining in the fight against breast cancer during Pink October, Radisson Blu TOPICS INCLUDED IN CODE CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS hotels launched the ‘Be Pink!’ initiative. OF BUSINESS ETHICS IMPLEMENTATION Guests could reserve a BePink room in Rezidor’s Code of Business Ethics gov­ Rezidor’s Code of Business Ethics applies one of the participating hotels in Bruserns how we do business. It enables us to to every person who works for us and sels, Boulogne, Cannes, Djerba, Nice, take positions on key issues of business every one of our companies. It is distrib­ Paris, and Toulouse. ethics with a single voice. uted to all employees in the ‘It’s All About Alternatively they could make a The code includes ten principles which You’ employee handbook. The Code of donation with their normal booking. guide us whenever an ethical decision Business Ethics is available in summary By booking a BePink room 10 € needs to be made. The principles are: and detailed form on www.rezidor.com of the room rate was automatically and is included in our internal procedures donated to Europa Donna. Radisson 1. We respect the law manual. All employees are trained in the Blu hotels matched this donation with 2. We show respect for all persons Code of Business Ethics, its implications and an additional 10 € by for every night in all situations reporting processes. The training occurs booked. 3. We think ethically in the classroom-based Living RB course BePink partner Europa Donna is an 4. We act fairly which is mandatory for all employees. organisation of women who, whether sick or not, are affected by cancer and 5. We do not discriminate against the various treatment methods. They anyone for any reason believe that, as members of a commu6. We are honest and transparent nity, women should play an active role 7. We are loyal to our employer in making both the general public and 8. We do not exploit Rezidor’s institutions aware of breast cancer. The resources organisation works with healthcare 9. We think of safety at all times professionals, politicians, and top poli10. We take care of the Earth cymakers in a unified movement of positive activism. 34 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 THINK TOGETHER Rezidor Ethics Whistleblower Website: A Cornerstone in the Code of ANTI-BRIBERY TRAINING ANTI-BRIBERY COMPLIANCE Business Ethics implementation Rezidor’s Anti-Bribery e-learning proCompliance with the UK anti-bribery law A key pillar of ethics in Rezidor is gramme provides participants with the and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act opportunity to understand our company’s (FCPA) is ensured by www.rezidorethics.com, a website run policies and procedures and know how to • making adherence part of our Code by an independent third-party organisa­ correctly respond to any bribery related of Business Ethics tion – Ethics Point. Employees can use issues. The training is in line with the UK • training employees this site to find information on our Code Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt • inserting a reference in all partner of Business Ethics and report concerns Practices Act. The aim of the course is to contracts educate individuals about anti-bribery • confirming compliance by all employees in anonymously. ­regulations and the consequences if they management positions once per year. Any employee with concerns or ques­ are not applied correctly. At the end of the tions about the Code is encouraged to training, participants know how to behave raise these directly with their supervisor and act or react when confronted with or person of trust in the hotel or regional ­bribery. organisation. If this is not possible, the employee can report the issue on www.rezidorethics.com. The site and hotline are available in eleven ­languages. Compliance Rezidor does not make any contribu­ tions or give other support (direct or indirect) to political parties or individual politicians. The Rezidor Hotel Group receives no direct or significant financial subsidies from governmental organisations in the countries where we operate hotels. However, a number of our hotels have received subsidies or tax relief for their Think Planet environmental investments. The benefit of these subsidies totalled 245,000 € in 2014. Subsidies or tax relief was granted in Belgium, Denmark, Georgia, Germany, Mali, Norway, South Africa, Tunisia, and Turkey. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 35 SUMMARY OF PROGRESS SUMMARY OF PROGRESS Responsible Business Indicators 2014 Result 2013 Result Employees Percentage of hotels that comply with local labour laws (working hours, freedom of association, equal, opportunities and non-discrimination) 100% 100% Employee satisfaction: Climate Analysis score 87.5% 87% Percentage of hotels that have made information on www.rezidorethics.com available to employees 96% 97% Customers Third party eco-labels (% of all Rezidor hotels) 75% 69% Responsible Business page on hotel website (% of all Rezidor hotels) 88% 75% Provide refillable amenity dispensers in public washrooms (% of all Rezidor hotels) 90% 93% Facilities for waste sorting by guests (% of all Rezidor hotels) 42% 37% Percentage of hotel rooms that are non-smoking 91% 88% Percentage of non-smoking hotels (guestrooms and public spaces) 72% 59% Property owners Number of hotel owners informed about the Responsible Business programme and hotel activities 92% 95% Suppliers Percentage of hotels sharing Rezidor Supplier Code of Conduct with their suppliers 81% 79% Percentage of hotels which request or provide advice on how suppliers can improve their ­environmental, social or ethical performance 27% 30% Percentage organic food and drinks served 11% Not comparable Percentage of Fairtrade food and drinks served 10% Not comparable Authorities Legal cases to Responsible Business legislation (environment, anti-bribery) ZERO ZERO Community Amount of money raised for corporate and local charities World Childhood Foundation (in €) 137,060 € 145,794 € Local charities (in €) 643,443 € 563,769 € Number of hotels participating in Responsible Business Action Month in September 269 265 Environment Reduction in energy use (kWh/m2) 256 281 Reduction in energy use (kWh/occupied room) 85 91 CO2-equivalent emissions/guest-night (GN) 21.4 22.8 Water usage (litres/GN) 335 340 Residual waste to landfill or incineration (kg/GN) 1.26 1.96 36 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 Radisson Blu Oslo Alna, Oslo, Norway REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 37 ECO-LABELLED HOTELS 254 ECO-LABELLED HOTELS Austrian Eco-Label (1) Croatia Georgia Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Dubrovnik Radisson Blu Hotel, Batumi Sun Gardens Radisson Blu Resort, Split Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel, Tbilisi BREEAM (2) Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport Czech Republic Germany Radisson Blu Resort & Congress Centre, Sochi Park Inn by Radisson Ostrava Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin Park Inn Prague Radisson Blu Hotel, Bremen Earth Check Gold (1) Radisson Blu Alcron Hotel, Prague Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir Radisson Blu Park Hotel & Conference Centre, Denmark Dresden Radebeul Golden Leaf (1) Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus Radisson Blu Hotel, Dortmund Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Copenhagen Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Düsseldorf Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Düsseldorf Green Globe (2) Radisson Blu Falconer Hotel & Conference Park Inn by Radisson Erfurt-Apfelstädt Radisson Blu Hotel, Cottbus ­Centre, Copenhagen Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir Radisson Blu H.C. Andersen Hotel, Odense Park Inn by Radisson Frankfurt Airport Radisson Blu Fredensborg Hotel, Bornholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt Green Hospitality Award, Ireland (12) Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Dublin Egypt Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Radisson Blu Farnham Estate Hotel, Cavan Radisson Blu Hotel, Cairo Heliopolis Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport Radisson Blu St. Helen’s Hotel, Dublin Park Inn by Radisson Lübeck Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport Estonia Radisson Blu Senator Hotel, Lübeck Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn Park Inn by Radisson Munich Frankfurter Ring Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Galway Radisson Blu Hotel, Tallinn Park Inn by Radisson Munich East Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn Park Inn by Radisson Nürnberg Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny Radisson Blu Resort Schloss Fleesensee Park Inn by Radisson Cork Airport Finland Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki Park Inn by Radisson Stuttgart Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Wiesbaden Airport Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Blu Hotel, Neubrandenburg Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu Iceland Green Key (195) Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku Radisson Blu Saga Hotel, Reykjavik Austria Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Vaasa Radisson Blu 1919 Hotel, Reykjavik Park Inn by Radisson Linz Radisson Blu Style Hotel, Vienna France Italy Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Ajaccio Bay Radisson Blu Hotel, Milan Bahrain Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Residence Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes Jordan & Spa, Manama Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 Radisson Blu Tala Bay Resort, Aqaba Park Inn by Radisson Nancy Belgium Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon Kazakhstan Park Inn by Radisson Antwerp Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port Park Inn by Radisson, Astana Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport Radisson Hotel, Astana Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Midi Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels Radisson Blu Hotel, Nantes Kuwait Radisson Blu EU Hotel, Brussels Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne Radisson Blu Hotel, Kuwait Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland® Resort Paris Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Spa Radisson Blu Le Metropolitan Hotel, Paris Eiffel Latvia Radisson Blu Balmoral Hotel, Spa Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysées, Paris Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris Charles de Gaulle Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga Park Inn by Radisson Leuven ­Airport Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga Radisson Blu Le Dokhan’s Hotel, Paris Trocadero Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga Bulgaria Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport Park Inn by Radisson Sofia Lebanon Radisson Blu Grand Hotel, Sofia Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, Beirut 38 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 ECO-LABELLED HOTELS Lithuania Park Inn by Radisson Sheremetyevo Airport, The Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina Park Inn by Radisson Klaipeda Moscow Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda Park Inn by Radisson Petrozavodsk Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas Park Inn by Radisson Vilnius North Saudi Arabia Green Leaf (5) Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar South Africa Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront, Cape Town Netherlands Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh Park Inn by Radisson Sandton Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Noordwijk-aan-Zee Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, Schiphol Serbia Ethiopia Radisson Blu Old Mill Hotel, Belgrade Radisson Blu Hotel, Addis Ababa Norway Radisson Blu Hotel, Ålesund Spain The Green Tourism Business Scheme, UK (27) Radisson Blu Hotel Norge, Bergen Radisson Blu Hotel, Madrid Prado Park Inn by Radisson Belfast Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Bergen Radisson Blu Resort, Gran Canaria Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodø Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham Walsall Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Kristiansand Sweden Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham West Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Göteborg Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Conference Park Inn by Radisson Malmö Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol Centre Oslo Alna Radisson Blu Hotel, Malmö Radisson Blu Hotel, Cardiff Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Airport Park Inn by Radisson Solna Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow Radisson Blu Hotel, Oslo Alna Radisson Blu Strand Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Fornebu, Oslo Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Park Inn by Radisson Thurrock Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm Park Inn Heathrow, London Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London Park Inn by Radisson Stavanger Park Inn by Radisson Lund Radisson Blu Hotel, Liverpool Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger Park Inn by Radisson Bedford Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger Switzerland Park Inn by Radisson Manchester, Victoria Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen Park Inn by Radisson Nottingham Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne Park Inn by Radisson Northampton Park Inn by Radisson Lully Park Inn by Radisson York City Centre Oman Park Inn by Radisson Zurich Airport Park Inn by Radisson Palace, Southend-on-Sea Park Inn by Radisson Muscat Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport Park Inn by Radisson Harlow Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Airport, Tunisia Stansted Poland Radisson Blu Ulysse Resort & Thalasso, Djerba Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk Radisson Blu Resort & Thalasso, Djerba Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham Park Inn by Radisson Krakow Radisson Blu Resorts & Thalasso, Hammamet Park Inn by Radisson Telford Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin Turkey ISO 1400 (1) Radisson Blu Centrum Hotel, Warsaw Radisson Blu Hotel, Ankara Luxembourg Radisson Blu Sobieski Hotel, Warsaw Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Asia Park Inn by Radisson Luxembourg City Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Pera Radisson Blu Bosphorus Hotel, Istanbul Hungarian Green Hotel Award (3) Romania Radisson Blu Conference & Airport Hotel, Istanbul Radisson Blu Béke Hotel, Budapest Radisson Blu Hotel, Bucharest Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme Park Inn by Radisson Budapest Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Sisli Park Inn by Radisson Sarvar Russia Park Inn by Radisson Rosa Khutor Ukraine Maltese Eco-label (1) Park Inn by Radisson Sochi City Centre Park Inn by Radisson Donetsk Radisson Blu Bay Point Resort, St. Julian’s Radisson Blu Resort & Congress Centre, Sochi Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev Radisson Blu Beach Resort & Spa, Sochi Radisson Blu Hotel, Kyiv Podil Nordic Swan Eco-label (3) Radisson Blu Hotel, Rosa Khutor Radisson Blu Resort, Bukovel Norway Park Inn by Radisson Astrakhan Radisson Resort, Alushta Radisson Blu Polar Hotel, Spitsbergen Park Inn by Radisson Yaroslavl Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad United Arab Emirates Sweden Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiskaya, St. Petersburg Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Yas Island Park Inn by Radisson Uppsala Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek Hammarby Sjöstad Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Downtown Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg Radisson Royal Hotel, Dubai Park Inn by Radisson Veliky Novgorod Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 39 GRI STANDARD ­DISCLOSURES TABLE GRI STANDARD ­DISCLOSURES TABLE AR = Rezidor Annual Report 2014 RBR = Rezidor Responsible Business Report 2014 Indicator according to Global Reporting Initiative (G3) Page 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO RBR 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities RBR 4 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation RBR 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services RBR 2 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures RBR 2, AR 17–21, AR Accounts 14, 32 RBR inside 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters front cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with major operations AR 17–21, AR 30–32 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 16 2.7 Markets served RBR 2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation RBR 2, AR 30–32 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership AR Accounts 14 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period RBR 7, AR 38 3. Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period RBR inside 3.2 Date of most recent previous report front cover 3.3 Reporting cycle 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents RBR inside front cover REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality • Prioritising topics within the report RBR 4–6 • Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report 3.6 Boundary of the report RBR inside 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report front cover 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can ­significantly AR 16, affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations AR Accounts 2–4, 32 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report AR inside back cover 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report RBR 40–41 40 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 GRI STANDARD ­DISCLOSURES TABLE Indicator according to Global Reporting Initiative (G3) Page 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement GOVERNANCE 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for ­specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight AR Accounts 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 52–60 4.3 F or organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non–executive members STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation RBR 6 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 5. Performance Indicators ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 D  irect economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations AR Accounts and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 10–13, RBR 35 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change RBR 4, 10 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government RBR 35 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Core EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement RBR 31 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source RBR 11 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements RBR 11 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy ­requirements as a result of these initiatives RBR 11 Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved RBR 10–18 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK INDICATORS Aspect: Employment Aspect: Training and Education LA11 P  rogrammes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings RBR 24–25 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews RBR 23 HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken RBR 19 HR3 T  otal hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to ­operations, including the percentage of employees trained RBR 21, 27 SOCIETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures RBR 36 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption RBR 35 Aspect : Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying RBR 35 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country RBR 35 Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non–monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations RBR 19, 35 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS N/A REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 41 GLOBAL COMPACT COMPLIANCE GLOBAL COMPACT COMPLIANCE Principles of the Global Compact Rezidor Systems and Processes HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1: Businesses should support and respect • Living & Leading Responsible Business • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements the protection of internationally p ­ roclaimed human rights. Training • Human Rights Policy • Employee Handbook – It’s All About You Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are • Code of Business Ethics • Policy against the Facilitation of Prostitution not complicit in human rights abuses. • w ww.rezidorethics.com • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Human Rights Policy LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom • Human Resources Guidelines • Supplier Code of Conduct of association and the effective ­recognition of the right • Employee Handbook • Employment Principles to collective bargaining. • European Works Councils Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination • Code of Business Ethics • Employment Principles of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Human Rights Policy Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective • Code of Business Ethics • Employment Principles abolition of child labour. • ECPAT Code of Conduct • Human Rights Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination • Human Rights Policy • Policy against Sexual Harassment of discrimination in respect • Employee Handbook and Illicit Activities to employment and occupation. • Living & Leading Responsible Business • Social Networking Policy training • Supplier Code of Conduct • Policy on Recruitment and Selection • Employment Principles • Transfer Policy • Human Resources Guidelines ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary • Responsible Business Policy • Environmental reporting and targets approach to environmental ­challenges. • Responsible Construction and Renovation • Think Planet Energy and Water Action Plans Guidelines • Think Planet Solutions Catalogue Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to • Global Compact Caring for Climate • Living & Leading Responsible Business promote greater environmental responsibility. • Responsible Business Policy training • Responsible Construction and Renovation • Supplier Code of Conduct Guidelines • Hotel eco-labels • Think Planet tools • Club Carlson Meetings Minus Carbon Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the • Responsible Construction and • Club Carlson Meetings Minus Carbon development and diffusion of ­environmentally friendly Renovation Guidelines • Eco-labelled hotels technologies. • Think Planet tools and guest-facing communication ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption • Global Information Security Policy • Anti-Fraud Policy in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Code of Business Ethics and anti-bribery • Internal Audit training • Supplier Code of Conduct 42 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE ­BUSINESS TIMELINE LOREM IPSUM REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE ­BUSINESS TIMELINE Rezidor has a unique and long history of Responsible Business. There’s no business without Responsible Business at Rezidor. 1988 1989 1996 Creation and adoption of the SAS InternaFirst environmental policy driven by • Launch of the Radisson SAS environmental tional Hotels Safety and Security Standards. SAS Group. programme with 24 action points. • Founding member of the International Hotels Environment Initiative. 2001 2003 2004 • Launch of the Responsible Business programme • Launch of Hotel Environment Action Month • Rezidor’s efforts are recognised with the encompassing the three pillars of health and (now Responsible Business Action Month). Hospitality Award for Environmental well-being; social and ethical responsibility; and • Radisson SAS Plaza Hotel, Oslo, is first Rezidor ­Protection. environmental responsibility. property to receive third-party environmental • C arlson Companies signs ECPAT Code of • First Responsible Business training initiated with ­certification with the Nordic Swan eco-label. Conduct against sexual exploitation of 35% of staff trained by year-end. • Rezidor becomes chair of International Hotels ­children. • Monthly reporting of energy, water and waste. Environment Initiative Executive Committee. • Save the Children becomes corporate charity organisation. 2007 2008 2009 • World Childhood Foundation becomes • Launch of www.rezidorethics.com, an independently man• Rezidor signs the United Nations Global corporate charity organisation. aged website which enables employees to raise concerns Compact. • Rezidor is first international hotel group to about potential breaches of our Code of Business Ethics. offer guests carbon offsetting. • Monthly TRIC=S safety and security reports distributed to all General Managers. • Rezidor is one of the founding members of US State Department’s Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC) Hotel Security Working Group. Rezidor has a unique and long history of Responsible Business. There’s no business without Responsible Business at Rezidor. 2010 2011 2012 • First time awarded as one of the World’s • Rezidor targets 100% eco-labelled hotels by • Think Planet Energy saving initiative targets Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere 2015 and achieves an eco-label for 55% of 25% consumption savings in 5 years. Institute. hotels. • First global Responsible Business action month with Carlson Companies. 20 YEARS 2013 • Rezidor becomes lead partner of the Youth OVER Career Initiative. OF CONTINUOUS COMMITMENT • New Responsible Business training launched. TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 43 www.rezidor.com
