STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Malmö, 19 August, 2015 Wihlborgs will in 2015 and 2016 continue to embrace, support and enact the ten principles in Global Compact, within our sphere of influence. This commitment also implies that we shall continuously evaluate the ten principles with regard to our related conduct and performance. Wihlborgs operates within two countriesSweden and Denmarkand we have decided to continue with the Global Compact. We believe it is important that we carry out all parts of our business activities in a sustainable and ethical manner. We also wish to contribute to a long-term approach vis-a-vis our employees, partners, suppliers, customers, and society in general. In April 2015 we could proudly present our fourth Sustainability Report, level B+. In page 40 in the report you can take part of the crosstable for Global Compact and GRI. The table illustrates the ten principles in Global Compact. The Sustainability Report includes a report on the ten principles. The principles are presented in the GRI index with reference to Global Compact. We have earlier published two independent Communication on Progress (year 2010 and 2011), our Sustainability Report includes our sixth Communication on Progress. At the end of 2009, we also decided to join the CSR-Skåne network, and during 2012/2013 we continued and ended our participation. Since 2014 we decided to join another network called WSP Sustainable Biz. This is also a network within the region for companies, organizations and NGOs that wish to obtain knowledge, experience and tools to work with social and community responsibility. During 2015, we continued our participation in Sustainable Biz. For example, we have participated in seminars abut supplier evaluation and a workshop about GRI G4. We recognize that a key requirement for participating in the Global Compact is the annual submissions of a Communication on Progress which describes our company´s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore annually continue to report on progress according to the Global Compact COP policy. Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Anders Jarl, CEO Wihl borg s Su sta in ab ilit yR o rt ep 14 20 Contents and introduction Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 3 04 06 08 11 CEO’s Statement Introducing About our Governance Wihlborgs sustainability report 16 18 32 36 Financial Environmental Social Global Reporting responsibility responsibility responsibility Initiative Index 40 41 42 45 Global Compact Auditors' Report Glossary Contact persons 46 Sustainability Highlights 2014 Wihlborgs Fastigheter Wihlborgs is the leading property company in the Öresund region, owning property with a total market value of SEK 24.3 billion. The lettable area of the property totals 1.6 million square metres. The total rental value is SEK 2.0 billion. The property portfolio consists in the main of commercial properties. The Company’s shares are quoted on the Mid Cap List of the OMX Nordic Exchange. A word from the CEO Sustainability is a prerequisite for profitability This CEO’s statement is a little special to me: Wihlborgs is celebrating ten years on the stock market. Our property portfolio has more than tripled since 2005. To sum up 2014, we recorded our highestever income from property management. We have long talked of financial profitability, but it has also become increasingly important to take a position on environmental and social issues. Every year, it becomes clearer and clearer that we have a responsibility to think outside our own business areas – and to see ourselves as part of a larger context. We regard our work on sustainability with both respect and humility. To us, taking responsibility means steering to grow in a sustainable way. We are also seeing rising demands from our investors – you need to have a clear sustainability strategy in order to be a serious player in the real estate market. And we intend to be just that. In this, our fourth sustainability report, we summarize the events of the past year, which presented quite a number of new partnerships, challenges and opportunities. A proactive focus on sustainability In addition, we are steadily expanding, and our regions are becoming more and more autonomous. With large numbers of new To us at Wihlborgs, sustainability issues are becoming more and colleagues, we need to take initiatives to maintain and develop more integrated into our day-to-day work throughout the Comthe organization’s philosophy and expertise. With that in mind we pany. For example, in property management our focus has been invested resources in leadership, feedback training and induction on setting clear targets for energy consumption in our properprogrammes for new employees during 2014. We also built up our ties. Over the past ten years, our energy efficiency projects have own leadership model which we will continue to develop over the resulted in both energy and monetary savings. You can read more next two years. about our savings in the section on environmental responsibility. But we are well aware that we impact on the environment in other ways too. In response, we have taken initiatives over the years, Collaboration with customers such as LPG-powered service vans, having letting managers It is important for us to be transparent and to maintain an active use electric cars, purchasing a fleet of company bicycles, clear and close dialogue with our stakeholders. We have maintained environmental requirements for our company cars etc. In the case in-depth dialogues with selected representatives of our different of our properties, I can now confirm that in the past year alone, we stakeholder groups over the years. In 2014, we also invited various installed two solar power facilities under our own management. stakeholders to attend a talk giving more detail of our work on We are now focusing closely on environmental certification of sustainability. our properties. Since 2011, we have been working towards our Many of our customers have continued to show an interest in environmental vision, which states that we should continue to our work on sustainability and would be in favour of long-term expand, but reduce our environmental impact. To that end, we are collaboration in the areas affecting them in practical terms. For maintaining a concentration on systems that reduce environmenexample, in autumn 2014, we signed a lease with a major food tal impact. company and it became clear fairly soon that the company was Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 5 to all employees in how we see these issues and have produced a guide as to how employees should act. This training is now part of our compulsory induction day for new recruits. Issues raised by investors have also changed over the past ten years. A few years ago, we were asked a question about whether we had control over our supplier chain from the viewpoint of sustainability. Because we operate in the Öresund Region, which extends over two national arenas – Sweden and Denmark – we have opted to place a limit on local visits to our suppliers and subcontract suppliers. On the other hand, we have become better at asking to-the-point questions. This emanated in a questionnaire on environment, quality, work environment and ethics. Along with their answers to our questions, our suppliers also send us documentation to confirm their information. And to simplify the work of our employees, we have developed a mobile app listing the suppliers we have approved. We are proud – and our work is appreciated by others Playing a part in the development of enterprise in our region creates a sense of pride in our day-to-day work. We are among those creating attractive workplaces and conditions for more companies and organization to establish operations here. We also contribute through all the work we do specifically to take responsibility for the Anders Jarl, Chief Executive Officer at Wihlborgs since 2004. environment and society. And, at times, the outside world also takes notice of our initialooking for cooperation in environmental and social issues. tives. It is with pride that I would like to point out that in 2014 the We discussed a number of joint projects related to ecosystem GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) Foundation services (you can read more on this in the section on our nominated Wihlborgs as a role model for how companies can environmental goals for 2015-2017), choice of interiors with lower work on energy efficiency. We report annually to GRESB, a global environmental impact, the possibility of solar panels etc. There is association of international investors, and in September 2011 also keen interest in social aspects that are expected in a modern Wihlborgs was awarded the top status, Green Star. Wihlborgs was workplace, such as how to create pleasant environments in an the only Swedish property company to be awarded this status. open-plan office, what to take into consideration with regard to daylight and noise insulation, what is necessary for efficient waste sorting facilities, access to car pools and close availability of Increased job satisfaction public transport. Ten years ago, these topics were not on the agenda and this says a lot about the progress, and it is important through work on sustainability for us to continue forward in the same spirit. Much has happened at Wihlborgs over the past ten years in sustainability and this is largely thanks to the efforts of our highly comDaring to take a position in mitted employees. Many of the above mentioned initiatives were suggestions from the employees. And my ambition is to create the doing business conditions that will enable us for developing Wihlborgs together. Being involved and actively taking responsibility is part of our job Our relationships and our way of working are characterized by our satisfaction. values of knowledge, honesty, action and community. Simple yet important words. More or less common sense. But common sense is not always enough to provide guidance in our day-to-day work. Ever since we signed up to the UN Global The decision to report sustainability in Compact, business ethics have been on our agenda. We receive accordance with GRI was approved by questions from employees and have also observed higher awareWihlborgs’ Board of Directors in August ness and stricter requirements externally. Requirements to act in 2010. The Board of Directors unanimously approves Wihlborgs Sustainability Report way that is clearly ethically correct. for 2014. Of course, we take a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of corruption, but in an industry in which events are held and Malmö, April 2015 arrangements made to build and maintain business relationships, Malmö, April 2015 The Board of Directors, clarity on such issues is a must. As a result, we have given training Anders Jarl, Chief Executive Officer Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Introducing Wihlborgs Job satisfaction is in our DNA At Wihlborgs, we place a high value on job satisfaction – it is one of our driving forces as landlord for many of the most successful companies in the Öresund Region. Of course, it is also part of our role to help our customers create a positive work environment in which employees feel at home and the company can develop. With this in mind, we work closely with our customers when building new and redeveloping existing premises. One important stage in the process is to collaborate with skilled architects in order to create high-quality, functional spaces. To us, the task is to keep up with developments and be prepared for new requirements and needs that emerge. Here, sustainability play an important role – being a modern property company is also about having a modern approach to ethical and environmental issues. Business concept centre responsibility, in which property managers, property directors and Group Management together lay down the guidelines for Specializing in efficient sub-markets in the Öresund region, the unit’s operations. Wihlborgs will own, manage in-house and develop commercial We operate in four regions, each with a regional director reproperties. sponsible for the region, who drives the business forward according to the Wihlborgs philosophy. A local office operates in each Employees and structure region: Malmö HQ (Dockan), Lund (Ideon), Helsingborg (Berga) and Copenhagen (Herlev). On 31 December 2014, Wihlborgs had 117 employees, including Improvements to the property portfolio are handled by a 22 in Denmark. 103 employees work full-time and 14 part-time. project department that is responsible for newbuild and redevelWihlborgs' Group Management consists of the CEO, CFO, opment projects, procurement and following-up. Director of Corporate Communication, Director of HR/CSR and Projects/Business Development Director. Group Management has overall responsibility for coordinating the Company’s operations. Property portfolio as of We have a number of group executive functions: Economy/ Finance, Procurement, Environment, HR/CSR, Communication and 31 December 2014 Customer Relations. These functions conduct Group-wide develWihlborgs Fastigheter AB (publ) is the biggest commercial property opment initiatives and provide functional support. owner exclusively focused on the Öresund region. We have 269 All our property management is conducted by our own personproperties with a combined market value of SEK 24.3 billion. The nel, who know our clientele and are on hand to quickly respond total lettable area of these is 1.6 million square metres with a total to our customers’ expectations and demands. rental value of SEK 2 billion. Every property management unit operates with clear profit Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 7 For further information, see Note 18 in Wihlborgs’ 2014 Annual Report. Share information Wihlborgs is a Swedish public limited company that is listed on Helsingborg Nasdaq OMX Nordic Stockholm. Wihlborgs has been listed on the Nordic Mid Cap list since 2006. On 31 December 2014 the largest shareholder in Wihlborgs was Erik Paulsson and family with 10.1 percent of the shares outLund Copenhagen standing. The ten largest Swedish shareholders held 33.2 percent Malmö and foreign shareholders 35.5 percent. Events in 2014 AA During the year, Wihlborgs acquired ten properties and Geographic investment divested four. Our strategy is to be present in locations where we identify the AA In August 2014, Wihlborgs submitted its latest Communication potential for long term growth. As a result, Wihlborgs is repreon Progress in accordance with the UN Global Compact – see sented in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen with a head wihlborgs.com/COP. There were no significant changes in the office in Malmö. Company during the accounting period up to today’s date. In each of these locations, we are also geographically concentrated in a number of sub-markets, which makes us uniquely able to assure cost efficient management. Local involvement It is important for us to be actively involved in various organisations and networks. Several of our employees sit on external boards. Today, we are represented on the boards of various organizations in the property and housing sector, including Fastighetsägarna Syd, Fastighetsföreningen Lund City, Malmö Citysamverkan, Lund Citysamverkan, Helsingborg Citysamverkan, Medeon, Ideon, Näringslivets Miljöchefer (the Swedish Association of Environmental Managers), Solar Region Skåne and Øresundsinstituttet. Subsidiaries and joint arrangements There are 153 companies in the group, including the Parent Company. However, not all are subsidiaries of the Parent Company. In addition to the wholly-owned subsidiaries, the Group has three joint ventures and three interests in joint operations. Awards and recognition Joint Ventures during 2014 • Hälsostaden Ängelholm Holding AB was established to develop Wihlborgs reports annually to the GRESB Foundation, a global the site around Ängelholm Hospital into a health care city. association of international investors. In 2014, 637 of the biggest • Medeon AB is marketing Medeon Science Park, a research park property funds and property companies in the world each disin Malmö focusing on life sciences. closed detailed information on environmental performance within • Ideon AB was established to strengthen and develop Ideon as their property portfolio. One of the areas of disclosure concerned a creative and active research community. energy efficiency and what is actually being done in that area. In Joint operations the report, which GRESB compiles annually, Wihlborgs was in 2014 • Dockan Exploatering conducts development activities in the selected as a role model for how companies can work on energy Dockan area of Malmö. efficiency. GRESB will use Wihlborgs as an example in its public • Nyckel 0328 AB is engaged in financing activities via its subsiactivities. As part of the programme, Wihlborgs’ CFO Arvid Liepe diary, Svensk FastighetsFinansiering AB. was invited to attend as a speaker at a breakfast forum arranged • The new SFF began its financing activities in February 2015. by GRESB and the Danish Property Federation in spring 2015. About our sustainability report Wihlborgs fourth sustainability report Wihlborgs has been reporting on sustainability since 2011, at GRI level B+, and we now present our fourth sustainability report. As of 2015, we plan to switch to the new G4 reporting system. In December 2014, we took the first step, in the form of a workshop for a temporarily expanded CSR unit. A materiality analysis was carried out and will form the framework for work over the years ahead. About our sustainability report in the “Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement” (CRE.1). We have used version GRI version G3.1 in this report. The GRI Our sustainability report covers all our business operations in Index on page 36-39 shows the links between G3.1, CRE.1 and ISO Sweden and Denmark, Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB and all 153 subsi26 000. The “Key figures and calculations” document on our webdiaries. Joint ventures are not included. Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB site describes how we went about compiling these key figures, in does not own any properties, they are all owned by our subsidiaries. the section Environment. The sustainability report consists of pages 1-39 of this docuThe sustainability report has been printed in a limited number ment, together with the “Key figures and calculations” document of copies in Swedish. It will also be available for downloading from on our Website. Where we have control over, and can fully deterthe Wihlborgs website from 17 April 2015 – http://www.wihlborgs. mine the outcome of, information generated within the Group for se/en/investor-relations/reports/ the sustainability report, we can take full responsibility for this If you have any questions or comments on the report, please information (see chart on page 12, section B). contact any member of the Wihlborgs CSR group; for contact The report also describes sustainability work relating to exdetails, see page 45. Wihlborgs’ latest Sustainability Report was ternal stakeholders, in this case mainly suppliers and contractors published on 14 April 2014. (see illustration on page 12, points C and D). We set requirements for our suppliers but do not exercise the same degree of control over them and their sub-contractors. The chart on page 12 illustraRisk A risk is always a risk, but a risk is also something you can take tes the stakeholders in Wihlborgs that have been identified. on board and develop into something positive. In preparing for our first sustainability report in 2011, we decided what our ten Reporting foremost risks were and then reformulated them into specific Our accounting year is the calendar year and the reporting cycle shortand long-term sustainability goals, which we then focused is for the whole year. The report (at B+ level) covers the period on in the 2011-2013 period. 1 January-31 December 2014. The next sustainability report will In 2014, the CSR group re-assessed the risks and concluded be published in April 2016. that several of them were not relevant to the years ahead. We believe that the sustainability report meets the requireThe risks that affect Wihlborgs, including environmental risks, ments for application level B+. An external audit of our sustaiare presented on pages 82-85 of Wihlborgs 2014 Annual Report. nability report in accordance with GRI has been performed by In 2015, we will undertake a further risk analysis relating to speciDeloitte. The auditors’ report appears on page 41. We have also fic climate risks. chosen to apply certain aspects of the recently issued guidelines Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 9 Governance, undertakings and commitments Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 11 Many of us can play a part in driving Wihlborgs forward Wihlborgs is not driven only by its Board of Directors, shareholders and management, but also by the insights we gain by listening to others. We need to know and understand what our tenants, suppliers and the world around us at large expect of companies such as Wihlborgs. As part of our everyday business, we therefore engage in an ongoing dialogue with our various stakeholders. Framework The Board and CEO Wihlborgs is a listed company that is subject to rules and reguThe Wihlborgs Board shall on its owners’ behalf manage the lations on corporate governance. In addition to legislation, the company in the best interests of the shareholders, and such as to Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and stock exchange rules ensure a satisfactory long-term return on assets, in accordance also apply. The business is monitored and supervised by external with set rules of procedure. The Wihlborgs Board consists of auditors and Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. seven directors, of whom five are independent of the Company. Two members are considered to be non-independent, namely Erik Shareholder power Paulsson, Chair, on account of his shareholding in Wihlborgs, and Board member Anders Jarl, who also serves as CEO of Wihlborgs. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the highest decision-makIn view of the Company’s size, Wihlborgs does not have ing body. Every shareholder has the right to participate in the separate audit and remuneration committees. To monitor deAGM and raise various issues. One of the many important duties velopments in the credit market, Wihlborgs has an interest rate of the AGM is to elect members of the Board of the company. The committee which meets every two months and presents reports AGM also resolves on guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and proposals to the Board. and leading decision makers. The Company's auditors check that The Board and Group Management are responsible for ensurthese guidelines are adhered to. All details of the AGM are availaing that work on the environment, work environment, monitoring ble on the Wihlborgs website. of ethical guidelines, social responsibility and sustainable Governance, undertakings and commitments, Communication with stakeholders development, is performed in line with the rules, strategies and goals established. This responsibility also includes presenting a Corporate Governance Report sustainability report in accordance with GRI. The report is drawn The Corporate Governance Report in full may be downloaded from up at B+ level and incorporates Wihlborgs’ Communication on the Wihlborgs website and is included in the 2014 Annual Report. Progress in line with the principles stated in the Global Compact. For more information on the procedures for good corporate governance with regard to the Board's qualifications, procedures Wihlborgs’ stakeholders Every day, we are in contact with tenants, partners, investors, conand processes, see Wihlborgs’ Corporate Governance Report on tractors and other stakeholders. These contacts remind us that pages 126-133 of the 2014 Annual Report. The Board's work is aswe operate in a broader context, and that our success depends sessed annually, and every two years Board members are required on our ability to understand and continuously develop our role in to complete an in-depth questionnaire to determine what changes partnership with others. need to be made in the work done by the Board. In addition to obtaining information from our day-to-day contacts, we conduct targeted questionnaire-based surveys to obtain Group Management more broadly-based material from certain stakeholder groups. Wihlborgs' Group Management has overall responsibility for manThese include Customer Satisfaction (NKI) and Employee Satisaging the Company. The CEO, who is also a member of the Board, faction (NMI) surveys. Input of this kind helps us with prioritizing reports directly to the Wihlborgs Board. initiatives focused on any specific stakeholder group. With regard to sustainability issues, we have established an During work on Wihlborgs’ first sustainability report, a stakein-house CSR group that deals with these issues and is responsiholder analysis was carried out. For detailed information, see our ble for involving the Company's employees. 2011 Sustainability Report. The chart below shows Wihlborgs’ key Senior executives are not entitled to bonuses; for more inforstakeholders: mation, see Note 8 to the financial statements in Wihlborgs’ 2014 Annual Report. Identifying Wihlborgs' key stakeholders * = Key stakeholders A. Society in general Municipalities* Neighbours Stakeholder organizations Networks Media Schools/Universities Legislators Public authorities Citizens Auditors B. Wihlborg Fastigheter AB Employees* Board of Directors* Contract personnel C. Supplier chain Suppliers* Contractors* Lenders* Sub-contractors D. Value chain Tenants* Sub-tenants Shareholders* Tenants’ employees Sponsorship recipients Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 13 CSR Strategi High Medium Importance Inform Focus Waste Employees’ health & safety Biodiversity Anti-corruption Non-discrimination Energy consumption Complaint-handling, working conditions Financial performance Complaint-handling, human rights Indirect economic impact Customer health & safety Competence development for employees Supplier’s assessment of environmental impact Local purchases Supplier’s assessment of working conditions Supplier’s assessment of impact on society Use of materials Environmental impact from products & services Fair employment conditions Diversity and equality of opportunity Impact of business on local communities Labelling of products & services Emissions Three years of dialogues with as well as during everyday work. The aim is to raise the general level of knowledge within the organization. stakeholders – what we’ve learnt The challenge that remains for us is precisely this: to continue We have now been reporting on our work on sustainability for listening, to learn from feedback and to deliver in the right areas. three years and over this period we have conducted an annual That makes prioritization an important issue. We have started stakeholder dialogue, which we have developed each year. work on a new materiality analysis – with the expressed ambition In 2011, we approached 200 stakeholders with a number of of achieving a more focused approach to sustainability and clearer questions about sustainability. The following year, we conducted communication. This clarity and prioritization is also one of the a more extensive survey with a smaller number of stakeholders, objectives of the GRI’s new G4 (in a note to G4) framework. and in 2013 this survey was followed up via in-depth interviews with the stakeholders concerned. Step 1 – Wihlborgs’ internal We are now in a phase where we can summarize the lessons we have learnt from the stakeholder dialogues, with the ambition materiality analysis of integrating our sustainability initiatives even more into our opFrom what emerged from dialogues and surveys in previous years, erational activities and determining priorities for the future. and from the year’s NKI and NMI surveys, an expanded CSR group During 2014, we processed the input we obtained from our was assembled and established an initial priority – a materiality in-depth interviews in 2013. It emerged that expectations among analysis. We started with the sustainability factors defined in G4 external stakeholders had risen with regard to our proactivity. One and set priorities on the basis of the impact of these factors on stakeholder, for example, said that “everyone fronting Wihlborgs in Wihlborgs’ success. The above chart will be updated and further business situations must talk sustainability”. In response to this wish, clarified during 2015. we have incorporated the theme of sustainability into our induction day for new recruits, as well as into our business ethics training. Step 2 – Wihlborgs’ external Last year’s stakeholder dialogue also gave a clear indication that our stakeholders want to keep the dialogue alive and mainmateriality analysis tain personal contact. Against that background, we arranged a The categorization shown in the above chart will be established breakfast meeting in autumn 2014. We presented lessons learned with other stakeholder groups in 2015. We will also be developing and trends revealed through our stakeholder dialogue, and linked a sustainability framework. This will incorporate the approximately them into our day-to-day operations. four main areas with associated ambitions, targets and GRI key During the year, our environmental affairs director developed factors, against which we can measure our progress – in the same a simple, clear communications platform for the environmental way as we do for the environmental sector at present. sector. This will be used by all employees during customer events, Finally, we will be developing GRI G4 reporting on the basis of Governance, undertakings and commitments, Communication with stakeholders the materiality analysis and our sustainability framework in order The employee survey is broadly based, covering several areas to become more effective and more accurate in our communicarelated to the in-house psycho-social work environment – which is tion, in-house and externally. a crucial factor in well-being and job satisfaction and which affects employees’ actions vis-à-vis external parties. We also carried out Dialogues with stakeholders 2014 a sustainability survey as a supplement to the employee survey. The aim was to examine, in a focused way, the issues that employIn the course of 2014, we conducted extensive surveys of two ees felt were most important for the Company to engage in on a important stakeholder groups – customers and employees. There more general and commercial level. Here, Energy and resource are without doubt lessons to be learned from the feedback obconsumption by tenants ranked highest, followed by Ethics and tained from the two groups, in terms both of what works and what morality and Environment. needs to be developed. Employees – our ambassadors Tenants – our ambassadors to from within the outside world With regard to another important stakeholder group – existing Our regular employee survey is an excellent source of suggestions tenants – we conduct an NKI (Customer Satisfaction Index) survey as to how we can improve our organization and our work environevery two years. We phone our existing tenants and ask them ment. Out of the suggestions received, initiatives are selected for questions covering several areas. development. Last year’s survey led for example to a course in The highest rating went to our caretakers’ response (an Business Ethics and a guide as to how we should act. Another outaverage of 4.48, where the maximum is 5) and availability (4.30, come was leadership training for all managers. A third initiative that also out of 5). This indicates that day-to-day contacts are creating resulted directly from employee feedback is the Wihlborgs Classic good, strong relationships with our tenants. – a fitness programme to promote an active lifestyle and a sense The finding also correlates with the willingness to recommend, of community with colleagues. Through the initiative, we sponsor which went up this year. The proportion of respondents prepared a number of communal exercise and fitness activities (in running, to recommend Wihlborgs to others “highly” or “very highly” has cycling and swimming) in the cities where we are established. risen from 69 to 75 percent in two years. The main reasons for In this year’s employee survey, the response rate was just over tenants to recommend Wihlborgs “very highly” are flexibility, PR5 80 percent and around 300 comments were made in writing. It is service, good supply and standard of premises, geographical clear to see that employees feel pride in working for Wihlborgs location, responsiveness and availability. (3.7 on a scale of 1 to 4), and all suggestions indicate a commitIn the case of sustainability, we asked a more specific question: ment to the Company. Another positive aspect is that employees “Wihlborgs is endeavouring to develop sustainability, with a feel well-informed about how the Company is progressing. focus on reducing its environmental impact (via energy efficiency A sustainable business is very much about creating an ongoprojects, green leases, transport, waste management etc.). Do ing dialogue and so the year’s findings have been examined by you think that Wihlborgs should put more effort into any of these the Work Environment Committee, which discussed suggestions areas, or other areas of sustainability?” The most frequently menreceived, and took some further. The committee selected suggestioned issues were energy efficiency projects and garbage/waste tions for concrete improvements in the areas of Feedback, Leadermanagement. A number of general comments were also made ship and Efficient office environment, and will be implementing and about sustainability in general. Just as in last year’s stakeholder following up these activities in the future. A wish for more and betdialogue, it is clear that our customers would like information. ter quality feedback remains from last year (rated 2.5 on the scale of 1 to 4). This may be partly because a third of Wihlborgs’ employees have been with us for less than three years. Training courses in coaching leadership and a facility for following up performance appraisals are planned to address the issue in the future. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 15 Financial responsibility A sustainable economy A profitable Wihlborgs is vital if we are to be able to carry out our strategies and achieve our targets. This also applies to the sustainability work that we are integrating with the financial targets set by the Board for our business – everything is connected. To us, it is self-evident that our brand should represent sound values and that financial responsibility is a prerequisite in enabling us to take responsibility for our part in the development of society. Under the Swedish Companies Act, other legislation and reguto offer functional and adaptable premises for a range of sectors, lations, the listing agreement with the Nasdaq OMX Exchange, can help enterprise in our region to continue growing. In addition, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the Company’s financial success is an important factor in standing out as an atArticles of Association and internal instruments of control, such tractive employer; it provides us with the scope for developing our as the Rules of Procedure for the Board and instructions to the employees, which in turn enables us to attract the right personnel. Chief Executive Officer, the management and responsibilities of To be able to invest in a sustainable way of working we have to the Wihlborgs Group are divided between the Board and Chief achieve our financial targets; at the same time, we must operate in Executive Officer. a sustainable way if we want to achieve these targets. Wihlborgs’ overarching objectives and strategies state that the Via our stakeholder dialogue, we have established that it is Company shall operate according to a business model for growth important for Wihlborgs to be able to achieve its financial tarand shall be one of the leading and most profitable property gets. The value we create arises through our rental income. The companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. To achieve this goal, dialogue with our stakeholders indicates that one of the most Wihlborgs is to consolidate and further strengthen its market poimportant areas that Wihlborgs needs to take into account is sitions in the Öresund region by concentrating on various regional the quality of our premises and the customer service we deliver. sub-markets. We shall actively improve our property portfolio by Without satisfied customers, our rental income will not meet our the acquisition, development and sale of properties. We shall also targets. Rental income also affects the extent of changes in value manage our property portfolio with the focus on good cost efficienof our properties. The benefits of the economic value we create cy and high occupancy rates. Our customer relationships are to be then accrues to various categories: employees, lenders, society strengthened by active commitment and a high level of service. and suppliers. Through our activities and our set targets and strategies, we Our shareholders are to share in this value via dividends affect the communities in which we operate. Our sustainability approved by the Board through a dividend policy. The size of the work must be integrated with the financial targets set by the dividend depends on the property management performance Board for our business, as both aspects affect each other. Sucthe Company delivers and the sales price achieved on completed cessful integration can enhance our brand, which improves our property transactions. Once all stakeholders have received their chances of becoming our customers’ first choice when they need share, the remainder is retained in the Company to strengthen our to lease a property. business, create new projects and acquire new properties to grow Achieving our financial targets also affects our ability to conthe company in a sustainable way. tribute to sustainable development in other ways. A solid financial Information on Wihlborgs’ financial position can be found on base is a prerequisite for operating as a stable business partner pages 89–125 of the annual report. to suppliers and customers alike. This, combined with our ability Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 17 EC 1 Economic value created Economic value created and distributed, SEKm 2014 2013 Comments and distributed, SEKm 2014 2013 Comments Directly created value Distributed financial value Income 1,905 1,707 Rental income Employees 86 83 Salaries, social insurance costs Changes in values of properties 642 167 Loan providers 488 469 Interest costs Changes in value, derivatives -1,038 449 Society 190 390 Carrying amounts, Other income 11 17 Interest income income taxes, and shares in property tax and VAT earnings Suppliers 361 335 Total directly 1,520 2,340 created value, SEKm Shareholders 327 307 Dividend to shareholders Total 1,452 1,584 distributed value, SEKm Retained in the business 68 756 Return on 5.7 16.3 equity, % Target, % 6.4 7.8 Environmental responsibility Our environmental responsibility As a major property owner, we cannot turn a blind eye to the energy consumption required by our properties. And it is in the area of energy that our impact on the environment is greatest. This makes it important for us to focus continuously on improving energy efficiency in our properties. But we are striving on a broad front to reduce our environment impact, for example through environmental certiEN 3 fication of our buildings and by offering Green Leases and striving to promote a better ecosystem. Wihlborgs’ environmental responsibilities are based on Ethical biggest environmental impact lies in our energy consumption. Guidelines, Environmental and Energy Policy and current EnvironThe diagram on the next page illustrates our consumption of mental Goals. The goals have also been adopted by Wihlborgs’ heating, electricity, cooling, oil and gas over the past three years. Management and Board. The current Environmental and Energy It also shows Wihlborgs' total energy consumption. In our sustainPolicy was adopted in November 2013, when it was also approved ability report, we detail our energy consumption for the past three by Wihlborgs’ CEO. years, including the reporting year. Wihlborgs' operations are subject to Swedish and Danish As far as Wihlborgs’ total energy consumption is concerned, legislation. To live up to the precautionary principle and environwe can observe an increase between 2013 and 2014. The increase, mental legislation is a minimum requirement for our environmen743,788 kWh, is reasonable when set against the increase in areas tal work. To ensure we comply with applicable legal requirements under our management. From the start of last year, we have had in the environmental area, we subscribe to an external database access to all relevant statistics. As a result, it is again the case this that is continuously updated with new legislation in our area of year that none of our properties fall outside the scope of reporting. business. In 2012, we introduced a procedure (for the environmental We also perform regular environmental risk analyses that in goals for 2012-2014) based on around 70 percent of Wihlborgs’ many cases reflect the areas of the environment that concern us property portfolio being included in an environmental goal from a legal compliance perspective. The most recent analysis category where the areas will be comparable year on year. For was carried out in 2009 while the next is planned for June 2015, more information on the outcome for the past year, please see the having originally been scheduled for late 2014. section on our environmental goals on page 29. Our major energy suppliers are operators such as E.ON, Öresundskraft and Kraftringen. The proportion of energy from Our energy consumption renewable sources, and their main constituents, are presented on A typical Swedish single-family house built in the 1950s or 1960s page 20. uses 25,000 kWh of energy in a year. The total energy consumption for our business is not 25,000 kWh, it’s 185,556,518 kWh. This means that our properties together use as much energy as 7,422 single-family homes – 185,556 MWh. There is no doubt that our Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 19 EN 4 Total energy consumption, kWh Electricity, heating, cooling, gas, oil Electricity Gas 2012 53,157,982 2013 62,947,578 2014 62,712,998 2012 6,090,219 2013 4,930,184 2014 4,470,900 2014 Total kWh 2014 185,556,518 District cooling Oil 2012 6,115,243 2012 0 2013 8,071,163 2013 0 2014 8,817,821 2014 0 District heating Total area 2013 2012 2012 94,713,640 2013 108,863,806 2014 109,554,799 m2 2012 1,425,073 2013 1,523,125 2014 1,548,227 Total kWh 2013 184,812,730 Total kWh 2012 160,077,084 Electricity District cooling All kWh figures quoted in this report can be converted into Megajoules (MJ); multiply the kWh figure by 3.6. District heating Gas Environmental responsibility Percentage renewable Energy supplier Percentage renewable electricity Energy sources District District Electricity 1 ElectricDistrict heating % District cooling % heating cooling ity E.ON, 2013-2015 100 Water – – – Öresundskraft, 2013-2015 100 Water Kraftringen, 2013-2015 100 Water E.ON 2014 44 100 – – Waste 2 61 Wind power 100 Malmö Natural gas 30 Waste to energy 6 Auxilliary electricity, incl. electricity for boilers 2 Flue-gas condensation 1 Kraftringen 2014 100 3 77 4 – – Wood chips 100 Fuel supplied: 100 Lund Electricity Öresundskraft 2014 1005 1006 – – Heating from industrial waste to 65 Electricity 100 Helsingborg energy 19 Product: Fjärrvärme guld Heating from firing of waste 15 classified as fuel 2 Heating from firing of wood pellets Miscellaneous7 1 In 2014, electricity procurement took place within the framework of the 2013-2015 plan. In these years, the local energy suppliers also supplied the electricity in the locality concerned. All electricity was environmentally certified as 100% hydropower sourced. 2 E.ON uses Swedish Waste Management’s EN 18 standard factor, 60%, to calculate the proportion of renewable energy in waste. Flue gas condensation is classified as renewable, as is waste to energy. Analysis of waste to energy based on the source of the waste heat is not something we have considered possible. Instead, we have taken the position that all use of waste to energy is positive, in that otherwise it would not be put to use. The proportion of renewable energy in auxilliary electricity is based on the latest known data for the Nordic residual mix, according to the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate. Data for district heating sourced from E.ON are rounded off. Other, totalling app. 0.5%, is excluded from this summary. Other consists of: Heat from heat pumps, less electricity to heat pumps, EO3-5, Electricity for heat pumps and EO1. 3 District heating with certificate of origin from Kraftringen. This product is covered by Wihlborgs’ agreement with Kraftringen. 4 Proportion of renewable energy for cooling (10%) incl. recycled cooling (67%). (Cooling recycled from heat pump/cooling system.) 5 According to Öresundskraft, waste to energy and waste classified as fuel cannot be categorized as either renewable or fossil. They are residual products used in society that, to varying degrees, are of renewable or fossil origin. In accordance with the Swedish Heating Market Committee agreement, we specify the percentage of fossil fuel – that is, coal, oil or natural gas. 6 Renewable electricity 7 Auxiliary electricity for generation and distribution is included in district heating. The energy suppliers provide provisional data for their energy prodcold storage facilities etc. have been excluded. See Wihlborgs’ ucts in 2014, but definitive figures are not produced until after the environment goals 2014, on page 29. publication of this report. As a result, definitive figures may differ We take a holistic approach to energy efficiency. Here, our computfrom those presented here. erized energy statistics system plays an important role. We use the The above table does not include figures for Denmark, which statistics application E4 SQL, enabling us to monitor heating, elecwe hope to be able to incorporate long term. It is also important for tricity, water and cooling. Wihlborgs uses the application to identify us to maintain a dialogue with our biggest energy suppliers to help potential energy saving projects/costs savings and to persuade them to include a higher proportion of renewable energy control consumption in all our properties. sources in their products. In 2014, we continued our dialogue with When it comes to deciding which properties to make more all energy suppliers, discussing the table and Wihlborgs’ expectaenergy efficient, our first step is to calculate the current energy tions for the future. status of the property. Next we calculate how much energy is conWihlborgs operates in the Öresund region with investments in sumed, relative to the area in use. We then produce an action plan Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen. Our total energy conwith efficiency measures including costs etc. sumption in 2014, expressed in kWh/m² per location, is presented On the next page, we present an example of an energy efficienon the next page. In many cases, the relatively low total consumpcy drive carried out in Wihlborgs’ existing portfolio in 2014. In July tion per square metre is because this is an average for all our 2013, we acquired the Alfa 3:6 property in Ideon, Lund. The properproperties and includes, for example, facilities with extensive cold ty covers an area of 11,138 m² and accommodates office tenants and storage areas. Relative to the environmental goals for 2012-2014, a restaurant. a considerably higher figure in kWh/m² is reported. This is because Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 21 Through a combination of our experienced personnel and WihlThe following chart indicates the savings. borgs’ energy statistics software, we established that the key figures Energy efficiency improvements in Alfa 3:6 (Studentkåren 3-6) for the property concerned should be lower. With the installations then being used, energy consumption was unnecessarily high. As a result, we decided to swap out the entire automation system for 1,569,515 Saving the building. The catering and conference facilities were made Before 1,219,045 needs-driven. This means that when these areas are not in use, the After ventilation is turned down, leading to considerable energy savings. The areas were also equipped with CO² sensors enabling the ventilation to increase when many people are present in a room, exhaling 550,991 carbon dioxide, and vice versa. Here, too, there was considerable 451,486 376,629 Before 365,304 potential for savings. Renovation began on 31 May 2014 and on 31 After Before kWh After December 2014 the average consumption was as follows: Heating Electricity District cooling Single-family homes The investment in the project amounted to SEK 1.1 million. Savings after 9 months totalled 460 MWh and we anticipate that this trend will continue in 2015. This represents a financial saving of SEK 300,000 and we forecast that the total savings will rise to SEK 500,000 after one year in operation. Converted in terms 1 Consumption by single-family homes is based on a figure of 25,000 kWh of energy consumption per family home, the total saving after (houses built in the 1950s and 1960s). 9 months corresponds to 18.1 EN 5, CRE 1 KWh per m2 per location 2 The low consumption of electricity and 168,492 m2 Copenhagen 509,441 m2 Helsingborg cooling in Denmark was also due to the fact thatover the summer they do not have access to cooling facilities in their properties. 1 2 Electricity kWh m2 38 Heating kWh m2 44 2 26 Electricity kWh m2 79 Heating kWh m2 108 0 Cooling kWh m2 6 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 2 Cooling kWh m2 0,4 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 204,732 m2 Lund 64 Electricity kWh m2 78 Heating kWh m2 167 21 Cooling kWh m2 4,1 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 665,562 m2 Malmö 55 Electricity kWh m2 70 Heating kWh m2 134 5 Cooling kWh m2 4 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 Wihlborgs operates in the Öresund region with investments in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen. Our total energy consumption in 2013 expressed in kWh/square metre per location is presented above. Environmental responsibility Seeing the whole picture To property owners, the most important thing is many cases to the district heating services from two of our energy suppliers fell keep a check on the energy performance of their properties, since dramatically. This was made possible by our choice to pay a slightly it is this that has the greatest and most direct impact on the envihigher price for district heating services with lesser environmental ronment. But we know that we have to view environmental issues impact. We also see a reduction in gas emissions, losses of cooling from a broader perspective. Through our activities, we affect the media, emissions from company cars and service vans, and lower communities where we operate and so we must also accept overall emissions due to less use of air travel. On the other hand, carbon responsibility for our environmental impact. This means working dioxide emissions have risen in district cooling, commuting to and on strategies for all areas in which we affect the environment. The from the workplace and waste. chart below illustrates the areas that account for Wihlborgs’ total carbon dioxide emissions, and therefore also the areas where we Wihlborgs’ total carbon dioxide emissions in tons over the past three years: are trying to reduce our environmental impact. Wihlborgs’ environmental vision for the period up to 2020 is to continue to expand, Year Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Totalt but reduce our environmental impact. The year for comparison is Tons Tons Tons Tons 2005 since it was then that Wihlborgs was established in its present form. In 2005, Wihlborgs’ carbon dioxide emissions totalled 2012 515 8,267 97 8,879 13,959 tons. This means that since that year, Wihlborgs has cut its carbon dioxide emissions by 4,064 tons. 2013 652 9,559 168 10,379 Relative to last year, we have reduced our environmental impact. In all, emissions fell by 483 tons. The biggest reduction in 2014 516 9,177 203 9,896 carbon dioxide was in district heating (Scope 2), where levels in EN 16, EN 17, EN 29 Scope Refrigerants Service vans 1 Scope Energy 2 Scope 3 Air travel, Rail travel, Kilometres driven on official Company cars business, Private cars on business, Commuting, Waste Total carbon dioxide emissions in tons (Scope 1+2+3) 10,000 8,000 8,879 10,379 9,896 6,000 Tons Tons Tons 4,000 2,000 0 2012 2013 2014 Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 23 The table below shows energy consumption for our company cars Waste in 2014, kg, SITA and service vans, in litres and in carbon dioxide. More information on the different fuel uses and how this affected our emissions may be 491,763 215,627 found under the heading “Transport” in this section. Recycled waste, kg3 Combustible waste, kg Energy consumption in 2013, company cars and service vehicles 39,697 26,689 715,471 Waste in 2014, kg 5,799 2,692 8,081 Diesel (lit.) Petrol (lit.) Ethanol (lit.) Gas1 (m3) Hazardous waste, kg4 Waste in 2014, kg, Ragnsells 145 Recalculated as total number of tons of CO2 emissions 389,570 Recycled waste, kg5 337,471 Combustible waste, kg Ozone-depleting substances 738,773 One area of environmental impact that in many aspects is associated with the property sector is cooling equipment and heat pumps containing cooling media. HCFC2and HFC-type cooling EN 22 Waste in 2014, kg media only have a negative impact on the environment if leaked, and both contribute to the greenhouse effect. HCFC cooling media also have a negative impact on the ozone layer, while HFCs do not. The use of HCFCs was banned on 31 December 2014 (only applies to equipment containing more than 3 kg of HCFC). We have 11,075 a plan in place to phase out the equipment containing HCFCs Hazardous waste, kg6 that is installed in our properties, and in 2014 all legally-prohibited HCFC equipment was eliminated from Wihlborgs’ buildings. Because HFCs are used in replenishing of cooling media (as well SITA and Ragnsells now collect waste in Malmö, Helsingborg and as in conversions and new installations), this also plays a part in Lund. Statistics for providers of waste handling services in Denthe phasing out of HCFCs. mark are still not available. In the long term, we hope also to be able to obtain statistics for this sub-region. Our report does not, Waste however, include statistics from our monopoly providers of waste handling services. The statistics have been obtained from our Waste makes up one aspect of our carbon dioxide emissions. We waste disposal contractor. It should also be pointed out that what produce statistics on the volume of waste and number of waste is shown in the diagram above does not include the waste procollection journeys required for our properties. Our largest waste duced during new building and redevelopment. Today, Wihlborgs’ collection service providers are SITA and Ragnsells. The graphic environmental programme includes routines for waste managebelow shows the volume of waste in 2014, what was hazardous ment on construction sites. As of the current year, 2015, one of waste, what is combustible and what was recycled during the our environmental goals specifically concerns construction waste. year. The graphic below shows the volume of waste in 2014, what According to our 2015-2017 goals, we are to develop a procedure was hazardous waste, what is combustible and what was recycled for also recording the waste generated during our construction during the year. projects. 1 Mix of natural gas and biogas. Malmö and Lund 50% of each. Helsingborg 100% biogas from NSR. 2 HFC has replaced HCFC because it does not contain chlorine and also does not liberate the chlorine radicals that deplete the ozone layer. 3 Recycled waste in 2014 covers all items except combustible, electronic and hazardous waste. Includes: glass, glass packaging, hard plastic packaging, office paper, metal packaging, soft plastic, paper packaging, other plastic, recycled paper, sorted waste, newspapers and cardboard. 4 Hazardous waste in 2014 includes electronic scrap, strip lighting and batteries. 5 Included under the heading for recycled waste in 2013 are all items except combustible, electronic and hazardous waste in 2014. Includes: glass, glass packaging, hard plastic packaging, office paper, metal packaging, soft plastic, paper packaging, other plastic, recycled paper, sorted waste, newspapers and cardboard. 6 Hazardous waste in 2014 includes electronic scrap, strip lighting, toner/ink cartridges, white goods, paint pots and batteries. Environmental responsibility Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 25 Long-term environmental awareness EN 6, EN 18, EN 26, CRE 8 Wihlborgs owns, manages and builds properties with a long-term labelling schemes, of which KRAV and the Swan are well known to perspective. To us, that means in the long term taking an all-inclumost people. Green Building, Miljöbyggnad, BREEAM (the Building sive approach to environmental issues. The analysis conducted Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) and every year to determine the Company’s carbon dioxide footprint LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) are the enables us to focus on Wihlborgs’ environmental impact in genermost common in the property sector. The last two are based on al and energy issues in particular. UK and USA building regulations, respectively. Although Swedish versions are in the pipeline, Wihlborgs mainly considers Green Environment certification of Building and Miljöbyggnad. properties In addition to energy consumption, renovation and new building GreenBuilding represent an important area. It has become increasingly common Green Building is actually not so much an environmental classito certify properties, which entails a survey by an external party fication system as a programme for managing energy usage. A and an objective assessment of how environmentally sustainable building can be certified either as a newbuild or a renovation of a building is. When a property is approved, the property owner an existing property. In the case of new production in southern receives a certificate. Depending on the certification system, Sweden, a building’s energy consumption must not exceed 75 there are also different classification levels on the certificate. In kWh/m². In the case of a redevelopment, energy consumption the case of renovations and newbuilds, environment certification must be cut by at least 25 percent from the existing usage. On is often about looking at the whole picture. With newbuilds, this 31 December 2014, six buildings in the Wihlborgs property portmay include ensuring that users can commute to the workplace by folio had been Green Building certified. cycling or using public transport. It can also include what type of Of these, Polisen 3 in Helsingborg is the one certified in the land the property owner is developing – whether it is a brownfield category of existing properties. It also won an award for the or greenfield site, for example. The property developer is awarded energy efficiencies created through the renovation (for more points if it is a brownfield site, and especially if it has been cleared information, please see Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012). of environmentally hazardous materials. A greenfield developGreen Building certification also means that we as property owner ment receives fewer points as the land will have a different value must report back after at least one year in service on the status of from a land resource perspective. properties that are certified. There are around a hundred environment certification and Environmental responsibility Miljöbyggnad less the same in both Swedish and UK versions in order to ensure that international comparisons between buildings are possible. Miljöbyggnad is a Swedish system for certifying buildings in terms BREEAM covers the following areas: energy, indoor environment, of energy, indoor climate and materials. The building is subject to materials and chemicals, water, management, construction waste, a 15-point check, including energy procured, noise class, radon infrastructure and communication, ecology and location, pollution level, damp, natural light, integral materials, chemicals and buildand process/innovation. ing products. We recently concluded work towards our environment target of clearing PCBs from buildings. At the time when the properties from which we are now eliminating PCBs were being LEED (Leadership in Energy and built, the materials used in the building were not documented in Environmental Design) the way that is now required for example by the Miljöbyggnad sysThe version of LEED that is mostly used for certifying commercial tem. This type of system makes it easier for us to trace substances properties judges a building’s environmental performance against that are classed as hazardous to the environment and health. the criteria of: local environment, water consumption, energy conWihlborgs hopes that by certifying properties we can identify sumption, materials and indoor climate. Bonus points can also be materials used in their construction in a structured way and thus awarded for innovation in the project and regional considerations. save both time and money. Today, we have one property that was LEED certified in 2013. In the Miljöbyggnad certification system, a building can be The building was acquired in the same year and so this certificaclassified as bronze, silver or gold. Miljöbyggnad covers both newtion system is a new experience to us. builds and existing buildings. On 31 December 2014, six Wihlborgs properties had been classified under the Miljöbyggnad system. Choosing certification systems The BREEAM system, adapted As it becomes more and more common in the construction and property sector to environment-certify properties, the various for Sweden certification systems have become the subject of debate. Why BREEAM is environmental classification system originating in choose one system rather than another? We wish to point out that the UK. BREEAM, one of the oldest environmental classification all environmental classification systems are created for the same systems, has been used to certify over 115,000 buildings, most of purpose; to promote buildings with less environmental impact. them in the UK. The Sweden Green Building Council is working However, they address similar issues in different ways. The classion adapting BREEAM to Swedish conditions and on taking over fication system that a company or contractor in the industry ought management of certification systems in Sweden. The Swedish to use will depend entirely on what kind of company it is. Wihlversion of the BREEAM Commercial environmental certification borgs’ point of view is that all environment certification systems system, BREEAM-SE, has now been approved by BRE Global in the fulfill a function and help the property sector develop in a more UK. In 2012, five pilot projects were sought for testing the Swedish environment-friendly direction. system. Wihlborgs submitted an application for MAX IV, Lund, and Wihlborgs is subject to Swedish legislation and so it is natural in autumn 2012 we were notified that MAX IV had been selected for us to look at systems that are developed to reflect Swedish as one of the pilot projects. Work on certification went ahead in conditions, such as Miljöbyggnad and the Swedish version of 2014 and the project was the first for which application was made BREEAM. Long ago, we introduced an internal environment prounder the BREEAM-SE scheme. The certificate is expected to be gramme for newbuilds that includes a number of criteria from sevawarded in 2015. eral environment classification systems. We believe that cooperaIn the Swedish version of BREEAM, environmental certification tion in the sector is the way to achieve sustainable development. of buildings is easier and cheaper. The requirements are more or Region Property Green Miljö Target LEED Target BREEAM-SE Target Certified or Building byggnad level level level registered up to end of 2014 Malmö Skåneland 1 x Certified 2009 Malmö Gängtappen 2 (Fören) x x Silver Certified (2012) 2013 Malmö Gängtappen 1 (Rondellhuset) x x Gold Registered 2014 Malmö Magasinet x Bronze Certified 2014 Lund Armaturen x Silver Registered 2014 Lund Landsdomaren 6 x x Silver Certified 2013 Lund Syret 3 (Gateway) x x Gold x Platinum Certified 2013 Lund MAX IV x x Gold x Outstanding Certified GB 2014 Certified Miljöbyggnad 2014 Registered BREAAM-SE Lund Landstinget x Silver Registered 2014 Helsingborg Polisen 3 x Certified 2011 Helsingborg Floretten (Berga) x Gold Certified 2014 Helsingborg Ruuth 23 x Bronze Registered 2014 Helsingborg Terminalen (Knutpunkten) x Gold Registered 2014 Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 27 Green Leases Road Administration’s definition. The current policy, which dates from 2013, meets the definition of green cars established by the In 2014, 86 Green Leases were signed. Wihlborgs takes the view Swedish Road Administration. Our vehicle fleet uses the following that Green Leases fulfill an important function, in that they create fuels: petrol, diesel, ethanol, LPG and electricity. a platform for cooperation between landlord and tenant, with The vehicle fleet that we operate today is contributing to a the common goal of reducing the environmental impact of the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, compared to vehicles not premises. subject to environmental requirements. The leases take account of activities in areas such as information To simplify administration, we decided to install electronic drivand cooperation, energy and indoor environment, choice of materier’s logs in the vehicles. In early 2013, a complaint was received als and waste management. Green Leases were also included in our by the Swedish Data Protection Authority to the effect that the environment goals for 2012-2014. In 2014, we adapted the Swedish driver’s journals incorporated GPS systems in the vehicles. FolProperty Federation’s version of Green Leases to our own version lowing the authority’s decision in February 2014, we modified our for in-house use (better adapted to include industrial premises). routines according to its guidelines. We elected to retain GPS in In parallel, separate guidance documents were also produced for the vehicles in order to maintain the digital driver’s logs. Office Properties, Industrial Properties and Commercial Premises. During 2015, all Wihlborgs administrative personnel will participate in a workshop on the topic of the Wihlborgs’ green appendix. Tap water only Water is becoming an increasingly important issue from a global Transport perspective. Our properties use water, but compared to energy consumption, our water consumption has a lesser impact on the Transport is another area in which we impact on the environment. environment. Our properties are commercial premises where Transport falls within the scope of our car policy. We have chomost of the space is made up of offices and storage, which means sen not to have a general travel policy with regard to business that consumption in the main consists of cold water. Property travel. This is because our operations are concentrated within the companies with mostly residential premises have a completely Öresund region. Other business travel is made by air and rail. In different consumption pattern for hot water. That is not to say total, there were 81 business trips by air and rail in 2014 – 61 by air that we can ignore the issue of water. We need to start a general EN 8, CRE 2 and 20 by rail. We are well aware that many services associated discussion of water consumption in the context of the property with our properties include a transport element. We have, however, sector as a whole. Today, there are no general initiatives in this produced a breakdown of our transport-related statistics. For this area in the same way as there are energy-consumption propurpose, we collate data on the journeys made by our employees. grammes in the property sector. Our energy statistics application This includes data on the Company’s service vans and its cars, as enables us to calculate water consumption in our properties. The well as on air travel, rail travel, mileage on company business in information is obtained from water meters in the properties. The private cars and commuting to and from the workplace. water consumption figures show the combined consumption of hot and cold water. The properties in our portfolio are supplied by No. of vehicles per type municipal water systems. of fuel 2014 The chart below shows Wihlborgs’ total water consumption 31 in m³ and m³/m² over the past three years: Consumption in 2014 totalled 408,012 m³ for the property portfolio Sweden. In Sweden, the average person uses 180 litres of water per day. This means 4 LPG Cars 4 Electricity that our properties consume an amount of water equivalent to the annual consumption of 6,210 people. 2 Ethanol Etanol 31 Petrol Total water consumption, m3 Diesel Because energy consumption in our properties is our biggest environmental issue, we have no plans at present to start tracing 304,382 396,423 408,012 the transport chains of all our suppliers and contractors. On the m3 m3 m3 other hand, we have decided to limit ourselves to monitoring and following up journeys in connection with waste collection at our 2012 2013 2014 properties. This statistical summary is produced each year. In 0.24 m3 per m2 0.28 m3 per m2 0.30 m3 per m2 2008, Wihlborgs adopted a car policy that sets out requirements Total area Total area Total area for carbon dioxide emissions in accordance with the Swedish 1,293,508 m2 1,391,579 m2 1,379,735 m2 Environmental responsibility Environmental issues in the manufacture of fuel pumps. As part of the acquisition, we also undertook environmental remediation of the land and buildings construction projects for future use. It was obvious that a consultant familiar with man– now and in the future aging and coordinating major projects of this type (Demikon AB, now acquired by the ÅF Group) should be engaged from the start. In the majority of our newbuild projects, we draw up a specific Gjuteriet 18 extends over an area of 30,000 m² in Limhamn and is environmental programme representing a document of aims. This well known in the Malmö region, not least for the type of industrial environmental programme is also used for major redevelopment activity that had been conducted there. projects. The programme is based on Wihlborgs Fastigheter Until 1930, the area was used by a cement works and an oil mill AB’s environmental policy, the Swedish Environmental Code, the (for the production of linseed oil). The oil mill was established in Environment Manual, the Environmental Status Method and other 1905 and burned down in 1912. The former oil mill buildings were environmental requirements for buildings, such as municipal demolished in 1937. From 1938 onwards, petrol pumps and other regulations. such equipment were manufactured here. The purpose of the environmental programme is to ensure that Wihlborgs’ starting-point for the project from the outset has environmental goals established for the property are achieved, to been to base the entire project and remediation measures for create the conditions for an environment-friendly building and to both land and buildings on the stricter regulations and guidelines prevent unwanted surprises during operation. The environment that apply to schools and day nurseries. This was despite the fact here includes not only the internal environment for future users, that the focus of the planning process is on developing primarily but also impact on the external environment and the construction tenant-owner properties. We also contacted the relevant public site environment. Since we began certifying/classifying our properties, the process has been to start from the 15/16 points listed in the Miljöbyggnad scheme (see above) and then cover the areas not included in Miljöbyggnad. We do this via what we call “detailed environmental goals”. These are more specific to, and are governing principles of, the project, and are arranged under various headings as follows: 1. Design 2. Location 3. Materials, products and systems 4. Functions 5. Production 6. Management and operation Progress is monitored via environmental meetings/environmental and supervisory authorities in Malmö at an early stage. The aim auditing on the construction site. Minutes are kept at all meetings was to set up a dialogue as early as possible in order to be clear and are available for distribution to the tenant on request. about the views of other stakeholders. We also believe that the In minor projects, environmental issues are to a certain extent earlier a dialogue can be established, the more time and money integrated, for example, via the Folksam (Insurance Company) can be saved. The remediation work progressed during 2013, in Construction Environment Guide. Over the next few years, we will which we also applied to demolish and undertake remediation for exercise stricter control to ensure that all projects are conducted another building. We received the permit in 2014, enabling us to according to standard procedures. With more and more projects demolish the building. During this period, remediation took place being environmentally certified, Wihlborgs’ project managers are both on the land and in the building. Up to the end of November, using the same procedures in their work. In 2014, we started work we were also engaged in decontaminating the groundwater. In on our materiality analysis based on the GRI’s G 4. One area that December 2014 and January 2015, two further samples were arose, and that will also be in focus in future environment goals taken and sent in to the Malmö Environmental Department. (2015-2017), is construction waste. Starting in 2015, we will introWihlborgs proposed to the department that the Gjuteriet 18 case duce a routine for compiling statistics on our construction waste. should be reclassified as a “verification programme” . A decision We need to obtain a clear picture of what is actually sorted and will be announced in 2015. what are potential areas for improvement. 1 The verification programme is a necessary part of supervision of businesses subject Environmental remediation to a duty of licensing or notification under the Environmental Code. As part of the verification programme, the Company states how it intends to verify the conditions or in Limhamn directions prescribed for the business. It is the operator’s responsibility to produce a verification programme. This process usually evolves in stages and in consultation with the Environmental Department. The verification programme is confirmed when the EnviIn 2010, Wihlborgs acquired the Gjuteriet 18 property in Limhamn ronmental Board orders the business, under the provisions of the Environmental Code, from Dresser Wayne. At the time, the property had been used for to perform the verification activities described in the programme. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 29 Our environmental goals in 2014 Wihlborgs sets environmental goals for three-year periods. The goals for 2014 extended over the 2012–2014 period. Over these years, we have been working to environmental goals that were linked directly to Wihlborgs’ areas of operation. The status on 31 December 2014 was as follows: • The goal of documenting all transactions in Wihlborgs’ • Wihlborgs’ energy target of an annual consumption of environmental indicator was not achieved. However, the 142 kWh/m2 within the scope of environmental goals was not questionnaire is used during acquisitions. achieved. Consumption on 31 December 2014 was • Regarding the goal of ensuring that energy statistics for 143.2 kWh/m2 (electricity, heating and cooling). Consumption 50 percent of our properties are available on the Web, this is based on figures from properties representing approxtoo was revised. In late 2014, a working party was formed to imately 70 percent of our portfolio, selected on the basis develop a new process. As a result, all tenants signing up to of any form of potential for energy savings, excluding cold the green appendix will in future be presented with energy storage areas. Including all premises, energy consumption statistics at annual invoicing (trial version in 2015, full impletotalled 140.4 kWh/m2. mentation in 2016). • In 2014, the green appendix to leases was updated with the • The goal of EDI invoicing from 50 percent of our suppliers inclusion of new processes. As a result the appendix forms was not achieved. The outcome was 30 percent, correspondpart of practically all new leases signed or renegotiated.1 ing to on increace of 5 percent over the previous year. • Three projects were Miljöbyggnad and Green Building certified during 2014. The projects were Magasinet in Malmö In early 2014, the environmental goal strategies for 2015-2017 (existing property – conversion and newbuild), Floretten in were set. These were produced via activities including a workHelsingborg (newbuild) and MAX IV in Lund (newbuild). We shop involving representatives of Wihlborgs’ management. Over were therefore unable to achieve our target of having five the years ahead, Wihlborgs will be operating in a new way and buildings in our existing portfolio environmentally classified. on a number of new areas. For more information on this, see the Of the newbuild projects started in 2014, 75 percent were illustration on the next page. registered for environmental certification. Certification is taking place in 2015. For full details of the status of Wihlborgs’ environmentally certified projects, see page 26. • Our environmental prospectus goal was revised during the 1 Not in cases where contracts were in English/German or in cases where the premises year. Up-to-date environmental information on the vacant were not fit for the purpose. premises concerned is now posted on our website. This also 2 In 2014, we modified our scheme for risk assessment of suppliers in order to adapt its includes information on public transport connections and on requirements to the size of our suppliers. Suppliers with fewer than five employees and whether building is environmentally certified. a low volume of purchasing are classified as “light” and are subject to a simple form of risk assessment that does not result in a risk classification. During the year, eight such • In 2014, Wihlborgs did not sign any new contracts with agreements were signed but are not included within the scope of Wihlborgs’ environmensuppliers with level 3 risk classification (high risk).2 tal goals for 2014. Environmental responsibility Energy Our most energy-intensive properties must reduce their consumption by at least 10 percent. Environmental We must increase the proportion of renewable energy training used, by installing at least one solar power system per year and by requiring a higher proportion of solarand Regular training in environmental wind-generated electricity. conservation is to continue to be given Key figures are to be produced to measure what we take to our employees. And all new recruits from nature (natural resources) in order to supply are required to take part in our basic our buildings with electricity. environmental training programme in their first year Ecosystems We are to carry out at least 10 projects that directly promote biological diversity (ecosystem services). Wihlborgs’ Environmental Vision 2020 We will continue to expand but with reduced environmental impact. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 31 Environmental goals 2015-2017 Green Leases All our tenants must be offered the option of entering into a Green Environmental Lease,enabling us to work together in reducing our impact on certification the environment. All new construction is to be environmentcertified. When undertaking major redevelopments, environmental certificationmust always be considered Sustainable innovation We are to encourage the adoption of new processes that help to reduce our environmental impact. Construction waste Business The volume of waste on our travel construction sites is to The volume of carbon dioxide be analyzed. emissions from business travel by car at Wihlborgs must not exceed 2 tons/employee/year (in the previous policy for environmental requirements the corresponding figure was 6 tons/ employee/year). To read more about our environmental goals, go to wihlborgs.se Social responsibility Sustainable growth Over the past year, Wihlborgs has grown in terms of both sales and organization. We are in a generational change, and it is important to find the balance between keeping what has made us successful and meeting the expectations of the new generation. Organization & employees company and from different regions. 81 percent of the workforce is represented on the work environment committee that oversees Our ambition is, by maintaining a simple, cohesive organization, to Wihlborgs’ operations in this area. We also focus on preventing facilitate decision-making in day-to-day contacts with our tenants. accidents at work through ongoing preventive health and safety The ability to take action is one of our key values. And the fact is that activities designed to reduce the risk of accidents and reinLA6, LA7, LA10, HR 4, HR 6 this is appreciated by our employees and tenants. The intent is to force the safety culture within the Company. Work environment ensure that our tenants should feel that we are always close at hand. inspections are constantly taking place in our properties, and We have local regional offices in the cities where our portfolios action and remedial plans for each property can be accessed by are located. Each region is headed by a regional director, who all employees via in-house IT systems. We have also produced a is responsible for driving the business forward in line with the brochure explaining possible work-related risks at our company. Wihlborgs philosophy. Improvements to the property portfolio are The Wihlborgs Group had no known instances of serious injuries handled by a project department that is responsible for newbuild or work-related illnesses in 2014. Simple procedures for reporting and redevelopment projects, and the organization is backed by work-related accidents and near misses can be accessed on our Group-wide functions such as Finance, HR, Purchasing, Market/ intranet. Communications and IT. As regards discrimination, no cases were reported in 2014. At year-end, Wihlborgs had 117 employees (113), of whom 72 We operate a policy that addresses the issue, and every manager worked in administration and 45 were collective agreement emis responsible for being alert to and dealing with any cases at ployees. 104 employees work full-time (38 women, 66 men) and an early stage. We are duty-bound to combat discrimination in 13 part-time (eight women, 5 men). There are 18 managers in the every situation. This is done via internal communication about our organization, of whom eight are women. 39 (39) percent of empolicies and by picking up on and tackling any situations early. No ployees in the Group are women. The Wihlborgs Board consists of cases were reported in 2014. seven directors, of whom three are women. We are all responsible for a healthy work environment, and every Employee turnover in 2014 was 14.2 percent (9.9). 16 people two years an employee survey is conducted to gauge the climate left the Company and 20 were recruited. There were no known at work and to systematically incorporate suggestions of improveinstances of child labour in 2014 in our organization, i.e. Wihlborgs’ ments. The most recent survey was in spring 2014. You can read employees and Board members (internal stakeholders). Furthermore about the findings from the year’s survey on page 14. more, we do not anticipate any significant risk of this since we are Sickness absenteeism at Wihlborgs is low; in 2014, it was measbound by Swedish and Danish legislation. ured at 1.58 percent (1.4). Long-term absence (60 days or more) represented 0 percent (17.1) of total sickness absence. All employees receive regular health checks at our company healthcare Health, environment & safety service and all employees are covered by health insurance. At Wihlborgs, our aim is that all employees should find their work We also work proactively to support an active lifestyle by offeragreeable and satisfying. Of course, we must keep our working Wihlborgs employees a fitness allowance that they can use for place secure and safe and prevent the risk of near-accidents and any fitness activity allowed by the rules laid down by Sweden’s tax accidents. We have a work environment committee that conducts authority. To motivate employees to take regular exercise and to and evaluates activities to improve our shared work environment. promote a sense of community, we sponsor and conduct a numThis group consists of both office staff and collective agreement ber of communal exercise and fitness activities under the heading employees, men and women, from different positions in the of the Wihlborgs Classic. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 33 Employee per location 53 Malmö 16 Lund Number of full-time employees 26 Helsingborg 22 Copenhagen Board of Directors, breakdown by age and gender 72 58 58 33 46 45 45 New employees, breakdown by age and gender 11 men 9 women – 30 30 – 49 50+ – 30 30 – 49 50+ Termination of employment, breakdown by age and gender 10 men 6 women LA 1, LA 2, LA3, LA10 -30 30 – 49 60+ -30 30 – 49 60+ New employee per location 104 3 Helsingborg New employee 3 Helsingborg full-time employees 5 Malmö 12 Copenhagen 0 Lund Lund 13 Copenhagen 12 5 Malmö part-time employees Culture & competence a different areas. These included courses in Feedback, Systematic Fire Safety, Environment, Hot Works, Contract Procurement and Like our organizational structure, Wihlborgs’ culture is to be characControl and Regulation. terized by simplicity and rooted in our four values – action, honesty, Every year, Wihlborgs takes on a number of work experience knowledge and community. The Wihlborgs philosophy, based on students from the Universities of Malmö and/or Lund on various these four values, has been and will continue to be fundamental work experience schemes. The students selected are generally to our success and sense of togetherness. Relationships – both on a study programme related to the property sector. This is an in-house and external – shall also be characterized by responsiexcellent way of bringing new discoveries and influences into the bility and must at all times observe our ethical guidelines and the Company, while at the same time helping students acquire a UN’s Global Compact. Another ambition in our organization is that practical perspective on their newly-gained knowledge. employees should be able to develop as the Company does. Via performance appraisals, goals for the individual’s development are agreed between manager and employee. Wihlborgs encourages initiative and desire from employees to develop their competence. With that in mind, employees took part in several in-house and 622 hours 423 hours 1 045 external training programmes and courses during the year. hours In 2014, we organized a total of 1,045 training hours, an average of 11 hours per employee1, including courses and seminars over 1 Based on the Sweden organization. Men Women Total Social responsibility Leadership & ethics purchasing interfaces with the suppliers that we choose to work with. Our vision of a sustainable society characterizes our requireOne of the most important factors in a healthy work environments and approach. By maintaining a high level of professionalism, ment is leadership. Leaders serve as role models in determining Wihlborgs’ purchasing function is to play a part in ensuring positive actions and priorities in day-to-day work. They establish goals for growth in earnings by the Group. teams and employees and function as a sounding board when In order to simplify the business, we aim as far as possible to eneveryday obstacles arise at work. The generational change we gage local suppliers who are represented in the cities where we are are experiencing at the Company in general is also evident in the based and our properties are located. One of the benefits of this is management group. Seven of our 18 managers, 39 percent have that transport and travelling can be kept down, which has both enoccupied their management role for less than three years. Thus, vironmental and cost benefits. In addition, ordering becomes easier there was a need to define more clearly expectations associated if the supplier is familiar with the locality and the local regulations with the leadership role. In 2014, the management group therefore of the public authorities, and has contacts with our people. met and discussed the needs and expectations involved, resulting Many of Wihlborgs’ tenants have direct contact with Wihlborgs’ in the adoption of a common leadership model. This is to be suppliers. So it is important for us to make demands of the service regarded as a framework for leadership at the Company. Training standards and competence of our suppliers to make it as easy and in feedback was also given and various leadership dilemmas were comfortable as possible for our customers in our properties. discussed. Together, the group developed a leadership model that We are continuing to develop our supplier relationships through should be regarded as a framework for leadership at the Compapartnership with many of our major suppliers. ny. It was found that to date the focus had been on acting as exWihlborgs uses an ordering application or “app”. This is entitled ternal ambassadors and attracting customers. The focus in future WAPPO – “Wihlborgs APP for Orders”. Contractors who perform will be on developing the two other areas. As a result, training in service functions in our properties have access to the ordering app. leadership will be concentrated on coaching in order to develop In purely practical terms, this means that our caretakers, many of within the organization more employees capable of driving the whom are responsible for ordering minor jobs, can be sure that the business forward. contractors that they engage using the app have been approved. EC6, HR2, PR6, PR7, SO2, SO3 Even if the conditions applied by different suppliers can differ, it External is important that we maintain a general code of conduct for compaambassadors nies that do business with Wihlborgs. There are two versions of the Code of Conduct, one of which is a simplified version that is aimed Attract customers 4 El at suppliers with a small number of employees. Etanol The assessment is made as follows: 1. A check list is attached to the agreement. This addresses a Develop Coach number of issues in the environment, work environment and internal employees to drive business ethics. collaboration 2. Our suppliers are then assessed on a scale of 1-3, where forward 1 = low risk 2 = medium risk and 3 = high risk. On 31 December 2014, 85 percent of our suppliers who were The ethical guidelines applying to Board members, employees, assessed were classified in risk category 2, 12 percent in risk suppliers and contractors are available in full on the Wihlborgs category 1 and just 3 percent as high risk. website under “Corporate Governance”. During our 2013 employee survey, wishes were expressed for further clarification of our position with regard to bribery and Marketing business ethics. As a result, we continued to focus on the issue at To ensure that our marketing material is not misleading, it is a strategic level. We collected issues and dilemmas of substance routine for an expert within the company to approve the material. from the organization and held a business ethics course for all In 2014 there were no reported incidents related to Wihlborgs' employees in 2013. For this, we produced a practical guide, in which marketing. Taking responsibility with regard to the marketing of we clearly defined our view on what is to be regarded as bribery our properties is based on our Ethical guidelines and Information and how people are expected to act in their day-to-day work. New policy. All governing documents are resolved at executive manemployees recruited in 2014 were also familiarized with the training agement level. material during a joint induction day at headquarters. Wihlborgs CSR group has assessed the risk of corruption in the business and concluded that the project management and adminSponsorship istration units are relatively the most vulnerable, since it is these Wihlborgs’ strong regional roots mean local sponsorship in sport, units that purchase goods and services on behalf of Wihlborgs. culture and the environment is important to the company. This is supposed to help increase awareness of our brand and expose it Contractors & suppliers in a correct way. Sponsorship should also be linked in some way The purchasing function serves all Wihlborgs offices in Sweden, with our core business and provide scope for activities/customer namely those in Malmö, Lund and Helsingborg. Our approach to meetings for customers, business partners and employees. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 35 Index GRI Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 complies with Global Reporting Initiatives (G3.1). Wihlborgs have also chosen to include certain sector specific indicators regarding Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRE 3.1). Reporting is in line with GRI level B+. The report has been approved by Deloitte. The Sustainability Report also includes Wihlborgs’ Communication on Progress in relation to the ten principles in the UN Global Compact, described on page 46. As last year, we also worked to the ISO 26 000 standard. The way our reporting relates to this standard can be seen in the table below. 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 1.1 Statement from CEO. 4 – A 6.2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 8 – A 6.2 2. THE ORGANISATION GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 2.1 Name of the organization. 6 – A – 2.2 Brand. 6 – A 2.3 Organizational structure. 6 – A 6.2 2.4 Location of headquarters. 7 – A – 2.5 Countries where the organization operates. 7 – A – 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 7 – A – 2.7 Markets served. 7 – A – 2.8 Scale of the Company. 6 – A – 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 7 – A – 2.10 Awards and recognition. 7 – A – Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 37 3. INFORMATION ON THE REPORT GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Report profile A 3.1 Reporting period. 8 – A – 3.2 Date of publication of the most recent report. 8 – A – 3.3 Reporting cycle. 8 – A – 3.4 Contact persons for the report. 45 – A – Report scope and demarcation A 3.5 Process for defining report content. 12 – A – 3.6 Boundary of the report. 8 – A – 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope and boundary of the report. 8 – A – 3.8 Basis for reporting on subsidiaries. 8 – A – 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 8 – A – 3.10 Explanation of the effects of any re-statements of information No significant – A – re-statements provided in earlier reports . of information from previous years. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the No significant – A – re-statements scope, boundary or measurement methods applied of information from previous years. Auditing 36 – A – 3.12 GRI index. 3.13 Audit and assurance. 41 – A 7.5.3 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Styrning A 4.1 Structure of organisation. 11 – A 6.2 4.2 Role of the Chair. 11 – A 6.2 4.3 Independent or non-executive Board members. 11 – A 6.2 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 11 – A 6.2 or direction to the management and Board . 4.5 Compensation to senior executives. 11 – A 6.2 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest 11 – A 6.2 are avoided. 4.7 CSR competence and qualifications of the Board and Management Group. 11 A 6.2 4.8 Values and policies. 16,18,32,34 – A 6.2 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing sustainability performance and 11 – A – connections to international organizations. 4.10 Evaluation of the Board's own CSR performance. 11 – A 6.2 Index GRI 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach is applied 18 – A – by the organization. 4.12 External declarations/principles that the organization endorses. 40 – A 6.2 External initiatives A 4.13 Memberships in organisations. 7 – A 6.2 Communication with stakeholders A 4.14 Stakeholder groups. 12 – A 6.2 4.15 Basis for selection of stakeholders. 12 – A 6.2 4.16 Stakeholder engagement. 12-14 – A 6.2 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. 12-14 – A 6.2 5. FINANCIAL INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Information on sustainability management for the category EC 16 – – Financial results A 6.8, 6.8.3 EC1. Created and delivered direct financial value. 17 – A 6.8.7, 6.8.9 EC6. Policy, practices and the proportion of spending to local suppliers 34 – B 6.6.6, 6.8 at significant locations of operation. 6.8.5, 6.8.7 6. ENVIRONMENT INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Information on sustainability management for the category EN 18 – – Energy A EN 3. Direct energy usage per primary energy source. 18 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 4. Indirect energy usage per primary energy source. 19 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 5. Reduction in energy usage and efficiency improvements. 21 – B 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 6. Initiatives to provide products and services that are energy efficient or based on 25 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 renewable energy, and reductions in energy needs as a result of these initiatives. Water A EN 8. Total water usage per source. 27 – 6.5, 6.5.4 Emissions, effluents and waste A EN 16. Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by weight. 22-23 – A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 17. Other relevant indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by weight. 22 A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 18. Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and reduction achieved. 20-22, 25 – A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 22. Total weight of waste, per type and handling method. 23 – B 6.5, 6.5.3 EN 26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 25 – B 6.5, 6.5.4 and extent of impact mitigation. 6.6.6, 6.7.5 EN 29. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods 22 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 and materials used for the organization’s operations, including transporting/business 6.6.6 travel of members of the workforce. CRE 1. Building energy intensity. – 21 A – CRE 2. Building water intensity. – 27 A – CRE 8. Sustainability certifications. – 25 B – Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 39 7. SOCIAL INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Information on sustainability management for the category LA 32 – – Employment 33 – A 6.4, 6.4.3 LA1. Total workforce by gender, employment type, employment contract and region. LA2. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover 33 – A 6.4, 6.4.3 by age group, gender, and region. LA3. Benefits provided to full time employees and that do not include temporary 33 A 6.4, 6.4.3, employees or part time employees. Information is to be provided for each larger business 6.4.4 operation and specifically for different geographic locations where the company operates. Health and safety at work 32 A 6.4, 6.4.6 LA6 The proportion of employees (by percentage) that are represented in formal and for management and employees joint committees for health and safety, that consist of monitoring and advice on health and safety programmes. LA7. Scale of injuries, work related illnesses, days lost, absences and the total 32 A 6.4, 6.4.6 number of work related fatalities per region and sex. LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and 33 A 6.4, 6.4.7 by employee category. Information on sustainability management for the category HR 32 – Investment and procurement procedures 34 A 6.3, 6.3.3, HR2. Percentage of significant suppliers, sub contractors and business partners 6.3.5 who have been checked with regard to human rights issues and actions taken. 6.4.3, 6.6.6 Non discrimination 32 A 6.3, 6.3.6, HR4. Number of cases of discrimination, and actions taken. 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Child labour 32 B 6.3, 6.3.3, HR6. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having 6.3.4 6.3.5, significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute 6.3.7, 6.3.10 to the effective abolition of child labour. Information on sustainability management for the category SO 32 – Corruption 34 A 6.6, 6.6.3 SO2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption 34 A 6.6, 6.6.3 policies and procedures. Information on sustainability management for the category PR 34 – Labelling of products and services 14 A 6.7, 6.7.4, PR5. Procedures for customer satisfaction, including results of customer surveys. 6.7.5 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Market communication 34 B 6.7, 6.7.3 PR 6. Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes 6.7.6, 6.7.9 related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. PR 7. Total number of cases where regulations and voluntary codes related to market 34 A 6.7, 6.7.3, communications, including advertising, marketing and sponsorship were not complied with. 6.7.6, 6.7.9 This information is to be specified according to the effects of the failure to comply. Global Compact link to GRI Global Compact report In July 2010, Wihlborgs signed up to the UN Global Compact. The Principles in the Global Compact GRI indicators Global Compact initiative was launched in association with the Human rights World Economic Forum (at Davos in 1999). Then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan challenged the business world to sign up to 1. The companies are requested to support and HR2, HR4, HR6 the initiative. The thinking behind the Global Compact is to make respect the safeguarding of international human LA6 companies aware of and take active responsibility for ten internarights within the sphere they can influence. tionally recognized principles in four areas; human rights, employ2. To assure themselves that their own company HR2, HR4, HR6 ment law, the environment and anti-corruption. Companies that is not involved in infringements of human rights. sign up to the Global Compact, undertake the following; Employment law AA The CEO of the company is to send a letter to the UN 3. Companies are requested to maintain HR2 Secretary General confirming that they support the Global freedom of association and a real recognition of Compact and its principles. the right to collective bargaining. AA The company is then to incorporate the Global Compact prin4. The prevention of all forms of forced labour. HR2 ciples into its corporate strategy and take steps to make the principles part of its corporate culture on an everyday basis. 5. The prevention of child labour. HR6 AA The company undertakes to publicly stand up for the Global Compact and its principles. 6. The prevention of discrimination in LA2 employment and the practice of a profession. HR2, HR4, AA The company explains in its annual report how it is supporting and promoting the Global Compact and the initiative’s ten Environment principles. 7. Companies are requested to endorse the EN18, EN26, precautionary approach when it comes to The Global Compact and environmental risks. GRI cross table 8. Take initiatives to promote greater EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, environment-related responsibility. EN8, EN16, EN17, EN18, The table on the right illustrates the ten principles in the Global EN22, EN26, EN29, Compact. This sustainability report also includes a report relating to the ten principles. They are presented in the GRI index with 9. Encourage the development and spread of EN 5, EN 6, EN18, reference to the Global Compact. We have previously published environment-friendly technology. EN 26, CRE 8 two independent Communication on Progress reports (in 2010 and Anti-corruption 2011); this report includes our sixth. 10. Companies ought to combat all forms of SO2, SO3 corruption, including Auditors' Report Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 41 Auditor’s Review Report Auditor’s Review Report on Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance Sustainability Report with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other To the readers of Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s Sustainability Report. generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Consequently, the procedures performed do not enable us to obtain assurance Introduction that we would become aware of all significant matters that might We have been engaged by the Executive Management of Wihlbe identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit borgs Fastigheter AB to review Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s Susopinion. tainability Report for the year 2014. For the Company’s definition The criteria on which our review are based are the parts of the of the scope of the sustainability report, see page 8. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1, published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), that are applicable to the Sustainability Responsibilities of the Board Report, as well as the accounting and calculation policies separately developed and specified by the Company. These are shown of Directors and the Executive on page 8. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation Management in relation to the of the Sustainability Report. We consider that the evidence that we have gathered during sustainability report our review is adequate and appropriate to serve as a basis for our The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are restatement below. sponsible for ongoing activities regarding the environment, health & safety, quality, social responsibility and sustainable development, and for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Statement Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causReport in accordance with applicable criteria, which are described es us to believe that the information in the Sustainability Report on page 8 and which consist of the parts of the Sustainability has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance Reporting Guidelines G3.1 (published by The Global Reporting with the above stated criteria. Initiative (GRI) that are applicable to sustainability reporting and the Company’s own accounting and calculation policies. Malmö, 17 April 2015 Deloitte AB Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports, issued by FAR. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons Torbjörn Svensson Andreas Drugge responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is Glossary Glossary BAS-P /BAS-U The developer is required to appoint an appropriately qualified Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide, CO², sometimes wrongly called carbonic acid in construction work environment coordinator for planning and project design of popular parlance, is a gas at room temperature with a faint odour and sour taste. the work (BAS-P) and the performance of the work (BAS-U). BAS-P and BAS-U CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) A form of corporate self-regulation that have considerable responsibilities regarding the work environment in general on aims to embrace responsibility for a company's actions and how it impacts on construction sites. These responsibilities are set out in Section 3, subs. 7 of the society from a financial, environmental and social perspective. The concept is Swedish Work Environment Act 3 and AFS 1999:3, with amendments up to and increasingly used both to explain what is meant and to emphasize that financial including 2008:16. responsibility (which is part of sustainability but not CSR) is necessary if a BREEAM (the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment company’s social responsibility is to be long term and integrated into its busiMethod) BREEAM was developed and is managed by UK’s Building Research ness model. Establishment. This environmental certification assesses environmental aspects Derivative A collective term for a type of financial instrument. The most common within, for example, management, energy, transport, water, materials and waste derivatives are options, forward contracts, futures, warrants and swaps. What is and pollution. BREEAM is divided into criteria for which points are awarded particular to financial derivatives is that they are linked to events or conditions at which, in turn, lead to certification. The Sweden GreenBuilding Council actively a specific point in time in the future, or to a certain period of time in the future. works to adapt BREEAM to Swedish conditions and a BREEAM committee will The value of a derivative instrument is linked to the value of an underlying asset, be appointed in early 2012. such as equities, share indices, currencies, interest rates or commodities. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 43 EDI Electronic Data Interchange of information in structured messages between their sector. Others also try to influence the companies in which they have different companies or organizations, for automatic processing in IT systems. a stake by engaging in a stakeholder dialogue. Energy efficiency Energy efficiency and energy saving are achieved by trying Green cars The concept of green car usually refers to cars that meet higher to make existing energy conversion more efficient either by reducing energy requirements in terms of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances, consumption or by getting more out of existing energy usage. This will enable us compared with standard cars. However, a uniform definition of the green car to have access to more energy in society without increasing energy production. concept does not yet exist, and different criteria are applied by different cities In turn, this provides for more economic use of natural resources, capital and the and authorities. The then Swedish Road Administration produced a proposal for environment. a green car definition that was expected to provide guidance. A car classed as a green car receives favourable treatment in the form of lower taxes, exemption Energy sources A common collective term for fuels, energy raw materials, from congestion charges and parking concessions in certain cities. Green cars energy bearers and methods of extracting energy. include hybrid cars, electric cars, LPG cars and ethanol cars if they meet the ruEnergy statistics program Nearly all property owners compile energy data via les in place on emissions, together with conventional petrol and diesel cars (with different kinds of property management software. Examples of general property particulate emissions of less than 5 mg per km) that emit up to 120 g carbon software applications available today include Summarum, Momentum PM dioxide per km. and the Hogia Property Application. More energy-oriented software products Green Leases In 2011, the Swedish Property Federation produced a standard include Webbess, Ess200, E4, Energireda and Momentum RC. form for Green Leases. Energy supplier A company that sells energy to energy consumers. GRI The organization behind GRI (the Global Reporting Initiative) has established Energy usage Energy is used for a variety of purposes. When we drive a car a set of voluntary, general guidelines on how companies and other organizations are to report what they are doing within sustainable development. These guideliwe use energy in the form of petrol, diesel or ethanol, for example. We may be nes, which are now available in versions G3 and G3.1, cover preferences when reconnected to a district heating network or we may have electric radiators, or a porting sustainability data in finance, environment and social responsibility. Such gas-, oilor biomass-fired boiler, to heat our homes, offices and factories. reporting is to present a balanced and credible picture of the organisation’s Environmental aspects & Environmental impact Environmental aspects refers progress in sustainability, including both positive and negative aspects. to the aspects of a business, products and services that can impact on the Hazardous waste Waste that has certain hazardous properties or is classified as environment. Examples of environmental aspects include emissions into the air such under the Waste Directive. Hazardous waste requires special treatment. and water, storage of chemicals, noise and consumption. This also means that the environment aspects do not end at the factory gate but may also impact the ISO 26 000 ISO 26 000 is an international standard for social responsibility. It is environment to a major extent. A better explanation of what an environment based on seven fundamental principles that together define the concept of soaspect is, may be that the environment aspect is the cause of environmental cial responsibility. In simple terms, it may be said that ISO 26 000 sets out what impact. Environment impact can be both positive and negative. companies and organisations can do to contribute to a sustainable future. Environmental certification The process of certification consists of an external kWh The unit kilowatt hour, kWh (thousand Watt hours), is frequently used in inspection and an objective assessment of how environmentally sustainable a measuring the consumption of electrical energy. building is. When a property is approved, the property owner receives a certifiLandfill A landfill site, known in previous years as a rubbish dump, is a place cate. Depending on the certification system, different levels of classification of where waste is deposited and covered (dumped). Landfill waste consists of resithe certificate may be awarded. dual waste after food waste, combustible waste and recyclable waste have been Environmental goals The Swedish system of environmental objectives includes sorted out. This leftover waste after sorting cannot be combusted, composted a generation target and 16 environmental quality objectives. Organisations and or recycled. From an environmental point of view, it is considered important that businesses generally formulate their own environment goals that in one way or as little waste as possible should go to landfill. another can be linked to national environment quality targets. LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) LEED was developed Ethical funds Certain funds are referred to as ethical funds. These are funds by the US Green Building Council. Certification assesses environmental aspects where the choice of investments is to some extent determined by ethical criteria. within e.g. site/land usage, water, materials, energy and indoor environment. Some ethical funds avoid investments in sectors such as alcohol, gambling, Here too, there are versions modified for different types of building and the pornography, tobacco and arms. Other ethical funds avoid investments in comenvironmental aspects are classified according to criteria for which points are panies that fail to comply with international norms. Some investment funds also awarded towards a combined mark for the entire building. try to actively select companies that are among the environmental leaders in Glossary Miljöbyggnad Miljöbyggnad (Environmental Building) is a Swedish system Strategy Strategy is about seeing the whole picture – about understanding the for certifying buildings in terms of energy, indoor climate and materials. The way in which a company or brand can be competitive in the long term and where building is subject to a 15-point check, including energy procured, noise class, the most profitable business deals will be found. It acts as a compass, directing radon level, damp, natural light, integral materials, chemicals and building the whole business – a framework for all activities – as a tool for making the products. Buildings can be classed as bronze, silver or gold depending on how right tactical decisions along the way. they score on the 15-point check. Miljöbyggnad covers both newbuilds and Sustainable development Sustainable development is a concept that was pioexisting buildings. neered by Lester Brown in 1981. It gained international fame as a result of the UN MWh MegaWatt hour. 1 MWh = 1,000 kWh. report Our Common Future (1987), also known as the Brundtland Report. The UN report defines sustainable development as a pattern of growth in which resource Non-toxic environment Environment Quality Objective No. 4. The presence of use aims to meet human needs while preserving the environment so that these substances in the environment that have been created or extracted by society needs can be met not only in the present, but also for generations to come. shall not threaten human health or biodiversity. Levels of foreign substances are almost zero and their impact on human health and eco systems is negligible. The precautionary principle In technical areas, the precautionary principle Levels of naturally occurring substances are close to background levels. means if there is any uncertainty as to whether or not a substance is hazardous, it should be treated as hazardous. The Swedish Environmental Code (Section 2, Ozone-depleting substances Substances that deplete the ozone layer contain subs. 3) defines the precautionary principle as follows: ”Everyone who operates either chlorine (Cl) or bromine (Br). These substances vaporise readily and are or intends to operate a business or undertake an action, is to perform all safety very stable. This means they can reach the stratosphere where the ozone layer precautions, observe any restrictions and adopt the cautionary measures in is. Substances that are classified as ozone-depleting are found in cooling media, general that are required to prevent, avoid or counteract any harm or inconvefire protection systems etc. nience the business or measure may cause to human health or the environment. PCBs PCBs – polychlorinated biphenyls – are a group of industrial chemicals For the same reasons, commercial operations shall employ the best possible hazardous to the environment and health that were developed in the 1920s. They technology. These precautionary measures shall be adopted as soon as there are classified as long-lived organic pollutants. Chemically, PCB pollutants comare grounds to believe that a business or action may cause harm or inconveprise two aromatic rings that can have 1-10 chlorine atoms linked to them. Their nience to the health of people or to the environment.” toxicity depends on the position of the chlorine in the molecule, not the number The UN Global Compact The Global Compact initiative was launched at the of chlorine atoms. PCB pollutants are liposoluble, which means they become World Economic Forum (at Davos in 1999), when Kofi Annan challenged the busiconcentrated in body fat. ness world to sign up to the initiative. The thinking behind the Global Compact is Recycling The reuse of materials from waste. In general, recycling is a preferred to make companies aware of and take active responsibility for ten internationally method when it comes to treating waste. Narrowly speaking, recycling means recognized principles in four areas: Human rights, Employment law, Environment recovering materials for reuse, which means that virgin materials are replaced by and Anti-corruption. used materials collected. The phrase energy recycling is also sometimes used; in Waste By waste, we mean all objects or substances that the owner wishes to this case, certain kinds of combustion may be classified as recycling. In Sweden, dispose of, or is required to dispose of. Waste is defined in accordance with an virtually all waste is recycled or combusted, and only a very small proportion is EU-wide directive (EU Directive 2006/12/EU on waste), and is therefore to be sent to landfill. interpreted in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Justice. Renewable Renewable energy sources are energy sources that constantly renew The basic regulations on waste can be found in the Swedish Environmental Code themselves and that therefore will not be exhausted in the foreseeable future. (1998:808), Section 15 and in the Waste Directive (2011:927) Risk analysis A means of systematically using available information to describe and calculate the risks associated with a certain given system. A risk analysis is a way of assessing the probability of various undesired events occurring and their consequences. Decisions may be based on this and measures taken to minimise these risks, which may be either longor short-term. A risk analysis may be performed using various methods, which may be qualitative, semi-quantitative or quantitative. Stakeholder dialogue When structuring their work on sustainability, many companies start by consulting their stakeholders. Maintaining a dialogue with stakeholders can be crucial to the success of work in CSR. Stakeholder dialogues are part of sustainability reporting according to GRI. Contact persons Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2014 45 Wihlborgs’ CSR group: Tobias Andersson, Property Management Executive, Mats Wessman, Procurement Director, Anna Nambord, Director of HR/CSR, Arvid Liepe, Chief Financial Officer and Hanna Claesson, Environmental Affairs Director. Iréne Johansson, Director of Corporate Communication, was absent when the picture was taken. Contact persons Thank you for reading our sustainability report. We appreciate any feedback. If you have any thoughts or ideas about our work on sustainability, please contact Wihlborgs’ CSR group. Tobias Andersson, Property Director +46 (0) 40 690 57 82, tobias.andersson@wihlborgs.se Mats Wessman, Procurement Director +46 (0) 40 690 57 26, mats.wessman@wihlborgs.se Anna Nambord, Director of HR/CSR +46 (0) 40 690 57 54, anna.nambord@wihlborgs.se Arvid Liepe, Chief Financial Officer +46 (0) 40-690 57 31, arvid.liepe@wihlborgs.se Hanna Claesson, Environmental Affairs Director +46 (0) 40-690 57 92, hanna.claesson@wihlborgs.se Iréne Johansson, Director of Corporate Communication +46 (0) 40 690 57 21, irene.johansson@wihlborgs.se Sustainability highlights 2014 Sustainability highlights 2014 AA The “Wihlborgs Classic” is a new initiative to promote fitness AA In September, Wihlborgs conducts its major employee survey. and a sense of community among Wihlborgs employees. EmA high response rate and more than 300 comments bear ployees can register to participate in a series of competitions witness to a high measure of commitment. The results and in jogging, cycling, swimming etc. comments are passed on to the Work Environment Committee, which then produces an action plan. AA In February and March, all new Wihlborgs recruits take part in the Company’s basic environmental training course. The AA In September, Wihlborgs receives its Miljöbyggnad Gold course, lasting three hours, focuses on the emergence of the certificates (the highest award category in the system) for the environmental problem, the environment and business, enviFloretten building in Helsingborg. The application was the first ronmental issues at Wihlborgs and future environmental issues. to be approved without any modifications whatsoever. AA As a result of the 2013 employee survey, Wihlborgs’ first AA In October, our CR group invites customers and partners to atManagement Forum is held in March. The theme of this first tend Wihlborgs’ Kontaktyta (Interface) meeting on the theme forum was Feedback Training. The Management Forum will be of sustainability and leadership. At the meeting, Wihlborgs convened about twice a year on various themes. presented the findings from in-depth interviews with our stakeholders. An external speaker had also been invited to atAA In March, Wihlborgs’ Environmental Affairs Director is elected tend – Niclas Ihrén, an engineer from KTH (the Royal Institute as chair of the Solar Region Skåne association. of Technology) with a postgraduate qualification in renewable AA In March, the MAX IV Project, in which Wihlborgs and Peab energy systems and 15 years of experience in sustainable are joint developers, receives the prestigious MIPIM Award at business development. Niclas Ihrén described the trends in the Cannes International Property Market. sustainability that we may expect to see, going forward. AA In March and April, the NKI (Customer Satisfaction Index) AA In November, a collective Induction Day was held for all new survey is carried out, a study to poll the attitudes and views of employees. During the sessions, Wihlborgs’ new recruits learn our tenants. The findings reveal a heightened interest in about the Company’s history and values and undergo training sustainability. in Business Ethics. AA During the April-May period, all caretakers, property managAA In November, Wihlborgs receives its Miljöbyggnad Bronze ers, property management executives and regional directors certificate (highest classification: Gold) for its Magasinet participate in an energy seminar. Wihlborgs uses the E4 energy property in Malmö. The application process began in 2012, statistics program and it was at the initiative of the system’s uswhen few projects of the type had been inspected under Milers that the seminar was arranged. The purpose of the seminar jöByggnad, and as a result the process took time. The project was for the various property management users to learn more consisted of an existing building that housed several types of about the program. business. The ground floor was left unchanged but the upper levels were totally redeveloped. In addition, a new residential AA In May, Wihlborgs signs an agreement with ALNA, the Swedish floor was added at the top and was judged as a newbuild. anti-drugand alcohol-abuse organization. The cooperation However, the Bronze status awarded to the building does is intended to establish a clear process concerning the use, not mean that every assessment indicator was classified as at-risk use and abuse of alcohol, pharmaceuticals, gambling, Bronze. In the Magasinet project, nine indicators were awardillegal drugs and the like that may affect the workplace. ALNA ed Silver, one Gold and the remaining six Bronze. contributes through advice, support to management, training programmes and aid in crisis situations. AA In the course of 2014, discussions began with SP, the Technical Research Institute of Sweden, regarding a joint application AA In May, Wihlborgs’ fire safety officers and supervisors undergo for an EU project. The project is concerned with testing how systematic fire safety training organized by Räddningstjänsten, natural daylight can be boosted by artificial light in conference the emergency services organization. facilities. The application was submitted in December 2014. AA In June, a swarm of new tenants takes up residence in the AA In December, the first step towards G4 reporting is taken. Flundran property in Malmö. The new tenants are 60,000 An expanded CSR unit carries out a materiality analysis which bees, making the Company the first in Skåne to establish will form the framework for work over the years ahead. a collaboration with Bee Urban, which is handing over the guardianship of beehives to companies in metropolitan areas. As property owners, our wish is to be part of promoting biodiversity and, since we have a large number of roofs, it seems logical for us to be involved in this venture. ÖMÄRK IL J Production Wihlborgs in association with Navigator. M T Photography Felix Gerlach (interiors and exteriors), Peter Westrup (portraits). Printing Exakta Printing. Printed on Swan marked paper, licence no. 341 140. 341 TR 140 YCK SAK Wihlborgs has been included in the OMX Sustainability Index since December 2012. Malmö – Head Office Helsingborg Lund Denmark Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs A/S www.wihlborgs.se Box 97, SE-201 20 Malmö, Garnisonsgatan 25 A Ideon Science Park Hørkær 26, 1 sal info@wihlborgs.se Sweden SE-254 66 Helsingborg, Scheelevägen 17 DK-2730 Herlev, Denmark Registered address Malmö Visitors: Dockplatsen 16 Sweden SE-223 70 Lund, Sweden Tel: +45 396 161 57 Company reg. no.: Tel: +46 40 690 57 00 Tel: +46 42 490 46 00 Tel: +46 40 690 57 00 Fax: +45 396 161 58 556367-0230 Fax: +46 40 690 57 01 Fax: +46 42 490 46 01 Where job satisfaction is key With the commitment of our employees and the quality of our properties, we will create conditions for strong growth for business in the Öresund region. wihlborgs.se
