United Nations Global Compact 2015 Communication This report covers on Progress the period between july 31st, 2014 to july 31st, 2015 Transforming Passion into Excellence 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Dear Stakeholders, On behalf of our 182,000 Teleperformance people From a policy development standpoint, our Global around the world, it is my pleasure to provide you CSR Committee developed and implemented with our 2015 United Nations Global Compact report additional policies and/or statements for Human update. I am pleased to report Teleperformance Rights, Health & Safety and a Supplier Code of remains active, engaged and committed regarding Conduct among others. We have successfully our UNGC initiatives and we continue to make undergone several independent and extremely tangible progress in aligning our overall business comprehensive CSR related audits by some of the approach and our policies with the UNGC universal world’s largest global companies we are proud to principles. As a large and global enterprise serving call clients. By the time this report is published, we 160 world markets, Teleperformance believes we will also have successfully completed a rigorous have a real responsibility to help both human third party independent CSR certification process. society and our planet thrive; we embrace the This certification is calibrated with CSR global best UNGC principles because they are in full harmony implementation practices and advanced reporting, with these fundamental obligations. Here is a very tracking and transparency standards. Bottom line, brief summary of our recent UNGC efforts: we are applying the management discipline of our core business to measure, control, communicate and improve our Corporate Social Responsibility efforts. Paulo César Salles Vasques CEO Clients and other stakeholders play an increasingly important part in our progress for both UNGC and other CSR initiatives. This is our fourth annual Transforming Passion into Excellence 2 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Letter from the CEO UNGC report, and I am very happy to tell you professionalism, innovation and commitment. In goals. I am pleased to report that even with our Teleperformance clients, all over the world, seem line with this, we give back to the communities healthy growth, we were still able to reduce our more aware of and embracing of UNGC principles where we live and work and wherever people need carbon footprint per employee by over 2.5% in in each successive year. Why? Like us, these help anywhere in the world. I am proud to report the past year. We have also been honored with extremely successful companies have discovered Our Citizen of the World initiative, founded in 2006, multiple environmentally related awards and have that applying the UNGC principles to corporate has now raised over $18 million (USD) in cash and recently implemented 5 LEED certified facilities. In policies represent more than potential ethical in-kind donations and has helped save thousands short, at Teleperformance being “green” is part of clarity enhancements; it also makes great business of lives through actions such as emergency relief, our people strategy and our daily life. sense from an overall ROI standpoint. The fact is Ebola prevention and blood drives. we are strategically collaborating on CSR related I am very proud of the great progress our priorities not just with NGO’s, but also regularly now We also try do our part to help protect the world. Teleperformance family has accomplished together with our clients – this is a big step forward from just Teleperformance is not a manufacturer, but we do on our UNGC initiatives over these past several a few years ago! manage and execute customer services operations years. You will be happy to also know we remain in approximately 270 office facilities in 62 countries. committed to taking these efforts to a new level One of the ways Teleperformance differentiates Citizen of the Planet is a Teleperformance initiative on a continuous basis. Please visit us at www. itself is by our overall culture which includes our started in 2008 to reduce our carbon-footprint-perteleperformance.com for more information. “people strategy”. In our world, everything starts employee each year. It’s an important goal for us and ends with developing our people, giving them as the global industry leader so we can set tangible Yours Sincerely, a great place to work and helping them realize examples for our industry peers to follow. This goal their full potential. We believe happy and motivated is also extremely challenging because we are one Paulo César Salles Vasques – CEO people make the difference between average and of the largest private sector employers in the world exceptional results. The UNGC principles reinforce and we continue to grow significantly in headcount our people strategy and our overall culture which is annually. Reducing electricity consumption is by far based on our five value pillars of integrity, respect, our biggest opportunity to achieve our CF reduction Transforming Passion into Excellence 3 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Awards & Certifications Awards Aon Hewitt Best EmployerTM certification We were certified by Aon Hewitt, the global talent, retirement and health solutions business of Aon plc (NYSE: AON), in its Aon Hewitt Best Employers™ program. With a newly launched global methodology, the Aon Hewitt Best Employers Global Program measures and recognizes employer excellence worldwide. Teleperformance has achieved certification in ten countries around the world, including the U.S., China, India, the Philippines, Singapore, Portugal, Albania, Slovakia, Ukraine and El Salvador. Teleperformance also achieved best employer certification for the entire Asia Pacific Region. Great Place to Work® Teleperformance was once again named as part of the prestigious group of 2015 Great Place to Work in different regions and countries: 2015: Portugal, India and Brazil 2014: Brazil, El Salvador, Mexico and Portugal 2014 Transforming Passion into Excellence 4 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Awards & Certifications Other CSR-related awards Certifications Following are some of the CSR-related awards that Teleperformance has Teleperformance has been: received during the last reporting period. A more comprehensive list of our • The first company to achieve PCI certification awards is available on Teleperformance Corporate website: http://www. • The first to receive a third party Recommendation of Compliance with the teleperformance.com/en-us/people-company/awards-and-recognition HIPAA health care standard • The first company to achieve DSE certification 2015 • Teleperformance Recognized as a Top Service Provider by IAOP 2015 Global We are also: Outsourcing 100® List • Safe Harbor certified • Most Secure European Company in Teleperformance Group Russia & Ukraine • ISO 27001 compliant for best practices in Information Security • 2015 Teleperformance Romania receives the Best Large Call Center award • ISO 27001 Re-certification (Teleperformance Nearshore North, Brazil and for the fifth consecutive year by Conference Arena TLScontact) • Teleperformance India has been recognized for its business acumen and • ISO 9001-2008 (Colombia, Italy, Mexico, Brazil and Portugal) progressive Leadership Strategy at the Asia BPO Summit 2014-15. • COPC Re-certification (Boise) • AT&T Supplier Diversity Crystal Award • BS 25999 compliant for best practices in Business Continuity Practices • OHSAS18001 (Teleperformance Italy, Germany and UK) 2014 • ISO14001 (Teleperformance Germany and UK) • Transparency Grand Prize Teleperformance awarded for its Communication • LEED certifications (TLS Contact & Teleperformance Colombia) to Shareholders in the Consumer Services category. • Frost & Sullivan Latin American Green Excellence Award • National Outsourcing Association (NOA) Corporate Social Responsibility • AON Hewitt & Valor Carreira Best in People Management Transforming Passion into Excellence 5 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Overview Transforming Passion into Excellence 6 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress People Care Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Information New! Human Rights statement • • Teleperformance is committed to respect and support human rights throughout its operations and business activities. Consequently, the Group launched a Human Rights statement on June 4, 2015. For more information please see p. 14. Community Involvement • Citizen of the World (COTW) was established in 2006 as Teleperformance’s charitable initiative to help the world’s most vulnerable infants and children meet basic survival needs and ultimately reach their individual potential. In 2014, we achieved $4,097,522 total donations resulting in countless lives improved. For more information, please see p. 34. CSR New Hire training • • Teleperformance CSR New Hire orientation is designed to raise awareness around Corporate Social Responsibility and to involve the Group’s employees in CSR-related initiatives right from the start. This training is mandatory for all new hires and is delivered face-to-face during the Onboarding phase. 90.3% of all new hires in 2014 attended the training. For more information, please see 2014 UNGC CoP, p.12. Code of Ethics • • • The policy reflects Teleperformance’s core values and respect for diversity. All companies in the Group must apply CSR principles in the way we operate to ensure honesty, fairness, equality, sustainability, transparency and basic human decency. Since last report, 84% of our employees were trained with a 78% acknowledgement. Employee Satisfaction • • Every year since 2008, Teleperformance conducts an Employee Satisfaction Survey in which Survey all employees from across the Group are encouraged to participate. The survey takes place at the end of Q2 and the results are available end of Q3. In the 7th Global Edition (2014) the survey involved 85,215 people in 41 countries in all world regions. The overall satisfaction and engagement increased with 1 percentage point compared to 2013. For more information, please see 2014 UNGC CoP, p.14. New! Supply Chain • • • • As a natural extension of our Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption policies, Teleperformance Supplier Policy, launched in Q3 2015, aims at setting out a range of rules we expect our suppliers and business partners to abide by in terms of ethics, anti-corruption and other social responsibility principles. For more information, please see p. 16. Data Privacy Policy • • Teleperformance launched an all-encompassing Group Privacy and Data Protection policy in February 2015. The policy expresses the strong commitment of Teleperformance to respect and protect the privacy of every individual, its employees and clients. The Policy is available on our corporate website. Transforming Passion into Excellence 7 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress People Care Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Information Anti-corruption policy • As a responsible company, Teleperformance has zero tolerance towards any corrupt and fraudulent behavior. Our Anti-Corruption Policy incorporates the definitions of corrupt behavior and what actions to take to avoid or eliminate the risk of corruption. Since last report, 84% of our employees were trained with an 83% acknowledgement. For more information, please see 2014 UNGC CoP, p. 54. New! Anti-fraud program / • Teleperformance is committed to guarantee the physical and digital security of its GESP employees and customers. Our security program consists of integrated solutions leveraged using in-depth industry knowledge. For more information, please see p. 18. Transforming Passion into Excellence 8 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Diversity & Career Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Information Management Labor Framework & • • Teleperformance complies with all national and international laws in terms of labor. To re-inforce our Social Dialog commitment, Teleperformance has issued a Human Rights Statement. For more information, please see p. 14. New! Equal Opportunity Policy • • In January 2015, Teleperformance launched its Group Equal Opportunity Policy. The aim of the policy is to promote equal employment opportunities, non-discrimination, diversity and inclusion and equality in the career path. Up to May 2015, 63% of all employees were trained with a 56% acknowledgement. Please see p. 20 for more information. BEST Recruitment & • • BEST Recruitment & Selection is a set of processes and tools in recruitment designed to ensure that Selection all applications are reviewed following clear criteria to avoid bias, make sure that non-discriminatory rules are clearly followed and that candidates are the right fit for the job. The level of implementation is today at 69%. For more information, please see 2014 UNGC CoP, p. 28. New! Impact Sourcing • Teleperformance is committed to give employment opportunities to people living in disadvantaged communities. Partnering with the Rockefeller Foundation and several local NGOs, we educate people, providing them with an opportunity to have a fulfilling career, and at the same time bringing value to the business in terms of higher engagement and lower attrition. For more information, please see p.22. Onboarding • • Onboarding is the process by which new hires get adjusted to the social and performance aspects of their jobs quickly and smoothly, and learn the attitudes, knowledge, skills, and behaviors required to function effectively within an organization. Teleperformance launched its Onboarding Package for new hires in December 2013. Today, the level of implementation across all companies is at 88%, and our new hires show an overall satisfaction level of 94%. For more information, please see 2014 UNGC CoP, p. 24. New! Supervisor Foundations • Whether we recruit supervisors externally or internally, it is extremely important that Teleperformance gives the right foundation for them to be successful managers of our more than 100,000 advisors around the world. Teleperformance therefore launched in March 2015 an important curriculum for our new Supervisors. Please see p. 24 for more information. JUMP! • JUMP! is another development program created to identify and prepare high-potential employees to take on leadership positions in the company. For more information, please see 2014 UNGC CoP, p. 33. Transforming Passion into Excellence 9 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Diversity & Career Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Information Management Coaching 2.0 • Coaching 2.0 is a worldwide program, launched in 2014, aimed at developing the coaching culture of our organization. The target audience is most specifically our more senior managers. In 2014, over 1,700 managers were trained by these workshops and the initiative was such a success that it is now part of the Supervisor Foundations Program (see p. 24). eInstitute • Teleperformance supports our employees’ growth and development through recognition, continuous education and leadership enhancement programs. We engage our employees to learn and develop through various methods, from facilitated classroom trainings, to technology driven solutions via our online training platform. Working with over 60 cultures and languages, our global online training platform offers over 500 courses to enhance the capabilities of our people at all levels regarding personal and professional skills. In 2014, we continued to see an increase in the utilization of our online training platform with an increase in users of 83%. TP University • As the worldwide leader in customer experience management, we want to take advantage of our multicultural identity to shape our future leaders. To learn more, please see p. 26. Teleperformance • • To ensure fair and consistent performance management, TOPS (Teleperformance Operational Operational Processes & Processes & Standards) describes the Operation Standards and Procedures that must be Standards followed by all Teleperformance companies. TOPS involves the activities needed to effectively manage operations during the shifts, improving results and increasing employee satisfaction. For each advisor, it ensures consistent support and feedback from first line managers (Supervisors) and it helps to highlight each advisor’s improvement points. BEST Quality Assurance • • The Teleperformance Quality Assurance Process (BEST QA) provides a clear, structured approach to implement and manage quality in all our companies, with the objective to improve the satisfaction of our customers and our clients while at the same time developing our people fairly. Transforming Passion into Excellence 10 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Health & Safety Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Information New! Health & Safety Policy • • Teleperformance promotes health literacy as “the capacity to make sound health decisions in the context of everyday life – in the home, community and workplace”. To reinforce this, Teleperformance launched its Health & Safety policy in May 2015. Please see p. 28 for more information. New! Passion4U Program • • In conjunction with the Teleperformance Health & Safety Policy, Passion 4U is a global initiative created to promote mental and physical health, welfare, exercise and enjoyment at work. It enhances the quality of life of employees and minimizes their stress. For more information, please see p. 30. For Fun Festival • • In 2014, more than 6,000 employees from 37 countries participated in this annual festival recognizing and celebrating the unique artistic talents of our people around the world. For more information please see p. 32. Sports Club • Teleperformance Sport Club is a global initiative that encourages employees to share enjoyable moments with their colleagues through practicing a group sport. The program is a worldwide initiative that aims to promote sport as a means for well-being and quality of life. In 2014, we had 731 soccer teams throughout the world, 54 volleyball teams, 69 basketball teams, 88 bowling teams and many other teams of men and women playing sports such as tennis, badminton and softball. Click here to watch our 2014 Sport Club video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ILjx-wtrVUQ BEST Workforce • • The work of employed staff is organized in strict compliance with work time legislation, which Management varies from country to country. The weekly working hours range from 35 to a maximum of 48. Teleperformance has developed a BEST WFM User Guide describing the general Workforce Management standards and procedures that must be followed by all countries. Teleperformance BEST WFM involves all the activities needed to respect the labor law requirements, as well as accommodating individual needs for preferred working hours, days and shifts. BEST WFM has been designed to be aligned with the requirements from the COPC-2000 CSP Standard Release 5.0. Premises Standard • • • Since 2009, Teleperformance has deployed a Global Premises Standard to guarantee a healthy and pleasant work environment. The Standard covers topics such as Lighting, Acoustics, IT & Security, Safety, Hands-on-Management, Sustainable Development and Wellbeing in all areas of our centers. The Standard provides blueprints and guidelines for all departments. The Standard is reviewed by internal & external experts on a yearly basis to ensure that it is in line with market evolutions, business needs and in compliance with building and layout safety standards specific to each country. In 2014 the global adherence was at 83%. Transforming Passion into Excellence 11 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Health & Safety Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Information Environmental policy • In December 2013, Teleperformance released its Environmental Policy, which defines the actions, behaviors and relationships that Teleperformance’s employees shall adopt to act in an environmentally responsible way, inside and outside the workplace. Since last report, 83% of our employees were trained with an 83% acknowledgement. For more information, please see 2014 UNGC CoP, p. 46. Carbon footprint • Citizen of the Planet (COTP) is a global corporate initiative aimed at ensuring Teleperformance operates in an environmentally friendly and responsible manner. We commit to helping our planet by improving facilities to create “sustainable sites” (i.e., water, paper and other waste reductions) and striving towards “paperless” environments, as well as promoting recycling, and incentivizing energy and atmosphere improvements. Please see p. 37 for more information. Sustainable Use of • In order to meet our environmental and sustainable goals, Teleperformance performs a Resources comprehensive set of initiatives involving management, employees, suppliers and clients. Our combined efforts are aimed at helping our planet. For more information, please see 2014 UNGC CoP, p. 49. Transforming Passion into Excellence 12 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Index p.14 p.16 Human Rights Statement Supplier Policy p.18 Anti-fraud Program p.20 Equal Opportunity Policy p.22 Impact Sourcing p.24 Supervisor Foundations p.26 TP University p.28 Health & Safety Policy p.30 Passion4U Program p.32 For Fun Festival p.34 Citizen of the World p.37 Citizen of the Planet Transforming Passion into Excellence 13 Human Rights Statement Transforming Passion into Excellence 14 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Statement Teleperformance respects and and forced labor; we provide fair compensation to our employees and set rules to cap our supports human rights throughout working hours. All employees may freely its operations and business activities join or associate with organizations without interference, retaliation or discrimination. and is committed to avoid complicity in human rights abuse. Furthermore, our suppliers shall align with Teleperformance operating philosophies and core values and establish an unwavering Our commitment is expressed in the behaviors support of integrity in all procurement that we promote in our Code of Ethics, Equal activities. Teleperformance suppliers must Opportunity Policy and Supplier Policy, as well embrace, support and enact the principles as in our corporate values: Integrity, Respect, contained in the United Nations Global Compact Professionalism, Innovation and Commitment. and those outlined in our Supplier Policy. Our business operations are governed Teleperformance Human Rights statement by processes and procedures aimed at has already been published on our corporate guaranteeing the respect of human rights. website and will be translated into local languages, distributed internally and To reinforce its commitment, in June 2015 communicated to all employees. Teleperformance launched a Human Rights Statement addressing the first two principles of To increase the awareness and continue the United Nations Global Compact: reducing any risk, specific trainings and assessments will be launched from Q4 2015. “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses” Teleperformance condemns any form of child Transforming Passion into Excellence 15 Supplier Policy Transforming Passion into Excellence 16 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Supplier Policy Launched in June 2015, the Teleperformance Supplier Policy aims at setting out a range of rules we expect our suppliers and business partners to abide by in terms of ethics, anti-corruption and other social responsibility principles. As a natural extension of our Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption policies, Teleperformance Supplier policy aligns us with our client expectations and reflects the operating philosophies and core values of Teleperformance, confirming our unwavering support of integrity in all procurement activities. Teleperformance will measure the performance and Promotion of Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain via a Group Supplier Qualification Questionnaire submitted to suppliers engaged in providing goods and/or services to Teleperformance. The questionnaire collates relevant details regarding compliance with laws, ethical business practices and financial viability in accordance with the Teleperformance Group Supplier Policy. Transforming Passion into Excellence 17 Anti-fraud Program Transforming Passion into Excellence 18 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Anti-fraud Program Teleperformance has a strong Global Essential Security Policies (GESP) video monitoring are in place to guarantee physical security, with global security processes security program to create a At Teleperformance we believe it is our duty integrated to deliver the highest security to provide a holistic physical and information balance of both physical and digital security practice for our people, our clients and standards. security measures for employees their customers. We do this while providing Teleperformance Security Team and customers alike. Our security world class service in the safest and most The Teleperformance global security team secure environments possible worldwide. We program consists of integrated interacts will all subsidiaries around the globe have a well-defined security strategy intended to ensure we have a clear view of our security solutions leveraged using in-depth to prevent incidents at Teleperformance. This standards consistently. Security is and will strategy’s purpose is to protect our clients’ industry knowledge tailored to suit data and maintain the confidentiality of their always be one of our top priorities. To help our clients’ businesses. facilitate the implementation of this security customers’ information while providing a program, we have created the Global Security safe and secure workplace for our employees. Council comprised of senior executives from This security program has been implemented each region of the world, along with our Fraud Risk Assessment early 2015 in a consistent manner spanning security and compliance team. It is the council’s We have also designed consistent processes all countries we operate in and in every client responsibility to monitor the global program for to map fraud risk from the beginning of a operation. One of the primary components of adherence and consistent execution. program. We perform a detailed mapping of this strategy is a core set of security policies all processes, system and resource interactions that are called “Global Essential Security to identify critical points that can create a Policies” (GESP). These policies are mandatory negative impact or create potential breaches – not optional. We have gone through an within the operation. We work closely with extensive review of individual country laws and each client to identify high risk opportunities regulations and have adapted individual GESPs and then, as partners, work to close those to ensure we abide by those laws. risk areas to minimize the future potential of In addition, our physical security measures fraudulent activity. provide a safer workplace for our employees. The access control, turnstile devices and Transforming Passion into Excellence 19 Equal Opportunity Policy Transforming Passion into Excellence 20 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Equal Opportunity Policy In January 2015, Teleperformance information, family care status, military the workplace; caregiver status, veteran or military service launched its Group Equal Opportunity • How to set up an effective grievance or obligation, reserve status, national mechanism. Policy. The policy is based on principle guard status, or any other basis protected by applicable laws; The policy launch and the training webinars 6 of the Unites Nations Global are available to Teleperformance employees Compact establishing that: • Defines unlawful workplace discrimination at all times on our internal platform for towards applicants and employees as continuous learning. different treatment with respect to “Businesses should uphold the elimination of compensation, terms, conditions, or discrimination in respect of employment and privileges of employment. occupation”. The policy launch was followed by a The aim of Teleperformance Equal training webinar especially designed for HR Opportunity policy is to provide guidelines Directors and UNGC subject matter experts. to enforce procedures across the Group that The training, called “Creating a positive promote equal employment opportunities, working environment”, presented concrete non-discrimination, diversity and inclusion situational examples of discriminatory and equality in the career path. It covers behavior and guidelines how to deal workplace discrimination in terms of gaining concretely with everyday situations. In access to employment and in treatment of particular, the training focused on: employees once they are in work. • The benefits of a positive workplace In particular, Teleperformance Equal environment; Opportunity policy: • How to act according to our corporate • Sets that Teleperformance does not values; unlawfully discriminate on the basis • Recognizing and preventing discrimination of race, color, religion, sex, sexual and favoritism in the workplace; orientation, national origin, citizenship, ancestry, age, disability, genetic • Recognizing and preventing harassment in Transforming Passion into Excellence 21 Impact Sourcing Transforming Passion into Excellence 22 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Impact Sourcing Impact sourcing (IS) is a business formalized and measured, going a step forward with the involvement of local communities, process service delivery model based governments and civil society (i.e. specialist on the recruitment of talents who, training institutions). besides being unemployed, are: Digital Jobs Africa seeks to impact the lives of 1 million people in the African continent, Teleperformance having operations in 50% • Economically disadvantaged (i.e. low income of these countries. Our current commitment areas, lack access to jobs), or is to create 5,000 Impact Sourcing jobs over • Socially disadvantaged (i.e. minorities, gender five years. Teleperformance is also committed groups), or to educate the industry and the analyst community to this socially responsible practice. • Persons with disadvantageous life circumstances (i.e. disabled, health limits). A study conducted by Everest on a pilot carried out in Teleperformance RSA (South Africa) By recruiting one single person falling under with the collaboration of Harambee Youth these categories, it is calculated that three Employment Accelerator was published in to four are positively impacted in their September 2014 under the title “The case for community. Impact Sourcing”. Teleperformance estimates Teleperformance has been recruiting young meeting the Impact Sourcing recruitment and disadvantaged people unintentionally for criteria in Costa Rica, Egypt, El Salvador, India, years, integrating them in our internal training Mexico, Morocco, Philippines, South Africa, programs designed to take the up to speed and Tunisia and other developing countries. enable them to match clients’ needs and thrive in the company. Thanks to the collaboration with The Rockefeller Foundation and their Digital Jobs Africa initiative, Impact Sourcing is currently being Transforming Passion into Excellence 23 Supervisor Foundations Transforming Passion into Excellence 24 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Supervisor Foundations Program tenure and is split in to “Basics” (Week one), “Essentials” (Months One to Three) and “Development” (Months Three to Six). Training has been carefully selected for each section, starting initially with some of the core The focus of the program is to ensure knowledge required for the role whilst ending in the “development” phase with skills based consistency in the way in which our workshops on subjects such as Leadership Supervisors are recruited globally and Management allowing Supervisors to take in to the Workshop real examples to and also the training that they receive discuss and practice. during the first 6 months in their role. Each of our companies has attended a “Train There are 4 key parts to this Program: The Trainer” program on this new, important curriculum and we look forward to seeing the positive results. 1. Job Descriptions – The Supervisor Job Description is now consistent globally ensuring all our Supervisors are recruited to the same specification (local requirements can be added); 2. Assessment Center – A new assessment center has been designed for our Supervisors which each new Supervisor must pass in order to start in their role; 3.Training A structured training curriculum has been developed that will be consistent for all Supervisors Globally. The training curriculum covers the first 6 months of the Supervisors Transforming Passion into Excellence 25 Teleperformance University Transforming Passion into Excellence 26 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Teleperformance University Module 4: Operations, IT & Security (Salt Lake City) Module 5: Finance (Athens) Module 6: Excellence in Operations & Final Project (Manila) 90% of the curriculum is delivered by Teleperformance leaders. Additionally we partner with renowned universities to bring Teleperformance University was more value to the project. created to nurture, develop, empower Local CEOs / Heads of Global Areas submit candidates they believe have the potential and spread globally the unique of becoming future senior leaders in corporate culture of Teleperformance. Teleperformance. A Selection Committee carefully evaluates all submissions and based on the competencies Teleperformance University prepares the and potential of each candidate, plus the next generation of leaders to sustain Corporation priorities, approves a final list of Teleperformance’s leadership in the industry for participants. years to come. The next generation of Teleperformance Teleperformance University is an Executive University will start classes in Lisbon on program divided into six modules across six September 27, 2015. The graduation is scheduled centers of excellence in the world: to take place in Manila on July 30, 2016. Module 1: Culture & People Management (Lisbon) Module 2: Marketing & Solutions (São Paulo) Module 3: Business Development & Client Relationships (Guadalajara) Transforming Passion into Excellence 27 Health & Safety Policy Transforming Passion into Excellence 28 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Health & Safety Policy Our employees spend a significant our facilities, such as employees, contractors and visitors. proportion of their time and energy The policy was launched in May 2015 and at work. Therefore Teleperformance was followed by the nomination of local H&S plays a crucial role in improving our Subject Matter Experts for every country. employees’ health, wellbeing and Appropriate trainings will be organized throughout the rest of the year to ensure that ultimately their quality of life, not all SMEs have the same level of knowledge and only as an employer but also as an coherence in H&S Management. The purpose is also to support the implementation of the advocate for health in society. policy and to track the adherence to the H&S procedures and Control Points. In this context, Teleperformance promotes health literacy as “the capacity to make sound health decisions in the context of everyday life – in the home, community and workplace”. The aim of Teleperformance Health & Safety Policy is to set out how we manage H&S in the workplace and to define our H&S management framework by establishing the roles, responsibilities and procedures to follow. Our ultimate goal is to reduce the risk of our employees being harmed by work and to diminish work related illness by providing a safe working environment. The policy is applicable to anyone entering Transforming Passion into Excellence 29 Passion4U Program Transforming Passion into Excellence 30 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Passion 4U by our overall strategy, is an integral part of Here are some examples of activities carried the program. A best practice sharing portal out at Teleperformance: promotion global has been created on the corporate Intranet to awareness campaigns such as World Health collect inspiring local initiatives and encourage Day, No Tobacco Day and World AIDS Day; internal networking and dialogue. Companies organizations of health fairs; stretching across the Group in search for healthy lifestyle exercises and massage therapy for stress relief related ideas or wishing to set up thematic and addressing musculoskeletal disorders; Passion 4U is a wellness program that initiatives receive practical information on wellness portals and coaching; fitness sessions the organization, challenges and successes of at local premises or at discounted fares in promotes well-being and a higher initiatives carried out by their colleagues across sports clubs; healthy eating campaigns and quality of life for all our employees. the world, as well as examples of practices free fruits delivery for all employees; doctors carried out by external companies, institutions and nurses on premises; programs for parents Its aim is to foster health literacy and children for improved work life balance and associations. and minimizing stress by promoting (agreements with local kindergartens, Regular webinars are organized throughout the mental and physical health, exercise year gathering teams from across the Group to summer camps, family events, back to school supplies…); team building initiatives; and many and enjoyment at work. exchange on innovative health related projects. more. Each webinar features at least two companies presenting a different activity in the framework Passion 4U is closely related to the Group of four main themes: Occupational Health & Safety Policy. As one • Health & nutrition of the largest employers in the world, we believe it is our responsibility to empower our • Fitness employees to make health-conscious decisions • Work life balance and minimize health-related risks. This also contributes to our ultimate goal to create the • Collaboration with external partners best possible place to work. This platform for dialogue is an opportunity for All Passion 4U activities are carried out locally, companies to relate to their peers having very but sharing of best practices, as encouraged similar challenges. Transforming Passion into Excellence 31 ForFun Festival Transforming Passion into Excellence 32 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress For Fun Festival 973 of them entered the Music category, 284 entered the Art category, and 233 entered the Dance category. The top nine Global Finalists were selected from the global qualifying round to display their talents of Art, Dance or Music live or via video in front of Teleperformance’s Management team during the World Wide Integration Meeting on December 16, 2014 in Miami Beach, Florida to compete for cash prizes. Teleperformance’s For Fun Festival Six global finalists were selected from a panel is a global annual initiative that of global judges, a worldwide committee composed of Teleperformance representatives. recognizes the most talented people The other three were selected from the People’s in our company. Choice, which enabled friends, families, colleagues and the general public to express their preference for the best performance. The The aim of this competition is to create a sense video with the highest number of Facebook of fun and to entertain via an international art, votes in each category was selected. 41,170 dance and music competition that is intended votes were made on Facebook during the to instill pride in belonging to the Group and voting period of two weeks. promote its cultural diversity. Click here to see the 2014 FFF Video Report: Over 7,100 For Fun Festival videos with almost https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x30,000 employees participating have been xXFkwRO_k received since the program’s inception in 2009. More than 6,000 employees from 37 countries produced 1,490 videos, in order to take part in the local qualifying rounds for the 2014 event: Transforming Passion into Excellence 33 Citizen of the World Transforming Passion into Excellence 34 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Citizen of the World Program an equivalent of $18,566,952 in cash, in-kind Feed the Children Chief Development Officer. donations and services including 222,499 “When disaster strikes, it takes the help of employee donated volunteer hours, 11,610 many to assist those affected. This donation computers and 340,335 toys. will support the immediate need for shelter, medical aid, and clean water within the rural, In 2014, we achieved $4,097,522 total more remote Nepali communities.” donations including 2,207 computers, 31,269 toys and 45,048 volunteer hours, resulting in And in order to prevent more deaths and the countless lives improved and more than 2,500 spread of Ebola, Teleperformance sponsored local charitable campaigns were executed. Ebola Prevention awareness campaigns in 11 Teleperformance employees worldwide also villages reaching approximately 16,500 people participated in Blood Drives partnering with in Nimba County, Liberia through our Global local associations (Red Cross, Blood banks, etc.) Crisis Fund. and Hospitals donating 1,341 liters of blood To see the 2014 Citizen of the World video report resulting in 8,940 lives saved! please click here: https://www.youtube.com/ Teleperformance responds annually to several watch?v=XfW62ewAZiE Since 2006, Teleperformance large natural disasters. Funds are collected employees have played a vital role in and used to distribute blankets, ready-toeat-meals, baby supplies, water, medicine, improving the lives of thousands of blood and other items for affected victims by children and families around the world. collaborating with recognized international relief organizations and/or local NGOs. Through our partnership with Feed the Children Teleperformance Group donated immediately and local NGOs, Teleperformance’s Citizen of through our global crisis fund for the urgent the World team provides immediate relief relief to the Nepal Earthquake victims needing for families in poverty and those affected shelter, medical aid, and clean water in Nepal. by natural disasters. Over the last 8 years, “Feed the Children, on behalf of our response Teleperformance employees have donated partners in Nepal, is grateful for the generous support of Teleperformance,” said Matt Panos, Transforming Passion into Excellence 35 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Teleperformance Social Responsibility $4,097,5222 total donations that went towards $2,461,426 donated in in-kind items such as feeding, clothing, and bringing joy clothing, school supplies, and other to the needy. needed items. 2,207 computers donated to poor schools. 45,0483 total employee donated volunteer hours. 31,269 $656,291 $979,805 in cash donations by the Teleperformance family. underprivileged infants and children received toys during the Holiday Season. service value for volunteer hours donated during Teleperformance working hours. ²Total donations include cash + In-kind + services ³ Based on the Independent Sector’s estimate of the average value of a volunteer hour Transforming Passion into Excellence 36 Citizen of the Planet Transforming Passion into Excellence 37 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress Citizen of the Planet Program The commitment to minimize our global report please click here: https://www.youtube. CO2 emissions, for example, is an action that com/watch?v=Ag-1sAva_FA generates results and integrates people from different countries. These people are supported by Teleperformance, which invests in facility improvements, alternative transportation and education to transform isolated tasks into effective mindset changes. We continue to invest in sharing knowledge and best practices related to environmental responsibility, ensuring constant updates. Achievements in 2014: • Total measured CO2 emissions were 110,670 tons with a carbon footprint per employee (CFE) of 0.77 tons. A 2.6% decrease in our CFE Since 2008 Citizen of the Planet (2014 vs. 2013) (COTP) is the Teleperformance • Two Frost & Sullivan Latin America Contact environmental responsibility initiative. Center Outsourcing Green Excellence Awards (2014 & 2012) It acts globally through awareness programs, • ISO 14001 certified sites in Teleperformance best practices and collaborative campaigns. United Kingdom and Teleperformance The smart use of resources, such as water Germany and energy, in addition to recycling methods, • Five LEED certified centers (four in promote changes that improve the daily Teleperformance Colombia and one in lives of employees and reduce the rate of TLSContact in Beijing, China) environmental impact on the world. To see the 2014 Citizen of the Planet video Transforming Passion into Excellence 38 2015 UNGC Communication on Progress In 2014, our total measured carbon emissions were 110,670 tons with a carbon footprint per employees (CFE) of 0.77 tons. A 2.6% decrease in our CFE (2014 vs. 2013) 2014 Carbon Footprint Electricity in Metric Tons 90,992 % of Total Carbon 82% Footprint per source Paper 9,715 Carbon Footprintper 9% Employee 0.77 Air Travel 9,963 tons 9% Observations: Electricity is the total annual consumption in kWh of all Teleperformance call centers worldwide. Paper includes both “bond” paper and toilet paper. Air Travel: we are using a standard calculated based on a web tool designed for this purpose. Indirect electricity consumption emissions are calculated with the “emission factor” for each country. On paper we are using an estimate of 6.73 tons of CO2 per each ton of paper consumed. TLS Contact facilities are in the “emissions base lining phase” and not included in totals Germany (June – Dec) data are estimated Argentina, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland did not report water consumption Transforming Passion into Excellence 39 Transforming Passion into Excellence For more information: www.teleperformance.com Follow us: /teleperformanceglobal @teleperformance /teleperformance blog.teleperformance.com /company/teleperformance Teleperformance Group 21 rue Balzac 75008 Paris, France Teleperformance UNGC report July 2015. For additional information please go to www.teleperformance.com
