UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 As a member of the UN Global Compact (GC) Roslagens Sparbank commits to annually disclose information on activities and results related to the ten principles for human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Roslagens Sparbank uses the yearly Sustainability Report (following the lines of GRI, Global Reporting Initiative) for this disclosure. The 2014 report (“Hållbarhetsredovisning”) was published on www.roslagenssparbank.se on March 26th, 2015 as an integrated part of the Bank’s Annual Report. As the report only is published in Swedish, this summary in English has been made in effort to live up to the Global Compact standards. With this summary, we express our continued support and commitment to the Global Compact and its principles. Norrtälje, April 2015, Sten Törnsten, deputy CEO, Roslagens Sparbank Roslagens Sparbank, communication on progress 2014 As a local savings bank, Roslagens Sparbank’s vision is “an attractive and open Roslagen in growth” – that is, our long term goal is intimately connected to the sustainable long-term growth and development of our region. One important measure to ensure this, is the yearly contribution of about 10% of the bank’s net result to local projects, activities and initiatives in line with our vision. From the net result of SEK 87 mn for 2014, SEK 8 m is to be invested in activities, projects and events promoting a sustainable growth in our region. Over the last 10 years, over SEK 80 Million this way have been returned to our customers and our society. Human Rights Principles Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Roslagens Sparbank supports the international declaration of Human Rights, and works for them according to Swedish legislation, which is also reflected in our bank’s policy documents. We publish our support for the HRP on our website. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses internationally proclaimed human rights. Roslagens Sparbanks internal follow-up and both internal and external revision focuses on securing compliance to national laws, rules and regulations which in turn is meant to prevent any violations of Human Rights. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Roslagens Sparbank follows Swedish labor laws, including full freedom of assembly and union. The unions SACO and Finansförbundet both have had a number of meetings during 2013, updated collective agreements (early 2015), and are since many years represented in the bank’s Board of Directors and from January 2015 also in the Management Group. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Roslagens Sparbank follows Swedish labor law and the Swedish Finance market’s collective bargains which ensure the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Roslagens Sparbank follows and applies Swedish labor law, including age regulations for employment. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Roslagens Sparbank follows and applies Swedish anti-discrimination laws which are also part of the bank’s internal policies. No discrimination incidents have been reported in 2014. Environment Principles Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Roslagens Sparbanks policies and instructions focus on a preventative approach both internally and towards clients and stakeholders. For larger credit applications, an environmental riskanalysis is obligatory. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Since 2002, Roslagens Sparbank as a holder of ISO-certificate 14001, has worked for an improved environment, both locally and globally. Recurring activities are the yearly “Sustainability week” with included a number of customer activities on Ecological sustainability; co-operation with local food producers promoting four “Harvest Markets” in Norrtälje; active participation in Earth Hour and the bank’s own local annual environment award. Our environmental work is recognized by 80% of our Customers according to our annual customer satisfaction report. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In 2013, the bank replaced all printed (paper) posters in the branch offices with digital displays. Anti-corruption Principle Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Roslagens Sparbank follows Swedish legislation on corruption. Our internal rules and regulations include clear instructions and all co-workers are trained on topics such as money laundering. No incidents of corruption have been reported in 2013. Measurement of outcomes Goal: Reduce CO-emissions. Result: The bank’s emissions from electrical power were reduced from 4,52 tonnes to 3,53. The emissions concerning business travel were reduced from 17,56 tonnes to 17,45. Goal: Increase customers knowledge of the bank’s sustainability work. Result: 66% of private customers acknowledge our environmental work (52% in 2012).
