UN Global Compact Report Communication on Progress 2015 Contents Letter from the Directors 2 Who We Are 5 Our Mission 6 Our Sustainability Strategy 7 Our Team and Governance 8 Ten Principles Our Performance 10 Human Rights 11 Labor 12 Environment 14 Anti-Corruption 24 We are a registered Organizational Stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and support the mission of the GRI to develop globally accepted sustainability reporting guidelines through a global, multi-stakeholder process. The power of knowledge İstanbul Edinburgh Liverpool London Manchester 2 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Letter from the Directors Twenty-one years ago when we first set up Tayburn’s Turkish operations, our goals were to take a brandnew approach to business, to earn a respected market position, and to generate enduring value for all of our stakeholders. During our first decade, we took internationallyrecognized best practices in annual reporting as our benchmark in a domestic market where specialization in that business line was all but non-existent. That meant playing a pioneering, market-making role in everything from “idea mapping” to the development of reporting formats and technical specifications compatible with international standards and from consultancy to budgeting formats. TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 3 By the time we successfully completed our first ten years, we had become not only synonymous with superior-quality annual reporting but also a highly-respected brand in the business of corporate communication. The clients and sectors we served, the products we created, the suppliers we worked with, and–most importantly–the team that made our success possible all expanded and diversified. As the size of the audience demanding the added value we created grew so did our responsibilities. To put it simply, we’d not gained weight so much as gravity. Not just the dimensions we’d achieved but also macroeconomic and sectoral circumstances and the trend towards greater social and environmental awareness made it clear to us that we needed to develop new points of view and approaches concerning the issue of sustainability. Recognizing the importance of focusing on sustainability as a business strategy, we also understood the need to simultaneously deal with its three pillars: economic, social, and environmental. Today, sustainability is far more than just an “issue” for Tayburn: it’s a core value. And not only have we committed ourselves to it, we also encourage others to do likewise. Scattered around this report you’ll find examples of Tayburn’s own efforts to practice sustainability and also to abide by the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles. While a deep commitment to the UNGC Ten Principles is a fundamental tenet of Tayburn’s organizational philosophy, we are also making progress towards reducing our environmental footprint. We are excited by the possibilities that exist not only to help clients move in the same direction but also to foster our own institutional learning and growth. We believe that economic, social, and environmental progress can only be achieved if businesses acknowledge their responsibilities and are willingly involved in fulfilling them. As a member of UNGC, we seek out ways to directly contribute to the sustainability of our stakeholders, our country, and the world. We believe that two upcoming events in the period immediately ahead are going to be fundamental to humanity’s ability to ensure a sustainable future in a livable world. In our own capacity as a medium-sized 4 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Letter from the Directors business concern, we are determined to continue contributing to such efforts through the various initiatives that we support. The seventeen Sustainable Development Goals that have been proposed as successors to the 2000 Millennium Development Goals after 2015 will certainly play a role in combating poverty and improving people’s lives. No less crucial will be the success of the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21), which is to be held in Paris in November of this year, in formulating a legally binding international treaty on climate. As one of the firsts to join the Caring For Climate initiative, Tayburn will continue to support these and similar efforts. Tayburn & the UNGC Ten Principles Tayburn reaffirms its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles in all four core areas: Human Rights, Labor Standards, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. We have pledged ourselves to making UNGC and its principles fundamental elements of our corporate strategies and culture as well as of our daily operations. In its 2015 Communication on Progress, Tayburn documents the progress it has made in this direction throughout the Company. It also commits itself to sharing such information with its stakeholders through all of its primary communication channels. Istanbul, October 2015 Ronaldo Manosa Ediz Usman Director Director TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 5 Who We Are? Tayburn is a corporate communication and sustainability consulting company headquartered in İstanbul, Turkey. Founded in 1994, Tayburn is an affiliation of Edinburgh based Tayburn (www.tayburn.co.uk). Tayburn supplies its corporate customers with creative and integrated corporate communication solutions in the following practice areas: • Annual reporting • Sustainability consultancy and reporting • Investor relations • Marketing • Branding • Digital • Editorial services For more details please visit our web site at www.tayburnkurumsal.com 6 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Our Mission We consider it a privilege to serve our clients. This conviction is the justification for Tayburn’s existence and defines its mission as a company. To enable our clients to engage in transparent, sustainable and productive dialogue with their stakeholders by means of the high added value products and services that we offer. This mission is realized through Tayburn’s professionalism, national and international market acumen, and worldwide experience in corporate communication. The result of that realization is workable, high added value solutions. TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 7 Our Sustainability Strategy Ethical Business Practices Tayburn’s business practices must be consistent with the ethical business practices in the markets in which it operates. Tayburn’s activities are to be based on honesty, integrity, transparency and respect. People Tayburn is committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination where all employees can fulfill their potential based on ability and merit. Tayburn strives to deal with everyone in a fair and open manner. Sector-Community Tayburn is committed to being a contributor of positive change within its sector and community. The Company encourages its employees’ efforts to support the communities in which they live through social investment, business relationships, and participation in charitable endeavors. Environment Tayburn is committed to protecting the environment and health and safety of its employees. The Company is conscious of its responsibility to conserve resources and continuously look for ways to more efficiently use resources to reduce the environmental burden of waste generation. Data Protection Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information can result in Tayburn and its customers failing to comply with industry best practices, compliance or legislative requirements. These events impact customer retention and result in financial or reputation damage. Tayburn takes great care and responsibility with customer data. 8 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Our Team and Governance Team Tayburn comprises highly talented team members with experience in corporate communication, sustainability, strategy development, stakeholder engagement, finance, design, and marketing communications. Ronaldo Manosa, Ediz Usman, Nilgün Yılmazcan, and Gürdal Gök, our directors, provide leadership to the team and offer strategic counsel and direction to clients. Suppliers Recognizing no two clients are alike, we strive to match client needs with the most creative, effective and efficient resources. We have established relationships with a variety of experts – from printers to native speaker editors, and multimedia producers – that allow Tayburn to leverage its expertise while delivering on specific client needs. Governance Tayburn’s directors oversee day-to-day operations in the various divisions of the Company. In 2011, Tayburn formed a Sustainability Committee to provide counsel and specific expertise to the Company in the field of sustainability. Ronaldo Manosa and Ediz Usman are the current members of the Sustainability Committee. The committee is responsible for the coordination of all sustainability-related strategies and activities at Tayburn. TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 9 Our External Commitments We are driven to be the very best at our business. Our greatest satisfaction is to provide our clients with exceptional value and service. Along the way, we have been honored to receive recognition and awards for our products and services. On the other hand, a big part of our success has come through the sharing and learning that takes place with other leaders in corporate responsibility. Tayburn maintains active membership in peer-learning groups on regional, national and international levels, including: • The Global Compact • GRI-Global Reporting Initiative • TÜYİD • Global Water Partnership 10 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Ten Principles Our Performance TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 11 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Tayburn supports the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. We also support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. Tayburn also expects all its corporate stakeholders to continuously improve their work with human rights. Actions in 2014 Tayburn has a published Statement on Human Rights which is aligned with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2009. The Company has systems applied internally to manage its approach to human rights. To help us evaluate and mitigate risk that may impact upon human rights, we are currently updating our Code of Ethics and Social and Environmental Standards. These updated policies will be communicated and implemented throughout 2015. Our employees are the backbone of our business. Their dedication, productivity and experience make it possible for us to remain innovative and competitive. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to meet the needs of our workforce. 12 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Tayburn shall ensure compliance with labor and employment laws, including wages and working hours. Furthermore, no colleague is discriminated against because of age, gender, national origin, disability, religion, sexual orientation, marital or maternity status or political opinion. Actions in 2014 Tayburn believes that the only way to take advantage of the growth opportunities in the market is through employing competent human resources. We continuously aim to be one of the most desired places to work for by sustaining a secure work environment that awards success and promotes individual initiative taking. As of July 2015, Tayburn employs 17 full time individuals of different ages, genders, ethnicities, physical and mental abilities and lifestyles and values the unique background of each of its employees. TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 13 Forced or involuntary labor is not tolerated by Tayburn. This includes work on a forced contract, slavery and other forms of work against one’s will. Tayburn respects children’s rights. Therefore, the Company does not support child labor and does not use children as part of its work force. Tayburn contributes education systems, where it can, in providing work placements or internships as part of university or vocational courses of study. Tayburn will not discriminate (or tolerate discrimination by its employees) against any applicant or employee based on age, gender, national origin, disability, religion, sexual orientation, marital or maternity status or political opinion. At Tayburn employment decisions related to new hires, transfers, promotions and compensation are based on experience, skills, qualifications and responsibilities. The key to providing high quality corporate communication services for Tayburn is having professional human resources. Training and Education With the rapid evolution of the corporate communication and sustainability field in Turkey and abroad, we recognize the importance of continuous learning. The Company set aside professional development funds for education and training opportunities, including conferences, webinars, external training and education opportunities. During the reporting period, average training time per employee was twenty hours. 14 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Environment TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 15 Tayburn provides products and services to its customers that promote sustainability, CSR and environmental issues. Tayburn believes that by supporting actively such projects, it contributes to an environmentally sound economy and world. 16 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. As an office-based company, Tayburn’s direct environmental impact is limited. In any case Tayburn strives to further reduce its environmental impact. Tayburn expects all its corporate clients and business partners to continually improve their environmental impact and to encourage their stakeholders such as suppliers and trading partners to meet the same expectations. Actions in 2014 Tayburn aims at continuous improvement in its environmental management and performance. Although corporate communication agencies are not clearly identified with environmental management in Turkey, we have a history of promoting environmental responsibility. It represents an important part of our culture and identity as an organization. Our Sustainability Committee is responsible for refining and monitoring the implementation of environmental policies and ensuring that these are integrated into Tayburn’s philosophy and practice. At an executive level the Managing Director has overall accountability for the management of environmental and sustainability issues. TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 17 Tayburn conducts its operations in a manner that is committed to recycling, conservation of resources, prevention of pollution, and promotion of environmental responsibility among its employees, its customers and the supply chain. The Company provides products and services to its customers that promote sustainability, CSR and environmental issues. Tayburn believes that by supporting actively such projects it contributes to an environmentally sound economy and world. Energy Use The global energy and climate change crisis presents opportunities to reduce costs and risks associated with dependence on fossil fuels. Although our energy footprint is relatively small (given the size of the offices we occupy and limited use of major energy consuming devices) Tayburn aspires to lessen our energy-related impacts at our offices. We practice small energy conservation steps daily by shutting down all computers and power sources at the end of the work day, lowering the thermostat in the winter, turning off lights every time we leave a room, and making use of natural light whenever possible. In the past year, we made important steps to encourage telecommuting and have reduced travel through communications technology upgrades. 18 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Environment Sustainable Purchasing and Supply Chain While we are currently in the process of creating a formal Sustainable Purchasing Policy, we have informally given preference to sustainable purchasing options for office supplies in recent years. For example, Tayburn’s printed marketing materials are printed on Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper, and we prefer to purchase cleaning and landscaping materials with minimal environmental impacts. Going forward, we recognize that a formal policy with a clear system for evaluating and selecting products will be more effective for tracking and improving our environmental impact. Tayburn believes that part of bringing the highest value possible to clients includes choosing local suppliers who understand and respond to environmental and social concerns. The Company currently selects its vendors based on location, cost, and environmental and social performance. Waste and Recycling Standard office waste represents another of our relatively significant environmental impacts. Paper, represents the larger portion of our waste. We do cooperate with local organizations to send paper to recycle on a regular basis. We are currently in the process of creating a formal Waste and Recycling Policy which will raise awareness with our team members and will help encourage all of us to be more conscious about what gets thrown away. TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 19 “Earth provides enough to satisfy every man’s needs, but not every man’s greed.” Mahatma Gandhi 20 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Environment Our Carbon and Water Footprint 2014 A comprehensive Carbon Footprint for Tayburn’s İstanbul Offices is outlined below, and the methodology for this footprint provided in the section which follow. This report quantifies the GHG emissions across Tayburn’s operation between the 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014. Figures are expressed in terms of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e). A water footprint is also provided below. The data has not been in any way checked or verified independently as part of this footprinting exercise. Relevant Emissions Sources The following GHG sources and other environmental impacts were determined to be relevant within the organizational boundaries of Tayburn: • Electricity consumption • Natural gas consumption TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 21 Tayburn’s 2014 carbon footprint (carbon emission) Emission source 2014 Consumption 2014 tCO2e Scope I Natural Gas Istanbul Offices (m3) 2,010 m3 3.80 tCO2e Scope II Electricity Istanbul Offices (m3) 1,560 kwh 0.72 tCO2e Total 4.52 tCO2e Carbon emission per employee 0.27 tCO2e Tayburn’s 2014 water footprint Total water footprint 11 m3 Water footprint per employee 0.65 m3 Breakdown of Tayburn’s carbon emission in 2014 16% Scope II 0.72 tCO2e 84% Scope I 3.80 tCO2e 22 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Environment Quantification Methodologies Calculating GHG Emissions The process for calculating GHG emissions for each activity type is outlined below. Activity Data x Emission Factor = GHG Emissions Emissions factors are listed for each data source type below, and all emissions factors are sourced from the GHG Protocol Calculation Tools. Global Warming Potential’s (GWPs) used are based on the latest available guidance for the GHG Protocol Calculation Tools. Natural Gas Activity Data Natural consumption has been compiled for Head Offices in m3 and provided as summary figures for the purposes of this footprint calculation. Emissions Factor Emissions factor is from the Stationary Combustion version 4.1 GHG Calculation Tool Sector Commercial Fuel Type Gaseous Fossil Fuel Natural Gas Unit m3 Heating Value Basis Not Applicable Factor 0.00189055345098692 tCO2e per m3 TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 / 23 Electricity Activity Data Electricity consumption has been compiled for Head Offices and Region/ Branches in kWh and provided as summary figures for the purposes of this footprint calculation. Emissions Factor Emissions factor is from the GHG Emissions from Purchased Electricity version 4.7 GHG Calculation Tool Country Turkey Year 2012 (most recent available) Fuel Mix All Factor 0.000459145435886311 tCO2e per kWh Reporting Period All data is collected and reported in line with Tayburn’s financial year which runs from 1 January to 31 December. This report covers the period for 2014. The reporting period dates will be clearly stated wherever GHG emissions are reported. 24 / TAYBURN TURKEY / Communication on Progress 2015 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Tayburn’s activities are to be based on honesty, integrity and respect. Tayburn is committed to upholding high moral and ethical principles and specifies the basic norms of behavior for its employees. While Tayburn’s business practices must be consistent with the ethical business practices in the markets in which it operates, the Company believes that honesty is the essential standard of integrity throughout the globe. Actions 2014 Ethical business lies at the heart of the Tayburn’s CSR pillars. We aspire to play a positive part in society, grow value, attract and develop the best kind of people. The Company’s reputation and its future success are critically dependent on compliance, not just with the law, but with the highest ethical standards. Fees, commissions, or any form of payment intended to induce or reward favorable decisions and actions are unacceptable and prohibited. Employees of Tayburn may not, in violation of any law, pay or offer to pay or give anything of value to induce or reward favorable action in any business transaction. These provisions are not intended to apply to routine, reasonable business entertainment or gifts of minor value, customary in business relationships. Tayburn strictly followed all applicable laws and regulations relative to anti-corruption in the reporting period. For more details on our products and services Ronaldo Manosa rmanosa@tayburnkurumsal.com Ediz Usman eusman@tayburnkurumsal.com Nilgün Yılmazcan nyilmazcan@tayburnkurumsal.com Gürdal Gök ggok@tayburnkurumsal.com Süleyman Seba Cad. Acısu Sok. 1/15 Maçka 34357 İstanbul Phone (+90 212) 227 0436 Fax (+90 212) 227 8857 On the web www.tayburnkurumsal.com www.tayburn.co.uk Scan QR Code with your smartphone to find us on the web tayburnkurumsal.com
