Service Excellence. Collaboration. Innovation. Global Citizenship Report 2014 Table of Contents Letter from our CEO, Rosaleen Blair…………………………………………………..1 About Alexander Mann Solutions………………………………………………………3 Global Citizenship at Alexander Mann Solutions…………………………………….5 Corporate Culture & Practices…………………………………………………………9 Social & Economic Accountability…………………………………………………….12 Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability………………………………………17 Employee Wellbeing……………………………………………………………………21 Inclusion & Diversity……………………………………………………………………24 Priorities for 2015……………………………………………………………………….27 Future Aspirations………………………………………………………………………30 This document is the property of Alexander Mann Solutions Limited and Alexander Mann Solutions Limited retains the copyright herein. The information contained herein is confidential to Alexander Mann Solutions and should not be copied or disclosed to any third party without our prior written consent. The information contained herein should be disclosed only to those of your employees who are directly involved in the project to which the document relates. For the avoidance of doubt, all information in this document is subject to obligations of confidentiality and is not “Feedback” to be freely used. Global Citizenship Report Page 1 of 30 Letter from our CEO 2014 was an incredible year for Alexander Mann Solutions. With our first steps into Latin America, our developing relationship with investor New Mountain Capital, and awards such as Poland’s Great Place to Work, it’s a year of which I’m very proud. As well as working hard to delight our clients, we’ve also striven to meet our Global Citizenship commitments. My team and I are extremely passionate about what we do in this area, and I hope this report reflects that hard work. I hope you find the summary of what we’ve done to meet and exceed our promises here useful. It covers our work:  Helping smaller businesses succeed in our supply chain  Working with UK Charity of Choice Tomorrow’s People to improve the employability of young people on the ThinkForward programme  Raising money for our charity partners and improving our wellbeing by cycling the world  With our portfolio of Charities of Choice, including two new regional partners: USO in the Americas and the Northern Ireland Women’s’ Fund  Championing diversity and inclusion through our on-going partnerships with everywoman  Developing a training programme, Belfast Sourcing and Recruitment Academy, for unemployed and under-employed graduates in Northern Ireland I would like to say a personal thank you to our people, as well as our partners and suppliers. In the same way we approach business, in Global Citizenship my team never does anything half-heartedly and I am so very grateful to them for their continued energy and efforts. I saw this so clearly with Cycle the World, where colleagues from around the globe gave generously to support our charities of choice. From playing a positive role everywhere our people are based to supporting charities, improving our environment and enhancing the wellbeing of our people, I believe Global Citizenship is about doing good. It’s about being part of the world community and it gives me a great thrill to know that we are bringing our skills and talents to enhance it and help it grow. I am pleased to confirm that Alexander Mann Solutions reaffirms our support of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Rosaleen Blair, CEO Global Citizenship Report Page 2 of 30 About Alexander Mann Solutions Global Citizenship Report Page 3 of 30 About Alexander Mann Solutions What We Do Alexander Mann Solutions is the world’s leading provider of talent acquisition and management services. We integrate our outsourcing capability and consulting expertise to enable organisations to attract, engage and retain top talent. With a staff of over 3,000 people, our award-winning teams and their powerful insight are uniquely placed to support the thinking behind and delivery of a client’s people strategy. We deliver impactful business outcomes across the full talent lifecycle; from strategic workforce planning and employer branding, to assessment and selection, on-boarding and engagement, from school leavers and graduates, middle managers and executives, to board members and C-suite appointments – permanent and contingent labour. Where We Are We partner with our clients to deliver creative talent acquisition and integrated talent management solutions in over 80 countries and 30 languages, on all continents (bar Antarctica), around the world. At any hour, on any day, in any time zone, our people are delivering innovation from our head office in London, United Kingdom and regional centres in places like Melbourne (Australia), Boston (USA) and Hong Kong (China). We’ve built six centres of excellence that provide capacity for teams around the world. Our Global Client Service Centres (GCSCs) are in Bracknell (United Kingdom), Belfast (N. Ireland), Krakow (Poland), Manila (Philippines), Shanghai (China) and Cleveland (USA). Who We Work With From our work with a range of blue-chip clients over the last19 years, we have deep industry expertise across sectors, in particular Retail and Financial Services; Investment Banking and Professional Services; Technology and Media; Defence, Engineering and Business Services; Energy; and Healthcare and Life Sciences. Our global clients include leaders such as:  BAE Systems  Barclays  Citi  Covidien  Credit Suisse  Deloitte  Freshfields  GE  HSBC  Novartis Global Citizenship Report Page 4 of 30 Global Citizenship at Alexander Mann Solutions Global Citizenship Report Page 5 of 30 Global Citizenship Global Citizenship is an important part of the culture at Alexander Mann Solutions, and it’s an embedded component of our business ethics. It’s about us being accountable for our impact on our society and our environment and it’s integral to all our relationships – with employees, clients, suppliers, partners and communities worldwide. We take our Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) seriously, and we don’t believe this is something that companies should stand still on; we know that we can always do more. We’re constantly looking at new or different ways to make sure that our people are proactive global citizens who have a positive impact on the world around them. Stakeholder Engagement We recognise the importance of identifying and engaging with our stakeholders. They provide us with a diverse range of perspectives and experiences which inform, develop and refine our Global Citizenship programme. In turn, our stakeholders are intimately involved in Global Citizenship activities. Employees Through one-to-ones, team meetings, events, surveys and roundtable discussions, we encourage open dialogue to find out what matters to our people – and learn how they want to make a difference. Clients By listening and learning from the organisations with which we work, we can understand what is important to them and how our Global Citizenship strategies align. Opinion leaders and industry thinkers By developing relationships with leading bodies, such as the UN Global Compact, we can draw upon their extensive knowledge and experience. Global Citizenship volunteers By formalising our relationships with Global Citizenship volunteers, we can expand the types of stakeholders with which we engage, outline our engagement standards and regularly capture different perspectives. Global Citizenship Report Page 6 of 30 Non-profit organisations By building close and long-term relationships with global non-profit organisations, we can respond to the needs of our local communities, undertake actions to improve the environment and shape the relevancy of our Global Citizenship policies. Suppliers and partners Working with third-party partners and suppliers, we can implement best practice and influence relationships to ensure stable growth and responsible business practices. Global Citizenship Goals We developed our Global Citizenship programme with the following specific goals in mind.  To build a picture of best practice inside and outside our industry: what industry standards exist and what blue-chip client organisations are doing  To determine our stakeholder needs: what our people want, what our clients require and how our communities could or should benefit from our involvement  To understand what we should achieve from the programme as a business: how it will support our business strategy and goals, how it can help us deliver our EVP and how it will bring our people policies to life  To identify the strengths and skills in our organisation: how these add value to our communities and stakeholders These goals inform the objectives of our Global Citizenship programme. Global Citizenship Programme Objectives Learning and Development Drive learning and development in the organisation, through internal programmes and external partnerships with our Charities of Choice and volunteering activities. Communities Support Charities of Choice in achieving their goals and encourage our people to contribute their time and expertise where other volunteer opportunities arise. Environmental Examine our carbon footprint and make a determined effort to reduce it annually. Inclusion Be aware of the world we live in, ensuring that the teams we build reflect a belief that success comes from diversity; and offer a hand to those whose social circumstances inhibits their full potential and mobility. Global Citizenship Report Page 7 of 30 Communication Create and maintain two-way channels of communication throughout our business and use these as efficiently and effectively as possible. Accountability Ensure there is transparency and accountability by setting specific goals and measuring progress against them. Stakeholder engagement Actively engage all stakeholder groups in order to develop solutions that really work. Global Citizenship Programme Delivery Our Global Citizenship objectives have historically been structured around the following categories. Accordingly, this Communication on Progress follows the same framework.  Corporate Culture & Practices  Social & Economic Accountability  Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability  Employee Wellbeing  Inclusion & Diversity Global Citizenship Programme Owner Ultimate responsibility for Global Citizenship at Alexander Mann Solutions rests with Sheena Cartwright, Chief People Officer. As a member of our Leadership Team, Sheena reports on our Global Citizenship progress to our stakeholders and our Board. Sheena has included a brief commentary and summary at the conclusion of this document. Global Citizenship Report Page 8 of 30 Corporate Culture & Practises Global Citizenship Report Page 9 of 30 Corporate Culture & Practices To truly make a difference in our organisation, CSR must be embedded into our culture, in addition to our processes, policies and practices. It must be aligned to our strategy and we must take a long-term view. To act in a globally responsible way, we continually review our initiatives, codes and schemes so that we can learn from them. We pride ourselves on a fair, ethical and inclusive approach to our business, our people and our clients. Highlights of Our Achievements in 2014 We exceeded our 2014 commitments to improve access to Alexander Mann Solutions service offerings, projects and strategy. Leadership Communications In addition to creating, updating and sharing intranet content on a regular basis, an organisational redesign streamlined the management structure, making it even easier to cascade important information and notable news via front line managers. We conduct quarterly Business Update conference calls for around 200 senior managers, led by our CEO and CFO. In these calls we share highlights of the quarter’s financial performance, including sales figures, details of recent client wins, senior-level hires and promotions and other important strategic news, in the expectation that key information will be shared with teams. We also introduced quarterly video briefings from our CEO to all staff. Each one is around 15 minutes long and includes business news, staff recognition, and updates on Global Citizenship activities. We have Alexander Mann Solutions ‘guest stars’ who appear in the briefings providing subject matter expertise from around our business. We also produced the Global Citizenship Report, meeting UN Global Compact requirements on COP and formally submitting the report by its May 2014 deadline. More importantly we underlined the importance of Citizenship to our business by sharing it with clients, colleagues, stakeholders and candidates via our website, social media, the press and our internal communications channels. Technology Investments We invested significantly in new technology solutions in 2014 to increase transparency and accountability right across the company and to promote a culture of collaboration and knowledge sharing. We began upgrading our intranet platform to Sharepoint 2010 in order to improve user experience and take advantage of the platform’s enhanced capabilities. We also introduced Yammer, a Microsoft-owned enterprise social network to encourage social collaboration and teamwork across the business by providing a central place for teams to share updates, ask questions, get feedback, and collaborate on files securely online. Global Citizenship Report Page 10 of 30 Upholding Our Position on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption As the market leader in talent acquisition and management services, our knowledge, experience and conduct sets us apart in the market. Our conduct is exemplified by employees maintaining the highest level of ethical standards – each and every day of their working lives. Our anti-bribery and gifts and hospitality policies provide clear guidance and a consistent approach to our business practices throughout our expanding worldwide operations. The policies are applicable to all individuals working for, or with, Alexander Mann Solutions in any capacity. In addition to these formal policies of zero-tolerance of corruption, there is a bribery and corruption online course for our staff. This informs participants of best practice and the compliance responsibilities for individuals as well as those that Alexander Mann Solutions has as a company. Global Citizenship Report Page 11 of 30 Social and Economic Accountability Global Citizenship Report Page 12 of 30 Social and Economic Accountability As a global organisation, we must ensure that we are protecting and improving the local communities in which we operate. We invest in projects that have positive, long-term effects on our communities and where our people’s skills, knowledge and capabilities can make a unique contribution. It is therefore not simply a question of Alexander Mann Solutions providing financial support to these organisations – although we do often raise funds – but donating even more valuable resources in the form of time, energy, and expertise. Investment in our communities happens in a number of ways. Firstly, we partner with carefully selected charitable organisations around the world our Charities of Choice. These are usually organisations whose activities support individuals transitioning into work. Secondly, we encourage our people to get involved in local initiatives in geographies where our Charities of Choice do not operate. Thirdly, we actively encourage our people to support causes which are personally important to them, and empower them to do so by offering one paid volunteer day each year. Highlights of Our Achievements in 2014 We have fulfilled our commitments to Social & Economic Accountability this year. We remained a strong partner to our Charities of Choice in the UK, Poland, Singapore, Australia and Hong Kong. A thorough review of our Charities of Choice relationships in the Americas also concluded with the announcement of a partnership with the USO in early 2015. Our schools and colleges programme also expanded significantly, with notable success in Belfast and China. Global Initiatives Cycle the World On 27th February 2014 Alexander Mann Solutions attempted to ‘Cycle the World’ in 24 hours. In gyms, in hotels, in offices, at home and out on the open road, over 350 colleagues and clients worldwide joined forces to emulate Alastair Humphrey’s epic circumnavigation of the globe on two wheels and to raise money for our Charities of Choice at the same time. In total, we cycled over 12,000km and raised over £10,000. Gift Exchange To celebrate the holiday season at the end of December, we encouraged all our key sites worldwide to participate in a Gift Exchange. Each site was tasked to buy a small toy, and to wrap it and send it as a Global Citizenship Report Page 13 of 30 gift to one of the other sites around the world. Each gift was raffled or auctioned at the holiday party to raise money for a local charity, and/or donated. Regional and Local Initiatives Tomorrow’s People, UK 2014 saw continued support for our long-standing UK Charity of Choice – Tomorrow’s People. Their vision is to break the cycle of unemployment and dependency in deprived communities throughout the UK. Offering employability skills workshops for young people through its ThinkForward (TF) programme, the charity targets those who are at risk of becoming NEET (Not in Education, Employment or Training). To ensure education still plays an important part in their lives, young people are given a “super-coach” from age 14 through to 19 who offers personalised, sustained support to overcome challenges, both at home and at school, and to help them build life skills and confidence. The TF programme also encourages a variety of businesses and organisations to deliver in-office workshops aimed at introducing young people to the world of work, helping them to develop the skills necessary to make a smooth transition from school to further education or work. These workshops can help build a young person’s self-belief, confidence and aspirations for a successful career. So successful has this partnership been that we won their Best Employability Workshops award for 2014. They recognised how valuable it is to have a partner with such a strong fit and specialist skills. Leonardo, Poland In Poland, our Charity of Choice has been the Foundation of Social Development – Leonardo – since 2008. To help Leonardo, our people provide job searching, CV writing and job interview workshops as well as hosting English classes. Additionally, we support Leonardo with an annual fundraising ‘Raise and Give’ month. A group of Alexander Mann Solutions walkers also completed a Three Peaks Challenge mountain climb, raising additional funds through sponsorship. Our team of climbers, together with their fundraising colleagues, raised money for new office equipment for Leonardo’s offices in Krakow and to support the delivery of further workshops. Global Citizenship Report Page 14 of 30 aidha, Singapore Alexander Mann Solutions hosted its second Charity Quiz Night on the 2nd October at Boomerang Boat Quay to raise funds for Aidha, a non-profit-making organisation provides sustainable futures through financial education to foreign domestic workers in Singapore. The Quiz Night featured approximately 110 participants in teams of up to 10 people, all competing for a chance to win points and prizes. The event raised over S$7,000 for Aidha through entry fees, an auction and a raffle – almost double the total raised by the event in 2013. Changing Young Lives Foundation, Hong Kong We recently partnered with The Changing Young lives foundation, whose mission is to provide health, welfare, and educational and recreational programmes to children from disadvantaged families in Hong Kong and those in the poorest regions of rural China. In 2014 our colleagues in Hong Kong supported the CYLF through fundraising and volunteering activities, using existing expertise from across our global business to provide materials, experiences and know-how to maximise our support. Doxa Youth Foundation, Australia In 2014, our colleagues in Australia continued to support their Charity of Choice, the Doxa Youth Foundation. Working with young people from disadvantaged backgrounds in the state of Victoria, the Doxa Youth Foundation provides opportunities for these young people to gain access to tertiary education and a professional career. Building on the relationship established in 2012, our people delivered workshops on transitioning from the world of study to the world of work as part of the Cadet Weekend Camp. Our Melbourne office sponsors a cadet, providing varied work experience from sourcing to HR administration and onsite support for one of our clients. Other Initiatives Outside our Charities of Choices, many of our people around the world also led local initiatives. Here are some highlights: Global Citizenship Report Page 15 of 30 UK Belfast Inaugurated in 2014, the AMS Belfast Sourcing Academy develops young people with great potential but limited professional experience. It is an intensive six-week programme to provide unand underemployed graduates in Northern Ireland with general business skills training and a solid foundation for a successful career in recruitment. The Academy team, drawn from both AMS and Belfast Metropolitan College, share a commitment to developing the individual graduates, and to the economic development of the local area. 17 of the 19 graduates have been offered and accepted roles at our Global Client Service Centre in Belfast. There are plans for six more, and the scheme was also shortlisted for a National Outsourcing Award for Best Skills Development. Bracknell Our Bracknell colleagues are fantastic fundraisers and in 2014 they supported:  Movember, which supports men’s’ cancer charities through sponsored facial hair growth  BBC’s UK charity, Children in Need. In December, the Bracknell GCSC and our London headquarters also donated food items in support of the Trussell Trust food bank. China Despite the challenges of keeping up with clients’ demands in a rapidly-growing business, the team in Shanghai have demonstrated a true passion for good causes throughout 2014. There are many notable examples of the team working together to give back to their local communities, including the free career training sessions offered to students at the Sino-British College. Another good example of the China team’s collective commitment to CSR-related initiatives was the packing party they held when colleagues got together to prepare care packages for rural orphans. The team in China have also shown remarkable creativity and initiative in fundraising for good causes during 2014 by finding a way to improve their language skills at the same time. Every Tuesday is ‘English Day’ – a voluntary scheme whereby colleagues pledge to speak English to each other all day – with a fine (donated to charity) payable to those who are overheard not speaking English. Global Citizenship Report Page 16 of 30 Environmental and Supply Chain Accountability Global Citizenship Report Page 17 of 30 Environmental and Supply Chain Accountability We want to lessen the potentially damaging effects of our company activities and help protect the environment. As a services provider, our environmental impact is relatively small. Being office-based, our impacts relate to the use of energy and greenhouse gas emissions as well as the natural resources we use and the waste we produce. However, we always seek to improve and lessen our impact by building relationships with responsible suppliers and working with clients who share our views and aspirations. We pride ourselves on being a responsible organisation and have committed to continually improving our environmental performance and preventing pollution. We support and comply with all environmental legislation and advocate a precautionary approach with regard to environmental concerns. Our objectives are to reduce our impact on the environment year-on-year by:  Reducing energy use, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We support innovative technical solutions as well as empowering our staff to make real changes.  Minimising our waste by reducing the amount we produce and recycling at all opportunities  Reducing the impact of the goods we procure and natural resources we use through our sustainable purchasing policy  Using our influence to promote sustainability in both our supply chain and through our relationships with clients and business partners Detailed objectives and targets are developed on a yearly basis, and monitored to ensure continual improvement. At Alexander Mann Solutions, we believe that our people are the foundation of our success, not just in our business operations but also in our drive to improve environmental performance. As a result they are fully involved in our environmental programmes, as part of our Global Citizenship programme. At a local level, we have dedicated environmental awareness schemes and are fully supportive of employee-led initiatives. Globally, our Global Citizens champion corporate social responsibility and set specific environmental targets for their regions. This policy is intended to be sustainable and is being integrated into our day-to-day business practices. As such, this policy is communicated to all staff members and is also available to the public. Global Citizenship Report Page 18 of 30 Highlights of Our Achievements in 2014 Environmental Accountability Microsoft Sharepoint 2010, Lync and Yammer Technology is revolutionising the ways we communicate and at Alexander Mann Solutions we also recognise the need for technology that is environmentally friendly. Following on from the initial rollout of Microsoft Lync software in 2013, which offers messaging, voice and video calling capabilities and enables people to communicate remotely, we extended this offering in 2014 to include Microsoft Sharepoint 2010 as our intranet solution and Yammer, the enterprise social networking software. Everyone using an Alexander Mann Solutions computer now has this software installed and for those based on client sites, Lync, Sharepoint and Yammer can all be accessed via the web. It has created a new communication platform for our business. In addition to this, the fully functional hi-tech video conferencing solutions we installed into four of our main offices (London, Bracknell, Krakow and Manila) is being extensively used and reducing the need for international travel. Our investment in these technologies has enabled teams who work remotely to meet virtually capturing financial savings, ensuring better work-life balance for colleagues in international roles, and reducing our carbon footprint. Communications We have continued to promote environmental awareness among Alexander Mann Solutions employees in 2014, for instance by supporting the Earth Hour initiative across all our sites globally and sending e-cards to client s instead of traditional cards again this festive season, thereby reducing waste and conserving resources. Supply Chain Accountability To manage our business carefully and responsibly, we have a set of core values to govern our activities and interactions with all stakeholders (including suppliers) across the world. To inform and enable this, we follow our own Commitment to Responsible Procurement (CRP), a document which offers clear guidelines against child and forced labour, as well as healthy and safe working environments and anti-bribery practices. Each of our suppliers annually is asked to commit to signing our CRP. Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) In 2014, we supported the UK government’s scheme to help SMEs. We did this by encouraging our clients to use new suppliers, including smaller suppliers instead of just using the big-name, global Global Citizenship Report Page 19 of 30 suppliers. We were able to engage with SMEs by supporting margin-only deals. Margin-only deals enable the suppliers to recruit candidates for contractor roles without having to set up the costly infrastructures involved with paying contractors. The supplier receives the placement fee for recruiting and Alexander Mann Solutions is responsible for paying the worker. This allows us to collaborate with our clients to mentor and network with a more diverse group of suppliers, whilst ensuring that the most appropriate supplier is appointed. We look forward to this initiative growing further in 2015. Recruiter of the Year Award We launched the very first Alexander Mann Solutions Recruiter of the Year Award in 2013. This is an award scheme that judges the level of performance of our partner programme suppliers and their alignment with our values. One winner was selected from our premier partner suppliers and one from our standard partner suppliers (a small recruitment agency that had performed well in 2012, a further positive step in supporting SMEs). The Alexander Mann Solutions Recruiter of the Year Award is to be an annual event and in 2015 we will be reviewing the criteria we use to judge each supplier to ensure we are sharing best practice with our suppliers. Global Citizenship Report Page 20 of 30 Employee Wellbeing Global Citizenship Report Page 21 of 30 Employee Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing focuses on providing all our people with the opportunity to develop healthy lifestyles and to bring a positive work-life balance to their lives. Health (mental, physical and financial), nutrition and diet, fitness and life balance all play a valuable part in an individual’s wellbeing. Without the wellbeing of the individuals at Alexander Mann Solutions, our teams cannot perform to the best of their abilities. Highlights of Our Achievements in 2014 We have fulfilled our commitments for 2014. We have promoted the Employee Assistance Programme, and monitored employee satisfaction using the PulsePoint survey. We have reviewed the Inspiring Awards scheme, promoting it as a way for peers, clients and managers to recognise our inspiring people and deployed new technology solutions to support our policies and our teams wherever they are located. Supporting Human Rights We support the wellbeing and rights of our employees, both inside and outside the workplace. We provide an Employee Assistance Programme to support wellbeing in countries where it is culturally the norm. Similarly, the breadth and nature of our workplace policies continues to evolve to accommodate our changing workforce. This ensures our approach to employment adjustments of all types is as accommodating and flexible as our business needs permit but always in compliance with appropriate legislation. Linked to ensuring our policies are fit-for-purpose or our ever-changing workforce, we work hard to ensure our procedures also support our people and their rights. For example, our comprehensive internal training programme is regularly updated to accommodate business changes and as a result of our 2013 ClearAssured accreditation in the UK, we have an online disability competence selfassessment programme in place which all employees can undertake. We also have a formalised employee monitoring, performance and assessment process that operates across the business around the globe, ensuring that success breeds success. Policies that represent these commitments and expectations are available on our website and intranet and these include our privacy, anti-bribery and corruption policies. Inspiring Awards It’s really important to us that we celebrate our successes, and we recognise people who have achieved something truly inspirational. Our Inspiring Awards scheme does just that by rewarding individuals and teams who have achieved above and beyond in their role for Alexander Mann Global Citizenship Report Page 22 of 30 Solutions. In 2014 we recognised over 200 colleagues from across the company for their outstanding achievements. We have also reviewed the process for gathering nominations, implementing a new online form, and made the selection process fairer and more transparent. We also introduced a new practise whereas all winners hear the news in a phone call from their Management Team leader, and both winners and nominees receive a personal email and certificate from our CEO. The feedback has been tremendous and colleagues have found this new approach highly engaging. PulsePoint PulsePoint, our employee engagement survey, is a great mechanism to hear directly from our staff on how they feel about their employee rights, responsibilities, compensation and benefits. The survey presents the same 32 questions every year, to demonstrate clear progress. Our 2014 survey enabled us to better understand how people feel at Alexander Mann Solutions – globally. With our population growing in both number and geographic reach year on year, the importance of knowing what actions we need to take to engage and inspire our people worldwide is just as important as it was when we first launched PulsePoint in 2009. Global Citizenship Report Page 23 of 30 Inclusion and Diversity Global Citizenship Report Page 24 of 30 Inclusion and Diversity Our Inclusion & Diversity programme focuses on creating an inclusive, diverse and flexible environment within which our employees can achieve their full potential. Teams that reflect the widest possible variety of ideas, backgrounds and experiences often deliver the most innovative solutions. Our initiatives focus on our role as a company that employs diverse talent to ensure our resourcing solutions and operations are aligned with the global markets in which we operate. In addition, as industry thought leaders, we have started our journey to persuade our stakeholders to share this belief. Highlights of our 2014 Achievements Gender In 2014 we acquired Capability Jane, a leading specialist diversity recruitment, flexible working and job share consulting firm that helps organisations attract, engage and retain top female talent through innovative proprietary methodologies and practical consulting solutions. The integration of the suite of Capability Jane products and services will enable Alexander Mann Solutions to extend the breadth of its Diversity and Inclusion Consulting offering, to cover the full talent acquisition lifecycle, and notably to deepen expertise in its diversity, flexible working, job share implementation, resourcing, training, and managed service propositions. In our own company, we are also passionately committed to developing female talent and creating opportunities for them to thrive and flourish in their careers. As a result, we ourselves champion flexible working policies, including part-time and remote working. The move to our new corporate HQ in the City of London was designed in part with this in mind, where 50% of workspaces are nonallocated and kept as “hot desks” for flexible workers to use as and when they are in the office. In other geographies, notably the US, we also employ a large number of remote and home-based workers, particularly for sourcing candidates. The flexibility inherent in these roles is especially attractive to women who want to continue to forge careers whilst also balancing family commitments. Anecdotal evidence suggests that we are seeing a significant upturn in the number of mothers returning to work after maternity leave as a result of these practises. Our CEO, Rosaleen Blair, is also an energetic and vocal advocate for women in business, undertaking frequent speaking engagements on the topic and participating actively in networks for female leaders in both the UK and abroad. Global Citizenship Report Page 25 of 30 Access On 14th May 2014, the Recruitment Industry Disability Initiative Awards were held in London. These awards recognise success of in-house recruitment teams and agencies in driving change in recruitment and removing the barriers faced by the millions of disabled people who are entering or progressing through the job market. Alexander Mann Solutions was a proud sponsor of the event, awarding HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) the accolade of best 'overall candidate experience', thanks to their changes to improve their candidate experience including high levels of accessibility at every stage and reasonable adjustments pre-empted, planned for and implemented. Team AMS When we established Team AMS in 2011, our journey to support up and-coming parathletes was just beginning. Since then, we have seen our Team AMS ambassadors go on to develop their careers with significant success and our relationship with them has also brought many benefits. In addition to inspiring us to be authentic and passionate in everything we do, we are embracing opportunities to share their inspiration with others around us. After the success of Team AMS at the 2012 Paralympic Games, our inspirational athletes from around the world are now training for Rio 2016 with financial and promotional support from Alexander Mann Solutions. In 2014 we were proud to announce that Lex Gillette, three-time Paralympic Games long jump silver medallist, current world record holder and reigning world champion in the long jump, has joined #Team AMS, alongside Jody Cundy of the UK and Adeline Dumapong of the Philippines. Global Citizenship Report Page 26 of 30 Priorities for 2015 Global Citizenship Report Page 27 of 30 Priorities for 2015 In support of our commitment to being a proactive and inspirational global citizen, we’ll remain deeply involved with the programmes and initiatives we have highlighted in this year’s report. In addition, we will explore opportunities to broaden our involvement with appropriate initiatives. In summary, our goals for 2015 are as follows: Corporate Culture & Practises  Following the successful upgrade of our intranet platform we will focus on increasing employee engagement and creating targeted affinity groups e.g. Parents, LGBT, etc.  Major focus on Talent and Development supporting our increased growth plans  Encourage greater awareness of our impact in the environments we work within through a global THINK initiative (Targeting waste, using Heads, Hearts & Hands, Innovating, finding New opportunities and Knowledge sharing)  Launch annual Global Citizenship Week emphasising importance of being a good corporate citizen across our whole business Social & Economic Accountability  Remain a strong partner with our Charities of Choice globally and commit to finding ways to support their work especially with our new partners like the USO in the US and the Women's Fund for Northern Ireland in Belfast.  Identify additional Charity of Choice in APAC  Continue to promote the paid volunteering day Alexander Mann Solutions employees can take and report on the impact of this commitment annually Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability  Continue using our Environment Management System and remain ISO14001 accredited in our offices in Krakow throughout 2015 and our new HQ in London.  As part of our THINK initiative, encourage all employees to Stop things which waste resources time, money, and talent and Start finding new ways to be more efficient whilst we Continue to do the things that have made us a good corporate citizen to date Global Citizenship Report Page 28 of 30  Monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance to our Alexander Mann Solutions CRP Employee Wellbeing  Continue to support homeworking and temporary working policies for a number of geographies to ensure that we are able to accommodate the demands of our clients whilst maintaining employee productivity and work-life balance  Review employee benefits offer incorporating fitness offers, cycle support and health insurance provision to ensure employees needs are being met Inclusion & Diversity  Working in collaboration with our Charities of Choice we will support social mobility mentoring and internship opportunities globally  Support Team AMS Paralympic athletes as great achievement ambassadors who are totally aligned with and personify our corporate Values (Passionate, Distinctive, Authentic and Brave) and continue to work with our sponsored Paralympic athletes within other Global Citizenship initiatives  Share and gather expertise with the growth of our Diversity Consulting business launched in 2015 Global Citizenship Report Page 29 of 30 Future Aspirations A message from Sheena Cartwright, Chief People Officer Alexander Mann Solutions is a diverse company, serving clients of all sizes, sectors, and locations. Nonetheless, our people all share a common commitment to making a difference. Every day, the decisions we make deliver positive beneﬁts within the geographies in which we operate and this year has again seen us take significant steps forward. With new investors, an organisational redesign and a renewed emphasis on leadership throughout the company, 2014 has truly been a defining year for Alexander Mann Solutions. We enter 2015 with a strong sense of a new chapter beginning. With New Mountain Capital supporting us, the future is very exciting and we are setting an ambitious course for rapid growth and expansion. At the very heart of our strategy is the belief that our financial growth is indivisible from our ability to inspire and engage our employees and, in turn, to impact our communities for the better. We continue to define and implement policies to protect and empower our people. We’ve opened up opportunities to get involved and lead the programmes we’re individually passionate about. That’s why Alexander Mann Solutions is today an inspiring organisation to work for and with – and one that champions Global Citizenship, energising our talented people to drive and lead positive change at every level. If you’d like to discuss our Global Citizenship programme, please do get in touch with me at sheena.cartwright@alexmann.com or globalcitizenship@alexmann.com. Sheena Cartwright Chief People Officer Should you have any queries regarding this Communication on Progress, please do not hesitate to contact: Tim Campbell, Head of Global Citizenship Alexander Mann Solutions Limited First Floor, 7 – 11 Bishopsgate London EC2N 3AQ UK Telephone: +44 (0)7920 010 872 Email: tim.campbell@alexmann.com Global Citizenship Report Page 30 of 30
