MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY Communication on Progress 2015 UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate The Board of Directors of Molson Coors and the Executive Leadership Team identified world class corporate responsibility performance as one of the four key drivers of our global business vision. The UN Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate are consistent with our commitment to corporate responsibility. We continue to support the ten principles of The Global Compact and six elements of the CEO Water Mandate and are committed to making them part of our corporate strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. We call our corporate responsibility performance “Our Beer Print”. Put simply, Our Beer Print describes our relationship with our communities, our environment and our people. We challenge ourselves to grow our positive Beer Print and to shrink our negative Beer Print in every function of our business and in every geography where we brew and sell our products. As I take over the role of CEO in 2015, I am delighted with the current position of our corporate responsibility agenda and how it has progressed. In 2014 Molson Coors was once again recognized as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the third consecutive year. This is a great indicator of how seriously we take this agenda across our entire business. From striving for increased environmental improvements, through driving an engaged, educated and motivated workforce, to developing social purpose within our core brands. This is not without its challenges, but I feel we are set up to address and react to these as we learn and adapt to this growing agenda. Doing business the right way is the only option for me, and will support our ambition to be first choice for consumers and customers. We always welcome feedback on our progress; please use the Feedback form on our website. Mark Hunter, President and CEO Molson Coors Brewing Company 08 June 2015 Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 2 UN Global Compact PROGRESS AND ACTIONS TAKEN Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should Molson Coors’ Employment Principles are guided by international human rights standards, including support and respect the protection the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization's Declaration on of internationally proclaimed human Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the United Nations Global Compact. They are also rights consistent with our shared values and the Molson Coors Code of Business Conduct, Living Our Values. Our Principles apply to Molson Coors and all of our business units and other entities in which we hold a majority interest. The Company encourages our business partners to uphold these Principles and to adopt similar approaches within their businesses. The Principles address the following components: • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining • Forced Labor • Child Labor • Discrimination • Work Hours and Wages • Safe and Healthy Workplace • Workplace Security • Community and Stakeholder Engagement • Guidance and Reporting for Employees The Code is the cornerstone of our ethics and compliance program which includes communication, training, policies, and monitoring and auditing procedures on a variety of topics relevant to our business. These topics include, but are not limited to, accurate books and records, alcohol responsibility, anti-bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, competition and discrimination and harassment. Communication and training elements focus on providing employees with an understanding of the compliance topic as well as tools to help them apply what they have learned to their area of responsibility. We have an interactive online training tool that helps employees understand what it means to them and how they might apply it every day. Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 3 We have an online training and affirmation tool which is used to support the ongoing affirmation (at hire and biannually thereafter) of our Code by all of our employees. The training tool includes scenarios intended to make the topic more relevant to employees. Scenarios are customized by language, culture (location) and three different job categories (Sales & Marketing, Operations, and General & Administrative. The Code is available in 12 languages: English, French Canadian, Chinese, Japanese, Spanish, Czech, Serbian, Montenegrin, Croatian, Romanian, Hungarian and Bulgarian. Our Ethics and Compliance program was reviewed by a reputable external consultant in 2010 and assessed against criteria for an effective program and benchmarked against peer companies. The results of this review formed the basis for a 3 year strategic plan to enhance the program. We completed the three -year improvement plan in 2013 and embarked on a re-assessment by the same third party provider in Q4, 2013. The re-assessment was completed in 2014. We achieved a B+ (above average) rating, showing improvement in all categories under review. Under the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and our Executive Ethics and Compliance Committee, we work with partners in each of our regions to promote a consistent global approach to doing things the “right way” everywhere we do business. Our Standards for Suppliers extends our corporate responsibility practices to our complex supply chain. The Standards outline what we deem important and relevant to all suppliers of goods and services to our company and its subsidiaries. These Principles also apply to the suppliers to any company where we have majority ownership or governance share. In 2011 we joined Sedex, a not for profit membership organization for companies seeking to address supply chain ethical/responsible issues. See the Responsible Sourcing page on our website for more details. Principle 2: Business should make Molson Coors is committed to providing a workplace where all are treated with respect, differences sure that they are not complicit in are valued, and employees’ actions are consistent with the Company's standards and values. We are human rights abuses dedicated to maintaining workplaces that are free from discrimination or physical or verbal harassment on the basis of race, sex, color, national or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other status protected by applicable law. Our basis for recruitment, hiring, placement, training, compensation and advancement is qualifications, performance, skills and experience and behavior. Differences that are protected by law cannot be a factor in recruitment, dismissal, or promotion decisions. They also cannot be a factor in terms or conditions of employment such as work assignments, employee development opportunities, holiday, or overtime. Our employees also have access to an Ethics and Compliance Helpline 24 hours a day. The helpline Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 4 allows employees, or any stakeholder, to ask a question or raise a concern in their native language in a confidential and/or anonymous way. All questions and issues raised through this channel are responded to through the Ethics and Compliance Office at Molson Coors. In 2014, we had 25 reports or inquiries through this channel. Of the 2014 reports where investigative action was necessary, approximately 50% were substantiated and resulted in corrective or disciplinary action. 20% of reports in 2014 were anonymous vs. 25% in 2013. See the Ethical Culture page on our website for more details. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should Molson Coors respects our employees' right to join, form or not to join a labor union. uphold the freedom of association Where employees are represented by a legally recognized union, we are committed to establishing a and the effective recognition of the constructive dialogue and bargaining in good faith with their freely chosen representatives. right to collective bargaining Our Standards for Suppliers discussed earlier apply to all the Labor Principles. Principle 4: The elimination of all Molson Coors prohibits the use of all forms of forced labor, including prison labor, indentured labor, forms of forced and compulsory bonded labor, military labor or slave labor. labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of Molson Coors adheres to minimum age provisions of applicable laws and regulations, including those child labor that apply specifically to the alcohol beverage industry. The Company prohibits the hiring of individuals that are under 18 years of age for positions in which hazardous work is required. The Company's prohibition of child labor is consistent with International Labor Organization standards. Principle 6: The elimination of Molson Coors is committed to providing a workplace where all are treated with respect, differences discrimination in respect of are valued, and employees’ actions are consistent with the Company's standards and values. We are employment and occupation dedicated to maintaining workplaces that are free from discrimination or physical or verbal harassment on the basis of race, sex, color, national or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other status protected by applicable law. Our basis for recruitment, hiring, placement, training, compensation and advancement is qualifications, performance, skills and experience and behavior. Differences that are protected by law cannot be a factor in recruitment, dismissal, or promotion decisions. They also cannot be a factor in terms or conditions of employment such as work assignments, employee development opportunities, holiday, or overtime. Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 5 Environment Principle 7: Business should support Molson Coors considers and manages environmental issues through our Quality, Environment, Health a precautionary approach to & Safety Policy and the environmental management systems we have implemented across our environmental challenges operations. Our Policy was revised in 2015. Through our membership of the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable we collaborate and share experience with our peers on innovative and emerging approaches to environmental management such as the Sector Guidance for GHG Reporting. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to We have a comprehensive Corporate Responsibility strategy that touches all areas of our business in all promote greater environmental our geographies called Our Beer Print. Our approach to reducing our environmental Beer Print is laid responsibility out in our 2020 Sustainability Strategy. Launched in 2013, the Strategy integrates how we manage energy, GHG emissions, water and solid waste and sets out how we will meet our 2020 ambitions. 2020 Targets (baseline 2011): : • 25% reduction in energy intensity • 15% in carbon intensity • 15% in water per unit of production. • Send zero waste to landfill and • Reduce the weight of packaging sold by 4% by 2015 (against a 2012 baseline). These ambitious targets are evidence of our commitment to continuously reduce our impact on the environment. For more details on our performance and initiatives undertaken to achieve our targets see our Environmental Stewardship page on our website. In our 2014 Annual Report to Investors (10K) we report to investors on our carbon emission and water risk. Principle 9: Encourage the The Company is working towards its ambitious carbon, energy, water and waste reduction targets for development and diffusion of 2020. Our efforts in the past have focused on capital projects to save energy and water as well as asset environmentally friendly renewal with more efficient technology. However, the 2020 Sustainability Strategy has shifted the technologies focus onto: • A more strategic allocation of capital to assets and technologies that have a greater impact on reducing climate, energy, water, waste and compliance risk; and • Low or no-cost process improvements driven by greater ownership for sustainability metrics by Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 6 our production teams and more visibility of high-frequency data on consumption. The asset renewal will continue to deliver savings in the long-term and the process to evaluate and adopt the most energy, water and waste efficient technology has been reinforced. The cornerstone of the Strategy is a commitment to invest in waste water treatment that will allow us to generate clean energy from the waste water our breweries produce. The use of anaerobic digestion waste water treatment technology allows us to treat our waste water to a high quality and generate biogas that can be used to produce heat or electricity. The energy can then be used to power our breweries. This approach will mean we protect the watersheds we operate in, alleviate the impact of our operations on municipal water treatment resources, reduce our reliance on fossil fuels, and reduce our carbon emissions. Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work Our Code of Business Conduct acts as a guide to making decisions that are consistent with our values. against corruption in all its forms, It sets out the standards expected of all employees and agents acting on behalf of the company. including extortion and bribery • Comply with all relevant and applicable local and national laws and regulations. • Maintain independence and impartiality in all business relationships. • Avoid gifts, gratuities or entertainment in exchange for a business favor or to influence a business decision. Our anti-bribery and corruption program includes a global policy and training program, an intranet site with tools and other resources for employees, due diligence procedures and standard contract clauses for key business partners, and monitoring through internal/external audits and our Ethics and Compliance Helpline. Activities related to our anti-bribery and corruption program are communicated to our Executive Leadership Team and the Audit Committee of our board on a quarterly basis. Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 7 CEO Water Mandate A commitment to good water stewardship and ensuring water as a sustainable resource is part of Molson Coors’ heritage and future. The quality of our beer is directly tied to the quality of the water we use to produce it, and the sustainability of our business depends on a secure supply of high quality water. For this reason, protecting the water resources in our communities is a central part of Our Beer Print. In setting our 2020 water targets, we have taken a risk based approach to ensure that we are focusing on the right elements of water for our business and the watersheds in which we operate. Each of our breweries undertakes detailed watershed risk assessment and also completes our water risk index. This approach has allowed us to set targets that focus our resources to drive the right behavior on water, reducing risk across the enterprise. Our 2020 ambitions are to:  Reduce water intensity by 15% in all brewery operations (2011 baseline).  Achieve world-class water efficiency in breweries exposed to a risk to the security of supply. Launched in 2013, our 2020 Sustainability Strategy integrates how we manage energy, GHG emissions, water and solid waste and sets out how we will meet our 2020 ambitions. Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 8 Progress DETAILS AND ACTIONS TAKEN Direct Operations Molson Coors (MCBC) is committed to reduce our water use and preserve and protect the quality of the watersheds where we operate. Our strategy is governed by our global water management team, who are responsible for the company’s water resource supply, management and sustainability. In addition, each of our breweries has a dedicated water and environmental sustainability manager. Water reduction targets are included in the Chief Supply Chain Officer’s performance plan and included in the incentive mechanisms of his direct reports and the functional leadership of the broader Environmental, Health & Safety and Sustainability teams, including brewery managers. Water is a major part of both our product and process, understating water and managing it in a holistic way is critical to our business. The watersheds we operate in each have unique characteristics; they are under different pressures in terms of local water availability and demand. Across our global network we have breweries that source water directly from ground or surface water as well as those that source from municipal supplies. For this reason our approach is flexible to accommodate different levels of risk and different stakeholder dynamics in each watershed we brew in. Management of water availability for Molson Coors is about: • Managing the supply to ensure we are responsive to constraints and have alternatives. • Improve water efficiency within our plant with the objective of mitigating risk exposure and keeping pace with best practice. • Engaging with local and regional stakeholders to ensure sustainable use of the watershed by all. We have targets that take in to account both the need to improve the water use efficiency of our breweries to keep pace with best practice and set more stretching targets for sites that are located in areas of water stress. This approach ensures that we are investing resources in to the most material element of water management in each site. We have committed that by 2020: • Increase water use efficiency in our breweries by 15% • Breweries in water stressed areas will achieve world class efficiency (3 – 3.5 hl/hl) • Prioritize waste water treatment with anaerobic technology as a strategic technology The cornerstone of the 2020 Sustainability Strategy is a commitment to invest in waste water treatment and Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 9 generate clean energy from this waste stream. The use of anaerobic digestion waste water treatment technology allows us to treat our waste water to a high quality and generate biogas that can be used to produce heat or electricity needed in our breweries. These investments will alleviate the impact of our operations on municipal water treatment resources, reduce our reliance on fossil fuels and save GHG emissions. We currently employ anaerobic digestion technology in five of our breweries in the UK, Central Europe and India. In addition, we have started construction of two waste water to energy plants in Serbia and Montenegro. Investment in waste water treatment and biogas recovery totaled over USD $13M during 2014 and further investment is planned for 2015. .We invest significantly in capturing the best data on each of the watersheds we operate in, with the objective of understanding our risks, impacts and opportunities. To date, we have utilized a number of strategies which have helped us to become more sophisticated in understanding what data and metrics are helpful to our business. In addition to using publically available tools (including World Business Council for Sustainability Development (WBCSD) water tool and World Resource Institute (WRI) Aqueduct, we engaged third party experts to complete watershed risk assessments for each of our breweries. The scope of these studies covers; current water availability, quality and waste water issues local to the brewery and in the wider watershed, future challenges and pressures, legislation risks and stakeholder conflicts. The Dollar$ense Project is a utilities monitoring plan that will improve our ability to monitor and track water consumption even further. The project will also ensure that breweries with less monitoring capacity come into line with best practice. The project was piloted in our Montreal brewery in 2014 the system provided our site with actionable information with much more context and timeliness and resulted in savings estimated at 11,000m3 of water during the pilot period. It will be rolled out to every brewery by the beginning of 2016. Water and our overall environmental performance data is verified by an independent third party prior to publication. Supply Chain and Watershed We actively look for ways to engage with our supply chain on water. For Molson Coors, long term water Management availability, and the potential for climate change’s impact, are key factors in the work that is being conducted to better understand what our long term supply chain structure should look like to ensure long term supply of agricultural products. Our Standards for Suppliers which extend our corporate responsibility practices to our complex supply chain, challenging our suppliers to set similar commitments to reduce their impact, particularly with regard to water. We continue to work to further embed sustainability in to the way we procure goods and services through our sustainable procurement program. This program embeds sustainability considerations the way we procure through a four stage process: Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 10 Stage 1 – Screening To focus effort on reducing risk we have concentrated on implementing our supplier standards for all major goods based on spend and importance to MCBC. GAP analysis has indicated areas to focus effort to reduce risk and engage with our suppliers. Stage 2 – Qualification Our global contract templates reference our Supplier Standards as an additional schedule. By signing, the supplier acknowledges that they agree to the expectations of our Standards. Furthermore, our Terms and Conditions of Purchase now reference the need to comply, with failure to do so is considered as a material breach. Stage 3 – Development We are committed to sourcing from suppliers, who grow, produce and deliver goods in a manner that embraces our quality, safety and sustainability standards. We recognize that building capacity and working with external stakeholders is essential in delivering our business goals. Where we find water risk we will work to find appropriate methods to support mitigation efforts, utilizing our experience in our own operations. Stage 4 – Audit Suppliers who represent the highest potential risk are audited to ensure that the minimum expectations of our policy are being applied to their business operations and supply chains. Our Audit teams within each business unit audit suppliers against quality, food safety, and a number of environmental and social criteria, using our Global Supplier Audit Form. Molson Coors Supplier Scorecard is used to track various aspects of our suppliers’ performance including quality & EHS complaints, line downtime, supplier corrective action plans, on-time delivery, project support, total cost/administrative performance, sustainability and audit/quality systems. Over the past year we have rolled the sustainability elements out to 9 packaging suppliers in MCC (based on risk analysis) the scorecard tracks water and energy use in packaging production. Over 2014 these suppliers have shown a 5 – 10% decrease in water use in the production of materials for Molson Coors. Following this success the sustainability elements of the scorecard will be rolled out to additional suppliers and our European business unit over 2015. In the UK we have direct links to our barley growers, the Molson Coors Growers Group. We have worked with LEAF (Linking Environment and Farming) to develop the LEAF Water Management Tool to enable any LEAF partner to develop their own water management techniques. Following feedback from our growers we simplified this approach to create ‘Simply Sustainable Water’ alongside LEAF and our customer ASDA. Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 11 Collective Action Molson Coors is also an active member of the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER), a partnership of leading global beverage companies working together to advance the standing of the beverage industry in the realm of environmental stewardship. BIER developed a True Cost of Water Tool that helps breweries to develop a clearer view of the cost associated with the water they use in terms of actual prices, energy and other inputs and water treatment costs. Data generated can support better payback models and so investment decision models. We are trialing this tool internally and if successful will look to adopt it across our operations. Where new tools or best practice ideas are found we look to integrate them in to our process. For Breweries this is though integration in to our World Class Supply Chain (WCSC) program. This program is based in eight pillars, each with its own set of procedures standards and tools designed to standardize processes throughout our operations and drive performance. At the program's last major review an individual pillar on sustainability was created, named the Our Beer Print Pillar. This was done to highlight the importance of energy, GHG, water and waste stewardship for Molson Coors and to integrate the set of management tools and systems for sustainability management into the same system for each brewery. From a water management perspective the WCSC system gives our breweries one system to manage every aspect of water, covering legal compliance, sustainability and quality & food safety. We believe that working with others on water stewardship is critical. Not only does it allow us to gain a Community Engagement greater understanding of water in the communities we operate in, it also helps us to find solutions that ultimately help us meet our own goals. We work with others in a number of ways. We reach out to the communities who share our watersheds. Where we have identified higher risk sites we have a more formal outreach in place. In a number of our breweries we have been instrumental in creating community forums to protect local watersheds, some of which have been active for many years. In our biggest UK site, Burton, we have an on-going volunteering program with The Canal and River Trust, where volunteers regularly support canal clean ups improving both wildlife habitat and access for the local community. Alton brewery in Hampshire is home to important Chalk Steam habitat. We understand our role in protecting this habitat and working with local wildlife groups is one way we do this. We have a partnership with the Northern Wey Trust which has been on-going for a number of years. Though this partnership we identified an important opportunity to restore and enhance the chalk stream habitat on site. In Canada, we are seeing more opportunities to work with others in our watersheds towards common goals; an example of this is the Toronto Water Leaders Forum. As part of Partners in Project Green, the forum aims to bring all relevant stakeholders together to discuss urban watershed management. Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 12 Our Patna Brewery in India is located in an area where not all members of the community have access to adequate clean water and sanitation. Over the past two years we have worked with Water for People in 11 communities and 2 schools providing or improving water infrastructure and education to increase the sustainability of these projects in the communities. 1,278 people gained access to improved drinking water facilities including 353 school aged children. Our Cobra brands charitable foundation which provides health, education and community support in South Asia entered into a partnership with Water Aid and BELU. 100% of profits of specially designed bottled water sold will be donated to Water Aid. The Clear Creek Watershed Foundation (CCWF) in Colorado, USA has been active since 1997. The Clear Creek Watershed feeds our Golden brewery, we were a founding members recognizing how collective action on water quality would both reduce risk and cost for us and improve the whole watershed, where this iconic Coors brewery is located. We encourage our employees to be active community citizens. One month of the year is dedicated to Our Beer Print. In 2014 the month focused on key strategic areas of the company’s corporate responsibility program, including our 2020 Sustainability Strategy. The month is an opportunity to build recognition and pride in Our Beer Print achievements and a reason to inspire our people to take action and come together across all regions. Volunteers supported Our Beer Print Month working with the Canal and River Trust in Burton on Trent, UK clearing canals from overgrown vegetation, litter and repairing and painting tired stretches; the Alton brewery provided volunteers to clear the River Wey; in Central Europe volunteers planted 520 trees and revitalized 6 urban spaces. Each brewery is in a unique water situation based on location, local government and national government Public Policy structure. Some of the breweries are served from municipal sources while others are on well or direct-flow sources. Molson Coors tracks regulatory risks at each brewery, based on local trends. Our heritage and position on water sustainability has enabled us to have a ‘voice at the table’ of policy consultation and related activity. At a global level we are actively engaged in the conversation on how to manage water risk, though the CEO Water Mandate (we sit on the Steering Committee), BIER and industry bodies. We are also active in more local debate and consultation, for example DEFRA UK Future Water Abstraction Review. This work and our network of water experts means we are able to see the trends, and estimate how this may turn in to regulation and on what time scale. Much of the work we do on reducing our water risk is ahead of regulation. Our view is that we should act now to reduce our risks, mitigate cost increases, retain the right to operate in our communities and because we believe it is the right thing to do. Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 13 Transparency Our strategy is governed by the global water management team, responsible for the company's water supply, management and sustainability. In addition, each brewery has dedicated employees responsible for water and environmental sustainability. Further driving home our commitment to water stewardship, water reduction targets are included in the Chief Supply Chain Officer's performance plan and are also tied to employee incentives. We are able to robustly track water use in each brewery by process and account for production ratios. This level of tracking is also completed by our US joint venture, MillerCoors LLC. We share our approach to water with our stakeholders through transparent reporting on our website. Our online Our Beer Print Report discusses our water stewardship practices and current performance. We reported on water and climate risk in our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our active involvement with the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER) allows us to share experience with our industry and agree on consistent approaches to measurement and reporting. BIER also provides collective input to other organizations and NGO efforts around water process and tools. Molson Coors Brewing Company: Communication on Progress 2015 14
