CSR REPORT 2014 CONTENT FOREWORD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 WHAT DID WE PROMISE IN 2014 AND WHAT WERE THE RESULTS?. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 ABOUT DLG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 OUR APPROACH TO CSR. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 DLG’S CSR ORGANISATION: SYSTEMATIC APPROACH AND COORDINATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 ANTI-CORRUPTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 WORKERS, WORKING ENVIRONMENT AND DIVERSITY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 DLG’S CSR POLICY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 GOALS FOR 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 1 2 3 FOREWORD Welcome to the DLG group’s second CSR report. A company’s work in CSR must be measured by its actions. As the second-largest agricultural company in Europe, DLG Over the coming year we will therefore be working to furplays an important role as both purchaser and supplier of ther integrate social and environmental responsibility in our raw materials, crops, feed and other inputs in the first stage business areas, strategies and policies and set new goals for of production of foodstuffs. Together with our foodstuffs the individual business units. companies and energy business, this means that we have a We are pleased and proud to be able to confirm, by way of central position in both the Danish and European agriculture this progress report, our continued support of the UN Global and foodstuffs cluster. This also means that we as a comCompact and the ten principles. pany have a social and environmental responsibility. This requires DLG to focus on all segments of the value chain. In 2012, we adopted the UN’s Global Compact, which is an international initiative with ten principles focusing on corporate responsibility. As part of the Global Compact, DLG is working to implement the principles in human rights, workers’ rights, environment and anti-corruption in the group’s daily operations. At the same time, DLG is committed to actively communicate the group’s CSR activities and results in an annual progress report, known as a Communication on Progress (COP). Kristian Hundebøll Lars Sørensen This is DLG’s COP, in which we publish our goals and our (CEO) (Deputy Group CEO/CFO) actions, whilst at the same time describing the areas where we hope to progress over the course of the coming year. 2014 was an eventful year rich in lessons for our work in social and environmental responsibility. Over the course of the year we have, among other things, adopted our first over-arching group CSR policy, continued the work of charting our existing CSR initiatives, constructed a systematised CSR organisation and begun implementation of a series of initiatives within each of the Global Compact principles. It was also in 2014 that DLG entered the Chinese market and formulated our three core values: Trustworthy, Valuecreating and Ambitious. This reflects the fact that DLG has increasingly grown to be a globally oriented group, and it illustrates our drive to continually reach still greater levels of sustainability. Our social responsibility will be coming under ever greater focus as we grow on the international market. Our network of suppliers and customers is continually expanding, and it is important that we maintain central principles within humanand workers’ rights, environment and anti-corruption. This is not only because the company wishes to move in this direction, but also because we believe that as a globally-oriented group with nearly 7,500 employees, we bear a social responsibility. 4 WHAT DID WE PROMISE IN 2014 AND WHAT WERE THE RESULTS? CROSS-SECTORAL GOALS  Adopt an over-arching CSR policy for the group in ÷ Expand common accounting principles for CSR 2014 data for use in the report, including data on energy, employees and supply chain management etc. ongoing  Initiate a broader dialogue with our stakeholders (customers, owners, employees and suppliers)  Expand the scope of the CSR project to also include Team AG and GASA Group RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT  Focus on developing the company’s supply chain management system in order to better handle future risk ongoing  90 per cent of suppliers must have a certified quality management system, of which the greatest amount possible must be GMP-certified for feed ongoing FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY  Knowledge sharing across food product companies  Implement a training cycle for company qualityand product managers  Provide training in supply chain management and supplier evaluation  Assist with the development of ISO standards for feed production and audit of the ISO 22000-standard 5 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT  Realise additional savings in energy consumptions, including introduction of a common goal of 2% energy savings for feed production facilities in DLG Supply  Maintain optimisations in fuel consumption by replacing the remaining vehicle fleet in DLG Denmark  Smaller Carbon Footprint in feed production by developing feeds that can contribute to reduced emission of methane from ruminants ANTI-CORRUPTION  Develop anti-corruption guidelines/policy WORKERS, WORKING ENVIRONMENT AND DIVERSITY  Strengthen procedures for incident response ÷ Develop target figures for women in retail departments and subsidiaries goal not carried over  Reorganise the working environment organisation ÷ Strive for women to comprise half of the participants in DLG’s managerial activities goal not carried over  Electing women into DLG’s committee of representatives in 2014  Elect a woman to DLG’s board by no later than 2018  Maintain focus on women in management in annual employee development meetings, employee meetingsand newsletters 6 ABOUT DLG The DLG group is Europe’s second-largest agricultural firm and has approximately 29,000 farmers as owners. In less than ten years, the DLG group has gone from being a purely Danish cooperative to an international group with 40 subsidiaries in more than 20 countries. In 2014 the group saw a turnover of approx. DKK 59.2 thousand million, making DLG Europe’s second largest agricultural products company. DLG now realises the majority of its business on the international market. 7 DLG has approximately 7,500 employees, 3,000 of As a group, DLG has many different roles: DLG supply whom are based in Denmark. Germany is the group’s farmers with feed from its own plants, seed, agricultural largest market. Germany is also the largest in terms of lime, crop protection, and fuel for daily operations. The jobs. Approximately 3,800 workers are employed in the group’s activities include, in addition to agricultural three largest German subsidiaries: HaGe, Team AG and products, planting seed, crop protection and vegetable Deutsche Vilomix. DLG’s most important business areas products, as well as farming machinery, vegetables, fruit include agricultural products, Vitamins & Minerals and and potatoes for catering and retail sale. In addition, the Service & Energy. group’s business areas also include telecommunications, sale of potted plants, etc. The DLG group is also one of Europe’s largest exporters of malt barley, seed, feed and bread grain and rapeseed. Through the group’s affiliated companies, DLG is also involved in pre-processing vegetable crops such as rapeseed oil, ready-to-eat salads and pickled products. DLG has its own store chain, Land & Fritid, through which DLG provides consultation and sales of products for home, garden, domestic animals, telecommunications and much more. FOOD EXPORT CROP CULTIVATION FARMER VEGETABLE SERVICE & ENERGY PRODUCE / CROPS ANIMAL NUTRITION FEED 8 DLG’S SUBSIDIARYAND AFFILIATED COMPANIES, WITH SPECIFICATION OF THE LEVEL OF OWNERSHIP DLG HAS IN THE INDIVIDUAL COMPANIES DLG is a legally independent unit. The company’s busic. Support members with an extensive array of services ness name is Dansk Landbrugs Grovvareselskab a.m.b.a. and tools The company is a cooperative with limited liability, d. Work for the benefit of farmers by ensuring members a.m.b.a., based in Axelborg in Copenhagen. The comthe best possible production economy through both pany’s purpose is to: nationaland international activity a. Acquire agricultural products for members at optimal quality b. Pre-process and sell members’ commercial crops 100% ownerships Subsidiaries Associated companies FARM SUPPLY PREMIX AND VITAMINS SERVICE & ENERGY OTHER AREAS Livestock nutrition, crop Special feed, premix og Telecommunication, Machinery, flowers and production, crop handamino acid energy, insurance and food ling retail DLG A.m.b.a. Vitfoss Team AG (51,6%) Kongskilde Industries HaGe (54%) Deutsche Vilomix Land & Fritid GASA Group(93%) Svenska Foder PUAI (20%) DLG Tele (50%) DANESPO (50%) ScandAgra (50%) Calcialiment TNM (15%) DLG Food Agro Supply (50%) Fodermix DLG Ingredients DanGrønt Products Vilofoss Russia DLG Food Oil European Freeze Dry DanHatch (50%) Vilofoss Poland (90%) GASA Nord Grønt DLG Vet (50%) Stormøllen (70%) (50%) Lammefjordens Nagro (52%) Kartoffelskrælleri Lammefjords Grønt Nomus (50%) (74%) Vitalys (90%) PureOil (50%) Danæg (30%) Rapsol Dangødning (35%) Samsø Syltefabrik Dankalk (56%) DataLogisk (70%) European Crop Protection (47%) European Fertilizer (47%) Sejet Planteforædling (75%) 9 ” We believe that our CSR initiative produces the best results when we focus on the areas that create the most value for our key stakeholders: Customers and owners, workers and suppliers and for DLG as a business. ” 10 ” In order to become more systematic, we have therefore initiated in 2013 and 2013 a CSR strategy process and subsequent formulation of a CSR policy that ensures greater overall relevance of CSRrelated efforts. ” 11 OUR APPROACH DLG SUPPORTS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT DLG adhered to the UN Global Compact in 2012. In 2013 and 2014, DLG focused on creating the internal fraTO CSR meworks necessary to work with the ten principles of the Global Compact in a way that creates value. We believe that our CSR initiative produces the best results In order to become more systematic, we have therefore when we focus on the areas that create the most value for initiated in 2013 and 2013 a CSR strategy process and our key stakeholders: Customers and owners, workers and subsequent formulation of a CSR policy that ensures suppliers and for DLG as a business. greater overall relevance of CSR-related efforts. In other words, CSR supports our business and helps us This means, among other things, that focus has been on reach our strategic goals. establishing a common understanding in the group of the importance of CSR and ensuring a practical approDLG’s approach to CSR is driven by three fundamental ach to this work. The UN’s four focus areas in the Global principles: Compact are therefore also reflected in the description of the various CSR areas in this report. • The initiative must be strategic, which means that our activities must be relevant and account for the needs of our stakeholders whilst also strengthening THE FOUR FOCUS AREAS OF GLOBAL COMour business. PACT • We must always keep our focus on what is most signif • Companies must uphold UN human rights icant. This means that we work with the issues on which we have the greatest influence in relation to • Companies must uphold labour rights, i.e. our market position, as well as the areas that are of acknowledge employee rights to collective barcritical importance to our ability to operate a profitagaining and abolition of forced labour and ble businessover the long term as well. Conversely, child labour we also acknowledge that smaller areas where we do not have the greatest impact may well have a • Environment – companies must take the initiamajor impact on our business and our stakeholders. tive to promote environmental responsibility So it will always be a question of balance. • Anti-corruption – companies must fight against • The initiative must be conceived so as to be consist all types of corruption ently and practically incorporated into daily operations with respect to variations in DLG’s business are as. As such we are aware of the fact that not all CSR STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT topics are equally relevant across all the different This is DLG’s second CSR report, in which we present the business areas in the DLG group, and that our efforts group’s CSR priorities and a snapshot of activity and to systematise must also allow room for the differendata in this area. We also aim for the report to provide ces in the organisation. our stakeholders a clear image of the challenges and opportunities we see in relation to work with CSR, and how we can best manage these. The report describes DLG’s most significant CSR activities for 2014. Over the course of the year, DLG has continued working with the systematic integration of the CSR initiative in the group. Partly through a proper CSR organisation, and partly by continuing to develop a collective overview of activities and data for the entire group. The purpose of this report is to provide an accurate picture of the process we have gone through, and what we are doing in concrete terms to ensure that we handle 12 CSR-related challenges in such a way that we can also COMPANIES SPOTLIGHTED IN THIS REPORT operate a successful business in the future. It remains a DLG a.m.b.a., including Food Oil focus area in 2015 to integrate the CSR initiative across DLG’s food product companies, known as DLG Food the group along with the practical implementation we DLG Service a/s are working towards. The Vilofoss group HaGe Kiel Svenska Foder AB SCOPE AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES FOR Team AG CSR WORK IN THE DLG GROUP GASA Group When compiling this report, we have gathered inspiratiThe reason these in particular have been selected is that on from general and recognised principles for CSR reporthey are the largest subsidiaries, and that they are key ting. In compiling this report, we sought to describeand to reaching strategic goals for 2016. Going forward we frame ourselves against the larger context of sustainabiwill continue to work to include more and more units in lity in which we operate, the completeness of the report, our reporting. One goal for 2014 was for Team AG and materiality and balance of content. GASA Group to be included in the CSR report. Team AG is DLG’s second-largest company outside Denmark and In 2014, it was our goal that we would develop common a central part of the business area Service & Energy. accounting principles for CSR data to be used in the GASA Group is DLG’s retail company for floral products. report, including data on energy and workers. We are Both are now participants in the work groups in which convinced that we still have some way to go, particularthe CSR initiative is anchored. ly with respect to comparability of consolidated group data. As an extension of our wish to work strategically with CSR, DLG does not consider donations as part of its CSR This work takes time. We have only achieved systematic work. data collection and developed accounting principles for CSR in parts of the group. In 2015, we will continue working to develop common accounting principles for ENVIRONMENT AND STAKEHOLDERS CSR data for use in the report, including data on energy, The CSR report has been drawn up without any direemployees and supply chain management etc. ct involvement of external stakeholders. Naturally, we maintain ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders in For this reason, DLG’s 2014 report does not give a ”total various fora, but not a systematic dialogue on CSR. We view” of all the CSR activities and results in the group. On have identified our most important stakeholders as custthe other hand, the report has been designed to highomers, owners, employees and suppliers. It is our ambitilight a series of advances in the business areas that we on for 2015 to further elevate a systematic dialogue on see as the most significant to the business, our stakeholsustainability and responsibility in our value chains. As a ders and for our industry. company we generally experience increasing expectations from the environment that responsibility and a DLG’s activities in each of the four Global Compact high level of integrity are an important part of running a areas are also described: Human rights, workers’ rights, successful company. This is also an expectation we have environment and anti-corruption. The report covers the of ourselves as a company. This is why we acknowledgemajority of DLG’s business, beginning with all of DLG and listen to the expectations that we encounter, and a.m.b.a. and majority-owned subsidiaries defined as strive to live up to them as effectively as possible. The companies that DLG owns directly or indirectly. AssociaCSR report is one facet of bringing this initiative to light. ted companies, in which DLG does not have a decisive influence, are not included in the report. 13 ” We are convinced that we still have some way to go, particularly with respect to comparability of consolidated group data. ” 14 DLG’S CSR POLICY AND CROSS-SECTORAL DLG’S CORE VALUES A NEW FRAMEWORK INITIATIVES FOR WORKING WITH SUSTAINABILITY AND In April 2014, DLG’s group management adopted a RESPONSIBILITY group-wide CSR policy. In 2014, the DLG group formulated three core values that express our shared DNA: The policy is based in the Global Compact, DLG’s core values and our fundamental approach to CSR, namely The three values set the framework for our systematic that it must be strategic, significant and practical. work with socialand environmental responsibility. DLG’s CSR work must therefore by necessity be sincere, wellDLG commits to following the ten principles of corporafounded and transparent (Trustworthy), create synergy te responsibility in the UN Global Compact. As part of between sustainability and business (Value-creating) this effort, DLG is working to implement the principles in and be understood from a developmental perspective human rights, workers’ rights, environment and anti-corinvolving several parts of the group (Ambitious). ruption in the group’s daily operations. We follow all relevant legislation and regulations in the countries in which we operate. We are dedicated to maintaining open dialogue on CSR-related issues with our stakeholders. • We therefore always strive to ensure the highest quality and security in our agricultural products and foodTrustworthy stuffs production, from farm to fork • We strive to be ambitious in our efforts to secure responsible value chain management and protect the group’s reputation • We strive to reduce DLG’s energy consumption, minimise our environmental emissions and generally reduce our environmental impact • We do not accept corruption in any of its forms, including (but not limited to) bribery, extortion, facilitation payments or nepotism in any of our business operations or relations. • We strive to maintain secure working conditions, a sound working environment and to create good opportunity for development for our employees and Ambitious business partners. • We respect internationally recognised human rights and continually evaluate our business to identify instances that can negatively impact these rights This policy is evaluated and revised on an annual basis by DLG’s group management. 15 ” The policy is based in the Global Compact, DLG’s core values and our fundamental approach to CSR, namely that it must be strategic, significant and practical. ” Valuecreating 16 DLG’S CSR ORGANISATION: SYSTEMATIC APPROACH AND COORDINATION DLG has developed a CSR organisation as part of this work groups. These groups consist of representatives process. A CSR coordinator has been appointed, who is from all sections of the group. Responsibility for the responsible for coordinating cross-sectoral activities, inpractical implementation of CSR initiatives falls with the ternaland external communications, and Global ComExecutive Management Board, Executive Management pact reporting. The task of elaborating goals, action and Group Management. plans and KPIs has been assigned to five cross-sectoral EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD EM CSR Coordinator ISSUE OWNERS Food safety Environment Supply Chain Anti-corruption Diversity and OSH and quality and Energy In 2013 DLG carried out a large-scale analysis of the CSR • Responsible supply chain management area, based on, among other things, workshops, internal • Food safety and quality interviews and evaluation of existing initiatives for the • Energy and environment purpose of defining relevant CSR risks and opportunities, in order to determine the most significant CSR areas in Additionally, working groups have also been established relation to the nature and breadth of our business. On in Anti-corruption and Diversity and OSH. These three the basis of this analysis work, three over-arching CSR main areas will be evaluated on an annual basis. focus areas were identified as the most critical areas for the group in the strategic period until 2016: 17 BUSINESS INTEGRATION In line with DLG’s three over-arching principles describing our approach to CSR as strategic, significant and practical, it is of fundamental importance that CSR work ” We believe that an inteeffectively meshes with DLG’s over-arching business strategy and the requirements and expectations that our stakeholders have of us. Both help ensure that the grated approach to CSR can company is able to create value over the long run. It also create a more solid anshould be understood that a more integrated approach choring in DLG’s various busi” to CSR, accounting for the environmental expectations and market requirements imposed on the company, ness units. can present many business advantages. This might be, for example, in the form of improved risk management, greater product innovation, boosted employee motivation, fewer expenses, and a strong CSR profile among our most important stakeholders. We believe that an integrated approach to CSR can also create a more solid anchoring in DLG’s various business units. But a broad anchoring is not something that is achieved overnight in a large international group. This is a more distant horizon, which in some cases also calls for new work procedures and solutions. We are, as already mentioned, aware that these measures take time. We are therefore also conscious of the fact that CSR work in DLG is an ongoing process that will unfold step by step, not something that can be implemented all at once. But the very fact that management has defined goals and group values means that communication can be started in the entire system, so that each business unit can incorporate these values into their part of the DLG group. Comments or questions? E-mail information@dlg.dk STATUS OF 2014 GOALS FOR CROSSSECTORAL INITIATIVES  Adopt an over-arching CSR policy for the group in 2014  Initiate a broader dialogue with our stakeholders (customers, owners, employees and suppliers)  Expand the scope of the CSR project to also include Team AG and GASA Group ÷ Develop common accounting principles for CSR data for use in the report, including data on energy, employees and supply chain management etc. goal carried over 18 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT GOALS FOR 2015 In 2015, DLG will also be focusing on developing our supplier system to better respond to future risk. Achieving this demands the following: • Identify challenges for responsible supply chain management within the most important raw materials. Products will represent business areas feedstuffs, vitamins and minerals, plant production, DLG Food, DLG Energy, and PlusGoods • Improve data collection and reporting for CSR initiatives in our value chains • Continue to analyse and evaluate our value chains based on the criteria the Global Compact • Continue the productive and constructive dia logue with our suppliers on raw materials, such as soy • Work to promote use of DLG’s charter for sustainable soy production • Support the common European initiatives in FE FAC for the purpose of stimulating more sustainable global soy production • Support the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) • Initiate the development of a group-wide Code of Conduct for DLG ” As a responsible agriculturaland food products group, DLG wishes to maintain control on the company’s value chain. ” 19 As a responsible agriculturaland food products group, ProTerra certifies the physical product. This is a non-GMO DLG wishes to maintain control on the company’s value standard and includes agricultural practice, use of chain. chemicals, energy consumption, working conditions and respect for local residents and natives. In 2014, ProTerra This means strengthening the group’s control of the risks soy accounted for over 70 per cent of Svenska Foder’s associated with working with an ever more complex and total soy purchasing. The largest supplier to Svenska Fointernational supplier chain. der delivers 100% GMOand salmonella-free soy. Both in Denmark and internationally there is increasing Supply chain management in HaGe is based on the focus on the need for companies to have a greater recognised certification systems QS and GMP+. HaGe command than in the past over what takes place in the is also a member of AGL, an association of 21 feed company’s supply chain and with their suppliers. DLG producers that jointly account for more than 50 per cent has also observed this expectation in the interplay betof Germany’s feed production. AGL carries out risk-oriween customers and business partners. ented supplier screening, and each member’s quality manager audits three suppliers a year. The audit reports At the same time, responsible supply chain manageare published on the internet. ment is a critical focus area for DLG since we are increasingly internationalising our operations. Establishment of the partnership between DLG and Chinese PUAI Feed DLG AND SOY Group in 2014 with its seven feed production plants is a good example of this. DLG accounts for about half of Denmark’s purchasing of soy meal. The majority of this is used As DLG moves towards a greater level of internationafor pig feed. Soy is a critical ingredient in feed lisation, we see a growing need to carry out a more syproduction, at approx. 15-20 per cent, and constematic approach to cooperation with suppliers in DLG. stitutes a major part of DLG’s overall production. It is therefore also a matter of managing risk in the value DLG considerably increased its engagement in chain. The objective of the progressive work towards reprimary production in 2014. Through a series of sponsible supply chain management is first and foremost visits to soy producers and suppliers in Argentina to create an overview of the group’s many suppliers. For and Brazil, we have sought to gain insight and example, we now buy from other countries to a greater understandingand also held a direct dialogue extent than in the past, such as from China and the rest -with respect to a long series of CSR stakeholder of Asia, Eastern Europe and South America, where chalparameters, including responsible relationships lenges other than those prevalent in Denmarkpertaiwith surrounding communities, environmental ning to workers’ rights, environmental impact and quality responsibility, good agricultural practice and assurance -may arise. Our focus on responsible supply long-term economic planning. chain management is an active means of meeting this challenge. From 1 January 2013 forwards, DLG has pledged, toCERTIFICATION AND SUPPLY CHAIN gether with a number of food product producers includMANAGEMENT ing Arla, Danish Crown, the Danish Agriculture and Food Council, and others, to buy only sustainably produced PURCHASE OF RAW MATERIALS soy meal that meets a long series of production requireDLG a.m.b.a’s policy for purchasing of raw materials is ments, including requirements pertaining to environmenthat at least 90 per cent of our suppliers must have a tal sustainability, use of child labour and use of pesticides certified quality assurance system in place that covers in production. the goods that DLG purchases. The greatest percentage With respect to all our purchasing of soy, we have also possible of these must be GMP-certified (Good Maestablished requirements that suppliers live up to our nufacturing Practice). In 2014 DLG succeeded in increaown charter, which consists of a number of points, in sing the percentage of certified suppliers so that it is now which adherence to the Global Compact is one of the well above 90 per cent. Approximately 75 per cent of requirements. goods were GMP-certified. Svenska Foder purchases with a focus on fulfilling the requirements set by the ProTerra certification system. 20 DLG’S CHARTER FOR SOY SUPPLIERS PALM OIL • The supplier must be a member of the Global DLG’s purchasing of palm oil for use in feed Compact production is on par with that of soy meal. In 2012 DLG became a member of the Roundtable on • The supplier does not utilise child labour Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in order to be better informed of developments in the palm oil industry • The supplier must recognise employers’ right to in south-east Asia. RSPO brings together interested organise organisations from various sectors of the palm oil industry for the purpose of developing and imple• Raw materials from rainforest areas felled after menting global standards for sustainable palm oil. 24 July 2006 are not accepted The most important principles behind the certification include transparency, workers’ rights, use of • The supplier must have a policy that use of the best available growing methods, protection pesticides must take place in accordance with of nature and the environment, and long-term local legislation and the Stockholmand Rottereconomic planning. dam Conventions DLG is also a member of the Roundtable for Responsible PURCHASE OF VITAMINS AND MINERALS Soy (RTRS) (by way of the European industry organisation DLG’s vitaminand mineral activities are collected under FEFAC, which organises feed businesses in Europe). In the brand Vilofoss. Only raw materials approved in the 2014 DLG assumed a leading role in the development of EU are purchased for the production of vitamins and FEFAC’s roadmap for sustainable soy, including definition minerals. This means that DLG’s suppliers in this aspect of relevant problems affecting soy. play a so-called ”gatekeeper” function if the product is coming from a third country [country outside the EU]. In DLG is pleased to share the knowledge we possess in conjunction with quality management, we follow up by sustainable soy production and soy purchasing. In 2014 means of analytical checks by employing the HACCP we met with a broad array of decision makers, opinion system in areas where we identify the greatest risk. shapers, NGOs, distributors and university students. We participated inand made contributions to conferences Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points is a system for in Danish Parliament, and have held lectures for students quality assurance of food products throughout the entire at the University of Copenhagen as part of the course production chain. The system builds on identification of ”Animals and Sustainability”. Other stakeholders, such microbiological, chemical and physical risks in the raw as NGOs and distributors, as well, have held meetings materials, designation of particularly critical steps in regarding sustainability and soy purchasing. production and pre-processing and in packaging and later establishment of checkpoints in the production sequence. Every one of the approximately 200 raw materials used in vitamins and minerals are approved according to a fixed procedure: Assessment of familiarity with the company, the product information for the goods in question and nutritional characteristics, safety for humans and animals, and whether the goods can be used in the production facility (such as with respect to noise and odour production). ” This means strengthening the group’s control of the risks associated with working with an ever more complex and international supplier chain. ” 21 ENERGY OUT AND IN DLG is a strong player in wood pellets and oil for agriculture. DLG uses only FSC-certified wood for wood pellets and hard wooden briquettes. In an FSC forest, one does not fell more trees than the forest can manage to reproduce. At the same time, FSC helps ensure that animals and plant life are protected, and that people working in the forest are provided training, safety equipment and fair pay. DLG’s hard wood briquettes are made from remainder products from palm oil production. Oil comes primarily from local European upstream production. When the oil is transported in DLG, driver safety is taken into account. We have a zero-injury goal. We expanded the safety system still further in 2014. Random samples and audits resulted in recognition of DLG Service for safe oil distribution in 2014. In 2014, Svenska Foder bought only oil produced from 100% sustainable energy sources. ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AND CHARITY GO HAND IN HAND The many mobile phones that are phased out of service every year in Svenska Foder are sold to a business partner who ensures that they are sustainably reused. Svenska Foder donates the revenue from this recycling to charity. We have therefore helped fight against cancer in children while also ensuring that the rainforest benefits from replanting. STATUS OF 2014 GOALS FOR RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT  Focus on developing the company’s supply chain management system in order to better handle future risk ongoing  90 per cent of suppliers must have a certified quality management system, of which the greatest amount possible must be GMP-certified for feed ongoing 22 ” As a supplier and purchaser of raw materials, crops and feed for agriculture and the food products industry, food product safety and high quality are top priorities for DLG. This is a key concern for our position as a responsible producer in the feedand foodstuffs area. ” 23 FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY DLG FOOD GOALS FOR 2015 In order to support a high level of food product safety in • Initiate discussions internally within the group DLG’s food product companies, we employed a Quality regarding policy for crisis management and & Food Safety Manager in DLG Food in 2013 to place product recall special focus on this area in DLG Food companies. The goal wasand remains -increased knowledge sharing • Focus on responsible supply chain management and implementation of common policies and principles as part of ISO 22000 and other certifications to maintain the existing food product safety certifications such as GLOBALGAP, ISO 22000, FSSC 22000 and • Continue to participate in the development of BRC. the new ISO 22000 feed standard In 2014, we focused on establishing a forum between • Focus on matching marketand consumer the quality managers in the Food companies to support expectations with respect to certification and food product safety. At the end of 2013, we establisdocumentation hed a cross-sectoral network for quality management employees in order to be able to establish in 2014 a • Implement a new and reinforced internal auditcommon training programme based on local needs ing system in DLG Food and challenges. • Maintain focus on formulation and implemenAnother significant focus area in Food over the course tation of relevant KPIs for food product safety of 2014 has been to consistently be able to meet increaand quality in the group’s various business areas sing need for documentation processes to keep up with new marketand customer requirements. Several of the companies are going through customer audits based on more demanding standards including, among others, Food product safety at DLG begins already in primaBRC, and the customers’ own standards based speciry production with handling of crops and growing of fically on BRC. At the same time, there are increasing edible crops, such as vegetables and feed for domestic requirements for completion of customer questionnaires animals. This means ensuring the highest quality in food and highly specific product specifications, in which the product production throughout the entire chain from production processes must be documented. This calls farm to fork. for enhanced competencies both locally in the companies and centrally in DLG Food in a number of areas As a supplier and purchaser of raw materials, crops and pertaining to food product safety and quality. The requifeed for agriculture and the food products industry, food rements met are primarily on new export markets and product safety and high quality are top priorities for from new international industrial customers. DLG. This is a key concern for our position as a responsible producer in the feedand foodstuffs area. Society’s heightened focus on food product safety and quality RESULTS FOR 2014 requirements for raw materials also means that at whaOver the course of 2014, the quality managers in all tever level one holds in the food product chain, one risks Food companies carried out a common internal course being held accountable if something goes wrong. in food product safety and legislation. Focus areas here have included updates on relevant and new legislation, This is why we at DLG see ourselves as bearing a very particularly updates to new labelling requirements that great responsibility. entered into effect on 13 December 2014. 24 THE COURSE FOR QUALITY MANAGERS OTHER RESULTS ADDRESSES THE FOLLOWING: • Common food product policy in Food • All pre-processing activities are now certified through Bureau Certification • Common certification policy group agreement with Bureau Veritas • Development of a new reporting system for internal audits • Common agreement regarding foodstuff analyses (group agreement with EuroFins) inclu• Focus is on responsible supply chain manageding a brief introduction to microbiological risks ment. Suppliers of fruits and vegetables to in vegetable products Samsø Syltefabrik and Lammefjordgrønt, respectively, must be GLOBALGAP-certified • New common food product legislation database for the Food companies • Efforts are also being made in the subsidiary GASA Nord Grønt, with a goal for 90 per cent • Updating of the GLOBALGAP standard, includof member trade to be certified according to ing introduction to the GRASP module, which the GLOBALGAP standard before the end of is an add-on certification to GLOBALGAP, 2016 which ensures social responsibility in primary producers • Establishment of a cross-sectoral network for working environment managers • Update to Foods’ common documentation systemIPW • Training in the new common claim manageFORWARD FOCUS FOR DLG FOOD IN 2015 ment module in IPW, which is mandatory from Several of the Food companies experienced a high 01/01/2015 growth rate already in 2014, and this trend will presumably continue in 2015. This results in a greater flow of • Introduction to responsible supply chain mangoods and a larger number of new products in relation agement not only to positive development in the domestic retail market, but also in new export markets and in new inter• DLG’s CSR policy: in particular responsible national industrial customers. This imposes an extensive supply chain management and quality and range of requirements on quality assurance and mainfood product safety tenance of food product safety, including, among other things documented control of production processes, • Introduction to safe product development prodocumented testing of new products for product stabilicesses new products must be responsibly testty, shelf life, transport, temperature testing and stress teed prior to launch sting. New customer agreements of global/international scope and foreign customers also bring intensified requirements. Product time to market and customer-specific developments are also increasingly common, presenting new challenges for daily operations. At the same time, there must not be any compromise with respect to product quality and food product safety, which is why focus on verified product testing and coordinated product development processes are of ever greater significance. DLG Food has also placed focus on the over-arching strategy for initiation of dialogue with customers and stakeholders regarding CSR as an integrated part of the business. To better be able to integrate CSR into the value creation of products and support customer strategies in this area, a structured charting of their stakeholders was carried out, using Lammefjordsgrønt as a model. 25 Seen as a whole, CSR and sustainability in food products are fundamentally something that we at DLG work with as a natural matter of course. We have increasingly come to make this a key concern as foreign customers, in particular, refer to standards such as Sedex on pre-processes foodstuffs and GRASP for primary production. This is seen primarily in relation to the English and German retail markets, which a few of the group’s food product companies serve as subcontractors. FOCUS AREAS FOR 2015 IN FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY AREA IN DLG FOOD COMPANIES INCLUDE: • More targeted and competence-building courses in internal audits, supply chain management and HACCP • Implementation of a ”new”/reviewed internal audit system • New common principlesincluding recalls • Expansion of the IPW documentation management system for uniformity in Food • Implement new and more secure product development processes focusing on maintaining food product safety • Integrate CSR work in the network group for quality and food product safety 26 FEED REQUIREMENTS FOR FEED PRODUCTION In correlation to quality management of the vitaminand mineral mixtures used in conjunction with food product production, DLG similarly has a number of quality certifications in place, including FamiQS, GMP+ and QS. These international certifications focusing on quality and feedand food product safety are routinely subject to third-party audit. In the feed area, DLG economically supports a Danish-led feed product secretariat in order to secure central placement of Danish stakeholders in the development of international standards in feed product safety under the ISO system. In 2014, DLG actively worked to see that the secretariat implemented the standard for feed production under the auspices of ISO as a supplement to ISO 22000, while also ensuring progress in the same. In 2015, DLG shall continue to work actively for the development of this standard with an expectation of having an ISO standard in place by June 2016 to ensure feedand food product safety in feed production. Simultaneously, DLG is in the midst of an audit process for the ISO 22000 standard for food products for the purpose of ensuring that the content is updated to apply to DLG’s business areas and market expectations to the greatest extent possible. DLG’s pet food unit is also taking part, as mentioned, in an FEFAC task force on sustainability in feed production. The purpose of this task force is to achieve a common European description of sustainability criteria and common minimum requirements for documentation of sustainability in feed products. STATUS OF GOALS IN 2014 IN FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY  Knowledge sharing across food product companies  Training cycle for company qualityand product managers  Provide training in supply chain management and supplier evaluation  Assist with the development of ISO standards for feed production and audit of the 22000-standard 27 28 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT GOALS FOR 2015 FOCUS ON SYSTEMATISING AND EXPANIn 2015, we shall continue the activities already in DING CSR INITIATIVES IN ENERGYAND motion and include all business units in the group. ENVIRONMENTAL AREAS This means that we will: Previously, systematic CSR work in energy and environ• Develop a common policy for resource efficienment highly involved core areas such as production or cy focusing on energy and environment agricultural products and logistics, as well as individual subsidiaries. In 2014, DLG worked to systematise and • Systematise knowledge-sharing and best pracstructure the CSR initiative in energy and environment, so tice. Workshops and fora are being held, in as to cover the entire DLG group. which everyone from the group is given the opportunity to share their experiences pertaining The first part of the structured CSR initiative was to chart to resource efficiency and provide inspiration the current status for all business units and how they see for one another. This interaction shall generate their future work in the areas of energy and environment. new initiatives that can be implemented across This survey activity also looked at the degree to which the organisation goals are set and subject to follow-up, and whether benchmarking is applied in similar business units internal• Introduce LEAN principles throughout the entire ly or externally in order to increase knowledge sharing group as a tool for optimisation and waste reacross the group. duction in the organisation This survey has shown that the entire DLG group places a major focus on energy and environment. As DLG is a • All business units scale back their primary energy complex organisation with many different business units, source by 2 per cent. Each business unit must smaller groups have been set up where benchmarking state their primary energy sources and present makes sense. They have worked to set goals that reflect an action plan to reach this goal. In addition, the current opportunities across the group. This work has all business units must develop a KPI to support resulted in the four over-arching goals that all units are this goal working with in 2015. In addition, several of the groups have set underlying goals that will also serve to become more resource-effective in energy and environment. RESOURCE EFFICIENCY IS A PREREQUISITE FOR SUSTAINABILITY AND COMPETITIVENESS ENERGY SAVINGS IN PRODUCTION DLG is a large player in a highly competitive market. FACILITIES It is therefore important to be as resource-efficient as possible in order to increase DLG’s competitiveness and Production of agricultural products is a core area for sustainability. DLG and requires great amounts of energy. It therefore makes commercial sense to strive to become as enerEnergy is one of DLG’s most important resources in all gy-efficient as possible, as this benefits both the environproduction and logistics. In order to contribute to the ment and our customers. most sustainable development, DLG strives to be effective and innovative in its use of technology and resources. The over-arching energy goal in DLG’s agricultural This is why we place significant focus in the DLG group products production is to implement concrete projeon becoming as energy-efficient as possible, while still cts equating to savings of 2 per cent per year for the maintaining profitability for DLG. This creates value for specific energy consumption type. The goal for 2014 was both the environment and our customers. more than reached, as the agricultural products producer. tion facilities in DLG, Svenska Foder and HaGe realised a saving of 4.3 per cent over 2013. 29 ” DLG is a large player in a highly competitive market. It is therefore important to be as resource-efficient as possible in order to increase DLG’s competitiveness and sustainability. ” 30 A specific energy reduction of 2.5 per cent was achieved at the agricultural products facilities in Denmark. 18 optimisation projects were instituted, which are expected to reduce consumption by 2,200,000 kWh. The largest project has been renovation and reconstruction of the Kolding plant, where a new energy-efficient press and milling equipment were set up. A reduction in energy consumption of 6.3 per cent was realised in Germany, which was made possible primarily by closing old facilities and optimising capacity at existing facilities. In Sweden, particularly, there was a reduction in heat consumption that resulted in total savings of 7.6 per cent. 11 optimisation projects were instituted, which are expected to result in a reduction of 982000 kWh. One of the larger projects in Sweden has been to introduce the new steam boiler in Västerlösa, which uses wood chips and scrap grain as fuel instead of oil. Another project has been to optimise the mill works, where two mills are replaced by an energy-efficient mill with greater capacity. TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS In the transport and logistics area, there is also a common focus on reducing energy consumption as much as possible. In 2014, work continued with the One-Touch concept, intended to ensure correct initial delivery and placement of goods. The warehouses are divided into A-, B-, and C-, warehouses, and close cooperation with customers is underway to ensure that goods are delivered to the right location the first time. Delivering goods correctly the first time helps minimise the movement factorin other words, how many times a good is moved. An ambitious goal was set in 2014 to reduce the move” ment factor in Denmark still further, equivalent to 200,000 These tools helped us tonnes. This goal has almost been achieved, as the moachieve a 5 per cent invement factor has been reduced by 180,000 tonnes. In crease in productivity in 2015, DLG set a goal to reduce the movement factor by 300,000 tonnes. This goal is extremely ambitious and shall 2014, and overall we have be reached through close cooperation with our custachieved a 14 per cent inomers, through measures including an increased level crease in productivity since of in-house storage. Additionally, the logistics group in ” HaGe, DLG and Svenska Foder in 2015 will continue wortime of implementation. 31 king with the One-Touch concept and initiatives as to ctive in use of resources. Routine board meetings have how the movement factor can be reduced still further. now been implemented, and we use the LEAN tools 5S and SMED. These tools helped us achieve a 5 per cent On the feed side, the initiatives set in motion in 2013 to increase in productivity in 2014, and overall we have reduce average number of kilometres driven for goods achieved a 14 per cent increase in productivity since deliveries to customers are still in focus. Ongoing efforts time of implementation. are underway in all three countries to secure greater planning windows, i.e. a longer time from customer All employees are involved and trained in the LEAN order placement to delivery of goods. A larger planning principles. Some employees are also given additional window allows for greater flexibility and the possibility training in LEAN tools in order to be able to carry out imto better optimise logistics and thereby reduce enprovement projects in the local departments. All emplovironmental impacts. Work is also ongoing to get more yees in the Supply chain, from time of order to delivery customers on delivery plans, where we work with the of the good to the customer, have attended a course in customer to adapt delivery volumes and times to less the LEAN principles and thereby been trained to identify peak periods. We thereby have a greater ability to even waste and reduce resource consumption. out production over the course of the week. This makes it possible to optimise production, so that production and In 2014, the LEAN approach was also implemented in delivery take place from the facility closest to the custoearnest in Svenska Foder. Morning meetings have been mer, whilst also making more efficient use of productionheld in all agricultural products production facilities since and transport capacity and thereby optimising use of March 2014. There is follow-up on four KPIs, all of which energy resources. help optimise energy consumption. The greatest effect is seen in the reduction of unplanned downtime, where a The transport area is focused on reducing fuel consumpreduction of 6 per cent was achieved in 2014. LEAN coution. In 2014, there was continual focus on shifting flow to rses were implemented in 2015, focusing on the process lorries with greater capacity and better fuel economy. In from sale through delivery to customer. 2014 HaGe changed lorries, so there are now two lorries meeting the Euro 6 standard. The majority of the flow in At the agricultural products facilities in German work is both HaGe and DLG now meets or exceeds the Euro 5 currently underway towards a roll-out plan for LEAN. standard. In early 2015, DLG will also be introducing two new lorries that not only meet the Euro 6 standard but LEAN has also been a major focus area for VitaLys, also run on rapeseed oil. Additional efforts are underway which produces the amino acid lysine. In 2014, all in HaGe to implement noise-reducing and fuel-saving employees were introduced to the LEAN tools, and KPIs tyres. were introduced for relevant key figures in energy and waste water. The logistics group is also focusing on environmentally correct driving. DLG is collaborating with our lorry In 2015, focus will be on introducing the LEAN principles suppliers to train our drivers and provide them individual throughout the remaining part of the group. guidance to ensure driving that is more environmentally correct. On lorries that currently have meters installed, a savings of 18 per cent per kilometre driven has been SYSTEMATIC KNOWLEDGE SHARING achieved since the start of training. We anticipate that In 2013, the group began to benchmark and systematithe training we have instituted will result in additional cally share knowledge in agricultural products productisavings in the future. on and logistics. Benchmarking is carried out on the basis of the established KPIs, which affect energy consumption, such as tonnes produced per hour and km driven. LEAN In 2014, this international collaboration was further 2014 saw the true introduction of LEAN throughout the strengthened and resulted in several different workshops, entire group. including, among others, focus on how the energy level can be reduced in the agricultural products facilities LEAN was introduced in the agricultural products facilitiby implementing LEAN tools and focusing on reducing es in Denmark in 2013, and has since been rolled out in unplanned shutdowns. the group. A continual and focused effort is underway to utilise LEAN tools to eliminate waste and become more effe32 INNOVATION WITH FEWER GREENHOUSE PILOT PROJECT FOR SALE OF SURPLUS HEAT GASSES TO LØGSTØR FJERNVARME In the DLG group our sights are set on developing feed solutions that provide farmers the possibility for profitable In collaboration with Green Symbiosis, a pool and environmentally correct production. under the Danish Ministry of the Environment, Dankalk and Løgstør Fjernvarme have received a One such example is that we have used phytase to financial subsidy to develop a report for the sale reduce phosphor discharge. We are constantly working of surplus heat from Dankalk. The report shall form to implement new knowledge and new possibilities. the basis to determine whether there will be any Ruminant digestive function produces methane. We are financial advantage to this, while also capturing working across the companies of the group to identify surplus heat at Dankalk for district heating. the best solutions to be able to maintain proper digestive function while reducing methane at the same time. We are working to identify Carbon Footprint values for LED LIGHTING the individual raw materials so we can calculate the values for the individual feed mixes. This can therefore be In our operating facilities in, among others, BSL included in analysis of what possibilities the DLG group Neumünster and Coesfeld and in the export hall has in the future to produce production-safe feed with in GASA Group, light sources have been chanthe lowest possible Carbon Footprint. ged over to LED. These changes are expected to results in a 30 per cent reduction in energy consumption at BSL Neumünster and Coesfeld and up ENERGY COLLABORATION to 67 per cent in the export hall in GASA Group. VitaLys has entered a collaboration with Esbjerg Forsyning A/S in which we utilise funds from ”Green STATUS OF GOALS IN 2014 FOR ENERGY Industrial Symbiosis” to investigate the possibility of using surplus heat from Vitalys. Surplus heat, which AND ENVIRONMENT is currently an untapped resource at VitaLys, can Realise additional savings in energy consumptions, be sold to Esbjerg Forsyning.  including introduction of a common goal of 2% energy savings for feed production facilities in DLG Supply COLLABORATION FOR RESOURCE EFFI Maintain optimisations in fuel consumption by replaCIENCY cing the remaining vehicle fleet in DLG Denmark VitaLys has entered a collaborative agreement Smaller Carbon Footprint in feed production by  with C&D Foods A/S using funds from Green Symdeveloping feeds that can contribute to reduced biosis to chart the possibilities of using residual curemission of methane from ruminants rent from waste water between the companies. The idea is to sell water from Vitalys to C&D Foods. There is a potential of 120,000 m3 waste water per year that can replace municipal water. THE CHANGE TO ENERGY-SAVING CURTAINS The change to energy-saving curtains at Gasa Group, with their insulating effect, shall result in improved heating economy and an annual savings of approx. 195 MWh/year. 33 ANTI-CORRUPTION providing comprehensive guidelines on how DLG GOALS FOR 2015 employees should act with respect to corruption. • Deploy and instruct based on our new antiDLG’s anti-corruption policy describes at the same corruption policy. time how DLG employees should act in situations where there may be some doubt as to whether the • Communicationand training initiative for objective bears any characteristics of bribery or managers and relevant workers corruption. In 2015, this initiative will focus on rolling out the DLG always strives to uphold legislation, rules and releanti-corruption policy in the entire group. Here DLG vant provisions in the countries in which we operate. This shall focus on training of managers and relevant is a prerequisite for DLG to be a responsible actor. In this employees in DLG so that it can be ensured that marespect, our CSR policy clearly expresses our approach nagement in the group and managing workers are to corruption: “We do not accept corruption in any of aware of what guidelines apply in the DLG group its forms, including but not limited to bribery, extortion, with respect to anti-corruption. facilitation payments or nepotism in any of our business tion. operations or relations”. In other words, corruption is not acceptable in DLG. It is STATUS OF GOALS IN 2014 FOR ANTInot part of our way of doing business, and we believe CORRUPTION that our workers must neither practice nor be subject to corruption. This position is also reinforced through our  Develop a set of guidelines on the group level adherence to the Global Compact, which encourages for anti-corruption companies to work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. The DLG group is increasingly global in scope and sources raw materials from various parts of the worldincluding some with a markedly lower standing in corruption assessments released by Transparency International than our core markets in northern Europe. In 2014, for example, DLG acquired a Chinese feed production facility, which subsequently implemented a comprehensive local CSR certification. Even though DLG’s business is not affected by corruption, we stress the need for a group-wide approach to anti-corruption. Recognising this, DLG took steps in 2014 to formulate a suitable anti-corruption policy. The policy describes the DLG’s group’s position on corruption, and how corruption is avoided in the DLG group, while at the same time ” In other words, corruption is not acceptable in DLG. It is not part of our way of doing business, and we believe that our workers must neither practice nor be subject to corruption. ” 34 ” A safe and sound working environment is a determining factor for our development. At DLG this means both preventing work-related injuries and illness and at the same time creating a social environment that promotes employee well-being and motivation every day. ” 35 WORKERS, WORKING ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY A safe and sound working environment is a determining WORKING factor for our development. At DLG this means both preventing work-related injuries and illness and at the ENVIRONMENT same time creating a social environment that promotes employee well-being and motivation every day. AND DIVERSITY Working in agriculture and production is associated with greater risk than many other types of sedentary work. It is therefore a determining factor for DLG always to maintain a safe and sound working environment for our employees. We work to make this an everyday reality thGOALS FOR 2015 rough preventative measures and information pertaining • Strengthen procedures for recording of nearto worker safety, working environment and health. accidents/incidents. The goal is to capture at least 50 incidents so we can derive lessons from There were no fatalities on any of our work sites in 2014. each individual case This comes as welcome news, since in 2013 we experienced two tragic deaths, which is unacceptable. In the • Strengthen collaboration on working environDLG group we are working intently in our working enment initiatives with Sweden and Germany vironment and safety initiatives to avoid such situations. The two accidents served to further sharpen our focus on • Elect a woman to DLG’s board of directors by a safe working environment. no later than 2018 Through our working environment initiatives we have • Like 2014, focus on communication and inforsucceeded in reducing the number of workplace acmation regarding women in management and cidents and resultant sick leave markedly since 2010. In diversity, such as through the group’s intranet, 2014, we documented 26 workplace accidents in DLG employee meetings and employee newsletter. a.m.b.a., resulting in a total of 229 lost days of work. This is unfortunately an increase from the 21 workplace • Continue sending participants to the CBS Execaccidents and 216 lost days of work in 2013. The workplautive course ”Leading Woman” ce accidents registered range from a scratched finger to a broken shoulder. At the same time, the number of • Strive for equality in our recruiting of new workinjunctions from authorities increased from 17 in 2013 to ers 24 in 2014. • Formulate job adverts so they appeal to both men and women It is obvious that these figures follow an unsatisfactory trend. At DLG we are continually focused on ensuring • Initiate work to develop a concrete diversity worker health and safety in order to prevent accidents plan slated for 2016, with a broader perspective and absence and thereby secure physical and social on diversity than gender, including, for examwell-being in the workplace. We are at the same time ple, facets such as religion, culture, ethnic working to orchestrate work processes so as to promote background, and sexual orientation. employee motivation and efficiency in day to day tasks. Work with LEAN is an example of how it is possible to successfully improve work processes while at the same time boosting motivation. DLG has nearly 7,500 employees, all of whom help make it possible for us to run a successful and effective business. Employees who embody our values of being Trustworthy, Value-creating and Ambitious constitute DLG’s most important resource, and it is this that allows us to continue our positive development. 36 WHAT DID WE ACCOMPLISH IN 2014? lists, which according to the Danish Agriculture and At DLG we are convinced that through a more systeFood Council constitutes 9 per cent. Women currently matic documentation of incidents/near-accidents and account for approximately 20 per cent of agricultural lessons learned from these, we will be able to prevent students and graduating farmers. many workplace accidents. It is expected that there will be more women in farming In this respect it is pleasing to note that after our rein the future, and thereby a greater recruiting base for inforcement and streamlining of documentation of the selected organs in agricultural and food production near-accidents, we have succeeded in increasing the companies, including DLG. This is naturally something we number of registration entries from 5 in 2013 to 48 in will be monitoring for our target figures. 2014. This was achieved partly by making it easier for employees and managers to document near-accidents The company’s board of directors consists of a total and partly through an internal communication initiative of 12 members (three of whom are employee repreto increase employee awareness of near-accidents, sentatives) who are selected from DLG’s committee of and illustrate why it is so important for incidents to be representatives, which includes 133 members. In order documented. Documentation of near-accidents is an to have more women in managerial positions and in the indispensable tool for a better and more secure working board as the highest level of management in DLG, it is environment, and shall also be a focal point in DLG’s first and foremost necessary to have a greater percentawork in the years ahead. ge of female employees in the company, not least of all in DLG’s committee of representatives. At the moment Another focus area for 2014 was to reorganise the worthere are 12 female members in the committee of repreking environment organisation in DLG a.m.b.a. for the sentatives and one female board member (employee purpose of making the organisation more dynamic. Over representative). the course of the year we implemented a change in the working environment organisation, so that it now more closely follows the business structure. This makes it easier TARGET FIGURES FOR 2018 FOR DLG’S to reach out to all employees, and it strengthens the BOARD OF DIRECTORS dialogue between everyone in DLG as to how we can jointly create a safe and sound working environment. On the basis of an evaluation of the recruiting base, DLG has adopted a target figure of one woman for every nine board members (excluding employee represenDIVERSITY tatives). In 2014 an election was held, in which 11 new In 2013, the Danish Parliament adopted a new law that women were elected into the committee of represenmakes it mandatory for Danish companies to actively tatives, but none of the nine board positions was filled work to bring more women into upper levels of manaby a woman (excluding employee representatives). Our gement. This is a challenge that DLG is systematically goal is still for there to be one woman elected into DLG’s working to meet. board of directors in the 2018 round of voting. Diversity is an important parameter in a growing and competitive business. It is a matter of attracting and DEVELOPMENT OF TARGET FIGURES FOR retaining a large pool of talent and making sure the right competencies are in place. For DLG it is therefore imporRETAIL DEPARTMENTS AND SUBSIDIARIES tant to bring more women into the group’s committee One goal for this area in 2014 was the development of of representatives, board of directors and upper levels individual target figures for the percentage of female of management, and that diversity is an important focus managers in the six retail departments in Denmark and area both in Denmark and in the rest of the group. for the individual subsidiaries. After a comprehensive analysis and based on a renewed evaluation of the recruiting base, it became clear that it has not yet been MORE WOMEN AMONG OWNERS AND possible to fulfil this goal. THEREBY ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1,200 of the 29,000 owners of DLG a.m.b.a are women. The percentage of female owners roughly matches the female percentage of independent agricultura37 ” At DLG we are convinced that through a more systematic documentation of incidents/near-accidents and lessons learned from these, we will be able to prevent many workplace accidents. ” ” On the basis of an evaluation of the recruiting base, DLG has adopted a target figure of one woman for every nine board members (excluding employee representatives). ” 38 In order to gain a better overview of the organisation GENDER BREAKDOWN FOR ALL EMPLOYEES and employees, DLG’s new HR system, ”DLG Inside” has AND AT MANAGEMENT LEVEL been in DLG a.m.b.a. and DLG Service as of the start Denmark (employees) of 2015, for the purpose of continued roll-out in the rest Men 73% Women 27% of the group over the next two years. This will create a Denmark (management) more transparent internal recruitment base. It will also Men 83% W. 17% make it more possible to spot talents, including female managerial talents, as this will provide a structured Germany (employees) overview of, for example, employee performance and Men 72% Women 28% potential. Germany (management) Men 90% W. 10% Sweden (employees) RECRUITING IN DLG Men 72% Women 28% In 2014, we generally had a broad focus on our recruitment procedures. Statistics are produced on gender diSweden (management) stribution in new hires (2014: 62,5% males, 37,5% females), Men 90% W. 10% so that we can ensure that DLG is headed towards the collective goal of having women fill more management positions. This focus will continue in 2015 with DLG Inside. STATUS OF GOALS IN 2014 IN WORKERS, WORKING ENVIRONMENT AND DIVERSITY In 2013 and 2014, we initiated and developed a number of supportive measures intended to secure more mana Strengthen procedures for incident response gement opportunities for women in DLG. These actions include, among other things, our collaboration with CBS Reorganise the working environment organisation  Executive to develop a talent programme for women, Leading Woman, in which several employees have taken part so far. These measures also encompass our  Electing women into DLG’s committee of represenefforts in recruiting procedures, increased information tatives in 2014 on management opportunities at the annual emplo Elect a woman to DLG’s board of directors by no yee meetings, regular communication on measures in later than 2018 the area in the employee newsletter and intranet and  Maintain focus on women in management in increased focus on management opportunities in the annual performance review meetings, employee annual employee development meetings. meetingsand newsletters In our general work with future managers and recruitment, we will also be focusing in 2015 on processes to ÷ Develop target figures for women in retail departequip our managers to handle the challenges of the ments and subsidiaries goal not carried over future. ÷ Strive for women to comprise half of the participants in DLG’s managerial activities goal not One goal in 2014 was to strive for 50 per cent female carried over participation in management development processes. It has not yet been possible to meet this goal, again because of limitations in the recruiting base. DLG shall ” therefore focus efforts in 2015 on broadening the female DLG shall therefore focus management pipeline. This will demand a re-tuning of the group’s recruitment processes, so as to ensure that efforts in 2015 on broadening the process does not include barriers for female candithe female management pipedates. line. This will demand a retuning of the group’s recruitment processes, so as to ensure that the process does not include barriers for female candidates. ” 39 DLG’S CSR POLICY DLG commits to following the ten principles of corporate responsibility in the UN Global Compact. As part of this effort, DLG is working to implement the principles in human rights, workers’ rights, environment and anti-corruption in the group’s daily operations. We follow all relevant legislation and regulations in the countries in which we operate. We are dedicated to maintaining open dialogue on CSR-related issues with our stakeholders. • We therefore always strive to ensure the highest quality and security in our agricultural products and foodstuffs production, from farm to fork • We strive to be ambitious in our efforts to secure responsible value chain management and protect the group’s reputation • We strive to reduce DLG’s energy consumption, minimise our environmental emissions and generally reduce our environmental impact • We do not accept corruption in any of its forms, including (but not limited to) bribery, extortion, facilitation payments or nepotism in any of our business operations or relations • We strive to maintain secure working conditions, a sound working environment and to create good opportunity for development for our em ployees and business partners • We respect internationally recognised human rights and continually evaluate our business to identify instances that can negatively impact these rights This policy is evaluated and revised on an annual basis by DLG’s group management. 40 GOALS FOR 2015 CROSS-SECTORAL GOALS • Continue to expand common accounting • Focus on responsible supply chain management principles for CSR data for use in the report, as part of ISO 22000 and other certifications including data on energy, employees and supply chain management etc. • Continue to participate in the development of the new ISO 22000 feed standard • Continue an expanded dialogue on CSR with our stakeholders • Focus on matching marketand consumer expectations with respect to certification and documentation RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT • Implement a new and reinforced internal auditing system in DLG Food • Identify challenges for responsible supply chain management within the most important raw • Maintain focus on formulation and implemenmaterials. Products will represent business areas tation of relevant KPIs for food product safety feedstuffs, vitamins and minerals, plant producand quality in the group’s various business areas tion, DLG Food, DLG Energy, and PlusGoods • Improve data collection and reporting for CSR ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT initiatives in our value chains • Develop a common policy for resource efficiency focusing on energy and environment • Continue to analyse and evaluate our value chains based on the criteria in UN’s Global • Systematise knowledge-sharing and best prac Compact tice • Continue the productive and constructive • Introduce LEAN principles in all units within the dialogue with our suppliers on raw materials, group as a tool to optimise and reduce waste in such as soy the organisation • Work to promote use of DLG’s charter for sustain• All business units reduce consumption of their able soy production primary energy source by 2 per cent. Each unit must state their primary energy sources and • Support the common European initiatives in FE present an action plan FAC for the purpose of stimulating more sustainable global soy production ANTI-CORRUPTION • Support the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil • Deploy and instruct based on our new anti(RSPO) corruption policy • Initiate the development of a group-wide Code • Communicationand training initiative for manof Conduct for DLG agers and relevant workers FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY • Initiate discussions internally within the group regarding policy for crisis management and product recall 41 WORKERS, WORKING ENVIRONMENT AND DIVERSITY • Strengthen procedures for recording of nearaccidents/incidents. The goal is to capture at least 50 incidents so we can derive lessons from each individual case • Strengthen collaboration on working environment initiatives with Sweden and Germany • Elect a woman to DLG’s board of directors by no later than 2018 • Like 2014, focus on communication and information regarding women in management and diversity, such as through the group’s intranet, employee meetings and employee newsletter • Continue sending participants to the CBS Executive course ”Leading Woman” • Strive for equality in our recruiting of new workers • Formulate job adverts so they appeal to both men and women • Initiate work to develop a concrete diversity plan slated for 2016, with a broader perspective on diversity than gender, including, for example, facets such as religion, culture, ethnic background, and sexual orientation 42 The DLG group is Europe’s second-largest agricultural firm and has approximately 29,000 farmers as owners. In less than ten years the DLG group has gone from being a purely Danish cooperative to an international group with 40 subsidiaries in more than 20 countries. DLG now realises the majority of its business on the international market. We strive to be the preferred business partner for our customers and to run an innovative, responsibility-minded and productive company that benefits our owners, customers and employees. The group is bound by our core values. We strive to be Trustworthy, Value-Creating and Ambitious in everything we do. 2
