Sustainability at LGT 2013 to 2014 A look inside the Princely Collections: The illustrations in this publication depict studies of natural objects by Franz Anton von Scheidel. For more than four hundred years, the Princes of Liech­ they embody precisely those values that form the basis tenstein have been passionate art collectors. The Princely for a successful partnership with our clients: a long-term Collections include key works of European art stretching focus, skill and reliability. over five centuries and are now among the world’s major private art collections. The notion of promoting fine arts for the general good enjoyed greatest popularity during Illustrations: Franz Anton von Scheidel, details from the Baroque period. The House of Liechtenstein has “Depictions of conchiliae in watercolor after Johann Carl pursued this ideal consistently down the generations. Megerle von Mühlfeld (1765–1840),” late 18th century. We make deliberate use of the works of art in the Princely Collections as imagery to accompany what we do. For us, © LIECHTENSTEIN. The Princely Collections, Vaduz–Vienna Contents 5 Editorial We think and act in generations 6 Our understanding of sustainability Our corporate culture has a long-term focus 8 Measures in the economic area We manage LGT responsibly We foster dialog with our partners 10 Investing sustainably We take responsibility as investors 16 Measures in the ecological area We protect the environment and climate We procure sustainably 22 Measures in the social area We take responsibility as employers We are committed to society 32 Facts and figures Our memberships Our key performance indicators at a glance Report profile International presence 36 Risk note/disclaimer “The family-managed, simple and stable ownership structure of LGT allows us to pursue a long-term and thus sustainable corporate strategy, and at the same time to make decisions quickly and independently.” H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein, Chairman LGT Editorial 5 We think and act in generations Dear Client We believe that our company’s success relies on our ability to focus on the long term, both for our business activities and our investment solutions. Our goal is to support our clients over the long run and even across generations. As a family company, it is important to us that our children and grandchildren inherit an environmentally, socially and eco­ nomically healthy world. We are working to achieve this on a number of levels, from using energy sparingly in our banking operations to carefully choosing our suppliers and offering sustainable investment solutions to our clients. We are also involved in a large number of associations, organizations and networks, working with other companies to make a contribu­ tion to sustainable development. This second sustainability report explains the sustainability goals we have set ourselves, how we want to approach these and what concrete measures we have implemented over the past two years. Guiding LGT with a long-term focus: H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein (left) and H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein (right). H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein Chairman LGT H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein CEO LGT 6 Our understanding of sustainability Our corporate culture has a long-term focus A long-term perspective and the principles of sustainability are We have enshrined this commitment in our Code of Conduct. at the heart of our corporate culture and ownership structure. We understand sustainability to mean creating and preserving As a family-run business, we have efficient leadership and lasting values for our clients, our company and society. We organizational structures that allow us to make decisions quickly therefore take great care in our business activities to reduce and independently, and to establish a long-term corporate our environmental footprint and to have a positive impact strategy. In other words, we’re not interested in short-term on society. gains. Instead, we think and act with a long-term outlook. Objectives for 2020 Doing business sustainably Commitment to society and Protecting the climate and employees resources n We want to be a leading private n We want to make a strong n We want 80 percent of our energy bank that integrates sustainability commitment to positive developto come from renewable sources criteria into its product range and ment in society. by 2020. business activities. n We want to help reduce global n We want to establish a systematic n We want to incorporate sustainability poverty. supplier risk management framework. criteria into our investment activities in all asset classes. n We want to be a leading employer. n We want to monitor and account for CO2 emissions within our core business. 7 Organization and consists of decision-makers from Private Banking and The Sustainability Board works with the CEO of LGT to set Asset Management as well as all relevant Group functions. the strategic direction and define our sustainability goals. This Group Sustainability Management implements the measures international steering committee meets twice a year in cooperation with the relevant departments. CEO LGT Senior Management Board as LGT Sustainability Steering Committee LGT Sustainability Board Group Sustainability Management Representatives from Private Banking, Asset Management, Human Resources, Real Estate & Supply Management, LGT Venture Philanthropy, Communication, Compliance Important topics ■■ Core business: ESG1 screening policy for sustainable In discussions with our stakeholders, we have identified investments, integration of ESG criteria into all asset the following topics as linchpins of sustainability for LGT: classes, impact investing and philanthropy ■■ Doing business sustainably: LGT’s significance for the ■■ Commitment to society: create value-added for society, financial center of Liechtenstein support less privileged people ■■ Compliance: combating corruption, money laundering ■■ Suppliers: environmentally friendly and socially responsible and terrorist funding production methods, responsibility in the supply chain ■■ Risk and governance: data security, data protection, ■■ Combating climate change and protecting natural responsible corporate governance resources: renewable energy, energy efficiency, ■■ Employees: values, motivation, lifelong learning, CO2 neutrality work-life balance 1 ESG = Environment, Social, Governance (environmental and social responsibility, good governance principles) 8 Measures in the economic area We manage LGT responsibly LGT believes that responsible corporate governance is essential New regulatory challenges to gaining and reinforcing the trust of clients and other stake­ In recent years, regulation on cross-border financial services has holders. Therefore, it is managed according to the principles become increasingly tight. This development poses significant of separation of powers (Board of Trustees, Group Executive challenges to all banks in terms of adapting, reconfiguring and Committee, executive boards of the companies) and of checks monitoring processes and workflows. and balances. Management principles and behavior are clearly defined and are taken into account when evaluating and comTax issues are increasingly coming to the fore in cross-border pensating employees. Although LGT is family-owned, we regulation and international conventions, contracts and agree­ follow international standards for publicly listed companies in ments. In 2013, the government of the Principality of Liechten­ the disclosure of financial and other material information. We stein affirmed its commitment to the global OECD standards are regularly rated by Moody’s (current rating for LGT: A1) and on tax cooperation. Liechtenstein was thus one of the first Standard & Poor’s (current rating for LGT: A+). countries to commit to the automatic exchange of information (AEI). LGT is currently meeting the technical re-quirements to Code of Conduct: a shared system of values introduce AEI by the deadline of January 1, 2016. Responsible corporate governance also means that we fully comply with all applicable laws, regulations and rules in the A large number of EU regulations also need to be implemented, countries where we work and do not tolerate any violations. in particular relating to investor protection and anti-money This is also enshrined in the Code of Conduct. The Code of laundering. By implementing international standards, we are Conduct formalizes our entire value system and defines the offering support in the fight against white-collar crime. We corresponding ethical and professional standards that every­ have implemented extensive internal checking and monitoring ­one must adhere to. We regularly ensure that our employees processes to detect and prevent money laundering, corruption are familiar with the principles in the Code of Conduct. This and terrorist financing. is part of our sustainability-driven strategy. The Code of Conduct is binding for all employees and members of the Board of Trustees and the Board of Directors. We provide regular training to our employees, particularly on the topic of due diligence (anti-money laundering and terrorist financing). This also includes combating corruption, extortion and bribery and complying with international sanctions. These training courses are mandatory for all employees. 9 We foster dialog with our partners LGT holds regular discussions with its various stakeholders. Periodic employee surveys These are interest groups, organizations and people who are Happy employees and a good working environment are directly or indirectly affected by LGT’s business activities, or important to LGT. From time to time, we use Group-wide who directly or indirectly affect LGT. We place great value on surveys to assess how happy our employees are with their positive cooperation with these groups. work, career development opportunities, team, direct super­ visors and the company management, and to give them an Our primary stakeholders include our clients, owners and opportunity to suggest where improvement is needed. The employees. We also regularly meet with associations, author­ results are clearly communicated to our employees and are ities and suppliers, and maintain contacts within science, used to define and implement improvement measures. non-governmental organizations and the general public. We are also actively involved in a number of industry associations. The results show that employees We use the following channels to communicate with and strongly identify with LGT. provide information to our stakeholders: face-to-face dis­ cussion as the most important medium; online channels such Our last survey conducted in October/November 2013 saw as the LGT website (www.lgt.com) or the LGT finance blog 74 percent of employees participate. The results were out(http://finanzblog.lgt.com/), where we publish information standing. They showed that employees strongly identify with and opinions from our specialists; and written communica­ LGT, are happy with their working environment and like tion, for example press releases, annual reports and inforworking for LGT. For example, 87 percent of employees are mation leaflets. proud to work for us and 90 percent would choose to work for LGT again. Employees rated their overall happiness with their working situation highly, with scores ranging from 8.1 to the maximum of ten points. 10 Investing sustainably We take responsibility as investors LGT is also committed to the principles of sustainability in Annual survey as a basis for further progress its core business, Private Banking and Asset Management. In early 2013, we conducted a survey of our hedge fund manGroup-wide, we do not invest in any companies involved in agers and European private equity managers in order to assess manufacturing, storing or delivering controversial weapons how they were integrating ESG criteria into the investment such as nuclear bombs, land mines, cluster bombs or muni­ process. All our private equity and hedge fund managers were tions, or biological and chemical weapons. involved in the ESG Report 2015. As early as 2003, we enshrined a clause on responsible invest­ Thanks to our ESG expertise in the areas of private equity and ment in many of our investment programs. This enables us hedge funds, we are able to thoroughly assess our managers’ to rule out investments involving significant risks in terms of progress. The annual survey helps us to identify managers environmental and social responsibility and good governance who have performed excellently in integrating ESG criteria and (ESG). In 2008, we joined the UN Principles for Responsible serve as best practice examples for us. We also learn which Investment (UN PRI) Initiative. Since then, its principles have managers are not yet systematically taking ESG criteria into been our guidelines for further incorporating ESG criteria into account, or are failing to do so to a sufficient degree, and can our investment process. engage in dialog with them. We believe that these measures have enabled us to push the investment industry a step forward in terms of integrating ESG criteria and that we can make further progress in the future. Our investors integrate the survey results into their risk management processes or use them for external reporting to pension fund managers, the UN PRI and other stakeholders. They also gain a better understanding of long-term risks in their portfolio. 11 Results from the ESG Report 2015 ESG rating by region The analysis shows that 42 percent of the European, US and 100% Asian private equity managers surveyed have implemented 23% 80% 23% well-developed ESG processes and thus achieved the “excellent” 80% 53% or “good” rating. By way of comparison, the prior-year figure 60% 31% was 34 percent. 54% 40% 24% 33% Improvement in ESG ratings globally 20% 14% 15% 13% 9% 8% 100% 0% Europe US Asia 35% 29% 80% Excellent Good Fair Poor 60% 29% 31% The number of European managers rated as “excellent” or 40% “good” increased from 26 percent in 2012 to 45 percent 30% 20% 24% in 2014. 10% 12% 0% 2013 2014 Change in European managers from 2012 to 2014 Excellent Good Fair Poor 100% 80% 27% 23% The survey also highlighted the differences between European, 80% 40% US and Asian managers when it comes to integrating ESG 60% 32% criteria into the investment process. For example, US and Asian 33% managers integrate ESG criteria to a lesser degree as their 40% 33% European counterparts. Only nine percent of US managers 30% 28% achieved the top rating of “excellent” in contrast to 13 percent 20% 18% of European managers. 8% 12% 15% 0% 2012 2013 2014 Excellent Good Fair Poor The ratings for hedge fund managers showed a slight imThe ESG Report 2015 (covering 2012, 2013 and 2014) by LGT Capital Partners can be downloaded from the following link: provement over the past twelve months. We have awarded www.lgtcp.com/en/about-us/esg the “excellent” rating to three hedge fund managers for the first time. 12 Investing sustainably Range of sustainable products Selection Integration Since 2009, LGT has offered sustainable equity, mixed and bond investment funds, the LGT Sustainable Investing Funds. Contribute to increasing sus­ Securing long-term tainable human well-being financial value creation For investments in these funds, we analyze ESG criteria as well as financial company data. Our aim is to identify companies n Ruling out ethically n Integrating sustainable that contribute to a sustainable improvement in human wellcontroversial activities value drivers (ESG KPIs) being and also to long-term financial value creation. n Selecting securities n Focusing on securities according to ESG criteria with an attractive In the first step, we use a selection process to eliminate illiquid valuation and growth stocks and bonds, as well as companies that generate their momentum earnings from tobacco, gambling, arms or pornography, or n Investing for the long term which are involved in child labor. For government bonds, we eliminate countries that have not signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and the inter­ national conventions banning landmines and cluster munitions. Financial performance goes hand in hand In addition to this, we analyze the level of corruption using with sustainable responsibility data from Transparency International. We also use an ESG indicator set to identify attractive invest­ ment opportunities. This analysis method enables us to compare companies from different sectors and regions, to eliminate the worst ESG scores and to concentrate on positive investment opportunities. The second step, integration, combines a fundamental analysis with an in-depth sustainability analysis to identify long-term investment opportunities. The resulting stock selection forms the basis for our sustainability funds. 13 ESG integration across all asset classes Sustainability in commodity investments Since late 2014, we have conducted a combined financial and Investments in commodities have grown significantly over the ESG analysis for all equity and bond investment funds. This past ten years. At the same time, interest in sustainability has allows all our clients to benefit from the ESG expertise that we also increased in this sector. Investors increasingly want to have developed for our LGT Sustainable Investing Funds. know about the production processes and how their invest­ ment behavior affects spot and forward market prices. LGT Exercising our voting rights has studied these effects and published its findings in a posi­ We proactively exercise our voting rights for all our equity tion paper. This paper states that, in principle, investments in funds. Our decisions are based on internal regulations as well the forward market do not experience any damaging effects. as Swiss and international corporate governance rules such However, when it comes to commodities, it is important to as the principles of the UN PRI, which we have implemented comply with the standards set by the UN PRI. LGT meets these in coordination with Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., standards in the direct investment sector and is working with a shareholder consultancy. Commodity Club Switzerland and leading universities on a research project to develop them further. Study by LGT Capital Partners and Mercer on ESG in alternative investing In collaboration with Mercer, LGT Capital Partners conducted a study of 97 institutional investors from 22 countries with the title Global Insights on ESG in Alternative Investing in 2014. According to the survey, the majority of investors surveyed (76 percent) consider ESG criteria when allocating alternative investments. 57 percent of the investors believe that considering ESG criteria has a positive impact on the risk/return profile and only nine percent see a negative connection. You can find more information at: www.lgtcp.com/joint-survey-ESG 14 Investing sustainably “We feel taken seriously as partners” Since 2012, LGT has been successfully managing a sustainable equity mandate for the largest pension fund in Austria. Retirement provisions are a key social issue in Austria. As sustainable portfolios. “Doing business with the largest in many other countries, they are built on a three-pillar pension insurance fund in Austria was a huge opportunity principle. Within the second pillar – occupational pension for us,” says Martina Meister. “I showed Mr. Behacker that provision – pension insurance funds have been managing we have gained significant experience in sustainable invest­ and investing members’ contributions since 2003. Sustain­ ment through managing other investment funds and man­ ability is an important part of this system: seven of the ten pension insurance funds always follow sustainable principles when investing the money saved with them. VBV – Vorsorgekasse AG is playing a pioneering role in this regard, as the first company to establish an ethics committee and define clear criteria for sustainable invest­ ments. It is also the pension insurance fund with the best returns on investment over the long term. Chairman Heinz Behacker does not see any conflict between ecological management and economic success: “Since the company’s inception, we have combined comprehensive corporate responsibility with maximum economic efficiency. This is also evident in our performance figures.” A convincing investment approach VBV assigns specifically defined mandates to external asset managers for the majority of the money entrusted to it. While searching for a specialized asset manager for a sustainable, global equity portfolio, Heinz Behacker first became aware of LGT at an industry event in 2011: “The portfolio solution presented by LGT was not specifically focused on sustainability. However, I thought that their proactive approach to investment was innovative and very interesting in the way it matched our needs,” says the head of VBV. With his interest piqued, he asked LGT’s Martina Meister, who is responsible for supporting insti­ Seeking both performance and sustainability: tutional clients from Austria, whether LGT also managed Heinz Behacker, Chairman of VBV – Vorsorgekasse. 15 Developing a sustainable investment solution for VBV – Vorsorgekasse: LGT’s Christian Scherrer and Martina Meister. dates. In addition, our proprietary sustainability approach Positive results allows us to offer real added value.” This approach is based Almost four years have now passed since LGT was given on a holistic consideration of sustainability criteria and the mandate. The partnership with VBV is working out well, fundamental data from conventional financial analysis, which has led to the portfolio being expanded. The invest­ resulting in the evaluation of securities that are both finan­ ment volume now amounts to more than EUR 60 million. cially successful and meet sustainability requirements. A high point – and a genuine challenge – for Martina Meister and Christian Scherrer came in 2014, when the fund being Heinz Behacker decided to invite LGT and other institutional managed for VBV was certified with the Austrian Ecolabel. asset managers to a pitch presentation. LGT’s investment Heinz Behacker also extended his congratulations on this style, which represented the perfect complement to the occasion, taking stock of the positive results: “The port­ pension insurance fund’s existing equity portfolio, ultimately folio’s performance has met all our expectations, while our won over the ethics committee. “What tipped the balance sustainability approach has been implemented successfully for me were the team, LGT’s clear investment process and and is continually being improved. We are also very happy its many years of proven, relevant success,” says Heinz with the client care. To sum up: we feel taken seriously Behacker. LGT was given an equity mandate in excess of as partners.” EUR 25 million, with the task of investing the capital safely and profitably in accordance with VBV’s ethical, social and environmental investment principles. Constant development process in dialog At LGT, Christian Scherrer and a team of five analysts took on the main responsibility for the VBV equity portfolio. Leading pension insurance fund Thanks to the clearly defined processes and criteria for sustainable investment to ESG standards, Christian Scherrer Established in 2002, VBV – Vorsorgekasse AG is the largest of Austria’s ten pension insurance funds. It provides support to a and his team were able to develop and implement a custom­ third of all employees, employers and self-employed people in ized investment solution for VBV within a very short period Austria in matters relating to mandatory occupational pension of time. The partnership was productive for both parties: provision and manages an annual premium volume of around “Intensive dialog with the client and its advisers enabled us EUR 400 million. VBV is a trailblazer and trendsetter for sus­ to consistently develop the mandate as well as our sustain­ tainable investment in Austria and has been awarded several national and international prizes for its efforts. ability process. For example, we can now critically examine company supply chains in a much more systematic manner More information: www.vorsorgekasse.at using defined sustainability criteria,” says Christian Scherrer. 16 Measures in the ecological area We protect the environment and climate LGT is committed to protecting the environment and climate the Group, we communicate via video conferencing wherever on many levels. We hold regular meetings with our stakeholders possible to cut down on travel. All of these measures helped on a range of topics, for example promoting a low-emission us to reduce our energy consumption by six percent between economy and improving transparency in the supply chain. 2013 and 2014. Environmental management approach Substitution The principles and requirements for the environmentally friendly By 2030, we want all our LGT locations globally to purchase use of resources are enshrined in our Code of Conduct. Our the energy from renewable sources. Therefore, we are increas­ objectives for operational environmental management include ingly turning to renewable energy sources such as hydropower, using natural resources sparingly, reducing paper consumption wind energy and photovoltaics instead of fossil fuels. and waste as well as supporting climate protection measures. We regularly review the long-term outlook for these measures Since 2014, our locations in Liechtenstein have been fully by assessing our accomplishments and compliance with powered by electrical energy from renewable sources. In external requirements. December 2013, we installed a photovoltaic system at our Bendern location in Liechtenstein. This uses sunlight to Climate protection and greenhouse gas neutrality produce around 200 MWh of power per year, all of which is LGT’s climate protection strategy is based on the three pillars used to meet our energy needs. It also powers the electrical of operational optimization, substitution and compensation. vehicle charging stations that we installed for our employees We have been CO2 neutral since 2010. and clients in 2014. Operational optimization Compensation We aim to conserve resources at all LGT locations, to consist­ We offset our CO2 emissions from our buildings’ energy ently strive toward more sustainable building management, consumption and significant amounts of our business travels to increase the energy efficiency and to reduce our burden on through a small-scale hydropower project in Southwest China, the environment. Because our business operations require the developed by South Pole Carbon Asset Management Ltd. most energy, we are focusing on measures to improve energy efficiency at the larger LGT locations. We have also renovated the infrastructure of our Service Center in Liechtenstein. Across LGT’s direct energy consumption (in megawatt hours) 2014 2013 2012 Electricity 10 501 10 754 10 592 Heating energy 2 588 3 094 3 343 Total energy 13 089 13 848 13 935 Total energy per FTE1 6.6 7.5 8 1 Full-Time Equivalent 17 In 2013, greenhouse gas emissions fell to 2 479 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, down 15 percent on 2012. In 2014, they increased on the previous period by four percent to 2 575 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Greenhouse gas emissions per employee were 1 348 kilograms in 2013, a decrease of 20 percent on the prior year. This figure dropped a further four percent to 1 292 kilo­ grams in 2014. The main driving forces behind the change in greenhouse gas emissions were the number of air miles traveled and the level of heating energy consumption in the buildings. Reinvesting gains from CO2 levies in the Swiss Climate Foundation Systems such as photovoltaic and solar water heating help to cut CO2 emissions. Since 2012, LGT has donated the amounts reimbursed from CO2 levies to the Swiss Climate Foundation. The foundation brings together 25 major and medium-sized service enterprises Encouraging new perspectives from Switzerland and Liechtenstein to help protect the climate. We encourage our employees to take a critical look at the way In 2013 and 2014, it awarded some CHF 5 million to support their actions affect clients, business partners, the environment more than 330 efficiency programs and innovative projects in and society. We use an incentive scheme to promote the use Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Supporting efficiency initiatives of public transport at a number of locations. Owing to increasand promoting innovation will help to decrease CO2 emissions ing demand from clients and employees, we installed charging over the next ten years by more than 100 000 tonnes. stations for electric cars at our locations in Liechtenstein in 2014. Further measures for improving operational ecology The refurbishment of LGT’s Geneva branch was completed in late 2014. The outside of the building was given an energyefficient facelift and the building technology was fully updated. We heat and cool the building with water from the lake, a natural and renewable energy source. LGT’s CO2 emissions 2014 2013 2012 CO2 emissions in tonnes 2 575 2 479 2 931 CO2 emissions in kilograms per FTE 1 292 1 348 1 677 18 Measures in the ecological area We procure sustainably LGT also considers sustainable criteria when purchasing office Supplier Agreement materials, gifts for clients and promotional gifts. It is important We introduced a mandatory Supplier Agreement for our to us that these products comply with our sustainability princi­ suppliers in 2013. This sets out our requirements in terms of ples from manufacturing through to disposal or recycling. Our ecological and social standards, including the observation of suppliers must comply with the ten principles of the UN Global human rights and labor law in line with the International Labor Compact that LGT has also signed. These include adopting high Organization (ILO). By signing the Supplier Agreement, our occupational health and safety standards, observing human suppliers undertake to ensure that their suppliers also comply rights, preventing child labor and corruption and using natural with the provisions of the UN Global Compact. We regularly resources sparingly. We are gradually integrating these procureconduct audits to ensure that the Supplier Agreement is ment guidelines into the agreements with our business partners. observed. In 2014, we ended a relationship with one supplier due to non-compliance with the criteria. Between 2012 and 2014, we increased the proportion of sustainably sourced office materials from 26 to 77 percent. Dialog with suppliers Over the same period, the proportion of sustainable gifts for Transparency across the entire supply chain is becoming increas­ clients and promotional gifts rose from 29 to 53 percent. ingly important to the general public. We, too, want to meet these requirements. In order to raise awareness for this issue among our suppliers and show them best practice examples, we invite them to a Supplier Day once a year. We thereby hope to build stable, long-term partnerships. Franz Anton von Scheidel, detail from “Depictions of conchiliae in watercolor after Johann Carl Megerle von Mühlfeld (1765–1840),” late 18th century 20 Measures in the ecological area Heating, cooling and ventilating without any CO2 emissions: inside LGT’s com­ pletely refurbished Geneva branch. “Scoring a hat trick” Environmentally sustainable building management: LGT sets new standards for sustainability in the renovation of its Geneva branch. On November 24, 2014, the day finally arrived. As more Geothermal energy is a cost-effective option for LGT that than 18 months of refurbishment came to an end, the first will also help to reduce CO2 emissions. “This environmen­ 70 of LGT’s 120 or so employees in Geneva moved into tally friendly energy source and other energy-saving meas­ their new offices at Rue du Rhône 21. The large feature ures will enable us to meet all our heating, cooling and windows give staff and clients alike a fantastic view of ventilation needs without using fossil fuels,” says Christof nearby Lake Geneva. However, the lake is more than just Schmid, the building owner’s representative for the project, pretty scenery: around 50 meters below the surface of who kept a close watch on the whole planning and imple­ the gray-blue water, the temperature sits at four to eight mentation phase along with Geneva branch head Eric degrees Celsius all year round. Amazingly, this is warm Schneuwly. The Geneva branch is the first of LGT’s build­ enough to heat LGT’s Geneva branch using high-power ings to have been fully refurbished in accordance with the heat pumps during the winter and cool enough to keep provisions of the climate protection strategy drawn up by the building at a comfortable temperature during the the Group in 2010. summer. This technology harnesses shallow geothermal energy, generated by the difference between the temper­ Renovation instead of demolition ature at the earth’s surface and that in its upper layers LGT became the owner of the Geneva office in 2009 when or in lakes. it acquired Dresdner Bank’s Swiss business. The building 21 was in rather poor condition and the best solution moving an almost completely unobstructed view of Lake Geneva. forward would have been to demolish it and start afresh. The head of the Geneva branch is delighted with the new However, this was not an option as the 1960s-era construchead office: “We have really scored a hat trick here: stylish tion was a listed building. Therefore, LGT chose to refurbish rooms with a fantastic panoramic view for a unique client the whole building to the very exacting Minergie standards experience, optimum eco-friendly solutions, and work­ for redevelopment, implementing a comprehensive set of places that will boost the well-being of our employees.” measures in order to achieve this goal. The climate protec­ tion measures included integrating the renovation work with the Geneva-based geothermal energy project GeniLac and installing a photovoltaic system on the flat roof, with the energy it produces being fed into the public grid. Care was also taken to minimize CO2 emissions even during the refurbishment period. In particular, this meant keeping the transport routes as short as possible for the materials used. For example, Italian and French limestone – similar in appearance to marble – was used instead of marble from Brazil or India, even though the latter is much cheaper. In addition, local companies and craftsmen from the Lake Geneva region were used for all the building work instead of contractors from France or Italy. It was clear from the very outset that environmentally friendly refurbishment comes at a price. There were many points in the project where a tricky decision had to be taken between a more eco-friendly or a more cost-effective Responsible for an environmentally friendly renovation: Christof Schmid, Head Real Estate and Supply Management (left), solution. In these situations, Christof Schmid, who previously and Eric Schneuwly, Branch Manager Geneva. worked for a large hospital company, grew to appreciate the benefits of a bureaucracy-free family-owned company with short decision-making paths: “Our owners wanted the new Geneva office to symbolize the way in which LGT implements its sustainability goals in building management while attaining the highest standards in terms of quality and aesthetics. These goals must be reached in a consistent manner, with consideration also being given to the costs wherever possible. The degree of freedom afforded to the project team in the day-to-day construction work and the speed with which the management made decisions Energy from the lake enabled us to minimize the construction time and there­ fore cut costs.” According to a study conducted by Eawag, a research institute of the two Swiss Federal Institutes of Technology, geothermal A view of the lake for everyone principles could be used to unlock more than 60 gigawatts of potential heat energy in Switzerland’s largest lakes. This is LGT’s objective was not only to create an energy-efficient, equal to the output of around 60 nuclear power plants. The sustainable building, but also to offer its users a pleasant, geothermal energy project GeniLac, with which LGT is also healthy and inspiring working environment. To this end, involved, uses water from Lake Geneva to provide commercial sound-absorbing floor and ceiling coverings were used, complexes in the city center and Geneva Airport with heating and cooling energy. The lake water is used directly for cooling, along with a lighting concept based on energy-saving with the buildings being connected to a network of pipelines LED lamps that mimic natural light even in the evenings. that transport and distribute the water from the depths of the When it came to considering the working environment, the lake. These buildings can also be heated using high-power visual aspect was also important to Eric Schneuwly. Large heat pumps. open spaces bathed in sunlight will give clients and staff 22 Measures in the social area We take responsibility as employers Assuming social and environmental responsibility is an important part of our corporate culture. We count on employees who identify with our values and make a long-term commitment to our clients, whom we often support across several generations. Our employees are the most important factor in our company’s success and only qualified, motivated and enthusiastic people deliver a top performance. We value our employees’ commit­ ment and provide them with an attractive, safe and healthy working environment. Classic virtues and values such as reli­ ability, respect and integrity are an important part of our corporate culture and are anchored in our Code of Conduct. The LGT Academy’s training courses are held at Freudenfels Castle on Lake Constance. Rowing is one of the morning activities. Education and training LGT supports its employees through internal and external education and training opportunities, including courses on personality development, social skills, leadership skills, entre­ preneurial thinking and action and professional and method­ ical expertise. We invest more than CHF 2 100 per employee annually in and body. Some 800 employees have attended these programs education and training. Our relationship managers complete and made use of the follow-up services offered by the Liech­ a certification program developed specially for LGT in order tenstein Academy, such as regular motivational lectures, the to develop their advisory and professional expertise and meet interactive online platform and the internal training course. our stringent quality standards for advisory. By late 2014, 156 of 163 nominated relationship managers had successfully Introduced in 2014, the LGT Vitality health management ini­ completed this training course and earned their certificate. tiative complements these employee development measures, helping our staff to preserve and improve their health and Professional expertise alone is not enough to guarantee a performance. Getting enough exercise, enjoying a healthy diet, successful career trajectory. Therefore, we also place great maintaining mental fitness and getting enough rest are all importance on developing our employees’ personalities. vital to this goal. LGT Vitality covers the four areas of exercise, Established in 1995, the LGT Academy Foundation (renamed nutrition, relaxation and attitude. As part of an early initiative, the Liechtenstein Academy Foundation in 2010) offers our our employees were given a pedometer. With this simple meas­ employees various programs in the area of holistic personality ure, we motivated more than 50 percent of our workforce to development, i.e. for the integrated development of the mind add more conscious exercise into their daily routine. 23 Promoting talent Diversity and equal opportunities Our training of the next generation is a long-established and LGT offers equal employment and promotion opportunities important part of our employee development. As a certified to all employees, regardless of their gender, age, religion, training bank (in accordance with guidelines issued by the nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation, marital status, phys­ Swiss Bankers Association), we are committed to providing ical ability or other characteristics protected by local law. LGT young people with an entry into professional life that is based also consciously employs people aged over 50 and offers its on practical experience and is varied. Our programs address employees the opportunity to retire flexibly from the age of the professional and personal development of young people, 57 (58 at some locations). Partial retirement with a reduced as well as the social aspects of vocational training. We employ working week is also possible. around 90 percent of our apprentices after they have completed their apprenticeship. LGT respects its employees and recognizes different opinions, perspectives and cultural practices. In 2014, LGT employed Every other year, we offer five university graduates the opportu­ people from more than 50 countries. nity to complete an 18-month Graduate Program which allows them to develop their personal skills and knowledge with the goal of taking on a specific function. Headcount statistics of LGT 2014 2013 2012 Headcount Headcount (full-time equivalents) 1 993 1 839 1 748 Full-time headcount 1 796 1 666 1 587 Part-time headcount 197 173 161 Apprentices 26 30 30 Graduates 5 8 9 Bank entry at high school graduate level 7 7 7 Key performance indicators Average years of service in years 8.8 8.8 8.6 Average age in years 41.7 41.5 41.4 Diversity and equal opportunities Number of nationalities 51 47 49 Share of women in total workforce in percent 38.6 37.4 36.6 24 Measures in the social area We are committed to society aims to invest capital so as to improve the prospects and liveli­ hoods of socially disadvantaged people in an effective, efficient and sustainable manner. This approach is based on investing in organizations that not only support these people but also display significant development potential. Successful implementation of the investment approach and of the overarching social objectives requires a high standard of strategic, financial and operational management, both at LGT VP and in the portfolio companies. LGT VP employs tried-andtested tools and processes from the private equity and venture capital industries, some of which have been adapted to bring them in line with the overarching social objectives. An invest­ ment in an organization is preceded by an in-depth three-to nine-month process of analysis and assessment. Underpinning the investment and financing structure is a business plan devel­ oped jointly with the management team of the relevant organi­ zation, which sets out the most important strategic, financial, social and operational objectives. Most LGT VP investments take the form of equity or mezzanine capital. LGT VP also One of LGT VP’s portfolio organizations, KFI, guarantees Philippine cocoa supports non-profit organizations with donations provided farmers stable prices and helps them grow high-quality cocoa beans. they work in areas that are not suited to for-profit organiza­ tions and this support does not hamper more efficient solu­ We want to contribute to economic and social development tions from the private sector. LGT VP supports and oversees in our business regions and create lasting values for society; portfolio organizations principally through an active role on particularly by providing financial and personal support in the Supervisory Board, and it is not directly involved in the emerging and developing economies. We regularly assess our daily operational management. However, most portfolio organi­ achievements and collaborate with external stakeholders to zations receive additional operating support from experts, set new objectives. known as ICats, who are recruited via LGT VP in consultation with the organization for assignments lasting at least one year. LGT Venture Philanthropy The imbalance in the distribution of wealth, income and deAward-winning impact investing velopment opportunities has become much more acute in virtually every country over the past two decades, with wide­ LGT VP has won the following awards in recognition of its work: spread poverty remaining one of the main challenges facing the world today. LGT Venture Philanthropy (LGT VP) was set 2014 Sustainable Investment Award in the category “Best Social Impact Investor” up in 2007 by H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein in 2014 Global Wealth Award Highly Commended in the category order to make a substantial contribution to alleviating social “Best Philanthropy Offering” problems and to offer LGT clients an attractive range of invest­ 2013 ESG Leaders Award in the category ment opportunities that have a major social impact. LGT VP “Best Impact Investor” 25 In addition to supporting organizations in areas where they LGT VP has invested USD 42 million in portfolio organizations require additional capacity, ICats also promote informationsince its inception, with one third of this sum coming from sharing and close coordination between portfolio organiza­ clients and two thirds from the Princely Family. As at the end tions and LGT VP. More than 100 experts have worked in the of 2014, the LGT VP portfolio consisted of 46 organizations in portfolio organizations since LGT VP was established. Latin America, Africa, India, South-East Asia, China and Europe. They mainly work in education, healthcare and sanitation, As an investor with a long-term focus, LGT VP strives to achieve renewable energy, communications technology and agriculture sustainable development for its portfolio organizations. Part of and have reached more than five million disadvantaged people this process involves providing access to alternative financing with their services, products and schemes. options if they make successful progress. Capital repatriation and capital gains on successful investments are therefore achieved either through refinancing or by selling an organization. By the end of 2014 the LGT VP portfolio organization M-Kopa Solar enabled already 80 0000 African households without electricity to buy affordable mini solar plants. 26 Measures in the social area Employee Volunteering Program We want our actions to have a lasting effect on society. For this reason, we forge sustainable partnerships with non-profit organizations working within a region to meet local needs. These include HPZ, a remedial education center in Liechten­ stein; the organization Drahtesel, which creates new prospects for the long-term unemployed; and the self-help organization Procap, which supports handicapped people in Switzerland. The Employee Volunteering Program (EVP) serves as a platform through which employees can volunteer with one of these partner organizations. This voluntary work brings social bene­ fits, as well as helping to boost employees’ social skills and their understanding of people from other cultural environ­ ments and people with disabilities. Over the past two years, Employee Volunteering: LGT staff preparing old bicycles for transportation to Africa. around five percent of our employees have volunteered with our partner organizations. Bicycles for Africa The third Bicycles for Africa campaign organized by LGT in September 2014 gave the people of Switzerland and Liech­ tenstein another opportunity to demonstrate their goodwill – more than 500 used bicycles were donated and prepared for transport to Africa by some 25 LGT employees. Since its foun­ dation in 1993, the Drahtesel organization has collected more than 125 000 bicycles under its Bicycles for Africa initiative. 27 LGT Award for Social Engagement LGT Young Soloists In 2014, LGT bestowed the LGT Award for Social Engagement LGT is also a sponsor of skiing and equestrian sports as well for the very first time. The prize, worth CHF 50 000, is intended as the arts and culture. The LGT Young Soloists are a group of to provide long-term support to charitable organizations in young talented string soloists. LGT supports these musicians Liechtenstein and recognize their commitment to society. by giving them opportunities to perform as soloists even while The first LGT Award for Social Engagement went to Hilfswerk they are still in training, thereby advancing their musical careers. Liechtenstein. The organization, which has been active for Since their debut in summer 2013 at the LGT Global Forum at more than 25 years, has around 165 volunteers who regularly the City Palace in Vienna, the LGT Young Soloists have thrilled collect and distribute aid supplies and donations free of charge audiences in Europe and Asia with their fresh and inspiring to those in need in Liechtenstein and Eastern Europe. approach to music. The ensemble is led by internationally renowned violinist Alexander Gilman. LGT Young Soloists: a project supporting talented young string players. 28 Measures in the social area Helping his pupil with schoolwork: Jerald Lim, LGT Graduate (right). “Playing is a great way to break the ice” Employee Volunteering: Jerald Lim spent two months coaching students from disadvantaged backgrounds in Singapore as part of the LGT Graduate Program. Children across Europe are well-acquainted with little with them. This idea also appealed to Jerald Lim. And so, as Maya the Bee, the cartoon character who spends her part of the LGT Graduate Program, the 31-year-old joined time buzzing around, helping others to learn and over­ EBees as a coach and mentor. EBees focuses on improving come hurdles together. The Evergreen Bees Mentoring the academic foundation and developing positive charac­ Programme (EBees) for disadvantaged young people is ters of primary school-aged children ranging from ten to somewhat reminiscent of Maya: the idea is for children twelve years of age. Putting the “big bee helps little bee” to benefit from the knowledge and experiences of young motto into practice, Jerald Lim provided volunteer support adults, learn with them and overcome challenges together for disadvantaged children living in Singapore. 29 Playing helps with learning Understanding others “The children came to the Teck Ghee Youth Centre after The young people from disadvantaged backgrounds partici­ school,” recounts Jerald Lim. “Before getting down to pating in the EBees program face a number of challenges work, we usually played some computer or board games. in their day-to-day lives. One of these is learning English That was a good way to break the ice and start a conver­ as they may speak more of their mother tongue at home sation with the pupils.” Following this relaxing kickoff, the with their parents or grandparents. The city-state is home pupils study English, math and science for around an hour to different ethnicities and nationalities, where – similar and a half. The pupils also work on school assignments at to Switzerland – four official languages are used for verbal the youth center. “For some children, all the mentor needs communication. English, Chinese, Malay and Tamil are the to do is check the answers, others need more help,” excity-state’s official languages. Because a large proportion plains Jerald Lim. “If that’s the case, the pupil works on the of the Chinese population can trace their heritage to homework together with the coach.” Generally, one adult southern China provinces such as Fujian and Guangdong, mentors one pupil. This strong focus on individual needs a number of southern Chinese dialects such as Hokkien and the close attention paid to the children are part of the and Cantonese can be commonly overheard in everyday EBees concept. “It’s a lot of work to provide one-to-one life, especially among the older generations. In an effort mentoring. But experience shows that this is the best way to promote the use of Mandarin Chinese, there has been to help these children,” says Jerald Lim after his two months a so-called Speak Mandarin Campaign launched by the with the EBees project. After the 90 minutes of studying, government in the past. In addition to his mother tongue, it is time for some enrichment activities such as music or Mandarin, Jerald Lim speaks two southern Chinese dialects – sports, which help the children clear their minds. This Teochew and Hokkien – at home while mastering English change of pace has proven highly effective in motivating as the lingua franca at work. He also speaks some French the children and is always well-received by the pupils after thanks to his undergraduate university exchange program. the strenuous studying. “To be bilingual or, even better, multilingual, is a clear factor for success in Singapore – I would go as far as to say that it’s a must,” says Jerald Lim speaking from his own expe­ rience. One of his goals was therefore to get his pupils enthusiastic about languages during his time at EBees. “Character development is just as important as knowledge.” Jerald Lim It is not just because of the academic results that individual support is considered a key priority for the EBees project. The volunteers also serve as mentors, and are on hand to do more than just offer their pupils academic tuition. They also encourage good social skills and try to help shape the children’s conduct. “Some of the children can be rowdy at times, especially the boys,” says Jerald Lim. “If they misbe­ have or affect the learning of others, the mentor needs to intervene and serve as a role model, exercise a corrective influence and lead by example. Setting an example of polite and proper behavior for his pupils was therefore just as important to Jerald Lim as sharing his knowledge with them. ”Cultivating good characters in these children will bring them further in their personal and working life,” Fun and games are all part of the mentoring program. says Jerald Lim with conviction. 30 Measures in the social area A tried-and-tested methodology: children and young people benefit from the knowledge and experience of young adults. The limits to what is possible Jerald Lim’s multicultural experiences from the international environment at LGT Bank Singapore, and his regular inter­ action with overseas colleagues were also highly valuable for the children in the EBees project. For instance, he was instrumental in bridging communication gaps between the children and a young Australian volunteer. However, the amount of knowledge that he was able to share with the children during his work with the program was limited, notLGT Employee Volunteering Program withstanding the two months he spent there. “As a mentor, my goal was to make a difference to the children I work Through the Employee Volunteering Program (EVP), LGT with in that short period of time. More could have been encourages its employees to get involved with selected organ­ achieved to help them with their schoolwork and mold izations focusing on education, the environment and social issues. Participation in the program ranges from occasional their characters if given more time.” Jerald Lim’s overall commitments through to long-term involvement in projects. assessment of the program is nevertheless very positive. To date, over 120 employees have participated in the program. He was particularly struck by the children’s proactive atti­ Since 2012, the EVP is also part of the Graduate Program for tudes. Despite their relatively modest backgrounds, they university graduates. As part of a “social week,” graduates are always cheerful and want to make something of their can gain experience in a different social environment and broaden their range of experience through interaction with lives. “Young children are the future pillars of our society,” people from a variety of backgrounds. Jerald Lim says quoting a common Chinese saying. “Thanks to the employee volunteering opportunity offered by LGT, http://www.carecorner.org.sg/ys.html I was able to make a small contribution to shape the next http://slprojecthuc.weebly.com/ebees-programme.html generation of young Singaporeans.” “For us, sustainability means conducting our activities in a socially responsible manner and with a long-term, holistic view.” H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT 32 Facts and figures Our memberships LGT is involved in numerous international associations, organi­ CDP – Driving sustainable economies zations and networks in order to make a contribution to susThis independent, non-profit organization champions tainable development. The most important memberships are: the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and promotes sustainable water use by businesses and cities. UN Global Compact www.cdproject.net The United Nation’s corporate social responsibility network and a voluntary initiative to promote the social engagement of businesses. Companies commit to recognizing, supporting and implementing the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. www.unglobalcompact.org European Sustainable Investment Forum (Eurosif) Europe-wide network and think-tank. Its mission is to promote This sustainability report from LGT serves as a progress report sustainability through European financial markets. Members under the United Nation’s Global Compact. include institutional investors, financial service providers, academic institutes, trade unions and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). www.eurosif.org UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) This network of international investors, supported by the Forum Nachhaltiger Geldanlagen (FNG) United Nations, promotes responsible investment and strives Industry association promoting sustainable investment in for exemplary corporate governance in constructing portfolios Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein and Switzerland. according to ESG criteria. www.forum-ng.org www.unpri.org 33 Eurosif, jointly with FNG, awards the transparency logo for Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in sustainable mutual funds, among them LGT’s sustainable Finanzinstituten e.V. (VfU) investment funds. Network of financial services providers from Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Since 1995, the association and its members have been working to develop and implement innovative and sustainable solutions for financial services providers with the aim of encouraging the financial sector to contribute to sustainable development. Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) Central information point for all questions relating to sustainable financial services in Switzerland. The association unites providers of financial and other services, investors, universities and higher education institutions, the public authorities and The Swiss Climate Foundation other organizations, with the aim of promoting sustainability An association of various major service enterprises from principles in all financial services and making Switzerland a Switzerland and, since 2012, also from Liechtenstein. It has leading center of sustainable finance. supported some 900 SME projects to the tune of CHF 12.75 www.sustainablefinance.ch million since being established in 2008. Since 2012, LGT has donated its net gains from redistributed CO2 levies to the Swiss Climate Foundation. www.klimastiftung.ch Asia Corporate Governance Association (ACGA) This independent, non-profit organization promotes the implementation of sustainable corporate governance pracProfawo tices in companies and authorities throughout Asia and The aim of this non-profit organization is to provide profes­ supports the long-term development of Asian economies sional childcare service solutions to complement family-based and capital markets. care and offer advice when needed to its members about www.acga-asia.org balancing family and career. www.profawo.ch 34 Facts and figures Our key performance indicators at a glance 2014 2013 2012 Economic (page 8 ff.) Financial indicators Assets under administration CHF m 128 795 107 319 2 102 118 thereof client assets under administration CHF m 125 786 104 501 2 99 448 thereof LGT’s Princely Portfolio CHF m 3 009 2 818 2 670 Total operating income CHF m 1 010 895 957 Group profit CHF m 165 139 214 Appropriation of Foundation earnings and dividends CHF m -100 1 -100 -206 Group equity capital after appropriation of Foundation earnings and dividends CHF m 3 354 3 216 3 084 Total assets CHF m 35 533 28 312 27 099 Ratios Tier 1 % 18.4 21.3 21.5 Cost/income % 75 77 65 Rating 3 Moody’s A1 A1 Aa3 Standard & Poor’s A+ A+ A+ Ecological (page 16 ff.) Total energy consumption MWh 13 089 13 848 13 935 Electricity MWh 10 501 10 754 10 592 Heating energy MWh 2 588 3 094 3 343 Paper consumption Tonnes 156 125 96 of which FSC paper % 100 100 100 of which 100% recycled paper % 70 71 61 Waste Tonnes 247 262 258 Water consumption m3 21 572 19 941 38 666 CO2 emissions Tonnes 2 575 2 479 2 931 Social (page 22 ff.) Headcount (FTEs) 1 993 1 839 1 748 of which women % 38.6 37.4 36.6 Part-time headcount 197 173 161 Number of apprentices 26 30 30 Average years of service Years 8.8 8.8 8.6 Training costs per employee CHF 2 126 2 178 2 010 1 Proposed 2 Adjusted for reclassified special mandate 3 LGT Bank Ltd., Vaduz 35 Report profile The LGT sustainability report has been published every other The German association Verein für Umweltmanagement year since 2012. This report, the second of its kind, documents und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V. (VfU) standard key sustainability performance for the 2013 and 2014 financial for environmental reporting of April 2011 forms the basis years and, unless stated otherwise, relates to LGT Group. Each for the calculation of emission values. financial year begins on January 1 and ends on December 31. The structure of this report is based on the internationally The report can be downloaded from www.lgt.com as a recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). PDF file. The guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative can be downloaded from www.globalreporting.org. The key performance indicators listed in the report were mainly collected from database extracts available across the This report contains forward-looking statements based on Group. Location-specific key performance indicators, such as expectations and assumptions. Various factors may cause environmental data in particular, were prepared by the local the actual results to deviate from these estimates. contacts for the relevant departments. There are comparative values from the previous periods for most of the data. 36 Facts and figures International presence Europe Principality of Liechtenstein, Vaduz Asia China, Beijing Austria, Salzburg, Vienna Hong Kong Ireland, Dublin Japan, Tokyo Switzerland, Basel, Berne, Chur, Davos, Singapore Geneva, Lugano, Pfäffikon, Zurich United Kingdom, London Australia/Oceania Australia, Sydney America United States, New York Middle East Bahrain, Manama Uruguay, Montevideo United Arab Emirates, Dubai A complete address list of all LGT locations can be seen at www.lgt.com Refutura FSC® recycled, matt, ISO white 100, 100% recycled paper, carbon-neutral, Blue Angel Risk note/disclaimer place since its publication or that it is still up to date. that investors will not recover the full amount they This publication is for your information only and is not The information in this publication does not constitute initially invested. We disclaim without qualification all intended as an offer, solicitation of an offer, public an aid for decision-making in relation to financial, legal, liability for any loss or damage of any kind, whether advertisement or recommendation to buy or sell any tax or other consulting matters, nor should any investdirect, indirect or consequential, which may be incurred investment or other specific product. Its content has ment or other decisions be made on the basis of this through the use of this publication. This publication been prepared by our staff and is based on sources of information alone. It is recommended that advice be is not intended for persons subject to legislation that information we consider to be reliable. However, we obtained from a qualified expert. Investors should be prohibits its distribution or makes its distribution concannot provide any undertaking or guarantee as to it aware that the value of investments can fall as well as tingent upon an approval. Any person coming into posbeing correct, complete and up to date. The circumrise. Positive performance in the past is therefore no session of this publication shall therefore be obliged stances and principles to which the information conguarantee of positive performance in the future. The to find out about any restrictions that may apply and tained in this publication relates may change at any risk of price and foreign currency losses and of fluctua­ to comply with them. time. Once published, therefore, information shall not tions in return as a result of unfavorable exchange rate be understood as implying that no change has taken movements cannot be ruled out. There is a possibility Franz Anton von Scheidel, detail from “Depictions of conchiliae in watercolor after Johann Carl Megerle von Mühlfeld (1765–1840),” late 18th century LGT Bank Ltd. LGT Bank (Switzerland) Ltd. LGT Bank (Singapore) Ltd. Herrengasse 12, FL-9490 Vaduz Lange Gasse 15, CH-4002 Basel 3 Temasek Avenue, #30-01 Centennial Tower Phone +423 235 11 22, info@lgt.com Phone +41 61 277 56 00, lgt.ch@lgt.com Singapore 039190 Phone +65 6415 3800, lgt.sg@lgt.com LGT Bank AG LGT Bank (Hong Kong) Zweigniederlassung Österreich Suite 4203, Two Exchange Square Bankgasse 9, A-1010 Vienna 8 Connaught Place Central, Hong Kong Phone +43 1 227 59-0, lgt.austria@lgt.com Phone +852 2868 0201, info@lgt.com LGT Group Foundation Herrengasse 12, FL-9490 Vaduz Phone +423 235 11 22, lgt@lgt.com 50043en 0615 1T BVD UID: CHE-208.624.214 www.lgt.com
