GLOBAL U N I T E D N AT I O N S COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JUNE 2014 JUNE 2015 CONTENT • About this document • Contact • CEO Statement of continued support • English press at a glance • English Press Reporting to UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS • LABOUR RIGHTS • ENVIROMENT • ANTI-CORRUPTION • OVERAL OUTLOOK • FEEDBACK EPL COP 2015 Period covered by our communication on progress June 2014 to June 2015. In April 2012 English press Limited committed itself to the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment includes supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as well as reporting and communicating annually to its stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles. English Press Limited (EPL) will continue supporting the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles English Press Limited COP June 2014 to June 2015 is available on our website: www.englishpress.com EPL COP 2015 CONTACT: Company Name : English Press Limited Sector : Manufacturing Printing Number Of employees : 500 UN GC signatory since : 2012/4/4 Contact Person : Mrs. Shreeti Patel / Veronica mwanzia Address : P.O. Box 30127–00100 Nairobi, Kenya E-Mail : shreeti@englishpress.com / qmr@englishpress.com Website : www.englishpress.com Phone : +254 722 509 838 +254 735 339 002 +254 702 590 992 : +254 702 590 904 +254 702 590 909 +254 702 590 919 : +254 702 590 866 EPL COP 2015 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT As a company, we have always looked to the future and we endeavor to contribute towards sustainable development of the economy, the environment and society. This will not only enables us to realize our corporate social responsibilities but also strengthens our long-term strategic focus and helps secure the future of the company. It is a great pleasure for me to confirm that English Press Limited reaffirms its support to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. EPL continues to commit and embed the principles to our business strategy and operations while developing and growing. The protection of human rights, fair treatment of employees and commitment to tackling corruption, and the protection of the environment, are all important parts of the way we do business. This third Global Compact Progress Report provides a transparent and detailed account of how we implement the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and what areas we have made progress in since the last report. It reflects the enthusiasms and the effort of the EPL family to move our business a step further. This communication progress report covers the period of June 2014 June 2015 Mr. Kalpan Patel Chief Executive Officer English Press Limited EPL COP 2015 ENGLISH PRESS AT A GLANCE English Press Limited was founded 80 years ago during colonial Kenya and was run as a book and The Sunday Post newspaper printing and publishing house. Today, English Press sits on a 13-acre site that has been purpose built to cater only for its printing and warehousing activities. English Press Limited is today not only a major player in the industry but also one of the largest ISO 9001:2008 certified print house in the region, building partnerships with the majority of local and multinational companies. With clear focus and drive, English Press Limited has enabled to achieve success on both the local and international markets with competitive pricing, modern print technology, technical expertise and consistent quality and service. EPL COP 2015 EPL COP 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS EPL actively supports the universal declaration of human rights and recognize our responsibility to uphold human rights issues within our business and within our sphere of influence. In support of international human rights standards such and the principles of the UNGC, relevant principles are integrated systematically in EPL’s management practices and aligned with the company’s minimum standards of human and labor rights to ensure that global and local initiatives are mutually supportive. Our policy statement covers freedom of association, nondiscrimination, working hours, disciplinary measures, child labor and forced labor. Subsequently, we have developed specific policies well as positions on diversity and equal opportunities, human rights. Back in 2012, EPL welcomed the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Guiding Principles), and the company’s commitment to these is reflected in EPL’s human rights policy statement. To ensure compliance with our policy, the relevant departments monitor report and follow up on our policy statement. EPL COP 2015 IMPLEMENTATION • We are an equal opportunity employer and company policy and procedures are followed. all employees are treated equally without discrimination. • Employees are given contracts, code of conduct, hygiene rules and employment • EPL complies with the occupational safety and manual on time coupled with an induction health act laws of Kenya. We have a nominated programme that includes organizational Health a team of 18 staff members as the health and and Safety training. This ensures that they are safety committee, whose main objective is aware of the company rules, procedures and to ensure safe working environment for all regulations employees. The team also ensures that the health and safety policy is implemented. Both • We have a range of policies which reflect internal and external audits are conducted to our pro-active stance on human rights; we ensure all hazards are identified and eliminated. encourage our employees to contact our human resource team in confidence with any • We provide everyone with suitable personal concerns regarding their rights. protective equipment depending on the core duty or task at hand. • This is the second year of the English quarterly newsletter by the employees to communicate • The company provides employees with and educate one another on various issue adequate water supply for both drinking and concerning health, money matters and family sanitation purpose. ties • All employees are entitled to annual leave, • A statement of policy expressing our maternity leave, sick leave, and paternity leave commitment to human rights was signed and as stipulated in the Employment Act. approved by our CEO. • The company provides out-patient medical • Signing and approval if the child labours policy cover for all permanent and contracted statement. employees. • There is a risk assessment review carried out • Our employees’ drive, skill, insight and periodically and which is co-ordinated by experience are essential towards meeting our our insurance company. The frequency for clients’ needs and growing our businesses. this assessment is based on the insurance Employees are granted flexible working hours company’s judgments of significant changes to accommodate schooling programmes. in the risk profile of the entity. • There is a disciplinary policy / procedure in • A register is maintained to record work related place to ensure fairness while dealing with accidents and injuries. disciplinary matters. This also ensures that EPL COP 2015 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • In the past year EPL has not been subject to 132 registered members, which supports them any investigations, legal cases or incidents financially by providing loans (emergency, involving human rights. normal and education).This also promotes a saving culture. • Employees are motivated to give articles for the newsletter since it has become the place • Financial aid from Pengire SACCO and decent for their voice and to educate one another wages assists the employees to support their families including their children in terms of • All human resource policies and procedures education are periodically reviewed to ensure that they are up to date and are in line with the Global • Safety quotes are posted on the notice boards compact principles. on a weekly basis where all employees can read and understand that their safety comes • The number of lost time accidents has first. remained at a low rate. • The causes of work related accidents and • The periodic medical examinations conducted injuries are looked at critically and preventive on 2014 found all examined employee without measures are put in place. any occupational diseases and illness. • There were only two major work related injuries • EHS department has come up with Monthly to staff members in the production team which themes where health topics are discussed occurred in January 2015 and March 2015. and posted on the notice boards. Both staff were administered with first aid and sent to the company contracted hospital • We have a company SACCO (PENGIRE for further treatment. They have recovered SACCO) fully managed by staff, with a total of relatively well. ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE YEAR 2015-2016 • Retrain employees regarding the human rights (continue to promote awareness) • Review of the code of conduct and employee handbook EPL COP 2015 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour: Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS English Press Limited is an equal opportunity employer. EPL’s objective is to maintain operational standards so that all its employees and employment applicants are treated equally, irrespective of race, sex, sexual orientation, religion, disability, age, gender marital status or ethnic origin. No canvassing of any kind in the recruitment of additional personnel is accepted. All unionisable staff have their letters of appointment formalized and their rights are protected by the clauses in the CBA which is currently is valid till the 31st august 2015 which then shall be reviewed. All management staff members are on employment contracts that specify their roles, responsibilities, compensation and benefits. All staff members are paid above the minimum wage regulations. The EPL does not engage in child labour. All employees have been given the free hand to join unions. IMPLEMENTATION • We have a team of human resource professionals who ensure that the principles of our labour legislations are always upheld. • We have developed HR policies in the company to promote best practice in employment. Our grievance policy and procedure allows the employees to raise any dissatisfaction with individual and processes • Working hours and days, terms and conditions of employment are clearly stipulated in the contract. Probation period and termination of agreement are laid down in the contracts • All new employees are given full induction upon joining the company which includes all policies and procedures relating to health and safety, grievance procedures, core values and appraisal procedures. EPL COP 2015 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Approximately 80% of our employees belong to the Kenya Union of Printing, Publishing, Paper and Allied Workers Union (Kenya). • Cordial working relationships exist between staff and this is evidenced by the negligible involvement of the Ministry of Labour and Union officials on staff related matters • In the year 2014 EPL has not been subject to any statutory notice related to labour or health and safety. • Support employee and worker organizations and respected collective agreements, • The shop stewards are allowed to hold meeting with the employees during work hours and attend union seminars without pay deductions. • Communication in EPL is characterized by respect and trust and emphasis on our company core values. • There is a strong record of good relations with union • We do not hire children or young workers below 18 years old and no claims of child labour were reported in 2014. • We implement the Government wage guideline to the latter. • Internship opportunities are offered to both internal and external graduates EPL COP 2015 2014 2015 • Marketing and design -1 • Quality Assurance Department -1 • Human resource -1 • Engineering Department -1 • Sales & Marketing -1 • Human resource -2 • EHS 1 ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE YEAR 2015-2016 • Reinforce the knowledge of labour standards in English Press. • Awareness sessions regarding labour standards with employees EPL COP 2015 EPL COP 2015 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS EPL is commitment to support environmental management goes far beyond our premises. We fully support the UN Global Compact principles on environment, we maintain precautionary approach to environment challenge, and also we have undertaken initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. EPL is aware of the environmental challenges that the world is facing and has come up with initiatives that are more sensitive to our environment. These initiatives include campaigns for a more efficient and responsible use of our resources and an active participation in “green” local initiatives, such as environmental clean ups and tree planting. We are committed to promoting these activities in order to reduce our carbon footprint and contribute to the continued health of our planet and its sustainable development. EPL COP 2015 IMPLEMENTATION • EPL is keen to ensure that materials • Periodic workplace inspections by our EHS procured and used in production do not pose committee. any health risks. To track our Performance in the sourcing, we annually audit our suppliers • We treat the water that comes from our to ensure that they adhere to standards that factory with the dilution chamber and support quality policy. conduct the quarterly effluent analysis to ensure the water discharged doesn’t harm • EPL is innovating methods for improved the environment. process performance to reduce costs during manufacturing. • We conducted our annual noise surveys to ensure that noise emitted doesn’t exit • EPL operates under stipulations of the exposure levels. National Environment Management Authority (NEMA). We follow up with NEMA as well as • In our business activity we work for the County Authorities in ensuring that our constant reduction of any emission and environment standards are acceptable. energy consumption and avoid any release of potentially harmful substance to our • Our commitment to addressing environment. environmental challenges in our supply chain is demonstrated by our annual NEMA self • We monitor, collate and disseminate audits that have been sub-contracted to information relating to our environmental Current Technologies. initiatives. • Solid waste is collected by NEMA licensed • We focus on reducing the amount of energy contractor for proper disposal while the rest and water that our factory consumes, are recycled. through implementation of energy and water efficiency measures. • EPL minimizes energy use in all its office through a switch off policy. All employees are • Energy audits are currently underway ( to encouraged to switch off light whenever they be completed by end of September, 2015 ) are out of the office. and we will share the recommendations and action taken in the next COP. • Communication of the EHS policy through awareness session, poster and newsletter. EPL COP 2015 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • EPL has not experienced any reportable • We recycled 100% of our waste paper from incidents during the past year and has not our operations through our contracted paper been subject to any statutory notice or waste collector. persecution. • All our waste collectors are approved by • Through the effluent analysis conducted in NEMA and provide us with waste tracking 2014 there been considerable improvement documents. in the quality of effluent was observed compared to 2013 • All solid waste that is generated is segregated at the source into different streams : paper • Noise level survey results indicated that the wastes put in paper waste cages. noise levels are generally within occupational exposure limits. • We have an annual maintenance programme for all our machines and equipment to ensure • The environmental audit conclusion by the effective reduction of waste, efficiency at external independent auditor stated that all times and continuous manufacturing the environmental performance had not operation. deteriorated for 2014 as confirmed by the waste water analysis, noise and air quality • No occupational disease reported for the surveys. year 2014. • We have actively encouraged environmental • We have participated in the Nairobi governors best practices throughout our operations. monthly clean up of the viwandani ward. ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE YEAR 2015 • Participate in environmental awareness events • Action Energy Audit recommendations • Collaborate with organizations that support green initiatives. EPL COP 2015 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS EPL has an anti-corruption policy stating that corruption or bribery is not acceptable in any form or under any circumstances. Hence EPL is committed to ethical and responsible business practices. EPL has a vetting procedure in place to ensure that people with integrity are recruited and then retained. The company has an internal control system in place to safeguard its assets. Open door policy is one of the company practices, with high confidentiality guaranteed. Employees are encouraged to report any unusual practice that goes on in the company to the management. Our recruitment policy guarantees transparency and it is the responsibility of Human Resources Manager to ensure the recruitment procedure is not compromised. The current collective agreement provides guidelines on matters of wages, terms and conditions of service. This ensures that integrity is upheld. EPL COP 2015 IMPLEMENTATION • We have a stringent evaluation process practiced by the procurement and quality assurance team in selecting and qualifying new suppliers of raw materials and service providers • EPL complies with all legislation related to ethics, corporate governance and anti-corruption. • Strict rules are in place concerning processing of invoices and making payment where different employee is responsible this is to ensure transparency and to rule out any kind of misconduct. • Compliance with relevant legislation and regulations is monitored by both internal and external auditors. • To make sure that corruption practices are not developed EPL encourages Employees to report any suspicious activities and we have established confidential reporting channel to the HR office. • EPL continues to undertake Anti-corruption and Bribery training on its employees and consultants through meetings, briefings and distribution of company policy documents on the subject. • EPL ensures that its suppliers uphold the same notion on anti-corruption and bribery. EPL has implemented a supplier evaluation procedure. EPL COP 2015 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • A list of evaluated suppliers has been established who deliver products that meet our requirements in terms of delivery, efficiency, reliability; quality, terms and pricing, and enable the purchasing department minimize the raw material returns. • Internal audits for stock taking are carried out on a monthly basis, a report is prepared on the same to ensure accountability, transparency and traceability in the company’s business practices. • EPL has not been involved in any legal proceeding, ruling or other events related to corruption or bribery in the year 2014. • EPL’s financial reporting is verified by external auditors to ensure transparency and accuracy of accounting practices . • The values of the company are continually being shared with team members such that there is a wider appreciation of the integrity concept and responsibility placed on all staff to safeguard the company’s assets. ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE YEAR 2015-2016 • Create more awareness on anti-corruption laws and regulations to all our employees. EPL COP 2015 OVERALL OUTLOOK English press will continue to develop the initiatives it has launched and to introduce new measures in the coming reporting period. We care about the impact we make on the environment and this concern is aligned to the strategic objectives. This report shows our commitment to communicate our actions with credibility and authenticity, internally and externally, with hope that the reward will be a better world for today and a greater hope for tomorrow. EPL COP 2015 EPL COP 2015 CONTACT US LET US KNOW WHAT YOU THINK As a valued stakeholder and report reader, your thoughts and concerns are important to us. We are interested in knowing what you think about our Communication on Progress and our performance overall as a responsible business. If you would like to send us any feedback on these issues, please write to us at: qmr@englishpress.com. EPL COP 2015
