2015 Communication on Progress human rights | labour | Environment | Anti-corruption 2015 Communication on Progress Our vision is Table Human Rights to be the best of Contents 13 Human Rights, Labour, Community and Growth 14 Connecting Human Rights to Project Finance Company in the and Asset Development 15 Product Stewardship world at moving 17 Indigenous Relations the physical Labour commodity from 19 Implementing Noble’s Labour Standards the producer to 21 A Safe and Healthy Workplace the consumer 22 Talent Development 23 Community Outreach and managing the associated Environment market, credit 27 Implementing Measures to Protect the Environment 28 Energy and Emissions and operational 30 Supplying the Growing Demand for Cleaner Fuels risk. 31 Pollution Prevention and Mitigation 4 Ceo’s Message Anti Corruption 5 About Noble Group 33 Precautionary Measures to Prevent Corruption 6 Reporting Scope and Data 34 Ongoing Training and Communication 35 Centralised Platform of Counterparty Acquisition 7 Understanding Our Responsibility 8 roles and governance 36 global reporting initiative G4 content index 10 identifying material issues 42 ernst & young’s assurance Report 3 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Ceo’s Message About Noble Group GRI [G4-1] GRI [G4-15] GRI [G4-16] GRI [G4-3] GRI [G4-4] GRI [G4-5] GRI [G4-6] GRI [G4-7] GRI [G4-8] GRI [G4-9] GRI [G4-12] GRI [G4-13] EIGHT BUSINESS LINES Dear Stakeholders, our businesses make active contributions to Noble Group manages a portfolio of global supply Head Office 2014 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ENERGY SOLUTIONS support local communities in a range of ways, chains covering a range of industrial and energy GRI [G4-5] GRI [G4-31] (in US$ Million) I am pleased to confirm Noble’s support with special emphasis on facilitating access to products. It also has a 49% interest in Noble Agri, Noble Group Limited GRI [G4-EC1] OIL LIQUIDS of the UN Global Compact as we continue to quality education and healthcare. The principles its agricultural partnership with COFCO. 18th Floor, Mass Mutual Tower integrate its 10 principles covering human rights, labour practices, environmental protection and anti-corruption into our day-to-day that underpin the UN Global Compact are not simply mission statements but are put into practice. Headquartered in Hong Kong and listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange (N21), Noble Group operates across a multitude of locations GAS & POWER 38 Gloucester Road, Hong Kong For enquiries and feedback: 85,816 Revenue ENERGY COAL business activities, implementing responsible I feel it is important to stress that, as a listed and customers. It facilitates the marketing, Investor Relations: ir@thisisnoble.com 412 and sustainable management across our public company and supply chain manager for processing, financing and transportation of Tel: +852 2861 3511 METALS global supply chains, striving to align our numerous natural resources, we are conscious of essential raw materials, and manages the entrepreneurial culture with the highest the need to understand and mitigate our social associated market, credit and operational risks. CARBON STEEL MATERIALS standards of integrity. and environmental footprint and establish and Sourcing bulk commodities from low cost regions Employee Benefits Expenses This is the first year in which we have operate sustainable supply chains. such as South America, South Africa, Australia CHARTERING adopted the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines for our UN Global Compact COP reporting. We have At a time of increasing social and economic instability, environmental challenges and climate change, all companies should play a and Indonesia, the Group supplies high growth demand markets, particularly in Asia and the Middle East. FINANCIAL SERVICES 35.7 Corporate Taxes completed the GRI Materiality Disclosure role in creating a business environment that THE FEDERATION You can find more information about Service and had our sustainability disclosure is sustainable for all stakeholders. This is, in 132 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY LEGAL our corporate responsibility work at assured by Ernst & Young. The material many respects, what we believe the UN Global www.thisisnoble.com/responsibility sustainability issues and risks that we defined, Compact aims to encourage. At Noble we remain COMPLIANCE RISK FINANCE and the approach we are taking to manage those fully committed to this goal. Net profit HUMAN RESOURCES OPERATIONS risks, are outlined in this report. Since joining the UN Global Compact in TONNAGE 215 2010, the 10 principles of the Compact have continued to be at the core of Noble’s way of conducting business. As examples of this commitment, we are delivering products to Yusuf Alireza MILLION TONNES serve the growing demand for clean fuels and Chief Executive Officer 4 5 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Reporting Understanding Scope and Data Our Responsibility GRI [G4-18] GRI [G4-28] GRI [G4-30] GRI [G4-24] GRI [G4-25] GRI [G4-26] GRI [G4-27] Our approach to responsible business is fostered Customers and suppliers partner with ensure good information flows within Noble. by our desire to understand the concerns and Noble because of our understanding of their Our focus is on improving staff development This Communication on Progress (COP) External Assurance expectations of our key stakeholders. Throughout requirements and needs. Supported by our and performance as well as providing a safe and provides an annual update on important nonGRI [G4-33] our supply chain operations, we engage with customer-focused culture and global supply healthy workplace. These drive our aspirations financial aspects within the Group’s global Ernst & Young has provided independent our stakeholders across a spectrum of topics to networks, we engage with our customers to attract and retain the best. All employees operations and majority owned subsidiaries for assurance on our sustainability data disclosure improve decision making and the accountability on a daily basis. The formation of strategic receive regular performance and career the period from July 2014 to June 2015. Our for this COP report, which has been compiled of our partnerships. marketing agreements between Noble and development reviews. agricultural associate, Noble Agri, became a in accordance with the Core option of GRI We endeavour to grow our business, and at joint venture partners delivers competitive signatory of the UN Global Compact at the end Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 the same time, drive social progress by moving advantages. Ensuring a smooth flow of products Local communities are impacted by of 2014 and is expected to deliver its first COP in framework. A copy of Ernst & Young’s assurance essential materials to where they are needed, and the capability to deliver a diverse range of our operations. Dedicated personnel lead Dec 2015. Minority investments and associated report is available on pages 42-43. whilst managing the complexity of the process. It products is vital to the goal of building longrelationship and engagement programmes companies that are not consolidated in the The focus on reporting the most relevant is our responsibility to create long-term value for term relationships across our global customer in our key locations to serve and benefit Group’s financial statements are excluded from matters has led us to identify and prioritise shareholders, which cannot be achieved without and supplier bases. communities. To minimise our environmental this report. Environmental data is reported for topics that are core to our business and key considering the interests of our customers, footprint, our operations follow international the calendar year. stakeholders. We have worked with the GRI employees and the communities we impact. Governments and regulators set standards in environmental management. We This is the first time we have sought to Materiality Disclosures Service to verify that the the legislative frameworks and statutory regularly meet with our communities via formal supplement our UNGC COP reporting with General Standard Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27 Shareholders invest in Noble’s recognised requirements for our sector, covering and informal consultations to understand their the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 are correctly located in both the GRI Content track record, best-in-class commodity market market access, product flows, labour and interests and concerns, and safeguard our Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Adopting Index and the text in this report. insight and robust governance and risk environmental standards, property rights and corporate reputation. Close interaction with the an internationally recognised protocol is an The company’s greenhouse gas emissions management systems. The Board welcomes taxation. Our governance structure and Board communities in which we operate continues to important step to greater transparency for figures for year 2014 were independently the views of shareholders on matters affecting procedures ensure appropriate supervision and shape our programmes which address the key our sustainability disclosure. This report is verified by TÜV Nord according to the ISO the company, either at shareholders’ meetings, control over these processes. Where possible, challenges of poverty and underdevelopment. prepared in accordance with the “Core Option” 14064 standard. or on an ad hoc basis. Queries may be raised our business activities aim to build greater of GRI G4. Performance data is accompanied with the Director of Corporate Affairs via the recognition and goodwill with governments. by a brief description of our policies and company’s website. There are regular meetings management systems, as well as our activities with investors, fund managers and analysts, and Employees share our values in recognising and their impact on our day-to-day business. quarterly conference calls which are entirely entrepreneurialism and the benefits of high open to anyone who wishes to use the publicised performance teamwork. Town hall meetings, toll free numbers. regular newsletters and employee surveys 6 7 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress roles and governance GRI [G4-14] GRI [G4-34] GRI [G4-56] Our Board of Directors is committed to performance of management in meeting agreed of personal and corporate integrity when maintaining a high standard of corporate goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting dealing with the Group, its customers, suppliers, governance within the Group. Their objective of performance. Good corporate governance competitors and the community. judgement on corporate affairs and collective establishes and maintains a legal and ethical We are committed to a high standard of experience is invaluable for the improvement of environment, which strives to promote and ethical conduct. The Group has adopted and our decision making. With a total of 13 directors, preserve the interests of all stakeholders. implemented a policy whereby employees 10 of whom are Independent Non-Executive Specifically, the Corporate Governance may, in confidence, raise concerns regarding Directors, the Board sets out the Group’s Committee identifies, monitors and implements unlawful activity, policy or practices, suspected strategy and monitors performance through good corporate governance practices and fraud, corruption, dishonest practices or established committees. procedures for the Group. The Corporate other matters. Our policy is in line with our Social Responsibility & Government Relations commitment to the United Nations Universal Board of Directors Committee is responsible for reviewing the Declaration of Human Rights and the principles GRI [G4-LA12] social and environmental issues that affect the of the United Nations Global Compact. Female male Group’s business. It approves or recommends Senior management in global human the Group’s involvement with, and sponsorship resources and technical operations 0 30-50 3 or support of, activities for Board approval, implement Noble’s environmental, health, 3 as appropriate, to further the Group’s social and safety management programmes. This > 50 1 responsibility objectives. The Committee also is complemented by locally defined and 9 10 oversees government relationships, monitors plant specific requirements, depending and responds to government actions as on the operating activity of the respective Total 13 appropriate, and builds, where possible, greater business line. In keeping with our dedication recognition and goodwill with governments. to professionalism in our operations; risk, The Board maintains close consideration The Noble Group Code of Conduct applies compliance and internal audit functions are of investment, financial risks, governance, to all Directors, officers and employees of the mandated to oversee the implementation of our remuneration, government relations, health and Group and each of its subsidiaries. The Code of policies regarding ethical conduct. safety, and environmental and social matters. Conduct sets out principles to guide employees, The directors constructively challenge and directors and officers in carrying out their duties help develop proposals on strategy, review the and responsibilities to the highest standards 8 9 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress GRI [G4-19] GRI [G4-20] GRI [G4-21] Noble Group Materiality Results identifying Committee acknowledged the alignment of our priority issues with strategic objectives. Material Aspects Boundary Relevant Aspects material issues The survey included a number of financial Noble Group Noble Group’s Value Chain issues rated as particularly important, such as Economics GRI [G4-18] economic performance, supply chain management, Economic performance Knowing what is important to Noble Group and risk management, investment practices and Environmental our stakeholders is essential, in order for us to board leadership. Financial performance is focus resources on those areas that will have the Energy Supply chain management communicated in Noble Group’s annual report Ethical investment practices Economic performance most significant sustainability impact. Health and quarterly announcements. Emissions and safety, workplace wellbeing, environmental This report covers material non-financial Effluents and waste impact, compliance and stakeholder relationships issues, including disclosure on overall Compliance Risk management are examples of issues which impact our corporate management approach and relevant performance Transport Product quality Board leadership responsibility strategy. indicators. Corporate governance, customer Importance to external stakeholders Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work In early 2015, we undertook our first satisfaction, brand and reputation, legal Corporate Governance Employment materiality assessment in order to understand the compliance and talent attraction are among the Labour/management relations pertinent issues and determine their relevance top issues identified. to key stakeholders. The Group’s CSR Advisory Occupational health and safety Legal compliance Taking the survey results into consideration, Committee, comprising senior executives from key we have mapped the material sustainability issues Training and education Talent attraction Customer Satisfaction Brand and reputation Stakeholders relations functions in major locations, led the engagement in line with GRI G4 terminology for the purpose Diversity and equal opportunity Diversity and equal opportunities process. We applied international standards of this COP report. Consolidated results from the Social: Human Rights Human rights Employee training and development (GRI Guidelines and UNGC) and Noble’s internal responses are outlined in the table, reflecting the Greenhouse gas emissions Investment policies to set up the initial list of criteria. The relevance of these material aspects to our internal Non-discrimination Pollution prevention Indigenous rights review took into account the views of internal and and/or external stakeholders. Forced/child labour Freedom of association and collective bargaining external stakeholders. Occupational health and safety Child labour In year one of our materiality assessment, Noble’s senior managers, the CSR Advisory Forced and compulsory labour Committee, key customers and investors were Indigenous rights CHAPTERS invited to provide feedback on the importance of Social: Society Human rights various sustainability aspects. We supplemented Local community Labour the survey results with the analysis of our Environment Anti-corruption Anti-corruption existing engagement mechanisms with broader Compliance 2014 annual report and Noble’s website stakeholder groups. This work also highlighted Social: Product Responsibility where we need to address material aspects beyond our direct operations. The relevant Board Product and service labelling Impact on business success 10 11 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Human Rights Over US$ 1.3 million Noble recognises its corporate responsibility Principle 1: Our Commitment Material aspects: was invested in Outreach to respect human rights in both our direct Businesses should support GRI [G4-56] • Human rights and community initiatives and ancillary operations. This chapter covers and respect the protection of Noble is committed to uphold the United Nations • Ethical investment practices human rights in our value chains: due diligence Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The internationally proclaimed human • Supply chain management in project finance and asset development, Declaration is the universal standard which rights; and • Social risk management product stewardship and community relations. proclaims that every individual, man and woman, • Indigenous rights Employee relations and efforts to advance the is born free and equal in dignity and rights. GRI [G4-DMA LOCAL COMMUNITIES] GRI [G4-SO1] Principle 2: As we expand our supply chains into new wellbeing of Noble’s workplace are set out in Serving as a minimum standard, Noble detail in the next chapter — Labour. Training on Make sure that they are not expects all employees to comply with the law territories and activities, the business and business ethics and conduct, and procedures for complicit in human rights abuses. in every jurisdiction in which we operate. We financial service functions are responsible for reporting allegations, are covered in the antido not tolerate any human rights abuses within investigating any past, current or potential corruption chapter. the scope of our business operations. Across future liabilities and breaches of human rights As we deploy capital to develop new product all locations, Noble remunerates employees at as a part of the due diligence process. We flows, challenges occur in ensuring respect for least to the level of their respective country’s support infrastructure improvements and human rights in activities beyond our direct minimum wage. address basic needs such as education, health control. Noble has taken steps to address these Our policies go further, setting out ethical and wellbeing, in order to serve our employees risks and ensure that our activities do not principles to guide employees in carrying out and community members. impact human rights adversely through our their duties and responsibilities. These principles In Jamaica, pre-school teachers attended the recent graduation ceremony of Jamalco’s Advancing Childhood Education Programme. This Noble sponsored In 2014/2015 there were significant teacher training programme to prepare young children for primary school covers topics such as child psychology, behaviour management and teaching of business relationships. Our robust due diligence require the highest standards of personal and community investments in Australia, Indonesia, children with special needs. and continuous monitoring programmes corporate integrity when dealing on behalf of the and Jamaica, amongst other places. At a global evaluate and manage any foreseeable risks and Group with its customers, suppliers, competitors level, we have invested over US$ 1.3 million in social impact from our supply chains. and members of communities. our global outreach and community projects, Human Rights, Labour, Community and entrepreneurship underpin these discussions and consultations with various not including the costs of administration. The Community consultations and development and Growth efforts and are embedded in our corporate operations addressing financial, operational, 37 programmes we support, represent 71 percent programmes are implemented to identify and Every employee at Noble is informed about our governance structure. compliance and information technology risks. of the countries in which we have significant address community concerns; in particular we acknowledge the rights of indigenous policies and practices, and hence their rights. We have a dedicated internal audit The team provides independent assurance presence. Our partnerships on the ground people to customary land. We develop rural Corporate policies are reviewed and updated team conducting systematic audits across of our overall systems of control and also provide local understanding and networks social infrastructure and support access to on a regular basis. Training on business ethics all of Noble’s operations. Its role is defined ensures that all locations adhere to the 10 to allow us to identify and deliver services to quality education, healthcare, clean water and and conduct is regularly held in our offices and overseen by the Audit Committee. The principles of the UN Global Compact. See surrounding communities in need. Examples of sanitation, so as to benefit host communities. to reinforce the procedures for reporting any review and audit of Noble’s operations is a the Labour and Anti-corruption chapter for our outreach programmes can be found in the potential violations. Our values of integrity continuous process. The team engages in further information. Labour chapter. 12 13 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress in a socially and environmentally sound way. A GRI [G4-HR1] Product Stewardship takes place in regions of conflict. There are particular Conflict-free Sourcing typical transaction may include the acquisition To date in 2015 we have undertaken GRI [G4-HR4] GRI [G4-DMA PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING] concerns in Central Africa that mineral sales can Implementing the oecd due diligence guidance on Noble’s minerals supply of a small stake in a production asset, a preferred enhanced human rights screening for 2 out Noble operates across multiple commodity provide possible funding for armed groups. chain from conflict affected regions offtake or marketing partnership, or may involve of 8 or 25 percent of significant investments1 products, markets and geographies. Our scale For Noble, these risks are evident in our working capital financing which sometimes results (above US$5 million). These have reviewed provides certain benefits and economies as well as minerals trade with the Democratic Republic of in an exclusive provider agreement for supply chain employment conditions, labour liability and challenges. Natural-resource use, environmental Congo and adjoining countries. Consequently concerns, and customer expectations are among STEP 1: Establish strong company management systems management and logistics services. indigenous rights prior to the transactions. For we have stepped up efforts to mitigate these Before we acquire an interest in a production the remaining transactions, an enhanced screen the top challenges in supply chain management. reputational risks, as well as diligently conform asset or enter into a long-term relationship, was not required. In several cases this was As Noble unlocks opportunities to secure to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation STEP 2: Identify and assess risks in the supply chain we undertake due diligence processes in because production had not begun at the time of long-term physical flows, we form strategic and Development (OECD) due diligence line with industry’s best practice. Our asset investment. Hence, the figure is only indicative, partnerships with market-leading raw materials guidance to assure we source solely with Design and implement a strategy to respond to development team and technical consultants not reflecting the level of due diligence we have producers and asset developers with a strong focus responsible supply chain participants. STEP 3: identified risks (in-house and external) make routine visits to performed for these transactions. on supply chain integrity and sustainable sourcing. To strengthen our standards of good target locations to evaluate the inherent risk One example of an enhanced review was During the last two years, we have established Carry out independent third-party audit of supply chain practice, Noble formalised a Conflict Minerals STEP 4: performed at the end of 2014 when Noble significant partnerships with EIG, COFCO, due diligence at identified points in the supply chain factors of the transactions. These assessments Policy in 2012 and created a mechanism to acquired Alcoa’s 55 percent interest in the Jamalco, X2 Resources, Petroecuador and others. include consideration of risks arising from past implement the policy. Both policy and measures Jamalco bauxite mining and alumina refinery These collaborations enable a high level of product STEP 5: Report on supply chain due diligence or potential environmental damage, including are reviewed annually. In the reporting year, we joint venture in Jamaica. We conducted a traceability and transparency across our value any possible negative impacts on community updated our 5-step framework for risk-based thorough due diligence process specifically chains. health, wellbeing and livelihood. due diligence procedures. Noble representatives on the social impact and environmental Our partners also have explicit policies In selecting our partners, we prefer to regularly visit suppliers, freight-forwarders, performance of the project. The performance in place to manage the environmental and work with market-leading asset managers warehouses and port terminals to evaluate level was satisfactory and no material issues sustainability risks associated with the and owners, who themselves are frequently compliance effectiveness. were identified in the assessed locations. raw material production. Those policies are public companies. We will normally have GRI [G4-16] In advancing our shared social objectives underpinned by a series of international Board representation and, where necessary, Noble has also joined the ITRI Tin Supply and shaping our engagement programme, we management and essential performance we commission external industry experts to Chain Initiative (ITSCI) Programme and consulted the relevant government officials in standards, such as OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001, ISO conduct detailed assessments on the health and International Tungsten Industry Association. In Jamaica to evaluate the needs for education, 9001 and ISO 31000. These process standards Connecting Human Rights to Project and transport access. In line with our asset-light safety, social and environmental performance of the ITSCI chain of custody system, programme healthcare and local employment. help us, and our partners, meet demanding bulk Finance and Asset Development strategy, we assist our origination partners by the potential assets. Following the assessments, compliance requires that all minerals we trade are commodity specifications and standards. Details participating in funding solutions and using our we collaborate with our partners to implement tagged at both points of extraction and processing GRI [G4-DMA INVESTMENT] GRI [G4-DMA CHILD LABOUR] about our partners and associates can be found on financial expertise, networks and know-how to recommended policies or processes. with detailed information on their production GRI [G4-DMA FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR] Noble Group’s website. Strategic investments along the supply chain bring products to world markets. GRI [G4-PR3] profile. We support a joint industry approach to enable considerable flexibility to meet our When we participate in supporting a project, we The minerals industry continues to address address concerns over mineral traceability and 1 The threshold of above US$5 million is used to define a significant transaction. A committee made up of Noble’s senior management demands for infrastructure, logistics, storage ensure our partners are conducting their business executives participate in the review process for such transactions. human rights issues, especially when extraction promote local economic development. 14 15 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Indigenous Relations expected to boost employment opportunities GRI [G4-DMA INDIGENOUS RIGHTS] GRI [G4-HR8] and support businesses that supply goods and Noble recognises its responsibility to foster services to the mine. a respectful and enduring relationship with Last year, we announced a 3-year traditional land owners near our activities. community plan for Baralaba covering Our engagement programmes are designed education, health and recreational facilities. to respect the significant cultural values of In September 2014, residents joined Noble and the areas where we originate resources, Cockatoo representatives for a “sausage sizzle” conforming to our Sustainability Policy. to commemorate our community funding. Regular meetings with indigenous groups This funding has seen the completion of a in the host regions provide an open platform facility upgrade at the Baralaba State School, to align business practices with community enabling the operation of a mobile dental clinic. The funding has further benefitted the school’s needs and expectations. We are pleased to Breakfast Club, which aims to increase the report that in 2014/2015 we received no attendance of indigenous students. Partnering formal complaints of any violations of the with the Banana Shire Council, we have rights of indigenous people. constructed a community playground with sports and leisure facilities and a park for Cockatoo Coal’s Baralaba young children. Expansion Project Noble’s team and CEO of Cockatoo Coal presented the donation in a visit to the Baralaba State School. The Baralaba Coal Mine is located 3 km north of the township of Baralaba, Central Queensland, Australia. Noble holds a minority shareholding “This significant contribution is sincerely appreciated by in Cockatoo Coal and has appointed a Director our school community.” to its Board to ensure we perform our ownership Melissa Austin role responsibly. Principal of the Baralaba State School The residents of Baralaba number around 3-year 300 and are predominantly indigenous Wadja Wadja / Yungulu Aboriginal people. Most residents live and work locally. The mining operations and farming industries provide community plan for significant support to the local economy. In Baralaba covering A modern community playground has been built in Baralaba, Australia. line with its expansion plans, the mine set up a education, health and partnership with the local community. This is recreational facilities 16 17 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Labour 1,926 people GRI [G4-9] GRI [G4-10] GRI [G4-LA12] Implementing Noble’s Labour Standards GRI [G4-DMA EMPLOYMENT] We also offer benefit programmes that include medical, health and disability covers, Female male Our people work across multiple functions, pension plans, parental leave, and wellness Our success is only made possible by our Principle 3: Our Commitment MATERIAL ASPECTS locations and languages. A culture of diversity and programmes. Noble Group operates a number of people. We value diversity at every level of equal opportunities is one of our greatest strengths defined contribution plans (including mandatory Businesses should uphold the GRI [G4-56] • Talent attraction our organisation and respect the rights of our Noble’s Code of Conduct sets forth the and allows us to operate cohesively across borders and voluntary schemes) throughout the world – freedom of association and the • Employee training and development 1,926 employees who represent more than 40 requirements for compliance as well as the and businesses. In 2014, we had 1,926 permanent in 2014, employer pension contributions totalled effective recognition of the right to • Occupational health and safety By Region And Gender By Management level And Gender nationalities, working across 24 countries. guidelines on the key labour issues. We view the and temporary employees, and contractors, with US$10.7 million. collective bargaining; • Diversity and equal opportunities Recruiting and staffing decisions play a critical principles advocated in the UN Global Compact permanent employees comprising more than 91 • Preventing forced/child labour 358 Directors percent of our workforce. Female representation role in ensuring that we put the right people in as the minimum standards and seek to go APAC 962 (Senior Manager or 17 157 2 The eligibility to participate fully in Noble Group’s benefits 604 Principle 4: Above) 140 was 35 percent in our global offices (2013: the right roles and the right places. beyond them to create a competitive advantage. programme depends on local employment contracts, which can Sense of ownership, training opportunities The elimination of all forms of A key part of Noble’s sustainability strategy 37 percent) and 34 percent of our overall workforce. vary according to local employment laws. 86 EMEA 319 and career advancement are among the top forced and compulsory labour; is maintaining a healthy and safe work 233 managers (Experienced 144 564 professional or 420 drivers in talent attraction and retention. The environment which motivates our employees above) Compensation and Benefits 208 wellbeing of our people is rooted in our Principle 5: to drive our company forward. Our Equal N.America 425 633 GRI [G4-EC3] day-to-day activities to assure safe workplaces The effective abolition of child Opportunities Policy applies to every employee Professional 299 Noble Group offers our permanent employees2 an 617 & Support 318 overall competitive compensation and benefits and enhance a culture of good health. Our labour; and in the Group and commits Noble to eliminating S.America 0 1 1 community outreach programmes support our discrimination, harassment and victimisation in package. Pay for performance underpins staff to volunteer and give back to the community. the workplace. our compensation strategy, which we believe, Principle 6: Brazil 3 11 Not Declared 195 588 We support freedom of association and 8 393 enhances the culture of partnership and teamwork The elimination of discrimination collective bargaining for our employees and across the firm. in respect of employment and Total 1,926 Total 1,926 diligently comply with local labour laws and Under our compensation framework, a occupation. regulations in the countries in which we significant proportion of employees’ annual “We are continuously improving conduct business. bonuses are deferred into restricted stock Forced or compulsory labour of any kind that vests after two to four years, subject to and elevating the workplace to is not tolerated, nor do we exploit child labour continued employment and other qualifying make a career at Noble more in any of our global operations. The majority By Employment type and gender conditions. This not only aligns the interests of rewarding and fulfilling.” of Noble’s staff is office based with permanent our employees with those of our shareholders, Mark Towson contracts; hence forced and child labour are 65 but also creates a sense of ownership and Contractor 173 35% Group Head of Human Resources 108 not an issue in our operations. For potential accountability that is central to our corporate human rights issues in product origination, we culture. In addition, employees in key roles may Permanent 590 apply risk based assessment and enhanced due AND 1,163 1,753 also receive share options, vesting after three to Temporary diligence in high risk areas. five years, which provide a further linkage to the Percentage of women in Total 1,926 long term interests of our shareholders. Noble’s offices 18 19 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Equal Opportunity Constructive Dialogues A Safe and Healthy Workplace their health goals. In November 2014, onsite GRI [G4-DMA DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY] GRI [G4-11] GRI [G4-DMA LABOuR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS] GRI [G4-DMA OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY] biometric screenings were held in the Houston, GRI [G4-DMA NON-DISCRIMINATION] GRI [G4-HR3] GRI [G4-LA4] Promoting a healthy and safe work environment San Diego and Stamford offices. A total of 543 We have clear policies and training practices GRI [G4-DMA FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION makes good business sense and is the employees (97.7 percent) took the opportunity to AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING] to combat discrimination. Our managers responsible thing to do. Our asset-light strategy obtain a “snapshot” of their health. Screenings GRI [G4-HR4] are responsible for ensuring that the Equal means we have a much lower operational role included tests for cholesterol and blood glucose The Group’s intention is to maintain productive Opportunities Policy and other labour principles in running industrial facilities, hence there are levels; a body composition test that measured relationships with our employees. Our are adhered to in their departments. In our lower risks associated with occupational health height, weight, body mass index (BMI) and waist employees are kept up to date on the latest news offices, employees receive mandatory training and safety for our employees and contractors. circumference; and a blood pressure test. of the company via emails and newsletters. We on workplace conduct and business ethics. While we maintain our ongoing commitment Noble offers a 100 percent paid medical gather feedback through town hall meetings in We encourage and promote procedures to control risks and improve safety performance premium to those who participate in the screening the major offices and provide opportunities for for reporting any unwelcome attitudes in the across all of our operations, health and safety thereby encouraging employees to take steps employees to directly interact with the senior workplace. Moreover, Noble takes any alleged policies and guidelines are implemented to toward good health and help lower overall management team. breach of discrimination standards seriously. In ensure the necessary focus on safety systems at healthcare costs. Employees who are considered Noble abides by local minimum notice 2014/2015 we received no credible complaints of work, response to incidents and medical aid. In either “in range” in at least 3 measurements, requirements for informing employees when there discrimination in any location. our key offices, we offer free flu vaccinations and or who achieve a 10 percent improvement in 3 are significant changes in our operations. Noble’s Noble has adopted and implemented first aid training courses. For example, 12 staff measurements year over year, will continue to Code of Conduct embraces our employees’ right a whistle-blowing policy through which from the Hong Kong office completed the first maintain their Noble paid medical premium. Being to exercise freedom of association and to have a employees may, in confidence, raise concerns aid course and achieved certification as safety “out of range” in 3 or more measurements increases representative of their choice. As of 2015, most of regarding matters of unlawful activity, policy officers in October 2014. the risk for diabetes, heart attack and stroke. While our workforce is not covered by specific collective or practices, suspected fraud, corruption, many chronic diseases are preventable, it takes bargaining agreements. dishonest practices or other similar matters. Launch of the Noble Americas time and discipline to change daily habits that may There are also arrangements for an independent Wellness Program lead to these health risks. The programme also investigation of such issues and for appropriate Noble understands that healthier employees are encourages employees to quit tobacco use. follow up actions where necessary. typically more productive and more likely to enjoy The internal Noble Americas Wellness Portal their jobs. Across our US locations, we launched provides tools and additional resources where the new Noble Americas Wellness Program, in employees can access their personalised health partnership with an outside wellness provider, information and use fitness and nutrition trackers to raise awareness and to integrate healthy living to stay motivated and accountable towards their into our workplace culture. wellness goals. Year-round access to seminars, The programme is designed so that employees challenges and newsletters are also available become more engaged and motivated in developing to help educate employees and contribute to and maintaining healthy behaviours, while improved health in the workplace. having access to the support they need to meet 20 21 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Talent Development GRI [G4-LA11] New Hires vs. Turnover Community Outreach GRI [G4-DMA TRAINING AND EDUCATION] We want to make a career at Noble GRI [G4-LA1] Female male GRI [G4-DMA LOCAL COMMUNITIES] GRI [G4-SO1] Noble introduced a new employer brand “Make rewarding and fulfilling. One important step to Noble goes beyond promoting an active your mark” – as, beyond a job, Noble offers achieve this is our annual performance appraisal lifestyle for our employees. We reach out to the people the opportunity to make an impact, to which involves all employees. A discussion communities in which we work and live, helping New hires By Age group And Gender Turnover By Age group And Gender see the results of their work, and to be part of an between managers and employees takes place numerous healthcare, education, environmental exciting and challenging workplace at the heart to review achievements, provide feedback and charitable efforts to enrich our lives and the 64 25 of the world’s most dynamic markets. against objectives, and to set the framework for < 30 101 165 < 30 31 56 lives of others. We have a vision to work for the 2014 saw the launch of our new Global compensation. We also have a comprehensive greater good outside of our daily activities – it is in Associate Programme. The graduate programme talent review and succession planning exercise 124 55 our culture to contribute and give back to society. 30 50 354 30 50 133 230 78 has been upgraded to ensure that Noble covering key leadership roles and top tiers of the Our people lead many community initiatives, continues to attract, recruit, and develop senior management team across the Group to identifying where most help is needed. We 3 2 > 50 21 > 50 7 the strongest candidates with the highest support personal and career development. 18 5 volunteer and aim to inspire. This includes potential. A total of 15 graduates from top-tier Personal development plans and practical community volunteering schemes such as universities across the world were selected from actions are key to help realise each individual’s 5 Total 196 fundraising, providing teaching and mentoring Not Declared 19 14 over 3,000 applications for the Class of 2014/15. potential. We are building better guidance services, as well as participating in charity The new programme consists of direct around the different career paths available Total 559 runs and challenges. We look to advance social experience through job rotations across to our employees on a global basis. This year, objectives and build lasting partnerships. Regular different platforms and businesses, together we will introduce an in-house leadership and site visits and meetings with local government with six-months of continuous learning via management development programme and New Hires By Region And Gender Turnover By Region And Gender officials are also an important complement to our classroom training and eLearning modules conduct a confidential employee engagement evaluation of community needs. supported by a dedicated web portal. We set out survey, with a commitment to act on the findings. 115 65 The Noble Foundation aims to address APAC 259 APAC 147 144 82 to recruit at least 20 new associates in 2015. the issues of poverty and underdevelopment In response to business growth in our through collaboration with local organisations 31 9 EMEA 129 EMEA 28 Energy and Metal, Minerals and Ores segments, 98 19 that act at the grassroots level. In 2014/2015, we we hired extensively during the course of 2014, implemented programmes in over 15 countries which is reflected in our figures on new hires. 50 7 focusing on literacy, rural infrastructure, medical N.America 170 N.America 19 120 12 and nutritional assistance, disaster relief and 0 0 boosting local employment opportunities. To BRAZIL 1 S.America 1 1 1 enable stable delivery of services and activities that align with our visions, the Foundation Total 559 1 Brazil 0 1 generally makes grants to programmes which are Collecting cash donations at San Diego office’s intersections: nearly forty employees dressed up brought to our attention by staff, over one to three in the 2015 Red Shoe Day to raise money for the Ronald McDonald House Charities San Diego. Total 196 year periods. 22 23 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Our Global Community and outreach initiatives UNITED KINGDOM ITALY MONGOLIA UNITED STATES CHINA HONG KONG Mexico JAMAICA INDIA SieRRA LEONE Colombia THAILAND MALAYSIA Singapore Making an impact Racing for charities INDONESIA The Mongolia Down’s Syndrome Association Starting in 2014, this included a two-year From marathons to dragon boat racing, charities benefiting underprivileged children, is the only organisation in Mongolia that offers “Special Educational Curriculum” project Noble teams participate in multiple events to youth and the elderly, and run through AUSTRALIA support and education to improve the quality supported by Noble Foundation for children raise funds for local charities and touch the Singapore’s business district with over 6,000 37 SOUTH AFRICA of life for children with Down’s syndrome and under 6 years old with developmental issues. communities in places where Noble operates. other runners. In October 2014, we presented their families. This has enabled three specialist teachers to In Singapore, Noble has been supporting seven decorative and colourful vans for students PROGRAMMES Our Mongolian team regularly volunteers deliver an essential home tutoring service to the Singapore Exchange Bull Charge since it with special needs to the Asian Women’s Welfare >15 COUNTRIES at its activities and excursions. We have been leading fundraising efforts for the association. 50 children per week covering speech therapy, physiotherapy and parental education. first started in 2004. Every year, our teams take on the challenge to raise funds for Association (AWWA) School in collaboration with other corporate sponsors. 24 25 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Environment awareness and emissions management through measurement and disclosure. We have publicly In Hong Kong, we recognise the vision of Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) in creating reported our Group level carbon and energy solutions that serve nature and people. We are The impacts of climate change, water and air Principle 7: Our Commitment Material aspects: performance and have maintained our industry a member and a long-term supporter of their pollution and resource depletion are evident leading transparency in carbon information wide-reaching conservation initiatives and Businesses should support a GRI [G4-56] • Pollution prevention at both regional and global levels. Noble We support a precautionary approach to disclosure. environmental education programmes in Hong precautionary approach to • Greenhouse gas emissions understands the fundamental importance of environmental challenges and work intensively In 2014, for the second year running, we Kong and the South China region. environmental challenges; managing our impact on the environment, as to minimise our environmental footprint across were awarded the “Best Overall Disclosing our core business inherently relies on natural our supply chains. We do this by deploying Company” in the Hong Kong and South East Principle 8: Asia region. The response scored maximum resources. We seek to protect our operations and resource management systems and controls Undertake initiatives to points for climate information disclosure, a to operate responsibly to prevent pollution. and working in collaboration with industry Energy access is vital to build sustainable promote greater environmental associations to address broader environmental rise from 99 out of 100 points in 2013. Our societies. However the International Energy responsibility; and issues. commitment to disclosure has resulted Agency indicates that countries face increasing To secure our long term flow of energy in Noble qualifying for the Asia ex-Japan pressure to secure access to affordable energy Principle 9: products and help our customers to reduce Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for four while boosting low-carbon energy supply. To Encourage the development their greenhouse gas emissions, we support consecutive years. This result highlights our support our customers to reduce greenhouse and diffusion of environmentally alternative fuel development and the diffusion of consistent capability in reporting, governance, gas emissions, Noble pursues opportunities to friendly technologies. environmentally friendly technologies. verification and emissions reductions as well as El Carmen, a private conservation area located on the border of Mexico and the United States, 2015 represents the fifteenth year supply renewable energy products to meet rising of continued conservation efforts focused on scientific research, wildlife management and habitat restoration. identifying the risks and opportunities climate energy demand. change presents to the business. We pursue pragmatic partnerships Implementing Measures to Protect the leading role in their implementation. supporting nature and biodiversity conservation. Environment In line with legal requirements and One of our key programmes began in 2012, GRI [G4-16] GRI [G4-EN29] principles, we conduct environmental when we started to support scientific research, GRI [G4-DMA COMPLIANCE] impact assessments before purchasing new wildlife management and habitat restoration Noble’s CDP Climate At a minimum, we comply with all the laws installations to manage the environmental risks at El Carmen, a private trans-boundary nature Disclosure Score and regulations applicable to the provision of to our investments. During the reporting period, reserve along the border between Mexico and 2013: 99 our products and services. We go further and we received no significant fines and no reports the United States. Spanning nearly 200,000 seek to manage our environmental impact of non-compliance with environmental laws and hectares, El Carmen is considered to be one through our resource management programmes. regulations across our wholly-owned operations. of the five great wilderness ecosystems of the points Regional environmental policies and plans are Noble joined the CDP Climate Program world. It is home to incredible biodiversity 2014: 100 complemented with site-specific requirements. in 2010. This investor initiative collates – more than 500 species of plants, over 200 Technical staff, quality managers and dedicated and monitors carbon emissions from major species of birds, 80 species of mammals and 65 staff are present in all key locations and play a corporations aiming to improve corporate species of reptiles and amphibians. points 26 27 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Energy and Emissions equivalents, a notable increase from 2013. This Carbon and energy performance in In our offices, we encourage staff to reduce reflects growth in our trading volume, adding to GHGs emissions through making conscious our operations 1 GRI [G4-DMA ENERGY] GRI [G4EN6] GRI [G4-DMA EMISSIONS] GRI [G4EN19] our emissions. As the client base broadens, more daily choices. We raise awareness and promote GRI [G4-EN3] GRI [G4-EN5] GRI [G4-EN15] GRI [G4-EN16] GRI [G4-EN17] GRI [G4-EN18] Research from the Intergovernmental Panel on activity is required to meet their needs. eco-friendly habits through our publications Climate Change has a clear message. Human Rather than using absolute targets, we apply and regular commuting and business travel activities, primarily the burning of fossil fuels, intensity reduction targets to manage our energy surveys. In our last survey, more than 450 are exacerbating global warming. Substantial and carbon usage. We set these targets across employees responded and results showed 2014 2013 evidence shows that climate change has the our operations and shipping business at the level that approximately 50 percent walk, cycle potential to cause destruction and economic of individual assets, and include energy and key Greenhouse gas emissions (Mt CO2e) or commute to work on public transport. To loss. Businesses must play a role to mitigate the material inputs. The targets are aggregated at reduce paper use, our IT service team reset the Total emissions2 2.943 1.870 environmental impact of their physical operations the Group level. For more information about our global default print setting to black and white Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) 2.937 1.863 by investing in low-carbon fuels and power energy efficiency initiatives in chartering, see the and double-sided in mid 2015. production, and advocating for action through section – Pollution Prevention and Mitigation. Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) 0.006 0.005 The Group level travel policy has been business associations. For the 2014 reporting cycle, all Noble Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) 3 0.015 0.017 effective in previous years at reducing overall Since 2007, Noble has sought to mitigate offices worldwide, beneficiary ships, business travel and encouraging the use of CO2 emissions per products traded (MtCO2e / Mt) 0.0137 0.0100 environmental issues in our value chains as publications and the annual management video conferencing. However, due to our CO2 emissions on business travel per employee (t CO2e /office employee) 7.50 5.97 well as working systematically on climate and event once again achieved carbon neutrality. business re-alignment, we recorded a year on environmental risks across our corporate offices Since inception of the project, we have offset year increase of 26 percent in GHG emissions and physical operations. We initiated the Carbon more than 1,225,000 certified carbon credits. Energy consumption (MWh) from business travel per employee. Yet we Neutral Project as a step-by-step approach to We make every effort to improve resource still achieved a 5 percent improvement in this Fuel 4 10,366,161 6,648,835 reduce the Group’s greenhouse gas (GHGs) management across our operations, including indicator compared to 2010. emissions. We launched a centralised environment energy and fuel use, paper, water and waste. Electricity 11,961 9,457 data assessment system in 2010. As the final step to neutralise the remaining Heat 110 9 This is in line with our vision to be the emissions, we purchased and retired verified Steam 112 122 best company in the world at moving physical carbon credits from renewable and low carbon Cooling 1,106 1,154 commodities from producers to consumers. energy projects that bring positive socioThe transportation of essential materials and economic benefits. Energy intensity per products traded (MWh/Mt) 0.048 0.036 resources entails the use of significant amounts of energy. It is a fundamental challenge to achieve absolute emission reductions while growing our chartering tonnage. More than 95 percent of the 1 Noble Group greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory is defined by adopting the operational control approach in the GHG Protocol. The GHG inventory is assured by TÜV NORD CERT GmbH according to ISO 14064 standard. The GHG inventory includes Noble Group’s beneficiary ships, chartering, worldwide offices and publications. The figures exclude Agriculture segment. > 1,225,000 Group’s emissions come from our chartering 2 Data includes scope 1 and 2 emissions of Noble Group certified carbon credits business. Total carbon emissions (scope 1 and 3 Data includes business travel, commuting, water and waste, paper use and publication in Noble Group’s offices have been offset since 2007 2) in 2014 amounted to 2.94 million tonnes CO2 4 Data includes both fossil fuels and renewable fuels consumption 28 29 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress and biodiesel marketing business through Pollution Prevention and Mitigation the 40 nautical mile zone of the Port of Long Beach, Moreover, to demonstrate a commitment to a partnership with Mansfield Oil. The joint GRI [G4-DMA TRANSPORT] GRI [G4EN30] has qualified us for the “Green Flag” award and 25 transparency, we voluntarily rated our ships for entity works with a network of renewable fuels The shipping sector has been working for decades percent dockage fee reduction throughout 2015. “Greenhouse Gas Emissions” by RightShip. Five production facilities, and its marketing and to mitigate its impact on climate change, air The monitoring parameter — Energy of Noble’s owned ships have recently qualified for extensive distribution system reaches over 200 pollutants and ballast water pollution. Noble Efficiency Operational Indicator is applied across Environmental Awareness (EA) certification or trading locations. Chartering is recognised for providing highour fleet to measure and improve our overall fuel equivalent notation. In the United States, we have benefited from quality, safe and efficient logistic solutions. A use efficiency. Likewise, our ships comply strictly These are some of the notable actions we have deregulation in the power industry. Being an major component of its success comes from our with the latest IMO regulations by switching to taken to go beyond regulated measures to prevent Environmental Protection Agency Green Power strategy to use modern ships responsibly. Our low sulphur content fuels in Emission Control air and marine pollution. We intend to launch provider, Noble Americas Energy Solutions is chartering service and commercial ships operate Areas. As a result, Noble’s owned ships emitted this programme throughout our entire fleet. supplying a suite of renewable energy products under a robust management system certified with 20 percent less CO2e emissions per nautical mile This commitment to perform responsibly helped (including solar, wind and biomass power) to the ISO 9001 international standard. than in 2012. us win the Bulk Ship Operator of the Year award major energy users across the country. We add GRI [G4EC2] GRI [G4-DMA EFFLUENTS AND WASTE] GRI [G4EN24] at the 2014 International Bulk Journal Awards Focused on customer satisfaction: Noble was awarded the “Supplier Innovation Award” from one of our clients – global value to customers’ electricity portfolio through Noble is expanding its owned fleet of ships to meet Noble adopts a Vessel/Barge Chartering in Rotterdam. chemical company Eastman. our PowerFolio 3D services online platform. Our the growing demands of its integrated supply and Vetting Policy to ensure that all vessels performance in managing customers’ electricity chain strategy. New ships are equipped with fuel chartered for the transportation of petroleum, purchasing requirements on renewable power efficient engines and ballast water treatment petroleum products, chemicals and LPG meet Supplying the Growing Demand for boasts a number of advantages, such as a cleanhas recently seen us gain an Innovation Supplier systems. Related investment is estimated to certain specified criteria and undergo screening by Cleaner Fuels burning fuel that produces virtually no particulate Award from a customer – Eastman, a global be US$7.3 million in 2014. We partner with external vetting experts. These assessments cover GRI [G4-16] GRI [G4-EC2] matter during combustion and emits less GHGs chemical company. qualified fleet operators that place safety and factors such as emergency preparedness, ensuring Noble trades a broad mix of energy products. Our compared to conventional fossil fuels. In 2015, we are gearing up our first corn pollution prevention high on their agenda, that an Emergency Oil Spill Response Plan is in business strategy has evolved to incorporate In the UK, Noble invested more than US$ 9 ethanol facility for production, located in whose management systems are accredited place to respond in the event of oil spill. We are climate change considerations to meet the million in Watt Power – an independent flexible South Bend, Indiana. Among other initiatives with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. pleased to report that in 2014/2015 we had no challenges of an increasingly carbon-constrained gas-fired power generation company. When to enhance efficiency and prevent pollution, These partners also hold the International Safety spills overboard across our fleet operations. business environment. These considerations natural gas is used to generate electricity, it we have chosen not to use a coal boiler for Management Code compliance certification in include regional regulatory developments, shifts in produces half as much carbon dioxide as coal production; instead we will use only natural line with the International Maritime Organization market demand and supply, as well as anticipated power plants. Gas-fired power provides the crucial gas boilers. The facility is expected to meet the (IMO) requirements. changes in weather patterns. backup needed when renewable resources are not surging demand in eco-friendly transportation GRI [G4EN6] GRI [G4EN19] Our Clean Fuels division is dedicated to available. It also has the potential to significantly fuels and to add 102 million gallons per year to Running at a speed optimised for lower fuel 20% providing lower carbon fuel solutions and reduce coal dependency and serve as a national US fuel ethanol production capacity. We are a consumption saves fuel, money, and greenhouse reducing environmental impact. In February 2015, strategy in energy security and the transition to a member of the Renewable Fuels Association, an gas emissions. Noble’s owned tonnage has been, we signed a supply agreement to deliver a total of low carbon economy. ethanol industry coalition in the United States depending on various factors, frequently sailing at the seven liquefied natural gas (LNG) cargoes to the GRI [G4-EN6] that advocates the use of domestically produced “Super Eco Speed” and “Eco Speed” since 2012. Our Noble Chartering is recognised for providing high quality, safe and efficient logistic solutions. GHG intensity of Noble’s Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company. LNG Across North America, we leverage our ethanol ethanol as a solution to clean fuels. efforts to sail our fleets at an optimised speed within beneficiary ships since 2012 30 31 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress Anti Corruption policies. Regular refresher training is organised to maintain the effectiveness of compliance and progress against strategy. Among other mandates, the committee reviews Noble’s programmes and highlight some of the policies and internal controls to ensure Corruption and bribery have a considerable Principle 10: Our Commitment Material aspects: perception gaps and possible “grey areas”. appropriate procedures are in place. Our Chief impact on business. They pose financial, legal, Specific rules on securities trading when in Executive Officer and Executive Director, Yusuf Businesses should work against GRI [G4-56] • Legal compliance operational and reputational risks, and also Noble is committed to operating with the utmost possession of internal, confidential information Alireza, is involved in the Committee to provide corruption in all its forms, including • Ethical investment practices undermine fair competition and impede long integrity to fortify its position as a market are circulated among employees and set out in consistency between policy development and extortion and bribery. • Corporate governance term investment. leader. Our policies and management systems a separate policy. This includes a procedure for day-to-day operations. • Risk management Being a global player in moving physical emphasise anti-corruption, anti-bribery and the good faith reporting of any infringement In the past year, we deployed significant commodities, Noble is exposed to corruption anti-trust behaviour explicitly. of the Code or other Noble policies. Concerned resources and management attention to IT related issues in a number of its markets and At a minimum, Noble sets out to meet its employees are encouraged to report without fear infrastructure and applications. The goal was to across a range of functions. The Corruption statutory or regulatory requirements. We to the Compliance or Legal departments when align, standardise, automate, and consolidate Perceptions Index published by Transparency hold onto our core values of being accountable any suspicions arise. processes throughout the organisation. This International provides a useful gauge to and responsible, which extend to our shared investment will support greater transparency, measure risks in different countries. Although commitment to prevent fraud and misconduct. Risk Governance and Compliance enhance control and reduce errors in risk our major markets rank highly in the index, GRI [G4SO3] GRI [G4-DMA COMPLIANCE] GRI [G4SO8] management, and facilitate evaluation of the lower ranks of the emerging markets that Noble’s holistic approach to risk governance risks including fraud and misconduct. During support our growth highlight the challenges underpins our strong risk culture. A clear the reporting period, we had no fines or we face. segregation of duties for risk managers non-monetary sanctions relating to the nonIn addition, our core business is in natural and business managers ensures full compliance of laws and regulations. resource supply chains. These have potentially accountability and ownership within our risk GRI [G4-16] high risks for corruption, particularly Precautionary Measures to conforms to applicable laws and regulations. management structure. We pay close attention to evolving laws and when dealing with foreign officials, where Prevent Corruption Compliance Team personnel are based in our Our internal audit team conducts regular regulatory frameworks, and actively support governments control resource management GRI [G4-DMA ANTI-CORRUPTION] GRI [G4SO5] trading offices and serve as a valuable resource check procedures and engages in continuous reforms that require higher standards. Often, in origination countries. This makes risk Our Group-wide policies state clearly that all for providing technical assistance and training discussions and consultations with various collective actions by investors, companies, and governance central to our supply chain business. our business functions must comply with the in the regulatory sphere. During the reporting divisions in the Group to ensure compliance regulators help to promote the importance of Our risk management structure adopts the legal obligations and laws in every jurisdiction period, we had no confirmed cases of corruption with sanctions legislation and anti-bribery governance in Asian companies and counter highest possible standards to enable a fully in which we operate. Noble’s Code of Conduct in our operations. measures, such as the UK Bribery Act. In 2014, corruption and malpractice. Noble is a member integrated approach to control exposure to imposes specific obligations in respect of antiNoble employees worldwide are given we conducted 10 audits across Noble Group’s of the Asian Corporate Governance Association corruption related risks from the producer to corruption, anti-trust, anti-money laundering, explicit guidance on ethical business practices, operations and all included reviews on anti(ACGA) and actively participates in their the customer. combating financial crimes, counter financing of such as conflicts of interest, entertainment and corruption and sanction related controls. conferences and advocacy. terrorism, sanctions and fraud. gifts. As part of the induction process, every Noble’s Risk Committee comprised senior Our experienced Compliance Team is employee must acknowledge they have read managers and division heads. It meets on dedicated to ensuring that our business and understood Noble’s Code of Conduct and a weekly basis to discuss significant risks 32 33 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress GLOBAL RISK Ongoing Training and Communication GRI [G4SO4] regulations related to the personal data protection and reference to anti-trust The ongoing development of a new Counterparty Management technology GOVERNANCE ON Noble employees are given regular updates and corruption. solution expedites compliance screening and on rules and regulations relevant to their surveillance through integrating with business ANTI-CORRUPTION particular markets and jurisdictions. Important Centralised Platform of intelligence providers. Not only does this notifications are communicated via compliance Counterparty Acquisition initiative increase visibility into customer • Dedicated teams on internal emails to employees globally. Education and We are a listed public company and acknowledge profiles and protect Noble from counterparty audits, compliance and refresher trainings on compliance, anti-bribery the fact that our actions are constantly under risk exposure, it will also enhance customer counterparty acquisition and anti-money laundering (AML) are delivered scrutiny. As regulators place greater emphasis experience by avoiding duplicate requests for via classroom or e-learning programmes. New on transparency and accountability, global information. • Holistic view on counterparty joiners undertake mandatory compliance Centralised intelligence maintained at a regulations on financial crime and antirisk exposure training on the Group’s policies. corruption are being tightened. Companies face global level provides valuable information for Over 1,120 employees (500 in the previous challenges on evolving compliance requirements risk identification and determining in-time • Ongoing employees training reporting cycle) attended training in the last and avoiding reputational damage as a result of corrective actions. At the same time, it supports and communication 12 months. Among these, around 27 percent of fines and sanctions. our effort to build a holistic customer profile • Streamline and automate existing attendees were management level staff. Refresher At Noble, we continuously improve the and position ourselves as an important part control processes training covers AML, sanctions, anti-bribery & technology infrastructure and processes of our customers’ businesses. We undertake a corruption, and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices that support compliance, risk management, World-Check risk search as a key component of • Enhance customer experience Act. All US staff receive annual recertification of customer experience and operational efficiency. our mandatory risk screening before entering the US compliance manual. Following a global review in early 2014 of into any contracts with new counterparties. Last year, we rolled out an online Noble’s new customer, counterparty acquisition, Last year, we detected a few instances in which compliance training programme to administer and maintenance procedures, we established a counterparty screening raised suspicion. multiple training modules across Europe and dedicated team to lead the work on counterparty Transactions were cancelled in these cases. North America, and expect to launch e-learning monitoring and detect potential suspicious Moving forward, we are building to Asian staff in 2015. This will enable greater activities. links with our new technology solution to flexibility for employees to access training The team has a mandate to perform initial strengthen Noble’s compliance with Know Your materials and it allows us to maintain a reviews of new counterparties and periodic Customer and Anti-Money Laundering policy centralised tracking system for course delivery. reviews of existing counterparties in accordance requirements. We expect to deploy the solution This programme caters to the different with Noble’s policies and procedures. In early globally in the last quarter of 2015. We have needs of different business functions. For 2015, we completed a substantial review of commenced a pilot with our trading teams to example, front office members receive training existing counterparties, focusing on accounts make sure the process runs smoothly and fits on financial crimes, market abuse and index that were inactive, obsolete or where we had no the Group’s needs. manipulation, which is less relevant in other active business. business areas. Other training includes 34 35 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress global reporting initiative G4 content index global reporting initiative G4 content index GRI [G4-32] GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation (42) Identifying Material Issues (11) G4-1 CEO message CEO’s message (4) G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organisation (42) Identifying Material Issues (11) ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-22 Effect of any restatements (42) There are no restatements of information because it is our first report. G4-3 Noble Group About Noble Group (5) G4-23 Significant changes to scope and aspect boundaries (42) There are no restatements of information because it is G4-4 Primary brands, products and services About Noble Group (5) our first report. G4-5 Noble Group’s headquarters About Noble Group (5) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-6 Countries of operations About Noble Group (5) G4-24 List of stakeholder groups (42) Understanding Our Responsibility (7) G4-7 Ownership and legal form About Noble Group (5) G4-25 Indentification of stakeholders (42) Understanding Our Responsibility (7) G4-8 Market served About Noble Group (5) G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement (42) Understanding Our Responsibility (7) G4-9 Scale of the organisation About Noble Group (5), Labour (19), G4-27 Key concerns raised by stakeholders (42) Understanding Our Responsibility (7) 2014 Annual Report (12, 64-68, 150) REPORT PROFILE G4-10 Employee and workforce information Labour (19) G4-28 Reporting period Reporting Scope and Data (6) G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements Labour (21) Noble’s workforce being mostly office-based is not covered by specific G4-29 Date of previous report This is our first year of reporting. collective bargaining agreements. G4-30 Reporting cycle Reporting Scope and Data (6) G4-12 Supply chain description About Noble Group (5) G4-31 Contact point About Noble Group (5) G4-13 Significant changes to the organisation About Noble Group (5), 2014 Annual Report (8-9, 18-19) G4-32 GRI application level: In accordance Global Reporting Initiative G4 Content Index (36-41) G4-14 Precautionary approach Roles and Governance (8) Core Reference to external assurance report G4-15 External charters and principles CEO’s message (4) G4-33 External assurance policy and practice Reporting Scope and Data (6) Ernst & Young’s Assurance Statement (42-43) G4-16 Memberships of associations CEO’s message (4), Human Rights (15), Environment (27,30), Anti corruption (33) GOVERNANCE IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-34 Governance structure Roles and Governance (8) 2014 Annual Report (46-55) G4-17 Entities included in the financial statements (42) 2014 Annual Report (150) G4-18 Report content and aspect boundaries (42) Reporting Scope and Data (6), ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Identifying Material Issues (10) G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms Roles and Governance (8), Human Rights (12), G4-19 List of material aspects (42) Identifying Material Issues (11) Labour (18), Environment (26), Anti corruption (32) 36 37 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 CONTENT INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS / Omissions SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS / Omissions Economics Compliance Economic Performance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (27) G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Environment (27) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2014 Annual Report (6-9) non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-Ec1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2014 Annual Report (64-68), Transport About Noble Group (5) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (30) G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s Environment (30-31) activities due to climate change G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Environment (30) materials for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined plan obligations 2014 Annual Report (89) Social: LaboUr practices and decent work Environmental Employment Energy G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (19) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (28-29) G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Labour (22) group, gender and region G4-EN3 Energy consumption with the organisation Environment (28-29) Labour/Management relations G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environment (28-29) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (21) G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environment (28-31) G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these Labour (21) Emissions are specified in collective agreements G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (28-29) Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (21) G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Environment (28-29) G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, We had no fatalities recorded during G4-EN16 Enery indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Environment (28-29) and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender the reporting period. Health and safety policies and location specific emergency G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Environment (28-29) response measures are implemented across our locations to control risks and ensure G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Environment (28-29) workplace safety. Noble does not currently report other occupational health and safety data. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environment (28-31) Training and education Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (22) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (31) G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Labour (22) G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environment (31) reviews, by gender and by employee category 38 39 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 CONTENT INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS / Omissions SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS / Omissions Diversity and Equal Opportunity Indigenous Rights G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (20) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (17) G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Labour (8, 19) category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and Human Rights (17) indicators of diversity actions taken SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS SOCIAL: SOCIETY Investment Local Communities G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (14) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (13), G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts Human Rights (14) Labour (23-25) that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Non-Discrimination G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Human Rights (13), assessments, and development programs Labour (23-25) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (20) Anti-Corruption G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Labour (20) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Anti corruption (33-35) Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (21) G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks related to corruption Anti corruption (33) and the significant risks identified G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Labour (15, 21) association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Anti corruption (35) measures taken to support these rights Child Labour G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Anti corruption (33) G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (14) Compliance G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Noble’s major operations are office-based, G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Anti corruption (33-35) labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour therefore child labour is not a significant risk to us. Having said that, we make routine visits and due diligence on Noble’s origination partners to G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Anti corruption (33) minimise supply chain risk on child labour. non-compliance with laws and regulations Forced or Compulsory Labour SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (14) Product and Service Labeling G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Noble’s major operations are office-based, or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of therefore forced labour is not a significant G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (15) forced or compulsory labour risk to us. Having said that, we make routine visits and due diligence on Noble’s originaG4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organisation's procedures Human Rights (15) tion partners to minimise supply chains risk for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant on forced or compulsory labour. product and service categories subject to such information requirements 40 41 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress ernst & young’s assurance Report GRI [G4-33] Independent Limited Assurance Report in relation to Noble Group Limited’s 2014/15 Communication on Progress Report To the Board of Directors of Further, Noble’s management is AA1000AS(2008). The reporting criteria as • Reviewing expectations and needs of Noble’s Limitations of Our Scope assurance engagement and, accordingly, we therefore accept or assume any responsibility Noble Group Limited responsible for establishing and maintaining set out in the “Core Option” of GRI G4 and major stakeholders, how Noble responds There are inherent limitations in performing do not express a reasonable assurance opinion for any other purpose or to any other person or internal controls relevant to the preparation AA1000APS(2008) principles of Inclusivity, to these expectations and needs, and the assurance. Assurance engagements are based or an audit opinion. While we considered the organisation. Any reliance any such third party Scope and presentation of the information contained Materiality and Responsiveness have been used communication channels between the effectiveness of the Management’s internal on selective testing of the information being may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. within the Report that is free from material as criteria against which to evaluate the Report. stakeholders and Noble through interview and controls when determining the nature and extent We have been engaged by the management examined, and it is possible that fraud, error, or misstatement, whether due to fraud or review of related supporting documents; of our procedures, our review was not designed to of Noble Group Limited (“Noble”) to perform non-compliance may occur and not be detected. error, selecting and applying appropriate Work Performed Independence a limited assurance engagement on the Adherence to AA1000 and GRI principles is provide assurance on internal controls. criteria, maintaining adequate records and The limited assurance procedures performed • Performing analytical tests and detailed We are in compliance with the Ernst & Young Global information in Noble’s 2014/15 Communication subjective and will be interpreted differently by making estimates that are reasonable in the included, but were not limited to: testings to source for material qualitative and Independence Policy which was designed to comply on Progress Report (the “Report”). Noble has different stakeholder groups. Our Conclusions circumstances. • Conducting a site visit to Noble’s Headquarters quantitative information on a sample basis; with the requirements of the IFAC Codes of Ethics for defined the scope of the Report in the GRI Index Our assurance was limited to Noble’s Subject to the limitations of scope and based on on pages 36-41 in the Report. in Hong Kong and interviewing selected business Professional Accountants (the IFAC Code). We believe 2014/15 Communication on Progress Report. the procedures specified above for this limited Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility units and group level personnel to understand • Checking the accuracy of calculations performed; We have only sought evidence to support key level assurance engagement, we provided the that there were no events or prohibited services Our responsibility, in accordance with Noble the current overall status of sustainability Management’s Responsibility information and data contained in the Report. following conclusions: provided which could impair our independence. management’s instructions, was to carry out activities and the report information collection • Reviewing data and statements had been We did not assess the accuracy or fairness Nothing has come to our attention that causes The Report has been prepared by management a ‘limited level’ assurance review of selected and compilation approach; correctly transcribed from corporate systems of Noble (the “Management”), who are of financial information or forward-looking us to believe that the information subject to the information contained within the Report. and/or supporting evidence into the Report; Our Assurance Team responsible for the collection and presentation statements made by the Management. assurance engagement is not fairly stated, in all Our assurance engagement has been • Determining whether material topics and Our assurance team has been drawn from our of the information within the Report in material respects, based on the criteria stated above. planned and performed in accordance performance issues identified during our • Sample testing of reported data, performance Climate Change and Sustainability Services accordance with the reporting criteria as set out Level of Assurance with International Standard on Assurance procedures had been adequately disclosed by statements, claims and case studies in the network, which undertakes similar engagements to in AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard Report against the relevant reporting criteria as Our evidence gathering procedures have been Use of Report Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance benchmarking against the key issues raised in this with a number of renowned and international 2008 (the “AA1000APS(2008)”) issued by Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews external media reports, sustainability reports of set out in GRI G4 principles; and designed to obtain a limited level of assurance Our responsibility in performing our assurance businesses. We have the required competencies and AccountAbility, and the “Core Option” of the G4 of Historical Financial Information and in Noble’s peers and Noble’s stakeholder dialogues; • Assessing Noble’s disclosures associated with (as set out in ISAE 3000) to draw our conclusion. activities is to the directors of Noble only and in Ernst & Young Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (the “GRI The procedures conducted do not provide all the accordance with the terms of reference for this experience to conduct this assurance engagement. accordance with the requirements of a Type the alignment to the AA1000 Principles. Hong Kong G4”) issued by the Global Reporting Initiative. 2 assurance engagement as defined by the evidence that would be required in a reasonable engagement as agreed with them. We do not 13 July 2015 42 43 This publication is printed on FSC™ www.thisisnoble.com certified paper with soy ink.
