2014 Introduction Contents Sales summary 02 Highlights 04 Our Business 06 Jotun Group 08 Strengthening our global networks 10 Marine Coatings 12 Powder Coatings 14 Protective Coatings 16 Decorative Paints 18 Customers and Innovation 20 International Specification Management (ISM) 22 Hull Performance Solutions (HPS) 24 Corporate Responsibility (CR) 26 Managing Corporate Responsibility 28 Employees and the Workplace 30 Taking care of our people 32 Attracting future penguins 34 Investing in people 35 “I Care” 36 Our commitment to health safety and the environment 38 Providing safety at the workplace 39 Safety and prevention 40 Emergency response drills 41 International gatherings 42 Environmental Commitment 44 Jotun Greensteps 46 Our carbon footprint 47 Reducing our impact on the environment 48 Working towards a greener world 49 Jotun R&D: Better, greener, faster 50 Jotun and Society 52 Giving on a global scale 54 Local community support 56 Responsible purchasing 58 Building responsible business – Anti-corruption 60 Financial Info 62 Chairman of the Board 64 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 65 Consolidated statement of financial position 66 Consolidated statement of cash flow 67 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 68 Executive summary of the financial statement 69 Company overview 70 Organisation 72 Sales summary 2 The Jotun Group is a matrix organisation divided into seven regions responsible for the sale of Decorative Paints and Marine, Protective and Powder Coatings. The company has 33 production facilities in 20 countries, 68 companies in 43 countries and is represented INTRODUCTION in more than 90 countries around the world. REGIONS SEGMENTS Scandinavia Decorative Paints: Jotun manufactures, sells and distributes interior and exterior paints to consumers and professionals West Europe worldwide. East Europe and Central Asia Middle East, India and Africa Marine Coatings: Jotun is a world leading provider of marine coatings to the newbuilding, DryDock and SeaStock South East Asia and Pacific markets. In addition, Jotun supplies coatings solutions for North East Asia megayachts and leisure yachts. Americas Protective Coatings: Jotun’s protective coatings are sold to companies active in industries related to offshore, energy, infrastructure, hydrocarbon processing industry and mining. Powder Coatings: Jotun Powder Coatings is a leading supplier to companies active in industries related to appliances, furniture, building components, pipelines and general industries. SALES AND EBITA DEVELOPMENT BUSINESS SEGMENTS (NOK million) EBITA SALES 1 500 15 000 37 1 200 12 000 27 26 900 9 000 10 600 6 000 37% Decorative Paints 300 3 000 27% Marine Coatings 26% Protective Coatings 0 10% Powder Coatings 0 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 43 9 676 COUNTRIES EMPLOYEES 33 FACTORIES 3 INTRODUCTION GROUP KEY FIGURES (NOK million) 2014 2013 2012 2011 Profit/loss Operating revenue 13 171 12 034 11 351 10 659 Operating revenue outside Norway in % 83 82 80 77 Operating profit 1 314 1 258 1 126 956 Profit before tax 1 301 1 191 1 055 893 Net cash flow from operating activities 919 819 902 303 Profitability Return on capital employed, in % 1) 17.2 20.0 19.5 18.3 Operating margin, in % 2) 10.0 10.5 9.9 9.0 Return on equity, in % 3) 14.0 15.5 15.8 13.1 Year-end financial positions Total assets 13 300 10 799 9 317 9 140 Investments in intangible and fixed assets 911 733 590 867 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 6 739 5 515 5 016 5 028 Equity / assets ratio, in % 50.7 51.1 53.8 55.0 Number of employees in the Group 7 158 6 695 6 379 5 884 Number of employees in the Group, including 100 per cent in joint ventures and associated companies 9 676 8 991 8 740 8 296 Definitions 1) Return on capital employed % = Operating profit + amortisation of intangible assets x 100 Average capital employed 2) Operating margin % = Operating profit x 100 Operating revenue 3) Return on equity % = Total comprehensive income for the year x 100 Average equity Copenhagen, Denmark Jotun signs an agreement with Highlights Maersk Line to supply Hull Performance Solutions (HPS) with SeaQuantum X200 for the Triple-E newbuild project. 4 INTRODUCTION Houston, Texas (US) Jotun opens new offices in the heart of Houston’s Energy Corridor to help support the company’s business in the USA. Macae, Brazil Jotun secures the first Jotachar JF750 (Passive Fire Protection) order for the expansion work at the Petrobras Transpetro Terminal. Oslo, Norway Jotun receives the 2014 HR Award, Barcelona, Spain presented by HR Norge to groups IKEA names Jotun as an exclusive or institutions that have contributed supplier of decorative and to the development of the field by protective paints used in all its 15 being a role model, establishing stores and related warehouses, excellent organisational practices or offices and parking structures otherwise promoting the HR throughout Spain. discipline in a meritorious manner. Istanbul, Turkey Damman, Saudi Arabia Jotun secures contract to provide Jotun inaugurates new warehouse protective coatings to the Izmit and sales office in the Kingdom’s Bay Suspension Bridge, a major Eastern Province to support the part of the planned Istanbul-Izmir company’s growing business in Highway project. the region. 5 Geoje Island, Korea INTRODUCTION Jotun supplies topside protective coatings to Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering for a platform to be used at the Arkutun-Dagi offshore project, an offshore oil and gas development located on the east coast of Russia. Shanghai, China Jotun secures HPS contract with China Merchant Energy Shipping Co., Ltd (CMES) for the company’s VLCCs newbuildings at Dalian Shipbuilding Industry Co., Ltd. Bangkok, Thailand Jotun Thailand celebrates its 45year anniversary with an awards ceremony. Onslow, Australia Jotun supplies protective coatings to the Wheatstone LNG project engineered by Bechtel and operated by Chevron in Western Australia. St. Petersburg, Russia Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. Jotun officially opens a new factory Jotun selected to supply 50 metric at the Fyodorovskoe Industrial tonnes of powder coating from Durban, South Africa Park near St. Petersburg. The The Cool Shades Collection for Southern African Shipyards awards factory has an annual capacity of the Louvre Abu Dhabi project, Jotun contract to supply marine up to 12 million litres of marine representing the largest-ever coatings for the country’s largestand protective coatings and 3,600 single order of this innovative, ever newbuilding programme. tons of powder coatings. heat-reflective product. OUR BUSINESS 6 Our business Committed to growth 08 7 Strengthening our global networks 10 OUR BUSINESS A market leader in a troubled industry 12 Aligning our business with a growing market 14 Expanding in a high growth segment 16 Building our global brand 18 JOTUN GROUP Committed to growth 8 Jotun recorded another record-breaking year in 2014; a remarkable achievement, considering the impact of a persistently weak newbuilding market on the Marine segment. Jotun continues to invest significant resources, both externally and internally, to grow the business. Going forward, it will be important to OUR BUSINESS balance cost development with the growth we manage to create. After a slow start to the year, Jotun ended 2014 on a positive has operations in Egypt, Libya, South Africa, Algeria and note, recording strong growth in all segments. Like our Morocco, we see promising developments in countries like competitors, Jotun struggled in the Marine segment, Kenya and Tanzania, in addition to the oil-rich countries of mainly due to a weak newbuilding market. However, we Nigeria and Angola. retained our leading market share, with positive results within the maintenance and repair market. Gross margin Modernising the business has been stable in all segments and the company recorded Internally, Jotun continues to invest in a broad range of improvements in operating profits. Costs continued to rise, business improvement initiatives. These include sophisticated reflecting the company’s growth ambitions. IT systems, recruiting and training personnel, coordinated global marketing campaigns and the development of Investing in the future innovative new products in all segments. In some cases, Efforts to control costs remain a focus area for Jotun. The these investments can take months and sometimes years to company will continue to build the business consistent with bear fruit. For example, Jotun’s premium antifouling solution the three main components of Jotun’s core strategy: Organic HPS was launched in 2011, but it wasn’t until 2014 that growth, segment diversity, and adopting a differentiated the solution was more widely embraced by the industry. approach to markets and regions. Jotun invests about USD However, by making targeted investments and adopting 150 million a year to construct new facilities or upgrade a long-term perspective, our patience has been rewarded; existing facilities. In addition, the company commits substantial Jotun has become one of the fastest growing paints and resources internally to modernise our business practices. coatings manufacturers in the industry, recognised the world over as a pioneer in product innovation. In the past three years, the company has approved construction of new factories and/or related facilities Despite some challenges in different markets and segments, in Russia, Brazil, Indonesia, Oman, Myanmar and the Jotun’s growth trajectory over many years remains intact. We Philippines. Jotun is currently evaluating opportunities in are pleased with our results, but acknowledge that growing other markets. For example, in Africa, where Jotun already the business will get harder every year. FULL TIME EMPLOYEES PRODUCTION FACILITIES 2004 SCA SCA WE WE 2014 EECA EECA MEIA MEIA SEAP SEAP NEA NEA AM Corporate AM 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 0 3 6 9 12 15 9 OUR BUSINESS Jotun Management Team (from left): Vidar Nysæther, Group Executive Vice President (CFO), Morten Fon, President & CEO, Esben Hersve, Group Executive Vice President (Performance Coatings) and Baard K. Tonning, Group Executive Vice President (Decorative Paints). SCA: Scandinavia EECA: East Europe and Central Asia SEAP: South East Asia and Pasific WE: West Europe MEIA: Middle East, India and Africa NEA: North East Asia AM: Americas 2004 2004 2014 2014 PRODUCTION VOLUME TOTAL SALES Litres/kilos (1 000 tonnes) Sales in NOK billion SCA SCA WE WE 2004 EECA EECA 2014 MEIA MEIA SEAP SEAP NEA NEA AM AM 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 0 1 2 3 4 5 JOTUN GROUP Strengthening our global networks 10 With origins in the maritime industry that go back almost 80 years, Jotun has always been a company with an international perspective. Now active in four segments and represented in more than 90 countries around the world, Jotun is leveraging its multinational presence like never before. OUR BUSINESS Jotun’s international expansion has been built on its launches in South East Asia and the Middle East, and relationship with companies that required service worldwide. produced a series of TV advertisements that ran in different In the past, these relationships were mostly confined to countries around the world. These ads will continue to be companies active in the shipping and offshore industries, aired in 2015. which required global access to Jotun’s marine and protective coatings. But over the last decade, an increasingly Leveraging our international presence interlinked world economy has created demand for suppliers Jotun is also working across borders and segments, winning with a strong international presence in the Decorative Paints large contracts for special projects. For example, a developer and Powder Coatings segments as well. in Dubai might use an architect in London, an engineer from Korea and a local contractor to build a skyscraper in One multinational organisation Abu Dhabi. Likewise, the construction of refineries, LNG To improve Jotun’s service offering, the company has been plants or complex offshore units often involves multinational working to strengthen its global networks. Internally, Jotun stakeholders. To position Jotun as the preferred supplier of has introduced a number of Group functions and shared IT paints and coatings for these projects, the company actively platforms designed to coordinate activities between regions. coordinates between different countries and time zones to These include support functions designed to build common manage specifications. standards in Human Resources, Competence Development, R&D, Marketing and Communications, Purchasing, IT and Today, Jotun is made up of about 9,600 employees active on Group Technical, which supports all aspects of factory all continents working in all segments to grow the business. construction, operations and maintenance. In 2014, this Yet despite its growing size and regional diversity, Jotun is work continued. For example, Jotun’s Global Decorative more unified than ever before. Looking ahead, the company Paints Marketing Team, responsible for strengthening the will continue to provide Group support for regional activities, Jotun brand in decorative markets worldwide, coordinated seek to further leverage our worldwide presence to win high the launch of Jotun’s first ever Global Trend Colour Cards. value contracts, and dedicate more resources to building our In addition, they provided support for multi-country product global brand. EMPOWERING THE REGIONS To create a more nimble and responsive company, Jotun Scandinavia and Western Europe (Sandefjord) reorganised its business last year into a matrix organisation. Eastern Europe and Central Asia (Istanbul) This has empowered regional managers to coordinate local North East Asia (Shanghai) activities across borders and make better and quicker South East Asia and Pacific (Kuala Lumpur) decisions closer to the markets they serve. Middle East, India and Africa (Dubai) Americas (Houston) 11 OUR BUSINESS Jotun provides paints and coatings to some of the world’s most recognisable buildings, including the Eiffel Tower, (above). These buildings are seen in a series of television commercials, aired worldwide in 2014, together with the slogan: “Jotun: For iconic buildings and beautiful homes.” MARINE COATINGS A market leader in a troubled industry 12 A weak newbuilding market had impact on Jotun’s Marine Coatings business in 2014. Signs of improvement suggest a modest recovery in 2015. OUR BUSINESS 2014 was a mixed year for the shipping industry. Owners 2104 was a break-out year for Jotun’s Hull Performance continued to adjust to weak growth in world trade, the Solutions (HPS), an innovative concept that includes nextimplementation of new environmental regulations and generation silyl methacrelate antifoulings, superior service persistent tonnage overcapacity issues contributing to low and the tools to monitor hull performance over time. HPS freight rates in most segments. These difficult conditions has been embraced by dozens of owners and has been have resulted in a decline in newbuilding orders and forced applied to more than 150 vessels since its launch in 2011. the closure of many shipyards. Yet with a slight improvement HPS has not only helped position Jotun in the industry as a in world trade recorded in the second half the year and pioneer in hull performance but has also helped lift sales of incremental growth projected in 2015, the industry may other Jotun antifouling products such as the SeaQuantum experience a modest recovery. range and SeaMate – a highly effective affordable system re-launched this year. Focus on the maintenance market Jotun has adapted quickly to the new market reality. While Strengthening offering in niche markets the company has retained its leading market share by Jotun has also focused on other specialised marine coatings. successfully competing for scarce newbuilding contracts After years of intensive product development and patient Jotun has also focused more resources on the maintenance sales and marketing efforts, Jotun is now a recognised player market. Jotun has launched Jotamastic Smart Pack and in the tankcoatings market. Jotun continues to find success Hardtop Smart Pack, both coating systems that are specially in the yachting market, developing long-term relationships designed for brush and roller application and can reduce with specialist yards producing both leisure boats and paint consumption up to 50 per cent. And in response megayachts. to growing demands for more environmentally friendly products, Jotun has developed a range of more sustainable While 2014 was a challenging year for the organisation, topcoats, antifoulings and anticorrosives. Jotun continues to invest in new segments, products and concepts, confident that the action taken now will place the company in a stronger position when the newbuilding market improves. JOTUN MARINE COATINGS Sales per region Sales in billion NOK 7% SCA 7% SCA 2014 20% WE 20% WE 2013 5% EECA 5% EECA 6% MEIA 2012 6% MEIA 13% SEAP 13% SEAP 2011 46% NEA 46% NEA 2010 3% AM3% AM 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 OUR BUSINESS 13 14 OUR BUSINESS In the Building Components concept, Jotun provides powder coatings to protect and beautify interior and exterior metal fixtures, including window frames. POWDER COATINGS Aligning our business with a growing market Jotun posted good results in 2014 in the Powder Coatings segment and took decisive 15 action to position the company to meet rising global demand. OUR BUSINESS Growing consumer spending on appliances, furniture resistance. For the Building Components concept, Jotun and automobiles, especially in emerging economies, and has introduced the new Aurora collection, designed as a investments in pipeline, housing and large-scale real estate sustainable alternative for obtaining high-end bright and and infrastructure projects, has created a growing global metallic finishes. demand for powder coatings. In addition, powder coatings are increasingly recognised as a more environmentally At the same time, Jotun has focused on helping customers friendly alternative to industrial liquid paints because they in the Appliances concept improve efficiency through are solvent free and do not contain VOCs. As a result, products such as Guard Miles +, which has been adapted many coatings analysts expect the growth rate in the for use for exterior applications to meet the needs of the air Powder segment to exceed other segments in the Paints and conditioning and ventilation industry. Product development Coatings industry. is continuing for selected automotive components in the General Industries concept, and the company continues to Developing concept-specific products offer improved, more cost-effective solutions for select user To capitalise on this growth trend, Jotun has organised its environments and applications. business in the Powder Coatings segment into five concepts: Appliances, Furniture, Building Components, Pipelines and Serving an increasingly global market General Industries. The concept-specific approach has not While a considerable share of powder coatings sales only enabled the company to develop more products that occur locally, an increasingly large portion of Jotun’s are tailor-made for specific industries, but has also improved business is with global manufacturers of consumer goods, sales and technical service competence and processes geared automotive components and internationally-specified real for users in different industries. estate construction and pipeline projects. Jotun assigns Key Account Managers to oversee Jotun’s relationships In 2014, Jotun launched a number of new products, with these global companies and builds strong, longspecifically engineered for different concepts. For the term relationships with global specifiers, who manage Furniture concept, Jotun introduced Ultra Shine, a specifications for key customers. By continuing to work sustainable alternative to the chrome plating process, and across borders and focusing on concept-specific product has expanded the Guard Endure product line to meet higher, development, Jotun is in a strong position to capture a more stringent industry standards for scratch and marring greater share of this highly dynamic segment. JOTUN POWDER COATINGS Sales per region Sales in billion NOK 3% SCA 3% SCA 2014 12% WE 12% WE 17% EECA 2013 17% EECA 41% MEIA 2012 41% MEIA 22% SEAP 22% SEAP 2011 2% NEA 2% NEA 2010 AM AM 0 1 2 PROTECTIVE COATINGS Expanding in a high growth segment 16 After a slow start for Jotun in the Protective segment, the company ended 2014 on a positive note. By continuing to strengthen the organisation and develop new industry-specific solutions, the company anticipates stronger growth in 2015. OUR BUSINESS Jotun sells protective coatings to multiple industries and a greater share of this market, Jotun has strengthened its companies active in hydrocarbon processing (refineries, gas International Specification Management team, who work processing plants, etc.) infrastructure (hospitals, airports, across borders to secure contracts in cooperation with their bridges, flyovers, etc.) energy (coal-fired plants, geothermal, colleagues working locally. hydropower, wind, etc.) offshore (rigs, platforms, etc.) and mining. To gain market share in this dynamic, highly diverse The impact of oil prices and competitive market requires the right product mix, Looking ahead, low oil prices may impact sales to offshore personnel with experience in different industries and the projects. As Jotun has already secured contracts for many ability to successfully manage complexity. projects scheduled for construction in 2015, we anticipate good results in the short term. However, if low oil prices Unique selling points persist, offshore projects may be delayed or cancelled, In 2014, the segment continued to invest significant creating some uncertainty over time. However, it should resources to develop products and coatings systems to help be noted that low oil prices may boost long term global differentiate Jotun from competing coatings manufacturers. growth, as energy costs will fall sharply for oil importing Launched in 2013, Jotun’s revolutionary Passive Fire countries in Asia and Europe and benefit many industries Protection (PFP) coating system Jotachar JF750 has been around the world that depend on oil. This growth is likely embraced by leading offshore companies and yards, to spur more investment in a broad range of construction helping the company boost sales of other related coatings projects, which will create significant opportunities for Jotun systems. And in response to increased public awareness of going forward. It should also be noted that while low oil environmental issues, Jotun has developed a broad range prices may impact planned projects, maintenance on existing of waterborne coatings products, including Penguard facilities will go forward. WF, Pilot WF, Steelmaster 1200 WF, among others. Jotun continues to train existing staff and recruit personnel with Despite market uncertainties, the Protective Coatings industry specific knowledge to help the company compete segment remains a promising growth opportunity. By for high-value contracts. While most of Jotun’s sales in the making the necessary adjustments to our strategy to match Protective segment are generated locally, a growing share of a changing world, Jotun is in a strong position to capture a the business involves multinational stakeholders. To capture greater share of this growing market. JOTUN PROTECTIVE COATINGS Sales per region Sales in billion NOK 3% SCA 3% SCA 2014 8% WE 8% WE 2013 13% EECA 13% EECA 19% MEIA 2012 19% MEIA 20% SEAP 20% SEAP 2011 35% NEA 35% NEA 2010 2% AM 2% AM 0 1 2 3 4 5 17 OUR BUSINESS First Bosporus Bridge, Istanbul, Turkey. Providing protective coatings to bridges is part of the Infrastructure concept within the Protective Coatings segment. OUR BUSINESS 18 DECORATIVE PAINTS Building our global brand With more than 7 000 retail shops around the world, Jotun is considered a leading consumer brand 19 in many countries where we are active. By working more closely with real-estate developers, government officials, architects and consultants, the company has growing success in the project market and continues OUR BUSINESS to paint iconic buildings recognised internationally. In 2014, Jotun achieved satisfactory growth in the Decorative The company has also strengthened awareness and segment, driven primarily by strong sales in the Middle East, knowledge of the Jotun brand through social media South East Asia and Turkey. Despite fierce competition and campaigns and billboards coordinated regional launches challenging market conditions, Jotun’s results in Scandinavia to maximise press coverage for new products. improved over 2013. Growth in the project market Regional product innovation While the backbone of Jotun’s business in the Decorative Jotun remains committed to developing new products to segment is in the Buy-it-Yourself (BIY) and Do-it-Yourself meet consumer demand for better ways to protect and (DIY) homeowner market, a significant portion of our beautify their homes. By catering to the needs of developers business is derived from the project market, which includes and architects, Jotun ensures that remarkable buildings malls, hotels, large housing projects, airports and hospitals, retain their appearance for years after opening to the public. etc. To secure these contracts, Jotun has a structured In 2014, Jotun successfully completed launches of two new approach to win and manage these projects. Jotun also products. In South East Asia, Jotun launched a premium coordinates activities across the Decorative, Protective and interior paint, Majestic True Beauty and in the Middle East, Powder Coatings segments to offer Jotun´s Single Source Jotun introduced a new series of premium exterior products; Solutions. Jotashield ColourLast and Jotashield ColourXtreme. It should be noted that large-scale construction projects are Jotun has also renewed its focus on improving the shopping subject to government spending or economic conditions in experience of homeowners and contractors who visit stores individual countries. By contrast, the retail market is a more carrying Jotun products. In 2013, Jotun provided retail shops stable and consistent source of revenue. So while Jotun will with enhanced service and in-shop tools and material. And continue to seek more contracts in the project market, the in 2014, Jotun produced a series of global TV commercials company’s primary focus will be to expand its global retail that aired in multiple countries simultaneously. network, provide improved sales support to shop keepers and build more awareness of the Jotun brand. JOTUN DECORATIVE PAINTS Sales per region Sales in billion NOK 28% SCA 28% SCA 2014 2% WE 2% WE 2013 3% EECA 3% EECA 46% MEIA 2012 46% MEIA 19% SEAP 2011 19% SEAP 2% NEA 2% NEA 2010 AM AM 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION 20 Customers and innovation International Specification Management (ISM) 22 21 Hull Performance Solutions (HPS) 24 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION 22 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION Members of Jotun’s International Specification Management team on a site in China. Jotun works with a global network of owners, fabricators and local contractors to secure big projects in the Protective Coatings segment. ISM: Managing complexity Jotun’s business in the Protective segment relies on the skill and dedication of local personnel. 23 However, for especially large and complex customers and projects, Jotun has built an International Specification Management (ISM) team. This team works systematically to build up customer CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION relationships in order to track, secure and serve global contracts. With the rise of globalisation, many large projects, such as In 2014, Jotun’s ISM team were involved in a significant the construction of refineries, LNG plants and power plants share of Jotun’s business in the protective coatings involve multiple stakeholders and suppliers. An owner segment. While ISM contributions to Jotun’s bottom line are may be in Houston working with European based EPC influenced by macro-economic trends (e.g. energy demand, (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) companies, fluctuations in the price of oil, world trade, etc.), the which contract fabricators (steel structures, pipelines, etc.) company anticipates that growth in this highly specialised in different locations all over the world to build components area will continue over the next few years. and ship them for assembly in another location. To ensure that Jotun protective coatings are specified for these Business-critical information complex projects, the company has worked to leverage its It should be noted that it often takes years between the global presence to meet the demands of these multiple time a project is announced and when a final investment stakeholders in a more structured way. decision is reached, so having access to timely and accurate information is vital to ensure that Jotun is specified at an Seizing a market opportunity early stage. To improve data sharing within the organisation, Established in 2005, Jotun’s International Specification Jotun has developed web-based tools (e.g. CRM and Management (ISM) team was set up to strengthen the different scorecards) to help both local personnel and the company’s overall market position, increase sales volume ISM team identify, evaluate and track customers and projects by securing long-term contracts with leading multinational over time. Looking ahead, the company will continue to companies, and to help Jotun become a preferred coatings focus on the ISM organisation, devote resources to market supplier among major customers, worldwide. With about 20 intelligence and project tracking, and work to improve dedicated staff located in the US, Germany, France, the UK, internal communications between the ISM team and the Japan, Brazil, South Korea, China, Russia and Norway, these Jotun network. individuals are responsible for tracking projects, getting Jotun products listed in specifications, and working in close cooperation with local personnel to deliver on customer expectations. Building long-term Process-mapping of Encouraging local support from relationships with key global specifications and Jotun personnel in different customers documentation countries and regions ISM Communication, Cooperation and Commitment HPS: A breakout year 24 In 2014, Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions (HPS) concept was applied to more than 100 vessels, helping to strengthen Jotun’s reputation for innovation in the shipping industry. With work to develop an international standard for measurement of hull performance in progress, the company may soon CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION change how the industry looks at marine coatings. Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions (HPS) combines premium Over the past two years, Jotun has spearheaded efforts marine coatings, priority technical service and on-board to establish an international standard for measuring hull monitoring tools to measure hull performance, providing performance. Jotun contributed to several submissions by an analytical basis for the company’s unique moneythe environmental organisation Bellona as a part of the back guarantee that covers the entire period between Clean Shipping Coalition’s work with the IMO’s Marine drydockings. Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions enables Environment Protection Committee (MEPC). Jotun and owners to reduce fuel costs and corresponding emissions, Bellona also co-hosted two stakeholder workshops and, helping them manage increasingly strict environmental based on the output from these workshops, submitted a regulations. By improving hull and propeller performance, New Work Item Proposal to ISO Technical Committee 8. the world fleet can reduce fuel cost by as much as USD The proposal was put to vote and accepted as a new ISO 30 billion per year and achieve an estimated 0.3 per cent project in May 2013 (ISO 19030). Jotun was appointed by reduction in manmade GHG emissions. ISO to manage the project, which now involves more than 50 international experts representing all major stakeholders. Assessing the impact of marine coatings on fuel costs While HPS is built around Jotun’s next-generation antifouling The future of HPS technology (silyl methacryelate), the product innovation While work on the ISO project is not expected to be finalised is only a part of the concept. Prior to the launch of HPS before June 2016, some major industry players have already in 2011, owners were left to choose suppliers based on embraced the HPS concept and the company has seen unproven claims and product guarantees that only applied a growing demand for other Jotun marine coatings. At for the periods immediately before and after drydockings. present, HPS has been applied to about 150 vessels and the HPS was conceived in part to provide the industry with real company expects to add another 200 by the end of 2015. time data on long-term hull performance. That data allows The company has also strengthened its project management owners to make more informed decisions about marine teams, provided useful operational advice based on data coatings and ship operations, and helps them distinguish collected on board, and has offered owners different between competing coatings suppliers and quantify the business models to help them manage costs more effectively. impact of antifoulings on fuel usage. HYDRODYNAMIC ADVANTAGE Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions improve hull performance by reducing drag. On a typical ship, the difference between the guaranteed level of performance and market average performance amounts to a hydrodynamic efficiency gain of around 13.5 per cent. This not only helps lower bunkering costs, but reduces green house gas emissions by about 7.5 per cent below the market average over the lifetime of the solution. 25 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions (HPS) combines SeaQuantumX200 antifouling paint with an improved technical service offering a method for accurately measuring delivered performance backed by high-performance guarantee. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 26 Corporate Responsibility Managing Corporate Responsibility 28 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Managing Corporate Responsibility (CR) 28 As well as simply being the right thing to do, acting responsibly strengthens our reputation and makes us more resilient, enabling us to thrive in a world facing both political and economic challenges. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Each year we expect more of ourselves, as do our customers, Governance employees, shareholders, suppliers, and local communities. Ethical administration is central to our CR strategy. Jotun’s Jotun’s reputation relies on our relationships with these governance principles are supported through governing stakeholders, and that’s why we take a systematic approach bodies, policies and evaluations at the corporate, regional to engaging with them responsibly. We do this by: and segment levels. Policies are developed globally, based Elevating corporate responsibility (CR) to Board on best practices, and implemented by each company and Management level locally. We allocate significant resources to ensuring that Defining CR in strategies and operational goals these policies function properly, mainly through informal Developing policies and guidelines with compliance rules discussions, audits and reviews. Ensuring compliance through reporting and evaluation practices Jotun’s internal audits and reviews are comprehensive and include: Our CR programme Business reviews The view that CR is both moral and prudent inspires us to Financial audits act. But it is our core values – Loyalty, Care, Respect and Human resources reviews Boldness – that direct these actions, which include: Health, safety and the environment (HSE) audits Implementing and promoting business principles Supplier audits Building internal culture through activities and actions Using audits and other means to vet suppliers Report outline Supplying our customers with better, cleaner products This section, and the next three sections of the report – and acting honestly and transparently towards them Employees and the Workplace, Environmental Commitment, Promoting the wellbeing of employees and providing and Jotun and Society – aim to: good working conditions Present our position on the various aspects of CR Offering relevant training and development opportunities Provide an overview of our CR efforts during 2014 Being a force for good in the local communities where Showcase a selection of CR initiatives in more detail we operate Present key figures and measurements Acting responsibly towards the environment through the Provide some insight into the direction our CR will take Jotun GreenSteps programme in the future JOTUN VALUES LOYALTY CARE RESPECT BOLDNESS Reliable and trustworthy Help and support others Value differences in people Take initiatives to create Long-term relationships Display trust and empathy Be honest and fair the future between customers, Appraise and judge fairly Build diverse teams across Initiate and nurture change Jotun and colleagues Protect internal and culture and gender Communicate openly, Commitment to Jotun’s external environment Follow laws and regulations honestly and with integrity values, strategies, policies Treat others the way they Be proactive and decisions expect to be treated Address difficulties constructively “Corporate Responsibility helps us drive organic growth by building long-term relationships with all our stakeholders. The Board supports our CR programme, which is directed by our corporate values and aligned with the 10 United Nations Global Compact Principles.” Morten Fon, President and CEO 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HSE personnel auditing the Vindal factory in Sandefjord, Norway. Part of Jotun’s approach to CR includes providing a safe working environment for personnel. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE 30 Employees and the workplace Taking care of our people 32 31 Attracting future penguins 34 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Investing in people 35 “I Care” 36 Our commitment to health, safety and the environment 38 Providing safety at the workplace 39 Safety and prevention 40 Emergency response drills 41 International gatherings 42 Taking care of our people 32 Jotun strives to be a truly great and reliable employer. In addition to our strong commitment to the protection of basic human rights, we offer our employees a variety of opportunities in a friendly and supportive environment. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Number of employees Female Male Nationalities Jotun total 9 676 1 796 7 880 82 Scandinavia 1 105 315 790 30 West Europe 741 169 572 28 East Europe and Central Asia 594 143 451 8 North East Asia 1 869 323 1 546 12 South East Asia and Pacific 2 520 632 1 888 23 Middle East, India and Africa 2 658 173 2 485 48 Americas 189 41 148 12 The protection of basic human rights We try to create such an environment by: The starting point in our quest to be a great and reliable Empowering employees through involvement and ownership employer is to uphold basic human rights. To do this, Jotun Encouraging diversity in our workforce by hiring people has built a robust set of labour policies based on the UN regardless of gender, culture, religion and age Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation Promoting our corporate culture, Penguin Spirit, which (ILO) convention. All of our operations comply with local encourages and unites our diverse workforce in pursuit of laws, international standards and Jotun’s standards. This common goals approach ensures that: Allocating resources to social events such as family days, value days, sport days, factory openings, and formal The rights of our employees are respected at all times dinners. This strengthens our culture and teamwork. Jotun is not complicit in human rights abuses, especially with respect to legal working hours, child labour and Developing global standards forced labour Group HR in cooperation with Regional HR establishes policies, Employees can do their job without fear concepts and standards, which are implemented by HR Employees are fairly compensated and the local management teams. To ensure specific follow Employees enjoy freedom of association up, compliance and the sharing of learning, we perform Discrimination is prevented in all its forms thorough HR reviews in each company, on a yearly basis. All employees receive employment contracts and a job description Recruitment policy Equal opportunity is observed during the hiring process Attract, recruit and develop. This is the Jotun philosophy on Health and safety standards are met building and further developing our workforce. We have developed a global recruitment standard, which aims to Being a great and reliable employer ensure that we: On top of this, Jotun strongly believes that all of our stakeholders benefit from a positive internal working Attract the right potential candidates to apply for vacant environment, where employees are valued and encouraged positions to fulfil their potential. One obvious benefit can be seen in Recruit the most suitable candidate for the position and for our high level of employee involvement and engagement, the long-term need, based on objective and reliable criteria which is also reflected in low overall turnover rates. Develop all employees’ competence and skills to ensure lifelong learning and growth 33 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE In 2014, Jotun received the 2014 HR Award presented by HR Norway to groups or institutions that have contributed to the development of the field by being a role model, establishing excellent organisational practices or otherwise promoting the HR discipline in a meritorious manner. KEY INITIATIVES IN 2014 Employer branding Compensation and benefit Implemented an employer branding campaign. Implemented global travel insurance provider Europe See page 34 to find out more. Assistance from 1 January for people on mobility contracts and in the MEIA region Job descriptions and job structure Piloted MEIA risk insurance project – first phase includes Piloted a portal to conduct job evaluations globally 11 countries – Job Evaluation Manager Implemented the ECA salary review system for executives Created a Job Evaluation Certification Academy, through on mobility contracts which 15 HR professionals were certified Created a workshop for managers about writing Global mobility high-quality job descriptions Established the Mobile Workforce Policy, which provides international exposure and challenges to employees Recruitment Implemented benefits and processes, in order to better Trained and certified HR staff in Jotun’s recruitment support dual career families concept in order to secure a high quality, consistent and Established repatriation routines, to improve the ROI after professional recruiting process. 82 HR professionals are an assignment for both the employee and Jotun currently certifie. Attracting future penguins 34 To secure profitable growth, it is critical that Jotun attracts qualified and suitable people. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE In 2013, we realised that we had established a leading-edge The four themes that emerged were: hiring process, but we still had some challenges in attracting A history of reinventing and innovating high quality products candidates to apply for our positions. To address this, Group A friendly and supportive culture HR launched an Employer Branding initiative, which started Professional development and internal job opportunities in 2014 and will run throughout 2015. Financial strength and market success Although Jotun companies had been running local These four themes will be further refined to create the verbal initiatives, we needed a unified approach in presenting and visual brand for Jotun as an employer. Jotun as an attractive employer. This was especially true in new markets, where Jotun was not a well-known company Penguins as ambassadors among job seekers. The Employer Branding initiative will, in cooperation with our HR and marketing teams worldwide, generate marketing What makes Jotun an attractive employer? material, a professional presence on relevant social media, To discover our employer value proposition, we ran a advertising templates, and local activities that are aimed at research project surveying external professionals and our showcasing Jotun as an attractive employer, and attracting employees, to understand what job seekers find attractive a higher number of qualified and suitable candidates. In in prospective employers, and to discover what characterises addition to this, the strongest marketing tool at our disposal Jotun as a company. Using this information we could identify is our employees. Because no matter the situation we are in, themes which are both attractive externally and we are always regarded as penguins, and representatives of true internally. Jotun. Investing in people Creating an environment where employees are encouraged to develop their skills and move ahead 35 in their career keeps turnover low and gives Jotun a competitive edge. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Jotun invests significant resources in continually developing before the training period starts, a quarter during training, the skills of our people. This is mainly done through our and the remaining half completed after the training has dedicated Competence Development department, which ended. coordinates and supports competence development activities for all segments and regions. In 2014, the department In 2014, we introduced two new measures to support focused on ensuring lasting changes in behaviour, improving pre-course learning: sales competence and exploring new learning trends. Sales Academy content training (e-learning) for managers and HR. The plan is to roll out content training in the Jotun Academy other academies. The academy was established in 2006 as the hub of all An awareness mail for managers explaining their company training. It now includes courses in human responsibilities in relation to their team members’ training resources, marketing, sales, purchasing, R&D, operations, technical sales support, finance, management, and other Due to the importance of post-course learning, we have put standalone modules. a great deal of effort into processes that help the participant reiterate what they have learned and achieve a lasting New Customer Service Academy change in behaviour. In 2014 we introduced these measures: In 2014, Jotun piloted its latest academy, the Customer Increased follow-up and greater focus on measuring Service Academy. The academy will provide Jotun’s 600 post-course work Customer Service professionals with the necessary knowMandatory use of key issue talks (KIT) ledge, skills and mindset to excel in this discipline. The Assessment of behavioural change through self course has been tailored to our needs and aims to differentievaluation, 180 and 360 degree surveys ate Jotun through market-leading service. With this addition, Jotun now offers training for the entire sales process. E-learning launched One of the most important tools for achieving a lasting Creating a lasting change in behaviour change in behaviour is e-solutions. In 2014 we launched To secure a greater return on investment, we strive to enable a new e-learning portal. We now have nearly 9 000 users participants to achieve a lasting change in their behaviour. and offer over 170 courses. We use this mainly for product This means placing more emphasis on the work done by the and concept specific training. We also launched Enalyzer, employee and their manager before and after the training offering Jotun employees a standardised, cost effective period. Ideally, a quarter of the learning should be done survey tool. “I Care” 36 In 2014, Jotun rolled out “I Care”, an internal HSE campaign to raise HSE awareness and thereby reduce the number of unwanted incidents and accidents. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE The “I Care” campaign, which was launched in 2013 and Save Energy ran through 2014, was comprised of four focus areas: Launched first half of 2014. Activities included: Drive Safely, Save Energy, Prevent Fire and Stay Safe. Installing skylights, energy meters, LED lights Jotun recommended actions for each of these at a global Painting dark areas white level, based on challenges identified in HSE audits. Local Reducing use of air conditioning units companies also developed many of their own initiatives as Switching off equipment and lighting when not in use part of these four campaigns. Implementing electrical check-ups Engaging all employees Prevent Fires President and CEO, Morten Fon, said it best: “Care is one of Launched mid-2014. Activities included: Jotun’s four values, and applies to all penguins, all the time.” Sending out information on how to prevent fires at home For this reason, “I Care” had the ambitious goal of reaching and in hotels when travelling each and every employee. This began with choosing focus Conducting safety walks on electrical installations in areas that all penguins could relate to, exemplified by the offices and factories Drive Safely campaign. Providing ‘lessons learned’ analysis from all fires in 2014 Focus on programmes to check and maintain grounding The campaign was branded and internal marketing material, equipment such as stickers and badges, was issued to all companies. Fire-fighting training In addition, HSE coordinators held meetings to inform employees and key information was translated into local Stay Safe languages. Evaluations show the campaign to be a big Launched second half of 2014. Activities included: success. Drive safely, for example, recorded 95 per cent Introducing toolbox safety talks as a corporate tool awareness and an 87 per cent satisfaction rate among This is a five to ten minute ‘everyday talk’ about safety respondents. Launching e-learning on safe storage which has been completed by 311 people Drive Safely Improving root cause analysis for all accidents 2014 activities included: Focusing on preventing ‘fall from height’ Ongoing focus on safe driving of forklifts Introduced new requirement for suppliers of personnel Future of “I Care” transportation The challenge for Jotun is for our employees to maintain New requirements for Jotun drivers their attention to HSE after the campaign ends. Jotun will Running a pilot for Drive Safely card continue to use “I Care” as a way of driving engagement and communicating important HSE issues. TOP MANAGEMENT SUPPORT Jotun’s President and CEO has the overall responsibility for facilities in one year, meeting personally with Jotun employees HSE results at Group level and each General Manager has to focus on this message and also to share information and the corresponding responsibility for each country site. Howdiscuss challenges related to HSE. His visits were an effective ever, the entire organisation is expected to contribute within means to raise awareness, to demonstrate the company’s their own workplace. In 2014, Morten Fon became the first active support for HSE issues, and to personally give the sites President and CEO to visit all of Jotun’s 33 production his message “I Care.” 37 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE In 2014, Morten Fon became Jotun’s first President & CEO to visit all of Jotun’s production facilities in a single year in an effort to raise HSE awareness. Our commitment to health, safety and the environment 38 Jotun combines a high level of commitment to the safety and welfare of our employees with an HSE system that we constantly work to improve. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE As well as genuinely caring about our workforce, Jotun A standard based on best practices realises the strategic value in promoting a high level of HSE. Our ambition is to build Jotun’s future HSE management It leads to high morale, improved efficiency, reduced sick system around best practices from the Jotun network. Every leave and lower injury rates and builds loyalty among our day Jotun personnel are coming up with smarter solutions personnel. that could be shared globally. The first challenge is to identify them. With this in mind, we have several tools and policies in place that ensure a high level of HSE. These include: Jotun is developing a best practice approach to HSE by: Jotun HSE Standard, which is applied in addition Recruiting more HSE professionals. All Jotun companies to national laws and regulations have a full time HSE coordinator and in 2014 we HSE audits to check if Jotun companies are in compliance employed four new Group HSE managers, as part of a with national laws and the Jotun HSE Standard. Analyses team of six. Two of these six are based in our two biggest of findings are used to define HSE objectives, target regions, Middle East, India and Africa, and South East Asia risk areas and develop training activities to address specific and Pacific. issues. Visiting Jotun companies with a goal to identify best The certification of all production companies with practices ISO 9001 and 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Mapping the HSE strengths and weaknesses of all Jotun Strong support from the Board of Directors and Group companies management, which is clearly communicated throughout Training and engaging employees to take ownership the organisation. HSE performance is discussed in Board of their tasks, which we have found often leads to better meetings, business reviews and management meetings. practice Extraordinary programmes such as “I Care” (see page Re-shaping our audit programme to focus more on risk 36/37) that target particular areas of HSE management, rather than breaches of compliance HSE evaluation of raw materials. We evaluate all chemicals Continually emphasising the strategic importance of HSE used in Jotun products to ensure that they are safely handled through the supply chain. 2014 year of the HSE standard In 2013, Group HSE identified the need to better educate personnel about our HSE requirements and made this a top priority for 2014. Actions taken included: Launching two e-learning courses. At the end of 2014, more than 300 employees had completed each of these courses, including the test. Actively using the HSE Standard during training in regional HSE meetings Creating a printable pre-audit checklist of all HSE requirements Starting to share best practices These activities have had an immediate payoff, with improvement in the 2014 HSE audit results. Providing safety at the workplace Jotun maintains a strong health and safety record by working continuosly to improve 39 systems and procedures to prevent fires and reduce environmental damage. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE The Stay Safe campaign was Group HSE’s main focus in the Training area of health and safety in 2014. As part of the campaign, Jotun believes that training is the key to maintaining strong HSE days were arranged in many Jotun companies, in addition HSE performance. In 2014, employees received an average to the Stay Safe activities listed on page 36. For example, Jotun of 11 hours of HSE training. This training included: Australia held a HSE day in September at its manufacturing New e-learning courses on safe storage and HSE standard site. The event focused on group activities such as: ‘Tool box talks’ – where work ceases for a five minute Fire safety at home HSE-related discussion First aid The correct use of protective equipment when handling A risk assessment looking at physical and chemical hazards hazardous materials, which was completed by 2 056 A treasure hunt and a pilates class employees in 2014 Jotun Operations Academy and Operator Training, which HSE coordinator meeting has a strong emphasis on operational HSE. 582 people Three regional HSE coordinator meetings were held in completed this training in 2014. 2014, with a focus on key HSE topics such as handling of hazardous chemicals, waste separation and fire prevention. BEHAVIOUR-BASED SAFETY PROGRAMME IN SAUDI ARABIA In 2014, Jotun Saudi Arabia launched a behaviour-based safety programme. The programme focused on all areas of HSE, with the aim of enhancing the factory’s safety culture through group discussions regarding the safe performance of certain tasks.For example, one focus area was to ensure operators always used seatbelts on forklifts. By encouraging workers to take ownership of their own safety, the programme created an atmosphere of positive reinforcement and helped strengthen a culture of safety within the group. LOST TIME INJURY RATE AVERAGE DAYS OF ABSENCE PER INJURY Number of injuries resulting in more than one day absence Jotun Group per million working hours (H-value) for Jotun Group 2014 2014 2013 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 2010 2010 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 0 3 6 9 12 15 Safety and prevention 40 As a chemical company, Jotun needs to prepare for a variety of potential threats. Of these, the outbreak of fire represents the biggest risk factor at Jotun’s plants. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Jotun has contingency plans in place for many threats, such Specific incidents in 2014 as organised crime and violence in the workplace. However, In 2014 we reported a total of 14 fires. None of these fires preventing fires remains our main concern. Therefore we put were major incidents and there were no injuries or serious considerable resources into ensuring we have the necessary damage to property as a result. Four fires were caused training and systems in place to deal with this threat. by hot work, such as welding, soldering and cutting. The remaining ten were electrical fires, although most of these Zero tolerance to fires were very minor. Since we often work in close proximity to chemicals, especially solvents, even the smallest of fires carries serious Prevent Fire: Lessons learned potential consequences. That’s why Jotun has a zero Each of these fire incidents represents a learning opportunity, tolerance policy, which means that we report and investigate and the chance to prevent such episodes from recurring and even the most minor events. potentially leading to a major fire. One of the Prevent Fire initiatives for the “I Care” campaign was to compile “lessons In addition to the safe treatment of solvents, we focus our learned” from each of the fires in 2014. According to the preventative measures on high-risk areas including: evaluation, this was the most useful initiative in the Prevent Fires campaign. Static electricity Hot work in our factories A template was used to provide: Electrical installations in offices, laboratories, warehouses A description of the fire and factories The root cause The separation of chemicals and waste Lessons learned Actions required Sharing this information initiated many activities among Jotun companies, who were keen to ensure that such events didn’t occur on their premises. Fire prevention measures In addition to the actions conducted as part of our Prevent Fires drive (see more on page 36), our fire prevention measures include: Fire-fighting training, focusing on both theory and practical drills and exercises Fire-resistant facilities Personal protective equipment Automatic fire detection systems Modern fire-fighting equipment Foam-based extinguishers at factories and warehouses handling solvent-based products Emergency response drills Though sound safety policies are important, realistic drills are the best way to build 41 confidence in our ability to respond in the case of an emergency. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE In September 2014, Jotun arranged a fire and emergency effectively to an actual incident. The drills are designed to exercise at the factory in Sandefjord. Like all factories in test all the facets of emergency response; preparedness, the Jotun network, personnel conduct frequent emergency plans, systems, and organisation, including crisis media response drills to ensure preparedness in the event of fire. management, with the communication team on the scene to New scenarios are developed for each drill, to make the field questions from external people acting as print and TV exercise as realistic as possible and to provide the best journalists. Of course, worker safety is the most important possible test for the organisation. consideration, but when an accident occurs, it can result in damage to Jotun’s reputation if it isn’t handled properly. At the production site, planners chose to simulate an accident on the roof of the storage building, which ignited Other departments involved in the exercise included the a truck and spread to another area, “injuring” a total of five HR department, tasked with handling “injured” employees workers, including three external contractors. Jotun response who may have required hospital treatment, and sharing personnel (fire, first aid, safety) and the Crisis Management information on their status with their families and colleagues. Team (Scandinavia) cooperated with external rescue personnel (fire brigade, police and ambulance) to handle the Valuable experience incident. If an accident happens, Jotun needs to ensure that our personnel have the proper training to do their jobs under Comprehensive response pressure. The exercise in Sandefjord was a good example Bringing the emergency response teams together in a of how drills provide valuable experience and reveal areas realistic situation builds the teamwork needed to respond where improvements can be made. Jotun works closely with local fire departments and emergency response personnel to coordinate activities during drills. 42 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Every summer, Jotun arranges a gathering to bring together Group, Company, Segment and Regional managers to discuss common challenges, share information and strengthen relationships. International gatherings To help Jotun personnel work more effectively across borders, 43 the company regularly organises global and regional meetings to enable Jotun personnel to share best practices, business EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE intelligence and build social networks with colleagues working in other countries. Jotun remains committed to organising and sponsoring formal and informal events on a local level to align the business and reinforce Jotun’s corporate culture. However, our growing size and geographical diversity, combined with an increasingly globalised economy, have encouraged the company to take a more international approach to the business. To leverage Jotun’s presence worldwide, the company has organised global and regional events that have strengthened international networks and have helped employees to work more closely together across borders. Regional meetings To support regional cooperation, Jotun organised a number of international events in 2014, where employees based in different countries gathered together to meet with colleagues working in the same part of the business (e.g. Human Resources, Purchasing, etc.) For example, in preparation for the regional launch of the Decorative interior product Majestic True Beauty in South East Asia, the company brought together personnel representing each country for internal sales training events, and to coordinate the company ‘s first-ever conceptual product launch in the region. Global events In 2014, Jotun sponsored two major global events. In May, more than 200 chemists representing every region and country gathered in Sandefjord, for the first-ever global R&D conference. Organised over three days, the Jotun R&D Conference focused on sustainability and technology and featured lectures from both external and internal speakers. The Global R&D Conference also included social events, providing participants an opportunity to network with colleagues. In June, Jotun organised a Top Management Conference in Sandefjord. The three-day event, attended by 82 top managers from all over the world, included presentations on the importance of HSE, a review of the global coatings market, Jotun’s results and long term strategic planning, among other topics. Jotun also organised sporting events, entertainment and group dinners, providing participants more informal settings to catch up with old friends, get to know new people and share experiences. While organising these events is time and resourceintensive, they help Jotun’s business by encouraging communication across borders, strengthening our corporate culture and contributing to Jotun’s growing international profile. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT 44 Environmental commitment Jotun GreenSteps 46 45 Our carbon footprint 47 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Reducing our impact on the environment 48 Working towards a greener world 49 Jotun R&D: Better, greener, faster 51 Jotun GreenSteps 46 For many years, the Jotun GreenSteps programme has given structure to our efforts to develop greener products and implementing environmental initiatives. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Cleaner products Type II has a high purity grade, with max. 0.01 per cent Research and development at Jotun has long focused on lead content by weight. creating greener and safer products, for both environmental Launched Save Energy campaign, as part of the “I Care” and commercial reasons. Better environmental outcomes are campaign. Actions included installing skylights, energy achieved directly by substituting chemicals, and indirectly, by meters, LED lights, greater use of white paints in factories, offering our customers products that protect their property reduced use of air-conditioners, and electrical check-ups more effectively and for longer periods of time. Conducted study of supply chain in Europe to identify potential efficiencies In addition, we continually strive to manufacture these Included Jotun GreenSteps issues in supplier audits products in a more efficient and sustainable manner. Our goals for 2015 and beyond Through Jotun GreenSteps, we have launched a range of Continue to reduce the TiO2 content of our paints internal and external initiatives, some of which are listed below. without reducing quality or lowering opacity Continue to improve durability and increase maintenance Main activities in 2014 intervals for our products Launched more environmentally friendly and longer lasting Reduce hazardous chemicals in products applied by products within the following product ranges: consumers SeaQuantum (Hull Performance Solutions), Jotamastic, Continue to reduce the amount of solvents per litre of Steelmaster, Hardtop, Pilot, Jotaguard, Tankguard, coating within the Marine and Protective segments Fenomastic, Jotashield and Jotacote Reduce amount of waste to 2 per cent of the Phased out lead chromates from all paint and coatings production volume by 2016 formulations worldwide Work towards goal of substituting all solvent based Substituted Zinc dust type I with Zinc dust type II. decorative paints with waterborne products Our carbon footprint Jotun has a commitment to reduce the carbon footprint throughout the whole value chain and has 47 implemented a range of measures to make reductions on a per-tonne-produced basis. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Save Energy campaign Some of the many actions implemented included: In 2014 Jotun put energy saving measures in place as part Making sure lights and appliances were turned off during of the Save Energy focus for the “I Care” campaign. The the lunch hour and at the end of the day campaign aimed to increase awareness as to the importance Establishing a production planning committee with easy of saving energy and to develop good habits that would monitoring of production planning for operators continue after the campaign ended. Enabling more accurate usage measurement by, for example, installing separate electric meters for lights and Group HSE provided recommendations for reducing energy air-conditioners consumption (listed on page 36), and thereby our CO2 Following up and monitoring progress of the action plan emissions. Considering most of our carbon emissions are monthly together with department KPIs (Key Performance due to electricity use, this is where we placed our emphasis. Indicators) Jotun Thailand cuts electricity use Carbon footprint report Jotun Thailand is a good example of how companies Jotun prepares Carbon Accounting Report for the Group implemented and benefited from this programme. The and regions annually. The intention of the report is to track company managed to reduce its electrical consumption by our total CO2 emissions in each region and get an overview 16 per cent, per tonne produced. This led to a significant of which areas and companies contributes to our CO2 ouput. drop in both costs and emissions. In 2014, Jotun’s global emissions were 80 100 tonnes of Jotun Thailand achieved this by implementing a combination CO2 equivalents, compared to 82 400 in 2013. This is an of Save Energy recommendations as well as its own overall reduction of 3 per cent since last year. 77 per cent initiatives. To engage personnel, the company established of the emission comes from use of electricity while 13 per an energy saving plan that was clearly communicated to all cent comes from internal transport, 6 per cent from energy staff. generation and 4 per cent from chemical process emissions. EMISSION SOURCE EMISSIONS PER TONNE PRODUCED Jotun Group (kg CO2e/tonne) Jotun Group 13% Internal transport 2014 6% Energy generation 13% Internal transport 4% Chemical process emissions 6% Energy generation 2013 77% Electricity 4% Chemical process emissions 77% Electricity 2012 0 20 000 40 000 60 000 80 000 100 000 Reducing our impact on the environment 48 Jotun aims to strike a balance between waste and production volumes. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Jotun’s waste is currently 2.1 per cent of production and our Emissions to air aim is to reduce that to 2 per cent by 2016. Recycling waste Emissions to air from Jotun’s factories are mainly linked to and production planning are two of the most important the production of solvent-based paints. Recently, Jotun has ways we can achieve this. faced strict emissions permit requirements for VOC to air in China and Korea. The solution at two plants in China was to Contaminated sites install a Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer (RTO), which enables Our environmental responsibility starts before we buy self-sustained combustion of solvents at a much lower land for our plants. We identify any potential sources of concentration than normally required. Although the solution environmental risk and determine whether any measures for is working well, additional options are currently being avoiding pollution are required. In 2013, Jotun conducted a studied in order to ensure that both production demands global survey to map the risks related to contaminated soil. and emissions regulations can continue to be met. In Korea, We then followed up the sites that were considered high risk odour restrictions led Jotun Korea to install a combination of in 2014. Several actions were initiated in order to clean up an RTO and a 50 metre high stack. These RTO investments these sites. Five additional producing sites were identified for will be at approx. NOK 50 million. future monitoring. Discharge to water Clean-up in Norway The cleaning of production equipment is the main cause The biggest challenge has been in Norway, where Jotun is of discharge from production. In 2014, Jotun’s factories in the process of cleaning up two sites, Gimle in Sandefjord generated 65 000 tonnes of washing and process water and Manger in Bergen, before decommissioning. Jotun worldwide, compared to 80 000 in 2013. Improvements had operated on those sites during the last century, when have been achieved by more recycling and better planning environment regulations were not as stringent. of production. In 2013, there was no accidental release of Jotun has worked closely with the authorities and has any substance that resulted in a significant impact on the agreed to allocate significant funds to ensure that the environment In some countries, wastewater is challenging areas are properly restored. We conducted environmental issue. Jotun is currently investigating smart wastewater assessments and removed polluted soil and at Manger, Jotun solutions for the future. dredged the seabed outside the nearby quay. The cost of this clean-up programme will be about NOK 50-60 million. HAZARDOUS AND NON HAZARDOUS WASTE GWh NonENERGY CONSUMPTION hazardous waste (as per cent of produced volume)Non hazardous for Jotun Groupwaste TotalHazardous for Jotun Group waste Non hazardous waste Hazardous waste Hazardous waste 2014 2014 2013 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 2010 2010 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 0 30 60 90 120 150 1.5 2.0 2.5 2.5 Working towards a greener world Jotun is working with regulators, customers and trade organisations to establish standards and tools 49 to define and share data on the role paints and coatings play in environmental sustainability. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Increased public awareness of the role chemicals play provide standardised environmental footprint labels to help in causing environmental damage has resulted in the consumers to make more informed decisions. The project development of a number of new regulations and standards is based on work carried out by The European Paint and conceived to limit or eliminate the use of potentially harmful Printing Ink Council (CEPE). CEPE has created a database, substances in paints. To provide the public and customers known as a Life Cycle Inventory (LCI), which can be used with more accurate and standardised information about the by manufacturers to evaluate the environmental impact of total environmental impact related to building construction their products from cradle to factory gate and allow users and the production of manufactured goods, many companies, to determine and compare the environmental footprint of including Jotun, provide Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs). different products. LCAs are also the basis for Environmental Product Helping users make informed decisions Declarations (EPDs), which provide information on the While more work needs to be done, one goal of the environmental impact of raw materials acquisition, energy project is to develop an easy-to-read eco-label that use and efficiency, content of materials and chemical provides consumers with more accurate data on the substances, emissions to air, soil and water and waste potential environmental risk of using certain Decorative generation. EPDs are created in accordance with standards Paints. In addition, EDPs will help developers comply with developed by the International Organization for best practices in sustainable building design, as defined Standardization (ISO). by BREEAM and LEED standards, which often include Decorative, and Powder and Protective Coatings. Jotun’s Cooperating on standards work in this area will not only help encourage more As early as 1995, Jotun worked with suppliers and customers environmentally conscious purchasing habits among users to provide detailed LCA data on a specific project, which and customers, but generate more sales for Jotun’s broad over four years included assessments of 42 Jotun coatings range of low-VOC and waterborne decorative paints and products. Since 2013, Jotun has been participating in a EU related coatings solutions. project, together with five other coatings manufacturers, to ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT 50 JOTUN R&D Better, greener, faster In response to growing demand for greener and healthier paints and coatings, Jotun Research & Development 51 works continuously to improve the environmental performance of its products by phasing out harmful substances and developing more sustainable products. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Over the past five years, public sensitivity to environmental WF, Steelmaster 1200 WF, among others. Jotun R&D also and health issues has notably increased and the demand works closely with key customers to develop products for more environmentally friendly paints and coatings has to meet environmental specifications unique to specific grown proportionately. At the same time, new and pending projects. While powder coatings do not have solvents, Jotun regulations limiting the use of solvents and other potentially has developed a number of products that cure at lower harmful substances have and will continue to influence temperatures, helping customers reduce energy costs and purchasing decisions among owners, contractors and corresponding emissions. In the Marine segment Jotun’s engineers active in a broad range of industrial segments. evolving line of antifoulings help decrease vessel speed loss over time, which reduces fuel usage and results in less Adapting to regional regulations and market trends emissions to air. Jotun has moved quickly to meet these global trends in all segments and countries. In the Decorative Paints segment, Sharing knowledge the company continues to develop waterborne exterior and Also in 2014, Jotun approved plans to invest in new binder interior paints and customise some products to meet local technologies (alkyd emulsions) and launched a web-based regulations. For example, in China, where strict solvent tool that will support innovation, research, development and restrictions are expected to be introduced over the next product management processes. The software application few years, Jotun has entered the interior wood decoration will enable personnel across functions, segments and regions segment with a complete range of waterborne products. to develop better ideas, prioritise the best and be guided in Throughout the Decorative segment, Jotun customises project execution and how to bring competitive innovations products to help developers comply with voluntary LEED and and products to market. In this way, Jotun R&D chemists BREEAM building standards. will be able to share knowledge with colleagues throughout the network, link innovations to market intelligence, and In the Protective and Marine segment, Jotun launched develop safer products that meet the evolving demands of a number of waterborne topcoats, primers and steel customers more quickly. protection products in 2014, including Pilot WF, Penguard JOTUN’S CHEMICAL POLICY Jotun has set targets for phasing out potentially harmful In 2014, the company ceased the use of lead chromates and substances. Over the last five years, the company has either n-methyl-2-pyrrolidone and tightened restrictions on other banned or eliminated the use of coal tar, carbendazim, alkylsubstances. Jotun will continue to evaluate all formulations phenol ethoxilates, lead siccatives and other potentially dangoing forward, and revise and amend policies as new data gerous substances from paints and coatings formulations. becomes available. 52 JOTUN AND SOCIETY Opening ceremony for a new school building in the rural town of Dongba, in Quinghai province on the Tibetan plateau. Jotun donated money and paint to the school, in cooperation with the regional education ministry and a local NGO. Jotun and society Giving on a global scale 54 53 Local community support 56 JOTUN AND SOCIETY Responsible purchasing 58 Building responsible business – Anti-corruption 60 Giving on a global scale 54 Jotun continues to fund relief efforts by the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) in major disaster areas around the world. JOTUN AND SOCIETY In 2014, Jotun made major donations to the IFRC for the Liberia and Guinea. At the time of printing, there had been Ebola outbreak in West Africa and flooding in the Balkans. almost 5200 deaths from the virus, and authorities were still In addition, the society continued to put Jotun’s 2013 working to gain control of the situation. donations to good use in Syria and the Philippines, proof, according to Red Cross Norway’s Secretary General, Åsne Despite the very harsh conditions and the danger involved, Havnelid, of the lasting impact such donations can have. Havnelid points out that attracting volunteers has not been a problem. Red Cross Norway had, up to the end of 2014, “Corporate donations are a critical source of fund raising sent 35 volunteer nurses, doctors and technical personnel for the IFRC,” she says, “We highly appreciate the major (more than any other country) to a field hospital in Sierra contributions Jotun has made over the years and I can assure Leone, where the volunteers have been: them that these funds have directly assisted many people in need.” Treating and isolating patients Providing safe burials methods to prevent traditional The IFRC’s unmatched global network makes it an obvious burials from spreading the virus candidate for Jotun’s humanitarian donations. The fact that Training local volunteers the IFRC is in 189 countries makes it easier for Jotun to Informing people in affected areas about how Ebola is make large donations when they are needed. spread and what to do in the event of contracting it Ebola outbreak Havnelid explains that the major problems are the lack Jotun made a significant donation to the IFRC for relief of control in responding to the crisis, the poverty and efforts in West Africa. The Ebola outbreak there is the largest lack of infrastructure in the affected countries and the fact in history and has devastated communities in Sierra Leone, that there is no proven medicine for treating Ebola. Jotun has been an active contributor to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) for decades. In 2014, Jotun supported IFRC’s efforts to combat the spread of the Ebola virus in West Africa, among other causes. 55 JOTUN AND SOCIETY The Balkans In May 2014, severe floods hit the Balkans region. Official counts indicate that over 1.6 million people were affected in Serbia and Bosnia. The bulk of Jotun’s contribution went to emergency supplies for victims and to helping people trace missing family members. Philippines Typhoon Haiyan affected about 16 million people in the Philippines. One year on, the Red Cross is still working on recovering the damage by building shelter, providing water and sanitation, and helping people make a livelihood. The money donated by Jotun didn’t just help during emergency operations but is also contributing to rebuilding the society and preventing such destruction in the event of another natural disaster. Syria As well as causing the deaths of well over 100 000 people, the civil war in Syria has seen some three million people flee the country. With Jotun’s support, Red Cross Norway helped The hospital opened a maternity ward in October and midwife Jaana establish a field hospital in a refugee camp in Jordan. Laine delivered this baby, which the mother named after her. The IFRC continues to provide support in the Philippines for regions devastated by Typhoon Haiyan in 2013. Local community support 56 With 68 companies in 43 countries all over the world, Jotun is in an excellent position to support a broad range of local charities, undertaking initiatives that help the company strengthen its links to the communities where we are active. JOTUN AND SOCIETY While the Jotun Group regularly provides funds to support Providing paint and financial support for a school global charitable and relief organisations (such as the IFRC), construction project in Qinghai, China the bulk of the company’s work in this area is managed and Providing financial support and paint to a trade school implemented by local Jotun companies. Indeed, considering in Jakarta, Indonesia Jotun’s size and geographical diversity, it would be difficult Organising the removal of litter from a streambed and counter-productive to coordinate or manage all regional in Busan, Korea corporate responsibility activities at a Group level. Rather, the company encourages managers in different countries Helping to make a new home to pursue such activities independently, so long as these In Thailand, Jotun has a long tradition of donating paint and activities conform to Jotun Corporate Governance policies time to schools and temples. In 2014, Jotun worked with and are consistent with Jotun values. the Mangpong Foundation to paint the Banbung School in Ratchaburi province. In addition, Jotun provided paint to Many ways to make a difference the newly-constructed Baan Jing Jai Children’s Home in the Projects vary significantly from region to region, year to year, resort city of Pattaya. and in the type of support provided. Examples include direct financial support, donating paint, organising crowd-sourced The charity, established in 1994, provides housing for social media campaigns to raise awareness of an issue street children who escaped from unstable or violent and often, Jotun employees giving their free time to lend homes. The home has been supported almost exclusively a helping hand. Jotun also works with local charities and by private donations, some of which has been coordinated NGOs, where appropriate. by the Norwegian Seamen’s Church. As the home became increasingly crowded, a group of volunteers formed a In 2014, Jotun companies participated in a broad range of committee in 2011 to raise money to build a brand new CR activities, including: home, with enough space for 100 children. Jotun has Raising money for the BBC’s “Children in Need donated paint for the new building complex, which is Campaign” in the UK scheduled to open in early 2015. SPARKLING IMAGINATION AND CREATIVITY Jotun works with a broad range of regional local and international organisations to support local charitable initiatives. In 2014, Jotun teamed up with ActionCare, a humanitarian organisation based in the UAE that conducts educational development programmes for families with limitedfinancial resources. Jotun provided paint to the newly renovated National Charity School in Al Garhoud, Dubai, which has about 5 600 students. 57 JOTUN AND SOCIETY Baan Jing Jai Children’s Home in Pattaya, Thailand. In 2014, Jotun contributed interior and exterior paint for a new facility, to be opened in 2015, with beds for 100 children. 58 JOTUN AND SOCIETY Melvin Lee, Purchasing Manager (Indirect Materials). While the bulk of Jotun’s purchases are related to raw materials, the company also audits suppliers of machinery and other equipment. Responsible purchasing Purchasing materials from responsible companies impacts positively on local communities 59 and helps Jotun build long-term relationships with suppliers. JOTUN AND SOCIETY Jotun has several tools in place to ensure that we do Supplier audits business with companies that respect human rights and In 2015, we will conduct our first re-audit, in addition to protect the environment. The most important of these are: auditing several new suppliers in China. Auditing all of these companies will require significant planning and resources. The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) ­– We aim to One of the ways Jotun will meet this additional demand is use suppliers whose operations align with the UNGC (see through the use of electronic auditing, which we piloted and page 61 for more detail) tested out in 2014. The Jotun supplier audit programme We audit all new suppliers and re-audit at least every six years Auditors will now use an app on either an iPad or an The Jotun Purchasing policy – This policy has recently been Android device. Jotun has tailored templates within the updated to define our strategic approach to purchasing, application, with separate templates for manufacturing the roles and responsibilities of employees, our processes, companies and suppliers of raw materials. To further our anti-corruption principles and how to treat suppliers streamline the auditing process, we have changed the in a professional and transparent manner sequence of the audit to suit the typical factory layout. We also formally remind our suppliers each year of our policy Electronic benefits: and our ethical approach to purchasing (Anti-corruption Reduces paper work policy). Makes reports more accessible for relevant Jotun employees Why sustainable purchasing is important Enables better use of data related to our suppliers This approach minimises the risk of doing business with a Simplifies updates in the audit template supplier that breaches local laws, or the UNGC. Sustainable Enables the integration of images in reports purchasing is also critical in helping Jotun achieve our three strategic purchasing goals: To prepare for an increasing number of audits in the coming years, Jotun is also training more employees to conduct Ensuring continuity of supplies to support Jotun’s growth supplier audits. Achieving the best terms in the market Ensuring value creation through mutually beneficial, longterm relationships with suppliers LOOKING IN THE MIRROR Jotun employee, Melvin Lee, conducted a case study of to scrutinise the practices of sub-suppliers. It is important, he Jotun’s corporate responsibility practices as part of his MBA concluded, to have a special focus on sub-suppliers. In light thesis. As a member of our purchasing department, he paid of the increased risk in the industry, Lee said it was critical particular attention to Jotun’s sustainable purchasing practicfor Jotun to forge ahead with its corporate responsibility es. He found that the chemical industry faces many challenges programme in order to mitigate reputational risk and deliver in this area, in part due to its reliance on external resources the best standards for all stakeholders. Lee found that Jotun’s such as suppliers and sub-suppliers. biggest advantage in guarding against such malpractice was a strong corporate culture, where being responsible by doing In order to mitigate risk, Lee recommended that Jotun conthe right and ethical thing was ingrained throughout the comtinues to expand its supplier audit programme, and continues pany and its work practices. Building responsible business Anti-corruption 60 Jotun protects against reputational risk through a variety of tools and policies, and by building up the best defence of all, a robust corporate culture. JOTUN AND SOCIETY Corruption in all its forms is the main reputational risk we Training on anti-corruption during the induction face. We combat it through a variety of means, starting programme for new employees with our anti-corruption policy. Although the way of doing business varies from country to country, our policy is global Building our culture and consistent. It applies to all people employed by Jotun We believe that a strong corporate culture is vital to building Group and its affiliated companies. We also try to ensure a responsible and successful business. We’re always looking that those we do business with are in compliance with our for new ways to reinforce our culture, and in 2014 we standards. To combat corruption effectively, however, a developed a board game, called the Penguin Spirit game. multi-faceted approach is needed. Penguin Spirit board game Jotun commitments: As each player advances around the board, they land on Complying with laws and regulations different squares and draw cards. These cards present Supporting Transparency International questions and discussion points on all of the areas of our and the UN Global Compact culture – company history, integrity compliance, antiProtecting whistleblowers corruption and safety issues. Promoting an open and transparent business culture The Penguin Spirit game is played in a relaxed environment Anti-corruption tools and training: where sensitive topics can be discussed openly. The Penguin Compliance manuals and tools featuring guidelines, Spirit board game aims to: dilemmas and practical rules of action Trigger lively discussions on important topics related to Reports on anti-corruption activities in business reviews, our culture and ethical business practices yearly reports, and in twice-yearly Board meetings Encourage and provide a common understanding Internal audits of Jotun companies’ work on anti-corruption of what it means to conduct business responsibly Education and practical dilemma training, especially for Reinforce our corporate culture higher-risk groups likes sales, purchasing and management Introduced in 2014, the “Penguin Sprit game” addresses all different aspects of Jotun culture from history, integrity compliance, anti-corruption to HSE issues. 61 As a member of Transparency International Norway Jotun is committed JOTUN AND SOCIETY to zero tolerance towards all forms of corruption and to work for the implementation of values, codes of conduct and anti-corruption programmes covering all of the organization. Jotun’s international commitments human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Jotun supports several international standards and declarations. With over 12 000 participants from more than 145 countries, We use these standards to guide our CR efforts. The two most it is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative in notable of these are Transparency International (TI) and the UN the world. Global Compact. See the below table for references in this report about how UN Global Compact Jotun aligns its strategy and operations with the ten principles. The Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that (UNGC table) align their strategy and operations to ten principles within HUMAN RIGHTS PAGES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection 28, 29, 32, 54, 56, 59, 60 of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 32, 59 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 32, 59 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 32, 56, 39 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 32, 56, 59 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 32, 59 and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 15, 24, 28, 36, 38, 40, 46-51, 59 environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 15, 24, 28, 36, 38, 40, 46-51, 59 responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 15, 24, 28, 46-51, 59 friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 28, 59, 60 including extortion and bribery. For more information on the Global Compact see www.globalcompact.org FINANCIAL INFO 62 Financial Info Chairman of the Board 64 63 Financial info 65 FINANCIAL INFO Company overview 70 Organisation 72 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, ODD GLEDITSCH D.Y. Strong performance 64 Jotun’s positive results in 2014 owe much to the company’s strong performance in the second part of the year. However, slower growth recorded in the first two tertiaries of 2014 served as a powerful reminder that we cannot take our enduring success for granted. FINANCIAL INFO Board of Directors, from left: Birger Amundsen, Ingrid Luberth, Nicolai A. Eger, Odd Gleditsch d.y. (Chairman), Richard Arnesen, Terje Andersen, Karl Otto Tveter and Einar Abrahamsen. Jotun’s growth has continued uninterrupted since 2003, and However, maintaining our healthy growth rate in the future 2014 was no exception. To help support this growth, the will require that we continue to improve our performance Board of Directors has approved financing for more than a in every aspect of the business. For example, we see room dozen new factories, factory upgrades, offices, warehouses, for improvement in project execution (factory construction, R&D laboratories and has funded a broad range of other systems implementation, etc.), initiatives that too often are initiatives. Today, Jotun has more employees and production plagued by costly and unnecessary delays. And while we capacity than ever before. acknowledge the sincere and dedicated efforts by personnel throughout the organisation to improve HSE performance, Wake up call the Board will continue to challenge management until While the Board remains wholly committed to supporting results meet with our expectations. Jotun’s growth going forward, we were reminded in 2014 that our business is vulnerable to market forces beyond Avoiding complacency our control. A persistently weak newbuilding market in the At present, Jotun’s business model focuses on growth, and Marine segment, combined with unanticipated delays for a the Board will continue to evaluate and support investments number of projects in the Protective segment, slowed our to build the business. Positive economic developments growth in the first half of the year. This led to some concerns in industrial segments and regions where we are active about how best to manage the business going forward. suggest a strong year for Jotun in 2015. However, as we learned in the summer of 2014, our growth trajectory is not The Board is pleased with how the organisation responded guaranteed. We had another strong year, but cannot afford to these challenges to get the company back on track. to become complacent. Financial info Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 65 The income statement presents revenues and expenses for the companies consolidated in the Group and measures the results for the accounting FINANCIAL INFO period in accordance with current IFRS standards as adopted by the EU. All internal matters have been eliminated. The profit or loss statement distinguishes between what is deemed to be the Group’s operations and what is deemed to be of a more financial nature. The result of investments in associates is presented on a single line. The notes explain the content of the various accounting lines. The statement of other comprehensive income is presented as a separate table in connection with the income statement. The table shows all income and expenses that are not included in the “Profit for the year“. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS (NOK thousand) 2014 2013 Operating revenue 13 170 781 12 034 454 Share of profit from associated companies and joint ventures 356 352 286 961 Cost of goods sold -7 118 515 -6 515 133 Payroll expenses -2 191 774 -2 016 281 Other operating expenses -2 566 327 -2 228 257 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -336 929 -303 883 Operating profit 1 313 588 1 257 862 Net financial items -12 166 -66 494 Profit before tax 1 301 422 1 191 368 Income tax -355 737 -334 625 Profit for the year 945 685 856 743 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Actuarial gains (losses) on defined benefit pension plans 1 137 -9 623 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Translation differences on net investments in foreign operations 149 202 30 510 Loss on hedge of net investments in foreign operations -120 010 3 407 Currency translation difference 803 860 183 967 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 834 190 208 260 Total comprehensive income for the year 1 779 875 1 065 003 Profit for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 894 920 798 268 Non-controlling interests 50 765 58 475 Total 945 685 856 743 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 1 695 833 1 002 222 Non-controlling interests 84 042 62 781 Total 1 779 875 1 065 003 Consolidated statement of financial position The statement of financial position presents the Group’s total assets and shows how they have been financed, broken down into equity and liabilities. All internal matters between companies in the Group have been eliminated. According to the system of classification applied to the statement of financial position, current assets and liabilities belong to a normal operating cycle, are cash and cash equivalents or have a useful life/ repayment time of less than one year. Other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current. IFRS financial statements are oriented towards the statement of financial position and only items that satisfy the criteria for definition as assets and liabilities may be recognised in the statement of financial position. Equity is a residual. The various standards determine how the items are to be treated. The valuation of the balance sheet items is therefore a combination of fair value (Derivative financial instruments), amortised cost (trade receivables), cost (inventories), cost minus depreciation (property, plant and equipment), and recoverable amount (certain written down assets). The statement of financial position items are explained in the notes to the financial statements. (NOK thousand) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 ASSETS Non-current assets 66 Deferred tax assets 134 957 97 732 Other intangible assets 281 508 231 868 FINANCIAL INFO Property, plant and equipment 3 754 514 2 967 311 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 1 491 021 1 163 318 Other investments 8 248 8 248 Other interest-bearing receivables 202 855 184 647 Total non-current assets 5 873 104 4 653 125 Current assets Inventories 1 957 520 1 762 005 Trade and other receivables 4 047 525 3 263 759 Cash and cash equivalents 1 421 421 1 120 161 Total current assets 7 426 466 6 145 925 Total assets 13 299 570 10 799 050 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 102 600 102 600 Other equity 6 484 811 5 301 977 Non-controlling interests 151 356 110 090 Total equity 6 738 767 5 514 667 Non-current liabilities Pension liabilities 193 164 184 888 Deferred tax liabilities 32 194 36 489 Provisions 42 006 30 006 Interest-bearing debt 2 379 037 1 368 482 Interest-free debt 23 934 23 325 Total non-current liabilities 2 670 335 1 643 190 Current liabilities Interest-bearing debt 946 843 1 258 748 Trade and other payables 1 514 783 1 235 491 Current tax payable 159 397 127 202 Other current liabilities 1 269 445 1 019 752 Total current liabilities 3 890 468 3 641 193 Total liabilities 6 560 803 5 284 383 Total equity and liabilities 13 299 570 10 799 050 Sandefjord, Norway, 10 February 2015 Board of Directors Jotun A/S Odd Gleditsch d.y. Einar Abrahamsen Richard Arnesen Birger Amundsen Chairman Morten Fon Nicolai A. Eger Ingrid Luberth Karl Otto Tveter Terje Andersen President & CEO Consolidated statement of cash flows The statement of cash flows present how the Group’s cash flows are broken down into cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities, according to the indirect method. The cash flow statement explains the general changes in the Group’s liquidity since the previous accounting period. (NOK thousand) 2014 2013 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before tax 1 301 422 1 191 368 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows: Share of profit from associated companies and joint ventures 2 -356 352 -286 961 Dividend paid from associated companies and joint ventures 2 378 481 247 916 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 7, 8 336 929 303 883 Change in accruals, provisions and other 251 394 61 610 67 Working capital adjustments: FINANCIAL INFO Change in trade and other receivables -783 764 -440 190 Change in trade and other payables 279 292 138 597 Change in inventories -195 514 -192 571 Tax payments 6 -293 336 -204 193 Net cash flow from operating activities 918 552 819 358 Cash flow from investing activities Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 8 13 585 8 932 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 8 -842 303 -659 790 Purchase of intangible assets 7 -68 326 -73 376 Purchase of shares from non-controllling interests 18 -17 145 Net cash flow used in investing activities -897 044 -741 379 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 14 1 289 531 1 373 607 Repayments of borrowings 14 -589 906 -682 272 Dividends paid 17 -513 000 -513 000 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -42 775 -35 927 Net cash flow from financing activities 143 849 142 408 Net currency translation effect 135 904 97 762 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 165 357 220 388 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 13 1 120 161 802 012 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 13 1 421 421 1 120 161 Jotun Group had unused credit facilities of NOK 900 million as at 31 December 2014 (2013: NOK 900 million). Consolidated statement of changes in equity The statement of changes in equity from one period to the next in accordance with the Group’s profit or loss. Transactions with owners will be specified and applies to matters such as dividends to shareholders and share issues. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will affect equity in the form of currency differences on translation of foreign operations. Attributable to parent company equity holders NonShare Translation controlling (NOK thousand) capital Other equity differences Total interests Total equity Equity as at 1 January 2013 102 600 4 792 677 31 819 4 927 095 88 641 5 015 736 Dividends -513 000 -513 000 -35 927 -548 927 Profit of the period 798 268 798 268 58 475 856 743 Other comprehensive income 24 294 179 661 203 954 4 306 208 260 68 Acquisition of non-controlling interests -11 739 -11 739 -5 406 -17 145 Equity as at 31 December 2013 102 600 5 090 499 211 479 5 404 578 110 090 5 514 667 FINANCIAL INFO Dividends -513 000 -513 000 -42 775 -555 775 Profit of the period 894 920 894 920 50 765 945 685 Other comprehensive income 30 329 770 584 800 913 33 277 834 190 Equity as at 31 December 2014 102 600 5 502 749 982 063 6 587 412 151 356 6 738 767 Executive summary of the financial statement for 2014 General Jotun Group’s share of total equity in associates and joint The consolidated financial statement consists of Jotun A/S ventures amounts to NOK 1 491 million (2013: NOK 1 163 and 57 subsidiaries, three joint ventures in China and Korea million), and is reported as non-current assets in the balance and seven associated companies in U.A.E., Saudi Arabia sheet. and Yemen. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated independent of shareholding, while joint ventures and associates are Working Capital accounted for based on the equity method and share of Working capital increased to NOK 4 490 million as of 31 profit reported in the income statement based on actual December 2014 from NOK 3 790 million the previous year. shareholding. The increase is tied to generally higher activity following the Group’s sales growth, in addition to significant currency 69 The Jotun Group’s consolidated financial statements have been translation effects. FINANCIAL INFO prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations as adopted by the Net interest bearing debt International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and approved The net interest bearing debt for the Group was NOK 1 702 by the European Union (EU). million at year end 2014 compared to NOK 1 322 million as of 31 December 2013. During 2014 Jotun Group continued Revenue its shift from short term to long term funding, by replacing Operating revenue for the Group was NOK 13 171 million. The certificate loans with NOK 700 million in new bond loans. The revenue increase of 9 per cent is primarily ascribable to growth Group’s main source of financing is bilateral loans from the in China and several markets in South East Asia and the Middle Group’s relationship banks and loans in the Norwegian Bond East. market. At year end 2014 Jotun A/S had NOK 1 300 million of bonds and NOK 1 111 million in non-current bank debt Considering the full revenues in associates and joint ventures, outstanding. total sales of Jotun branded products was NOK 17 542 million (2013: NOK 16 022 million). Jotun A/S has NOK 800 million of long term credit lines. This committed funding serves as a back stop for the certificate Operating profit loans as well as a strategic reserve for short-term financing of Operating profit in 2014 increased by 4 per cent to NOK the Group. At year-end all of these credit lines, in addition to a 1 314 million compared with 2013, yielding an operating NOK 100 million in short term credit line, were unused. margin of 10 per cent (2013: 10 per cent). Solid sales growth combined with continued stable raw material prices, product Shareholders equity mix management with increased sale of premium products Total equity including non-controlling interests amounted compensate for an increase in other operating cost. Jotun to NOK 6 739 million (2013: NOK 5 515 million) due to the Group’s share of net result after tax in associates and joint net effect of profit of the period of NOK 946 million, other ventures totalling NOK 356 million (2013: NOK 287 million), comprehensive income of NOK 834 million mainly relating to are reported on a single line of the consolidated income currency translation effects, and payment of the dividend for statement as an operating item. The increase is mainly 2013 (declared in 2014) of NOK 513 million. The equity ratio attributable to improvements within the Marine Coatings remains strong at a level of 51 per cent, equal to 2013. segment in North East Asia, which is recovering from the cyclical downturn in the shipbuilding industry. The proposed dividend for Jotun A/S for 2014 amounting to NOK 513 million will not be recognised in equity until finally Profit for the year declared in 2015. The profit for the year amounted to NOK 946 million, an increase of NOK 89 million from 2013. Net financing charges Cash flow for the year are still at a low level, and decreasing from last Operating activities in 2014 resulted in a cash inflow of NOK year. Net financial costs ended at NOK 12 million (2013: NOK 919 million (2013: NOK 819 million). The increase from 2013 66 million). is mainly due to a stronger pre-tax profit in 2014 and higher dividends received from associates, compensating for higher Investments investments in working capital. Total purchase of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and intangible assets amounted to NOK 911 million for Workforce 2014 (NOK 733 million for 2013), representing 7 per cent of For 2014, Jotun Group had in average 6 644 full-time operating revenue. Total investment in PP&E for the purpose of equivalents related to its on-going business in Jotun A/S producing Jotun branded products was NOK 1 201 million. The and its subsidiaries (2013: 6 560 average full-time equivalents). largest investments relates to production facilities and buildings Including employees in joint ventures and associates Jotun in Brazil, Russia, Oman, Malaysia and Indonesia. had in total 9 676 employees. COUNTRY COMPANY SHARE HOLDING % ALGERIA Jotun Algerie SARL, Algiers 70 S AUSTRALIA Jotun Australia Pty. Ltd., Victoria 100 P BANGLADESH Jotun Bangladesh Ltd., Dhaka 100 S BRAZIL Jotun Brasil Imp. Exp. & Industria de Tintas Ltda., Rio de Janeiro 100 S BULGARIA Jotun Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia 100 S CAMBODIA Jotun (Cambodia) Ltd., Phnom Penh 100 S CHINA Jotun Coatings (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd., Zhangjiagang 100 P 70 Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (HK) Co. Ltd., Hong Kong 50 S COMPANY OVERVIEW Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao 50 P Jotun Paints (H.K.) Ltd., Hong Kong 100 S CYPRUS Jotun Cyprus Ltd, Limassol 100 S CZECH REPUBLIC Jotun Powder Coatings (CZ) a.s., Usti nad Labem 100 P DENMARK Jotun Danmark A/S, Kolding 100 S EGYPT El-Mohandes Jotun S.A.E., Cairo 70 P FRANCE Jotun France S.A.S., Paris 100 S GERMANY Jotun (Deutschland) GmbH, Hamburg 100 S GREECE Jotun Hellas Ltd., Glyfada 100 S INDIA Jotun India Pvt. Ltd., Pune 100 P INDONESIA P.T. Jotun Indonesia, Jakarta 99 P P.T. Jotun Powder Coatings Indonesia, Jakarta 100 P IRELAND Jotun (Ireland) Ltd., Cork 100 S ITALY Jotun Italia S.p.A., Trieste 100 S KAZAKHSTAN Jotun Kazakhstan L.L.P. Almaty 100 S LIBYA Jotun Libya J.S.Co., Tripoli 80 S MALAYSIA Jotun (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings (M) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Paints (Malaysia) Sdn. Bdh., Nilai 100 P MOROCCO Jotun Maroc SARL/AU, Casablanca 100 S MYANMAR Jotun Myanmar Services Co. Ltd., Yangon 100 S NETHERLANDS Jotun B.V., Spijkenisse 100 S NORWAY Jotun A/S, Sandefjord 100 P Scanox AS, Drammen 100 S OMAN Jotun Paints Co. L.L.C., Muscat 62 P PAKISTAN Jotun Pakistan (Pvt) Lda., Lahore 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings Pakistan (Pvt) Lda., Lahore 98 P PHILIPPINES Jotun (Philippines) Inc., Manila 100 S POLAND Jotun Polska Sp.zo.o., Gdynia 100 S ROMANIA Jotun Romania S.R.L., Otopeni 100 S RUSSIAN FEDERATION Jotun Paints OOO, St. Petersburg 100 S SAUDI ARABIA Jotun Powder Coatings Saudi Arabia Co. Ltd., Dammam 49 P 71 Jotun Saudia Co. Ltd., Jeddah 40 P COMPANY OVERVIEW SINGAPORE Jotun (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 S SOUTH AFRICA Jotun Paint South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Cape Town 100 P SOUTH KOREA Chokwang Jotun Ltd., Kyungnam 50 P SPAIN Jotun Ibérica S.A., Barcelona 100 P SWEDEN Jotun Sverige AB, Gothenburg 100 S THAILAND Jotun Thailand Ltd., Samutprakarn 95 P TURKEY Jotun Boya San. ve Tic. A.S., Istanbul 100 P UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Jotun Abu Dhabi Ltd. (L.L.C.), Abu Dhabi 52 P Jotun Powder Coatings U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 47 P Jotun U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 42 P UNITED KINGDOM Jotun Paints (Europe) Ltd., Flixborough 100 P USA Jotun Paints Inc., Belle Chasse, LA 100 P VIETNAM Jotun Paints (Vietnam) Co. Ltd., Ho Chi Minh City 100 P Decorative Paints Marine Coatings Protective Coatings Powder Coatings P Production S Sales office In addition to the companies listed above, the Jotun Group also owns a number of holding and inactive companies. In addition to legal companies Jotun has branch offices, agents, distributors and licencees in Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Domenican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Ghana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Iran, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Namibia, Netherland Antilles, New Zealand, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan, Trinidad, Tunisia, Ukraine and Uruguay. President & CEO Morten Fon Group Functions CFO Vidar Nysæther 72 Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Bård K. Tonning Esben Hersve ORGANISATION Powder Marine Protective Ram Ramnath Geir Bøe Bjørn Wallentin Middle East, India & Africa North East Asia Peder Bohlin Erik R. Aaberg South East Asia & Pacific West Europe Martin Chew Kjell Gundersen Scandinavia East Europe & Central Asia Stein Petter Lunde Sükru Ergün Americas Idar Salvesen Board of Directors Corporate Assembly Odd Gleditsch d.y. Richard Arnesen Anders A. Jahre Thomas Hammer Einar Abrahamsen Nicolai A. Eger Richard Arnesen d.y. Kai Roger Johansen Birger Amundsen Ingrid Luberth Terje V. Arnesen Thomas Ljungqvist Terje Andersen Karl Otto Tveter Kornelia Eger Foyn-Bruun Kristian O. Smith Anne Cecilie Gleditsch Espen Wiik Bjørn Ole Gleditsch Beatriz Malo de Molina CREDITS Copywriting: Alexander Wardwell and Damien Devlin / Blue-C AS The paper used to print this report Design: Colours AS has the Nordic Eco-labeling the Swan Print: BK Gruppen and is also approved by the PEFC Photo: Morten Rakke Photography (9, 29, 35, 37, 40, 49, 50, 58, 59, 64) Council (Programme for the Endorsement Jotun (13, 20-21, 25, 39, 46, 52-53, 56, 62-63), Svein Brimi (17, 22, 30-31, 34, 38, 57), of Forest Certifications schemes). Shutterstock (cover, 6-7, 14, 26-27), Mike Mckelvie (26-27), Courtesy of Vestas Wind Systems A/S (45-45), Red Cross / IFRC (54-55), Jens Haugen (11), Espen Grønli (11), Margareth M. de Lange (18), Saxmedia (24), HR Norge/Anne Lian (33), Atle Møller (41), Allegro Film (42) Jotun A/S P.O. Box 2021 3202 Sandefjord Norway jotun.com
