Statement of continued support The world is changing rapidly. The social and economic development of our society is challenged, as the world’s capacity to provide the services and resources we need to improve global living standards is limited and increasingly strained. New thinking and acting is needed from businesses, governments and science. As Royal HaskoningDHV we consider this to be a reality that is fundamental to the services we deliver to our clients. We are able to further increase our contribution to clients and society: Enhancing society together. Our ambition is to show leadership in sustainable development and innovation. We include corporate responsibility as an integral part of our activities: we serve our clients in making steps forward with practical solutions, we ‘walk the talk’ by reducing the footprint of our operations, and we inspire youngsters and school children to engage in the challenges of the future; sustainable development and technology. Our policies and global code of business principles incorporate and support the ten principles of UN Global Compact. This is also reflected in our CR policy, integrity management system and our HR policies and practices. Our annual report 2014 is a web-based and integrated report that summarises our achievements in 2014 (http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport-2014). The report includes a CR Statement, in which we elaborate on the steps we have taken, the performance and results of 2014 and the ambitions for the future. It confirms our commitment to the UN global Compact. For more information and examples we invite readers to visit our website, www.royalhaskoningdhv.com, and view our news, annual reports and policies. We are always interested in your feedback. Please contact us on CR.info@rhdhv.com. Erik Oostwegel Chairman of the Executive Board Amersfoort, 18 May 2015 1 Company Profile Royal HaskoningDHV is an independent, international engineering and project management consultancy with over 130 years of experience. Our professionals deliver services in the fields of aviation, buildings, energy, industry, infrastructure, maritime, mining, transport, urban and rural planning and water. Backed by expertise and experience of nearly 7,000 colleagues across the world, we work for public and private clients in more than 130 countries. We focus on delivering added value for our clients while at the same time addressing the challenges that societies are facing. These include the growing world population and the consequences for towns and cities; the demand for clean drinking water, water security and water safety; pressures on traffic and transport; resource availability and demand for energy and waste issues facing industry. Context is critical. Every project we do exists within a changing and increasingly unpredictable environment. We understand the local context and deliver appropriate local solutions. We believe in Enhancing Society Together. Stated simply, it means that in partnership with our clients and stakeholders we aim to contribute to a better world. ‘Together’ is important because we believe meaningful solutions for the future can no longer be created without collaboration. Our mission outlines what we do and who we are. We are a people-to-people company. We envisage that our client relationships will evolve into partnerships which undertake collective initiatives. In collaboration, we create solutions for the sustainable interaction between people and their environment. Our vision is to be a strong, global, independent engineering consultancy – sustainable and leading in our markets. Together we create an inspiring environment that we can be proud of and that others will want to join. Our roots are in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and South Africa. In addition, we are established in Asia and the Middle East, Africa and the Americas. Erik Oostwegel; “We are proud too of projects like the introduction of early flood warning systems in South America contributing to the safety of the society, and the construction of a bridge making safe travel possible for communities in South Africa. In everything we do, we aim to go further by introducing smart sustainable solutions to generate positive impact. We add value by doing things better, faster and more efficiently.” 2 Communications on progress 2014 – UN Global Compact Principles (from 1-1-2014 to 31-12-2014) Report on 2014 Cross references*  The UN Global Compact principles are included in our CR www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: and Integrity policies and management systems, and in our GENERAL Global Code of Business Principles Global Code of Business Principles. Business principles for partners and  In 2014 Royal HaskoningDHV continued to raise awareness suppliers and monitor compliance with the management systems CR policy statement (Integrity, Health and Safety, Environment) and the Global Integrity management Code of Business Principles worldwide.  In 2014, the Global Code was translated, and it is now Integrated annual report 2014 – website: th available in 9 languages (10 translation to be completed) http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre  The governance of CR and Integrity is described in the CR port-2014; Statement (see right column) In the Annual report 2014 Highlights, we  Issues and incidents are reported at least quarterly, and present our main achievements in 2014. investigated and responded to – under supervision of the In the CR Statement 2014, further Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. information is presented on CR and integrity in detail:  In the Annual report CR Statement, the plans for 2014 CR Summary, page 4 are presented and evaluated. External references, page 10 In addition, the plans for the coming year (2015) are CR and Integrity Governance, page 13 shared. This covers all items of the UNGC principles. Acting with Integrity, page 21 Sustainable operations, page 31  In this table, the main events of 2014 are summarised.  Respecting human rights is a business condition to our www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: Principle 1: company. In our Global code and in the Business principles Global Code of Business Principles Businesses for partners and suppliers human rights are included. CR policy statement should support  No issues have been reported on human rights in 2014. Purchase conditions and respect the  However, several controversial issues have been explored Integrity management system protection of related to human right conditions in countries in which we do QHSE management policy internationally projects, to ensure we act according to our principles and to Integrated annual report 2014 – website: proclaimed try to have a positive effect, even if our impact is small. http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre human rights;  Safety is a key value in our human resource management. port-2014; Partly we are OHSAS 18001 – International Health and In the Annual report 2014 Highlights, we Safety standard – certified. We have implemented OHSAS present our main achievements in 2014. 18001 into the company worldwide in 2014. This management system includes Travel security and Crisis CR Statement 2014: management. Travel security and safety, page 34-35  In 2014, special attention has been paid to travel security and safety and female travel safety (training, standard procedures)  In 2014 RHDHV has contracted the international emergency service provider International SOS (ISOS) for all our Business Travellers worldwide.  In 2014 also a global Travel Tracker has been launched that enables RHDHV to trace and track all employees worldwide so RHDHV can immediately support our travellers in very short notice worldwide in case of an incident abroad.  Several issues have been reported on safety OHSAS 18001: Zero fatalities of staff were reported or communicated in any way in 2014. In total 89 accidents and 53 incidents have been reported and dealt with, of which some were non-work related. Based on the quarterly reviews, it was found that a large number of incidents related to travel. 3  In the compliance reports and through the Speak-up line, no Integrated annual report 2014 – website: violations have been raised in 2014 on human rights. http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre Principle 2:  In one incident, it was found that temporary staff was hired port-2014; Businesses without ensuring that social security was covered. This was In the Annual report 2014 Highlights, we should make sure corrected immediately, and measures to prevent this in the present our main achievements in 2014. that they are not future were taken. complicit in CR Statement 2014:  We will continue to execute and develop our Integrity human rights Integrity non-compliances, page 24 management system and reporting, and also to raise abuses awareness on the importance of speaking-up (directly, or through our anonymous system)  We subscribe to the conventions of the International Labour Integrated annual report 2014 – website: Organisations (ILO). http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre Principle 3:  We have a global HR policy and an international HR port-2014; Businesses management team and system, which enables us to In the Annual report 2014 Highlights, we should uphold the recognise labour related issues worldwide. present our main achievements in 2014. freedom of  After we developed and implemented a global performance association and CR Statement 2014 and development system (P&D) in 2013, in 2014 we the effective General principles we endorse, page 10 implemented a global job positioning system (GPS) to recognition of the create transparency and equal opportunities for careers right to collective for all staff. Our works council is actively engaged. In the bargaining; Netherlands, the UK and South Africa, our primary centres of operations, the rights are also defined by the National Law.  No violations on freedom of association etc. have been reported in 2014. Principle 4:  This is managed and monitored with our HR management http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre Businesses system as well as through our Integrity management System port-2014; CR Statement 2014; ensure the (Speak up). We work in countries in which forms of forced Acting with Integrity, page 21 elimination of all labour do occur. We do not accept any involvement in this. forms of forced In our activities, no violations have been reported in 2014. and compulsory labour; Principle 5:  This is managed and monitored with our HR management http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre Businesses system as well as through our Integrity management System port-2014; CR Statement 2014; ensure effective (Speak up). We work in countries in which forms of child Acting with Integrity, page 21 abolition of child labour do occur. We do not accept any involvement in this. labour; In our activities, no violations have been reported in 2014. Principle 6:  Diversity and equality is a key value in our company. This is Integrated annual report 2014 – website: Businesses part of our HR management and Integrity management. No http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre should eliminate violations have been reported in 2014. port-2014; discrimination in  In 2014 we implement a global job positioning system (GPS) Annual report 2014 Highlights, page 47, respect of to create transparency and equal opportunities for 50 employment and careers. CR Statement 2014, page 33 occupation 4 Principle 7: We actively promote taking a precautionary approach to Integrated annual report 2014 – website: Businesses environmental challenges in our projects in cooperation with http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre should support a clients and partners. It is part of our business approach as is port-2014; precautionary illustrated in our annual report (enhancing society together) CR Statement 2014, page 35 approach to and CR Statement. environmental challenges;  This is covered by our ISO 14001 certificate.  In 2014, we concluded we need a more simple approach to inspire staff to create more environmental value (our tool ‘eValue’ was seen as to administrative), which has been developed.  Within our businesses we employ environmental specialists that integrate environmental management in our engineering consultancy projects. They share knowledge internationally (Knowledge Management program).  Under the coordination of the innovation taskforce, we continuously look for new solutions and technologies, with the ambition to increase environmental efficiency and performance (e.g. water treatment).  In our operations, we measure the ecological footprint of our offices and business travel; we set targets and carry out action plans for the reduction of CO2 equivalent emissions. Principle 8:  As is custom, in 2014 CR and Sustainability (people, planet, On the annual report webpages, you can Businesses profit) was included in many training modules, to develop find a Video on our strategy. should undertake skills and awareness, and to communicate our ambition of The four global challenges are also initiatives to showing leadership in sustainability. presented on our website promote greater  In 2014, we started to further develop our vision and (www.royalhaskoningDHV.com) environmental opportunities in 4 global challenges, which is part of our responsibility; “Vision 2018” – our strategic plan. We recognise these challenges, the urban, water, transport and industrial challenge, as the drivers for change and development that See more info on CO2-footprint in the we aim to contribute to. Exploring these challenges helps Annual Report and CR Statement staff to focus on opportunities for improvement; The vision was presented in all countries, and is accessible to all staff.  In 2014, we further continued to invest in Circular Economy, taking initiatives with partners to stimulate the transition to a circular economy. We have several projects and initiatives now running. With our membership of ‘De Groene Zaak’ and Circle Economy we engaged to develop and promote circular economy.  In 2014, we organised a knowledge exchange event, sharing across the company, made visible globally (videos).  We measure our CO2-footprint, and carry out plans for continuous improvement. Our global strategy caused an increase in air travel, which we now analyse to see if we change this trend. 5 Principle 9:  The four challenges are an invitation to our staff and clients Integrated annual report 2014 – website: Businesses to develop new solutions, which we actively promote. http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre should encourage  Our business lines work with a Sustainability Agenda that port-2014; the development outlines key developments and improvements that further and diffusion of increase their contribution to sustainable development. Awards and Nominations: environmentally  Innovation is steered by the Technical Directors (tools and www.royalhaskoningdhv.com friendly support for innovation across market sectors). Our cleaner technologies technologies are shared and promoted internationally and implemented worldwide (e.g. Nereda, an innovative and efficient water treatment technology). We continued with our annual competition (Da Vinci award) for staff to present their best innovations. Royal HaskoningDHV earned several awards in 2014 for clean technologies, and promoted new and cleaner technologies at conferences and events. Principle 10:  Integrity and anti-corruption is key to our business and our Integrated annual report 2014 – website: Businesses (moral) license to operate. We have zero tolerance towards http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre should work corruption. This vision is translated in, and safeguarded by port-2014; against corruption our Integrity management system, which includes clear CR Statement 2014 in all its forms, instructions and guidelines, definitions, the role of our Group CR and Integrity governance, page 14 including extortion Compliance director Officer and local compliance officers, Acting with integrity, page 22 and bribery reporting structures, anonymous speak-up line, a living reference book, training, and approach to auditing. Ethic Intelligence – Anti-Corruption  In 2014 the integrity system was further promoted and Compliance Certificate: communicated on our global Intranet and in training sessions with staff. The International Integrity Council has See www.royalhaskoningdhv.com discussed improvements (4x) and Local Compliance Officers reported on issues quarterly. Our integrity principles are included in our project management (Risk) procedures and in selecting and contracting our partners and suppliers.  In 2014, we introduced that in all management meetings, Integrity has to be discussed as first agenda item: ‘Integrity Moment’.  In 2014 we carried out an awareness raising campaign (posters, news items, meeting sessions).  In 2014, we started the development of a Third Party Assessment procedure.  In 2014 several incidents of violations and non-compliances were reported by our Compliance Officers during the year. Most issues were minor concerns that have been evaluated, and appropriate measures have been taken for correction and prevention (CR Statement, page 24)  We continue working on improvements to comply with the requirements of our externally provided certificate for Ethics Intelligence. (On 30 April 2014, we have been awarded an extension of our Anti-corruption compliance certificate for two years) (*) Cross reference can be made with documents that are available on our annual report website (http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport-2014) our Corporate website (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com) or available on request (info.CR@rhdhv.com). 6
