2014 Global Sustainability Report July 2015 Our cities. Our future. Introduction Strategy Governance Key highlights from the year 1,531 3,577 SUSTAINABILITY EMPLOYEES ACCREDITED TAKING IN-PERSON Awards & recognition PROFESSIONALS ETHICS TRAINING JLL is frequently recognized for our sustainability efforts through high-profile awards such as those received in 2014 and early 2015. We received the ENERGY STAR Sustained 27% Excellence Award for the fourth consecutive year for our dedication to driving energy efficiency in both our corporate and client portfolios. We were also recognized as one of 24 62,650 METRIC TONS CO2 the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the SUSTAINABILITY AVERTED BY ADVISING ON DIRECTORS eighth consecutive year by the Ethisphere AWARDS WON RENEWABLE PROJECTS ARE WOMEN Institute in 2015. Fortune Magazine named us as one of the World’s 100 Most Admired Companies in 2015 and JLL was named one of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens by Corporate Responsibility Magazine. In total, we received 24 local, national and global sustainabilityEMPLOYEE HOURS OF 4,590 9,455 related awards in 2014. VOLUNTEERING SUSTAINABILITY DAYS TRAINING Cover image: Blue Cross Blue Shield Tower, Chicago Global law firm Baker & McKenzie LLP engaged JLL to develop and execute a strategic real estate plan for its founding office in Chicago. Looking beyond space itself, Baker wanted a new office that served a deeper purpose, with key goals including flexibility for growth and varying work styles, a reduction in occupancy costs per attorney and an office space that demonstrates their commitment to sustainability. JLL’s Tenant Representation team secured a lease for the firm’s 237,000 square foot office in Chicago’s Blue Cross Blue Shield Tower, the last space available in the Tower’s 24 story vertical expansion. Our Project and Development Services team stepped in to help Baker & McKenzie create their ideal workspace, which won recognition from Crain’s Chicago Business as one of Chicago’s Coolest Offices. Upgrades helped the office achieve LEED-Commercial Interior Gold certification for its emphasis on sustainable design. INTRODUCTION 2 Introduction Strategy Governance Introduction T he first chapter of the JLL story was This understanding has driven our aspiration safe, rewarding and diverse place to work. We written when John Player set up shop as to adopt Integrated Reporting practices in can also use our influence to improve the real a surveyor in Bristol in 1760. Since that an increasingly foundational way. In 2014, estate markets in which we operate by conducting from the CEO time, the world has changed, and we have too, but our values have endured. we undertook a project that identified and investigated a number of medium to long-term global megatrends with the potential to impact our business in accordance with the very highest ethical standards and being a vocal thought leader in worthwhile external organizations like the JLL has grown into a Fortune 500 worldwide our business. In line with the advice from the Ethisphere Institute, The World Economic Forum’s organization employing more than 58,100 International Integrated Reporting Council, this Partnering Against Corruption Initiative, the United employees and serving clients in over 80 countries. review had a strong focus on non-financial trends Nations Global Compact and the Boston College We have been able to achieve this growth through as potential future challenges. In the end, we Center for Corporate Citizenship. an exceptional understanding of our industry and identified 21 trends as being significant for the our ability to meet and exceed the needs of our Sustainability is everybody’s responsibility at JLL. business in the medium to long term. It is these clients. These efforts are enhanced through our My own role includes serving as executive sponsor trends that will inform our Integrated Reporting commitment to sustainability. By this we mean of both our Energy and Sustainability Services activities going forward. the actions we take to promote and protect the business line and our Corporate Sustainability economic, social and environmental interests As a professional services firm specializing in activities. I seek to ensure that sustainability is of current and future stakeholders. As a good commercial real estate services and investment increasingly embedded across both our services corporate citizen, we seek to have a positive impact management, the biggest positive impact we can to clients as well as in our own operations. I on the world around us and to contribute to its make is through the services we provide to our am accountable for both pillars with our Global prosperity over the long term. This also means clients. Real estate accounts for about 40% of Executive Board and our Board of Directors. sustaining JLL successfully well into the future, as global energy consumption so our sector has a As we look to the future, we will continue to work to we have done for the past 250 years. key role to play in tackling climate change. We enhance our reputation as a sustainable business contribute to these efforts largely through industryWe understand that sustainability can and should attracting and retaining the best talent, offering an leading energy reduction strategies and the leading impact all aspects of our organization, whether unparalleled level of service and integrity to clients edge tools and technologies that we provide to our people, our bottom line, or our relationship and working to reduce real estate’s impact on the our clients and apply to our own operations. We with the communities in which we operate. We environment. estimate that these measures have allowed us understand that sustainability should be embedded to save our US clients more than $47 million and Thank you for your continued interest in JLL. into our organization’s strategy and culture rather 278,000 metric tons of CO2. Within JLL, we have than bolted on as an afterthought. Superior client worked to cut our greenhouse gas emissions per service, teamwork and collaboration, and high Colin Dyer employee from our own offices by more than 6% ethical standards define our culture, drawing us since 2012. These reductions are largely due to President & Chief Executive Officer closer to each other and to our clients. energy efficiency initiatives and our occupation of Executive Sustainability Sponsor We also understand that sustainability is a driver for more efficient buildings. improved performance, allowing us to extend better The focus on energy reduction and green buildings service offerings to our clients, better value to our represents only a portion of our sustainability shareholders and better career opportunities to our activities. Our other key focus areas reflect our employees. It is this understanding that informs our ongoing dedication to enhancing the communities commitment to maintain and improve our role as a where we operate and to ensuring that JLL is a responsible corporate citizen. 3 Introduction Strategy Governance Who we are 3.4 BILLION ft2 PROPERTY & FACILITY $118 BILLION OF CLIENT TRANSACTIONS FOR $53.6 BILLION OF ASSETS UNDER F or more than 250 years, JLL has been changing MANAGEMENT PORTFOLIO CAPITAL MARKETS SERVICES MANAGEMENT BY LASALLE the way people and cities think about real estate. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT JLL is a Fortune 500 professional services and investment management firm specializing in real estate. We offer integrated services worldwide to clients seeking increased value by owning, occupying, developing or investing in real estate. We are a publicly-owned company that is incorporated in the state of Maryland. 230 80 58,100 Shares of Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated are traded on CORPORATE COUNTRIES WHERE EMPLOYEES the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:JLL). OFFICES JLL SERVES CLIENTS GLOBALLY With 2014 fee revenue of more than $4.7 billion and gross revenue of $5.4 billion, our 58,100 colleagues serve clients in more than 80 countries from more than 230 corporate offices. We are an industry leader in property and corporate facility management services, AMERICAS EMEA ASIA PACIFIC with a portfolio of 3.4 billion square feet worldwide. During 2014, we completed 33,500 transactions for clients, representing 662 million square feet of space. We provided capital markets services for $118 billion of client transactions. LaSalle Investment Management, our investment management business, is one of the world’s largest and most diverse in real estate with $53.6 billion of assets under management. Key financial information 2012 2013 2014 Gross revenue (USD millions) 3,933 4,462 5,430 Net income (USD millions) 208 269 386 Earnings (USD per diluted share) 4.63 5.98 8.52 EBITDA (USD millions) 391 476 606 4 Introduction Strategy Governance About this report Paris H ow we approach being a more sustainable decentralized nature of our organization this business for our clients, shareholders, remains one of our biggest challenges. The employees and the wider community. information presented in this report represents the best information available at the time of Welcome to JLL’s 2014 Global Sustainability Report. publication. All financial figures are reported in In this document you can read about our efforts US dollars. over the 2014 calendar year to tackle our biggest sustainability challenges, some of the successes we Integrated reporting have achieved and the areas of improvement we JLL was one of the pilot companies participating have identified. in the International Integrated Reporting Council The scope of this report (IIRC) and we now sit on the IIRC’s Business Network. JLL supports the general principles This report covers JLL’s services and operations designed to promote communications about across three geographic business segments: the how an organization’s strategy, governance, Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa performance and prospects lead to the creation (EMEA); and Asia Pacific. It also covers the global of value over the short, medium and long term. activities of LaSalle Investment Management. This Sustainability Report focuses on our LaSalle has published detailed information on their sustainability strategy and performance. Our sustainability approach and performance on their Annual Report focuses on our business strategy website. and our financial performance. Our governance Unless otherwise stated, this report covers 98% of and remuneration practices are reported primarily our corporate offices, activity related to our Energy in the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of and Sustainability Services and certain activity from Shareholders. sustainability advice embedded into other services. This report seeks to provide an overview of our The data used in this report is comprised of actual programs and our philosophy. More detailed figures where possible. In cases where actual information and analysis on JLL’s sustainability figures are unavailable, we have made reasonable performance, including a full data summary estimations or assumptions. The data in this and notes, compliance with reporting standards report has undergone internal verification by our such as the GRI G4 guidelines, the International Global Corporate Sustainability team. Through Integrated Reporting Council’s <IR> Framework this process we occasionally identify better quality and the results of JLL’s most recent materiality historical data. We are continuously working to assessment, are available on the sustainability improve our data processes, although due to the section of the JLL.com website. 5 Introduction Strategy Governance Our sustainability Our sustainability focus areas strategy Client service A t JLL we increasingly believe that In line with the findings of our 2010 materiality excellence sustainability is the responsibility of review, JLL’s five focus areas shape the structure everyone within our firm, not just our team of this report and form the basis for our Global of experts. We seek to embed sustainability Sustainability Commitment. The 2014 materiality within our internal and external practices. We review further refined and updated our strategy believe this approach gives us an advantage and resulting in a prioritized list of sub-issues within Workplace, drives value for our business and our clients. each focus area. Green well-being Sustainability in its broadest sense covers every Reflecting the holistic nature of sustainability, buildings & diversity aspect of an organization’s operations and the focus areas cut across the two pillars of our management – literally all of the elements that a operations and services. The first pillar focuses complex organization needs to sustain itself over on operational efforts related to our own people the long term. In order to clearly prioritize our and offices that ensure we ‘walk the talk’ as sustainability issues, JLL has built on its inaugural a sustainable corporation. The second pillar 2010 materiality assessment through a review represents the services we provide to clients in 2014. This process has enabled us to identify through our Energy and Sustainability Services those areas where we have the biggest impact, business and our LaSalle Responsible Investing and therefore the biggest opportunities to improve program. We are also increasingly focused on the way we do business. This assessment involved integrating sustainability principles across all of our input from key executives and employees as well real estate services, thereby providing embedded as an examination of investors’ priorities and the sustainability advice. sustainability landscape in the real estate and professional services sectors. Energy & Community & resources supply chain STRATEGY 6 Introduction Strategy Governance Sustainability governance sustainability service offering to our clients around the world. The Board is comprised of regional heads Our governance structure for sustainability A strong governance framework supports of JLL’s ESS functions and is led by the Chairman our success as a business, enables the of ESS. delivery of our key objectives and provides In addition, LaSalle’s own sustainability activities are assurance to our clients, shareholders and overseen by their Global Sustainability Committee employees. in accordance with the Policy on Sustainability and Board of We recognize that to be truly sustainable, we need Responsible Investing. The Board is chaired by Directors to embed the principles of sustainability not only LaSalle’s non-executive Chairman and consists of in the way we operate as a business, but also senior leaders from all global businesses ensuring in the services that we offer to our clients. This best practice on sustainability is shared company recognition defines our approach to sustainability wide. and is reflected in our governance arrangements. Roles and responsibilities Colin Dyer, our CEO, is the executive sponsor for Reporting into the GCS Board, the Corporate Global CEO sustainability within JLL. He provides a strong link Sustainability Committee meets every quarter to to our Board of Directors and together they actively share best practices. The Committee consists oversee the company’s sustainability activities. of employees whose functional responsibilities formally include sustainability at the global, regional Governance for our operations Global Global or local level. In 2014, a team of three and a half Our efforts to address sustainability within our full-time equivalent employees sat in the JLL Global Executive Operating internal operations are overseen by the Global Corporate Sustainability team and oversaw the Board Board Corporate Sustainability (GCS) Board. The remit company’s approach to corporate sustainability of the GCS Board covers our internal sustainability at a global level. This team is complemented by goals; performance, strategy and reporting; 23 regional and local roles. These figures do not and our adoption of a consistent approach to include the many voluntary contributions made by sustainability across our global operations. The our employees around the globe. In fact, 53% of Global Board is comprised of the Heads of Finance, our country-level operations have formal internal Global ESS Corporate Human Resources, Legal Services, Energy and sustainability programs. LaSalle Board Sustainability Sustainability Services (ESS) and Corporate In terms of our service offering, we have a Board Sustainability, among others, and reports into our Global Operating Board. dedicated team of 227 sustainability professionals. The majority of these professionals are from our Governance for our services ESS group, which generated revenue of $18.7 Our Our The Global ESS Board has responsibility for million in 2014 as a result of our work with 467 services operations developing and delivering a strong and consistent clients over the same period. GOVERNANCE 7 Introduction Strategy Governance Sustainability at LaSalle Investment Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Management as well as other senior officers. The management Sydney LaSalle Investment Management’s top priority is to team, with the Board’s oversight, is responsible for deliver superior investment results for its clients; conducting the company’s business to enhance sustainability is a key tool in enabling the firm to long-term value. do this. LaSalle’s approach to sustainability is to We provide shareholders with the highest level of set policy and strategy at a global level and then governance including: annual voting for Directors; empower action at a local level through a network majority voting for Directors; enhanced abilities of Regional Sustainability Officers. This network to call for special meetings; and annual advisory oversees the delivery of local sustainability goals voting on executive compensation. At the most within each specific region and has responsibility recent shareholder annual meeting, over 99% of for performance management and reporting. the votes cast were in favor of each Director and LaSalle has a range of tools such as Due 99% of the votes cast were in favor of our executive Diligence Guidelines, ESG Portfolio Management compensation. Guidelines and their GreenGuide, which Good governance and strong integrity are not just detail how it incorporates sustainability into its good for business; they provide tangible financial investment decision-making and management. benefits to shareholders. The Ethisphere Institute Asset managers and fund teams are responsible has published statistics showing that an index of the for implementing and reporting to clients on the World’s Most Ethical Companies has outperformed sustainability programs within their funds. the S&P 500 by 4% on an annual basis over a tenCorporate governance year period. JLL conducts its corporate governance according Additional information about our corporate to the standards of the NYSE. The firm’s Board of governance can be found on our website. Directors has ultimate responsibility for overseeing our business. The Board elects our Chairman, 8 Introduction Strategy Governance Client service Tokyo excellence Client service excellence is central to our mission to deliver fully integrated, innovative solutions for real estate owners, occupiers, developers and investors across the globe. Client Service Excellence 9 Introduction Strategy Governance Client service JLL puts the quality of the service offering we extend to our clients at the very heart of what we do. Our dedication to the highest ethical understood their obligations under our Code of Business Ethics and a further 87% recognized JLL’s commitment to ethical business decisions strategies are as effective as possible, and sustainability is a key part of this effort. In 2014 we produced 43 pieces of sustainability thought excellence standards, thought leadership and innovative technology has helped make this vision into a reality. We have worked hard to be recognized and conduct. JLL’ s Ethics Everywhere program establishes a leadership in addition to our Global Sustainability Perspective, Green Blog and Real Views covering topics as diverse as climate change adaptation, framework for the various activitieswe undertake as being among the best in the business. By sustainable building design and productivity, and Delivering excellent client services in order to maintain compliance with our Code maintaining our excellent client service offering workplace economics. of Business Ethics. The program aims to embed through our focus on ethics, through our culture of integrity and connectivity, ethical corporate behavior deep within the In 2014, JLL engaged with 58 global and local thought leadership and innovative we hope to further secure this position over the company’s corporate culture. As part of this sustainability organizations and initiatives such as technology long term. program, we offer comprehensive training to our the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Ethics and integrity employees on ethics, HR and anti-corruption. (GRESB) and the World Green Building Council. Our commitment to the highest standards of ethics In 2014, 3,577 of our employees undertook JLL is also actively involved in efforts to improve 43 and integrity is reflected in our Code of Business in-person training relating to legal, ethics or the integrity and transparency of global markets SUSTAINABILITY Ethics. We are determined to further enhance our compliance matters. These efforts are supported through collaboration with the World Economic THOUGHT LEADERSHIP global reputation for ethical conduct, a reputation by our network of 27 ethics officers worldwide. In Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative and PIECES PRODUCED recognized by Ethisphere Institute’s list of the 2014, 0.57% of our staff was investigated for an the International Integrated Reporting Council. ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies 2015’ for the ethical violation. Of these investigations, 83% Furthermore, LaSalle Investment Management eighth year in a row. resulted in action being taken. has been a signatory of the UN Principles for Responsible for Responsible Investment (PRI) 3,577 EMPLOYEES These efforts hold true with our employees as Leading on sustainability thinking since 2009 and has made a commitment to report well. In our last full Global Employee Engagement JLL undertakes industry-leading research to on the progress toward the PRI’s six principles of TAKING IN-PERSON Survey, 95% of employees reported that they fully ensure that our clients’ investment and occupation responsible investing. ETHICS TRAINING Detroit 160,537 BUILDINGS WITH DATA ON OUR SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORMS 58 SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES & ORGANIZATIONS ENGAGED WITH 10 Introduction Strategy Governance Client service We know cities Cities are part of JLL’s DNA. 3.5 billion people live in cities, half of the world’s population. This Leading the call for a more sustainable future excellence On April 10, 2014, Colin Dyer, JLL’s President first 30 companies to sign the Climate Declaration, is expected to increase to 60 percent of the and CEO, was invited to Washington, D.C. to which has now been signed by more than 750 population by 2030. While cities cover just two speak in front of the Senate Bicameral Task companies. The Climate Declaration calls on US percent of the planet’s land, they are responsible Force on Climate Change. Colin was joined by Congress to address climate change by promoting for between 60 and 80 percent of global energy Delivering excellent client services representatives from five other major corporations clean energy, boosting efficiency and limiting consumption. These expanding urban centers through our focus on ethics, that are committed to acting on climate change carbon emissions. can put a strain on the environment, water for a roundtable discussion in the Capitol. Each transparency and innovative supplies and well-being. However, they also bring of the companies has signed onto the Business In addressing the panel, Colin highlighted JLL’s technology efficiency gains resulting from their high density. commitment to sustainability: for Innovative Climate and Energy Policy (BICEP) Creating sustainable cities is crucial for our Climate Declaration. • From 2007-2013, JLL has helped US future. So we continuously renew and add to our clients make cumulative reductions to their BICEP is an advocacy coalition of businesses urban expertise through such resources as our greenhouse gas emissions of nearly 12 million committed to working with policy makers to pass award-winning Cities Research Center, our Cities metric tons and an estimated cumulative meaningful energy and climate legislation with a Momentum Index 2015 and our Global 300, which saving in energy costs of $2.5 billion. view to transitioning to a low-carbon economy. Not identifies the 300 cities we predict will account for • JLL’s use of innovative technology such as only will this serve to protect the planet’s fragile the bulk of economic and commercial real estate IntelliCommand, our building management climate, it will create new jobs and stimulate activity over the next decade. platform, to help clients increase their economic growth. Use of innovative technology operating efficiency. JLL joined BICEP in 2010 and since then has JLL makes use of a number of in-house • Our goals to reduce office greenhouse gas been actively engaged in encouraging sustainable technology platforms to help us offer the very emissions and energy per employee by 10 economic legislation. In 2013, JLL demonstrated best service to our clients. Our OneView Energy percent, and reduce occupied space by 8 its leadership in sustainability by being one of the and Sustainability Analytics (OVESA) platform percent. is used to manage the ever-increasing volumes of complex sustainability data on behalf of our clients. This system, along with our other platforms such as the Portfolio Energy and Environment Reporting System (PEERS) and the Energy and Sustainability Platform (ESP), reflects our expertise in creating and deploying flexible technology solutions to help both our clients and JLL itself measure, manage and improve environmental impacts. We currently hold information for 160,537 buildings on these platforms. 11 Introduction Strategy Governance Workplace, London well-being & diversity At its heart, JLL is a people business. Our positive, healthy and increasingly diverse workforce has driven our success as a company over the last 250 years. Workplace 12 Introduction Strategy Governance Workplace, Health, well-being and safety of employees The safety of our employees is of paramount importance. Our goal is ‘no harm to people or measured by our survey administrator Kenexa. We seek to attract and retain the best talent and diverse backgrounds. At a country level, we are engaged with organizations such as Diversity Best Practices in the US and the Changing the Face of well-being & maintain our position as an employer of choice. property’ and all of our employees have a role to Property campaign in the UK. One of the ways that we seek to do this is through play in achieving this aim. JLL’s Global Health our Total Rewards program in the US. This is a Training and career development diversity and Safety Policy sets out the minimum standards selection of financial and non-financial programs At JLL we recognize that meeting the development expected of employees who work in client facilities designed to reward, recognize and motivate needs of our employees benefits the individual, in our Integrated Facilities Management and employees. In the past, employee reward and the organization and our clients. In 2014 we spent Property and Asset Management divisions. recognition have been identified as a challenge. $263 per employee on training compared to $235 Striving to be an employer of We aim to support a healthy work-life balance for JLL has won numerous awards in recognition of in 2013. This was in addition to the substantial choice that attracts, rewards and all our employees and to provide a comfortable and being an excellent place to work, including being local training expenditures that we are not able productive working environment. In 2014, 80% of recognized as the best employer in the real estate to capture. Much of this training was delivered develops diverse talent to better countries reported that they were undertaking at sector by Immobilien Zeitung, Germany’s foremost through My Skills, JLL’s learning management serve our clients real estate journal, in 2014. least one health, safety and well-being initiative. system designed to support employees by enabling Our Recordable Incident Rate (RIR), a measure Diversity and inclusion and empowering them to effectively progress their 80 % OF COUNTRIES PARTICIPATED IN of recordable illness and injuries per 100 full-time employees per year, remained stable at 0.6 in 2014. At JLL, diversity is a core component of our value system and a strategic imperative for the way we career within our business. JLL’s own Sustainability University provides HEALTH, WELL-BEING & Days Away, Restricted Duty and Transfer (DART), do business. We recognize that having a range technical sustainability training for our employees a measure of recordable illness and injury per 100 SAFETY INITIATIVES of experiences, backgrounds and perspectives focusing particularly on areas such as green full-time employees per year that resulted in days allows us to find new ways of doing things, leading building certifications. The University also offers away from work, was 0.3 in 2014. ultimately to the creation and delivery of the best broader sustainability training for those seeking $ $263 SPENT Engagement and Compensation possible services to our clients. To achieve this to increase their understanding around topics ON $ We undertake regular surveys of our employees aim, we foster a workplace culture that encourages such as energy management. In 2014, the EMEA TRAINING and empowers all our employees to fulfil their region rolled out a sustainability training course for PER EMPLOYEE to better understand how they view the company and their roles within it. The 2013 interim Global potential. employees designed to promote an understanding Employee Engagement Survey found that 81% of sustainability, with a view to embedding the core We are making strong headway: local leaders either agree or strongly agree that they are principles into all of our services and operations. are at the helm of the majority of our country extremely satisfied with JLL as a place to work. operations avoiding the need to import talent. Over the last year we delivered more than 9,455 This score is six percentage points up from the A network of Employee Resource Groups hours of sustainability training to employees previous full survey which was run in 2012 and supports these efforts with the aim of inspiring, globally, including 5,242 delivered through the TOTAL ten percentage points up from the global norm, as 65% 35% supporting and mentoring employees from Sustainability University alone. EMPLOYEES Mumbai INTERNAL 73 % DIRECTORS 27 % BOARD 70% MEMBERS 30% 13 Introduction Strategy Governance Workplace, JLL supports United States veterans well-being & Last November, JLL launched VetNet, an in a very healthy way, and JLL is at the heart of it,” Employee Resource Group. It cuts across all other Employee Resource Group (ERG) focused on said JLL Board Member and Americas Executive ERGs within the firm, and is focused on assisting recruiting and supporting veterans. With one Chairman Roger Staubach, who also served in members transitioning from military service to the diversity million military veterans expected to return from active service by the end of 2015, JLL wants to create opportunities for the new talent pool, the US Navy. “Veterans represent the best of all of us: they understand teamwork, loyalty, trust, hard work and perseverance. We at JLL are very private sector. A fundamental goal is to go beyond simply recruiting veterans and actually provide them with opportunities for growth and success which offers unique skills that align with our fortunate that we are able to attract veterans to at JLL. Included in our set of goals is the plan to Striving to be an employer of diverse hiring requirements. VetNet will contribute our great organization, and we are able to do it track promotion and retention of our veterans, just choice that attracts rewards and to creating an environment that helps veterans because we value the qualities veterans have.” as we do with other demographic groups within develops diverse talent to better succeed in the civilian workforce. the firm.” As further testament to the institution, Barry serve our clients “Getting the private sector involved with our Scribner, Co-President of Public Institutions military and veterans is going around the country remarked: “VetNet is a critically important 14 Introduction Strategy Governance Community & Shanghai supply chain At JLL, we believe that the communities where we live, work and operate are vital to our success as an organization. We aim to actively support these communities wherever possible, both directly through our own actions and indirectly through our supply chain. Community 15 Introduction Strategy Governance Community & Responsible procurement for our clients JLL is responsible for significant client expenditures for the properties that we manage, Identification of socio-economic impacts for our clients supply chain JLL offers clients a bespoke service to evaluate office building in London that helped our client covering both goods and services at these the socio-economic impacts of their buildings and keep and increase the support of the local locations. Many of our clients are increasingly activities. This helps clients to better understand government for similar projects in the same interested in integrating sustainable procurement and improve their impact on the economy and area. We have also delivered a socio-economic For our services principles into their operations. We are able to meet this demand through the provision of society, while at the same time enhancing their: forecasting model for Hammerson, a major European shopping center investor/developer, a specialized range of services; from providing • relationships with key stakeholders; based on detailed assessments of two of their Making a positive impact through environmental assessment ratings for various • understanding of how their buildings operate; largest assets. The tool assesses 45 indicators, products and services to providing education on and our procurement decisions and our real estate procurement best practices. such as the number and nature of jobs that will be supply chain influence • design of future projects. created, and is used by Hammerson to engage We include general and industry-specific Through this service we have undertaken a with stakeholders during the planning process and sustainability criteria in supplier proposals and number of innovative projects including assessing build support for future retail developments. questionnaires for centrally-managed, multithe socio-economic impacts of an award-winning client contracts. Many of our suppliers are small and medium-sized enterprises. JLL employs a dedicated supplier diversity manager in the US to oversee the $150 million we spend on average each year with small suppliers and contractors. We have also recently hired a new head of our global procurement initiatives. We run an award initiative called Suppliers of Distinction to recognize those suppliers that have helped us in our aim of delivering exceptional services to our clients. Additionally, we make use of Ethispshere’s Supplier Risk Index for both ourselves and our clients, which is an online tool to assist organizations in identifying and managing supply chain risk by providing information on sustainability practices. 16 JLL Global Sustainability Report 2014 16 Introduction Strategy Governance Community & Supply chain engagement Our supply chain presents JLL with an opportunity to encourage and influence suppliers on a large Scaling new heights in Singapore supply chain JLL staff based in Singapore teamed up with students from a local secondary school for a rock climbing scale by ensuring that they reflect our own ethical event in October. 35 of our colleagues were joined by students from the Delta Senior School, a standards and values. We strive to improve both post-secondary school that provides vocational training for persons with special needs. The school is our own and our suppliers’ sustainable procurement operated by the Association for Persons with Special Needs (APSN), a JLL sponsored charity that aims practices. We expect all of our suppliers, whether For our operations they provide goods or services directly to JLL or to provide education, training and support for people with special needs to prepare them for employment and life-long learning. indirectly via our clients, to follow our Vendor Code Serving as a responsible corporate of Conduct. We apply sustainability criteria to our With the help of experienced rock climbing instructors, both the students and our own volunteers own procurement practices with a focus on the overcame their initial fears and managed to pick up the activity within a short period of time. The citizen top items by spend, which includes office, kitchen event culminated in a friendly competition with two winners, one of whom took less than two minutes and printing supplies. We have also specified the to conquer the 12-meter wall. The students and volunteers built a strong rapport over the day, further selection of energy efficient IT equipment wherever strengthening the ties between our two organizations. JLL total charitable contributions possible. (USD millions) Community support 3.1 2014 JLL seeks to capitalize on the skills, expertise and 2013 interests of our diverse global workforce to make a 2.6 tangible difference to the needs of our communities. A key indicator of how successful we have been with this endeavor comes from the level of voluntary donations we have made in funds and time as well 1.2 as other benefits in kind. In 2014, JLL recorded 1.0 total charitable contributions of $4.8 million from both corporate and employee donations. Our 0.5 0.4 corporate donations of $4.1 million are equivalent 0.04 0.02 to 0.8% of our pre-tax profits, compared to the Americas Asia Pacific EMEA Global Firm Management London Benchmarking Group’s benchmark of 1.2%. Overall, our corporate donations have increased year on year in absolute terms but have declined as a percentage of our pre-tax profits. TOTAL Furthermore, our employees volunteered $ 4.8m CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS more than 4,590 days of their time to support charitable causes, compared to 2,821 in 2013, an increase of 63%. We continue to improve our monitoring systems and believe that these figures underestimate our positive role in the community. 17 Introduction Strategy Governance Community & Give & Gain Day 2014 supply chain UK-based JLL employees teamed up with Business in the Community to take Luke Wellock, Employee Volunteering Manager, at Business in the part in the charity’s annual Give and Gain Day: 24 hours of global volunteering Community said: “Give and Gain Day is a celebration of the power of to celebrate the talent, skill and energy found in business and the role it can employee volunteering and the difference it can make to both businesses and play in helping communities prosper. For the second year running, employees communities. By involving more of its people in more places than ever before, For our operations made a strong contribution to the event with more than 300 UK-based JLL is a shining example of what can be achieved with a concerted effort. They employees from the Property and Asset Management division volunteering their have made a statement that employee volunteering is part of their fabric, and I time to contribute to seven different activities for six different organizations in hope it inspires others to follow their lead.” Serving as a responsible corporate four cities across the country. citizen Colleagues in Cardiff took to the streets to raise money for Samaritans, while those in Norwich visited the charity’s headquarters before heading out to promote the new charity store in the city center. Elsewhere in Norwich, a team spent the day undertaking a variety of activities at Thornage Hall, a center for people with special needs. Employees in London gave their time to volunteer at a sheltered housing scheme, help out at a play and learning center for young people, and gardening at an educational center. And in Birmingham, a team of JLL volunteers spent the day at a historic smallholding that supports special needs children and adults. Working with the Chicago Community We have the ability to make a big impact, as individuals and as a firm. This ability is something that our Chicago office put into practice when it held its first ever Service Day. Nearly 250 JLL employees from the Chicago area made a big impact by giving back more than 960 hours of their time to their community. Volunteers spent the afternoon completing hands-on facilities improvement and beautification projects at Reavis Elementary School to help expand student opportunities, boost school pride and to promote Reavis as an exciting place to learn. In addition to volunteering at the school, JLL employees raised more than $2,300 to help Reavis Elementary purchase supplies needed to improve the learning environment. The Chicago chapter of the Women’s Business Network hosted JLL’s Service Day in partnership with local volunteer organization, Chicago Cares. The African American Business Network, Latino Employee Resource Network and Building Pride co-sponsored the event. 18 Introduction Strategy Governance Energy & São Paulo resources With buildings accounting for around a third of global emissions, cutting energy use doesn’t just make business sense; it is the right thing to do. Climate change presents a challenge of an unprecedented scale and complexity, and business has a key role to play in providing solutions. We work to mitigate risk and capitalize on opportunity for our clients’ portfolios and our own. Energy 19 Introduction Strategy Governance Energy & Similar to other professional services organizations, the biggest positive impact JLL can make when it comes to the environment is through the advice this goal. LaSalle participated in the Greenprint Foundation, a worldwide alliance of real estate owners, investors, financial institutions and other Barcelona resources we provide our clients in reducing their own energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. These measures also serve to reduce their costs industry stakeholders committed to reducing carbon emissions across the global property industry. In 2014, more than 300 assets were submitted and to improve efficiency. Because of this impact, to the Greenprint Foundation Carbon Index for For our services we invest significant resources in developing worldbenchmarking and tracking. class energy management strategies for our clients. LaSalle is committed to reducing energy and has Working with clients to reduce Energy management for our clients set targets for core funds where it has management their environmental footprints JLL’s Energy and Sustainability Services teams control. LaSalle follows environmental, social and help to deliver savings and efficiencies for our governance portfolio guidelines to complement clients. We provide a range of services covering the its performance monitoring and further integrate construction, operation and maintenance of their sustainability issues into internal investment facilities as well as advice on occupier behavior decisions and with business partners. and location. We also provide a range of strategic Renewable energy for our clients US client project savings in 2014 solutions such as portfolio energy management JLL has expertise in a wide range of renewable $ and energy reduction programs that aim to deliver 47m energy technologies such as solar photovoltaic, lasting improvements in the efficiency of our clients’ MONETARY portfolios. wind and biomass. Our proficiency in these areas SAVINGS allows us to design and implement bespoke energy (USD) During 2014, we helped deliver energy savings solutions for our clients at the local, regional and 2012: 176 | 2013: 39 for US clients of 477 million kWh (278,000 metric global level. For example, our Renewable Energy tons of CO2), equating to estimated cost savings Capital Group in the UK assists with raising capital, of $47 million. This reduction in energy use is identifying investment opportunities and provides roughly equivalent to the average annual energy financial and commercial expertise to clients across 477m consumption of more than 30,000 homes. These every major renewable energy technology category. ENERGY energy savings have risen by 27% compared to the SAVINGS previous year. The total GHG emissions averted from installed or (kWh) consented renewable energy projects we advised 2012: 1,664 | 2013: 377 Energy advice at LaSalle Investment on in 2014 was more than 62,000 metric tons of Management CO2. There is the potential to avert a further 1.6 LaSalle Investment Management also has a million metric tons if the renewable energy projects significant opportunity to embed sustainability best we advised on last year achieve planning consent GHG or successful development. There has been a 278,000 practice in the $53.6 billion of assets that it acquires EMISSIONS and manages for clients. One of LaSalle’s five significant increase in the emissions averted SAVINGS guiding principles is to reduce the environmental through projects that have either been installed or (metric tons of CO2) impact and monitor the effects of climate change received consent by more than 44,000 metric tons 2012: 913,000 | 2013: 220,000 on clients’ properties. Accurate measurement since 2013. and benchmarking are fundamental to achieving 20 Introduction Strategy Governance Energy & Driving energy efficiency for our clients resources Upstream is JLL’s UK-based sustainability services team, which is one of the largest and For our services most experienced in the property industry. In 2012, it launched the Energy Reduction Program (ERP), the purpose of which is to deliver concrete and Working with clients to reduce lasting energy efficiency improvements across our their environmental footprints clients’ portfolios. As well as supporting our clients in meeting their own environmental objectives, these efficiencies contributed to reductions in operational costs, reduced Carbon Reduction Commitment liabilities and increased tenant Client renewable energy projects satisfaction. The ERP is delivered through three key stages: a Installed or Planning Total baseline review of building performance; analysis consented & feasibility of energy data; and, quarterly engagement with Capacity (MW) 42 1,095 1,137 onsite teams. This approach allows us to get to know the building, determine the current condition Averted 62,650 1,628,426 1,691,077 of the building and, most crucially, understand emissions* where energy is being consumed. We are then * (metric tons of CO2) able to provide advice and support to help facility and property managers identify, implement and regularly monitor efficiency measures. The ERP has so far delivered savings of more than 29 million kWh equating to financial savings of approximately $2.7 million and a reduction of 9,250 metric tons of CO2; the equivalent of approximately 18% of the JLL’s own greenhouse gas emissions for 2014. Furthermore, the results have given clients an improved understanding of the energy efficiency of their existing buildings, allowing them to make more informed decisions impacting building operating practices, refurbishments and development. 21 Introduction Strategy Governance Energy & JLL’s direct environmental impact stems from greenhouse gas emissions in our corporate offices and from business travel. We are committed to 64% of our offices have video conferencing facilities and employees are routinely provided with video-conferencing enabled personal IT Toronto resources driving down our emissions wherever possible through innovative workplace strategies. JLL has committed to reducing energy consumption and equipment. We also encourage our employees to minimize the use of business travel by seeking to provide alternatives wherever possible. greenhouse gas emissions from our offices by Additionally, JLL takes advantage of the benefits For our operations 10% per employee and to reduce the rented area of switching to green energy. By the end of in our offices by 8% per employee by 2017. Each 2014, 10% of our offices procured energy from of these targets is set against a 2012 baseline. renewable sources, in line with 2013. Managing our own environmental footprint Tackling our carbon footprint Engaging with employees on sustainability In 2014, JLL’s absolute greenhouse gas emissions JLL runs an employee engagement and were 51,960 metric tons of CO2e, compared to communications program called ACT: A Cleaner 49,344 metric tons in 2012, an increase of 5%. Tomorrow. The aim of this program is to give While our emission increased, our business also employees the tools they need to reduce their grew with our gross global revenue increasing individual environmental impact at the office by 38% over the same period. Our building and at home. These efforts are supplemented related emissions per corporate office employee by the many energy efficiency initiatives run by were 1.5 metric tons, a reduction of 6% against sustainability experts and employees locally we our 2012 baseline. Our building related energy have introduced energy and greenhouse gas consumption per corporate office employee was reduction initiatives in 66% of our offices, many 3.7 MWh in 2014, in line with 3.7 MWh in 2012, a of which are aligned with the aims of the ACT 1% reduction. In 2014 we rented 162 square feet program. GHG EMISSIONS 1.5 of property per employee compared to 172 square PER OFFICE EMPLOYEE feet per employee in 2012, a reduction of 6%. metric tons CO2e ENERGY USE 3.7 PER OFFICE EMPLOYEE JLL global carbon footprint MWh GHG emissions source GHG Protocol scope Metric tons of CO2e % of total emissions TOTAL RENTED AREA 162 PER OFFICE EMPLOYEE Company-owned vehicles 1 10,736 21% Natural gas consumption 1 183 <1% sq ft Electricity consumption 2 10,762 21% Business travel 3 15,680 30% TOTAL 51,960 CARBON FOOTPRINT metric tons CO2e Building related estimations TOTAL 3 14,599 51,960 28% 22 Introduction Strategy Governance Green Dubai buildings The opportunities presented by green buildings go beyond energy efficiency. By promoting the health and well-being of occupants, making use of sustainably sourced construction materials and respecting local habitats, green buildings deliver value across the triple bottom line. Green Buildings 23 Introduction Strategy Governance Green JLL provides services that address the entire lifecycle of a building – from the design and planning of buildings and on through to their Design (LEED) accredited professionals and green associates. By the end of 2014, we had 1,531 such accredited professionals working in of 87 green building certifications, an increase of 14% compared to the previous year. These certifications covered 18,064,978 square feet buildings construction, occupation, management, refurbishment and sale. We provide expert advice on how sustainability can be embedded at each of our teams around the world. Leading the way through better performing (1,678,293 square meters). Throughout 2014, JLL was heavily involved in a buildings global research project led by the World Green these stages to maximize value for our clients. For our services We are driving improvements in the overall Building Council, aimed at better understanding Energy and sustainability accredited performance of our clients’ buildings. In 2014, our the relationship between workplace and professionals sustainability teams provided assistance on a total employees in office buildings. Our experts sat Providing green building expertise We seek to apply our employees’ sustainability of 8,098 buildings. We have a strong record of on the project’s steering group and technical to achieve our clients’ cost and expertise to deliver the highest standards of client achieving LEED and other building certifications committees. We also had key input to the working service. This ambition was demonstrated in 2013 for our clients, in some cases attaining certification groups tasked with reviewing global research and environmental goals when we became one of the world’s top employers levels beyond our clients’ original aspirations. In providing insight on features that may improve of Leadership in Energy and Environmental 2014, we assisted our clients in achieving a total productivity and well-being. Client green buildings certifications in 2014 61 12 Other certifications 14 Hong Kong 24 Introduction Strategy Governance Green Delivering value through green buildings buildings JLL is the building manager appointed by joint ANZ tower makes use of tri-generation, using waste streams including: organics, soft owners The GPT Group, ISPT and Blackstone to waste heat from a gas fired generator to assist plastics, e-waste, toner cartridges, textiles, oversee Liberty Place: a group of three prestigious in provision of low carbon cooling to the building. and polystyrene; buildings located in Sydney, Australia. Liberty The building also has large rainwater collection • quarterly Building Management Committee For our services Place consists of: tanks, automated solar-responsive internal blinds, meetings facilitated by JLL bring the owners efficient lighting and horizontal external shading and tenants together to provide information • ANZ tower, a 640 foot (195 meter) tall, 50 louvers. on the operational changes and sustainability story premium-grade office building; Providing green building expertise improvements to the building; and • Legion House, a heritage listed building Building on these excellent sustainability features, to achieve our clients’ cost and JLL has also implemented a number of operational • provision of substantial end-of-trip facilities for originally constructed in 1902, and environmental goals substantially upgraded to convert it into a five measures to further reduce the buildings’ footprint. staff such as bicycle racks, showers, lockers story office building; and These include: and change area, a bike tune up station including a repair stand, tools and an electric • 167 Castlereagh St, a two story A-grade office • tuning the tri-generation plant to optimize its tire pump, airing cupboards, ironing facilities, building with ground floor retail space. operation; hair dryers, as well as cycle/health specific The complex was designed with sustainability • achieving 5 Star NABERS Office BB Energy, vending facilities. JLL works to encourage as a key objective. All three buildings achieved with future plans to achieve a 5.5 Star rating; tenants to cycle by promoting ride-to-work 6 Star Green Star Office Design ratings, the • waste management and recycling initiatives events. We also facilitate bicycle maintenance highest available, and ANZ Tower has also including providing tenant specific reports for days providing commuters with a free bike achieved a 5 Star NABERS Office Energy Rating, major tenants and introducing new segregated check up every quarter. signifying best practice in low-carbon operation. 25 Introduction Strategy Governance Green Our occupation of green buildings Wherever possible, we seek to implement green building practices. At the end of 2014, 17% of our Green buildings in Greater China buildings offices had green building or fit-out certifications such as LEED, BREEAM or RICS SKA. A further JLL’s Energy and Sustainability Solutions team advises and assists clients to achieve their sustainability targets. We have also committed to reduce JLL’s environmental impact, and act as an example of industry leading practices. 47% of offices in our portfolio had green building Making best use of our expertise in design, principles (without a certification). These numbers achieving high levels of sustainability for our own For our operations are rising as we increase our occupation of operations. Working toward this aim, it is now our construction, operations, and facility management, we adopted an integrated delivery approach to green buildings as a proportion of our total office policy that all newly established and refurbished incorporate the following green initiatives: water portfolio. offices in Greater China will achieve LEED Implementing green building certification. Not only does this policy provide efficient fixtures; integrated lighting controls; practices in our corporate offices 62% of our offices had alternative workplace optimized daylight and views to the outside employees with healthy and productive working strategies. These options include approaches and the use of green furniture and furnishings. environments, but it also reflects our commitment such as hotdesking, evolved open-plan Furthermore, 80% of the equipment purchased to redefine the real estate industry. environments, flexi-time and making use of for these buildings was ENERGY STAR rated. As communications technologies to support remote As of 2014, seven JLL corporate offices across a result of these efforts we have so far achieved 42 JLL OFFICES WITH working. Making best use of these strategies can Greater China had received a LEED certification, one Platinum and six Gold LEED certifications and serve to reduce costs, improve productivity and including the Hong Kong office at 3 Pacific an average reduction in lighting energy use and GREEN BUILDING drive efficient use of space. Furthermore, these Place. At the time of its certification, this was the water use of 25% and 35% respectively. CERTIFICATIONS highest-rated LEED Platinum building anywhere in practices are also beneficial to the individual by promoting a healthy work-life balance and the world. The industry leading technologies and supporting well-being. initiatives deployed in these offices have helped 26 Contacts Corporate documents 2014 Annual Report 2015 Annual Meeting of 2015 Corporate Facts Code of Business Ethics Sarah Nicholls Dan Probst Shareholders & Proxy Statement Head of Global Corporate Chairman Energy & Sustainability Sustainability Services JLL JLL Kantoorgebouw Atrium 200 East Randolph Drive Strawinskylaan 3103 Chicago, IL 60601 1077 ZX Amsterdam The Netherlands Sarah.Nicholls@jll.com Dan.Probst@am.jll.com Vendor Code of Conduct Transparency Report 2014 Ethics Everywhere www.jll.com Designed by JLL Upstream Sustainability Services in London © 2015 Jones Lang LaSalle IP, Inc. All rights reserved. The information contained in this document is proprietary to Jones Lang LaSalle and shall be used solely for the purposes of evaluating this proposal. All such documentation and information remains the property of Jones Lang LaSalle and shall be kept confidential. Reproduction of any part of this document is authorized only to the extent necessary for its evaluation. It is not to be shown to any third party without the prior written authorization of Jones Lang LaSalle. All information contained herein is from sources deemed reliable; however, no representation or warranty is made as to the accuracy thereof. BREEAM is a registered trade mark of the Building Research Establishment Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of BRE Group Limited, and is used by permission. All rights are reserved
