2015 KOREAN AIR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINING EXCELLENCE BEGIN AGAIN Since releasing our first sustainability report in 2006, we have been publishing the report every year. This year marks the tenth anniversary of the report, and we tried to express our determination to go back to . NIAGAEXCELLENCE SUSTAINING NIGEB square one and start with a clean slate under the slogan ‘Begin Again’ throughout the report. We will continue our efforts to innovate the way we do business, anchored firmly on humility and loyalty toward our stakeholders. ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS ● Features of the Report >> G4-29/G4-30 Introduction Sustaining Excellence IV. Absolute Safety and HighFrom its first publication in 2006 to the current edition, Korean Air's Sustainability Report Quality Services 02 Letter from the CEO I. Sustainble Growth into a has been published every year for the last ten years, the last report being released in Global Airline 66 Safe Flight and Stronger 04 About Korean Air August 2014. The report covers sustainability impacts and performance in such areas as Security 08 Our Value Chain 30 Creation and Distribution economy, society and the environment. We have done our best to present all the contents 69 Branding as a Premier Airline of Economic Value accurately and clearly. Korean Air intends to publish the annual sustainability report as 10 Our Flight Routes a channel through which it can communicate with its stakeholders and report on the 32 Continued enhancement 72 Customer Satisfaction 12 Our Vision and Philosophy sustainability issues that stakeholders care about, in a transparent manner. The previous of profitability V. Shared Values for Society reports can be downloaded in Korean and English from our website. 14 Corporate Governance 34 Diversification of Business 76 Shared Growth with Suppliers ● Reporting Standards >> G4-32 16 Ethics Management Portfolio 78 Giving Back to Society This report has been prepared in accordance with the Comprehensive Option of GRI 18 Materiality Assessment 38 Process Innovation (Global Reporting Intiative) G4 Guidelines. Specific guidelines relevant to individual secProcess Appendix 40 Stricter Management of tions of the report are indicated where applicable for further reference. Business Risks Beyond Challenges 82 Key Sustainability Indicators ● Period, Scope, and Boundary of the Report >> G4-17/G4-28 II. People-Centered Corporate 88 Third-Party Assurance 22 A Better Decision-Making Culture The report is based on the company’s sustainability performance from January to DeStatement Process cember 2014, and includes some of the performance in the first half of 2015. Major quan44 People-Centered 23 Human Rights for MOT 90 GRI G4 Index titative data for the last three years from 2012 to 2014 is presented in chronological order Management to facilitate the reader’s analysis of underlying trends. The report presents the consoliEmployees 95 UN Global Compact 48 Striking a Balance between dated sustainability performance of the headquarters of Korean Air and all of its domes24 Sponsoring the PyeongChang Work and Personal Life 96 Major Awards and tic and overseas subsidiaries and branches. Winter Olympics Memberships 51 Labor-Management Relations ● Third-Party Assurance >> G4-33 for Co-prosperity The report has been assured by the Korea Standards Association, a third-party assurIII. G  reen Management for Future ance body, in accordance with AA1000AS(2008) in order to guarantee the accuracy and Generations reliability of the report. The assurer's report is included in the section titled 3rd-Party 54 Environment Management Assurance Statement on page 88 of this sustainability report. System ● Significant Changes from the Previous Year >> G4-13 56 Responses to Climate Change Korean Air spun off its investment project division on August 1, 2013 via an equity spinoff 60 Aircraft Noise Management and set up Hanjin Kal Corporation. Follow-up actions have been taken. The limousine service was taken over by Korea Airport Services on February 1, 2015. 62 Minimizing Environmental ● Further Information Impact More information is available in the 2014 Business Report of Korean Air posted on our website (www.koreanair.com) and on the electronic disclosure system operated by the Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr). ● Contact Information >> G4-31 If you have any questions, comments or inquiries about this report, please contact: The Environment Team of the Environment and Construction Management Department at SELAFE@koreanair.com / Tel. 02)2656-5512 BEGIN AGAIN >> G4-1 / G4-2 LETTER FROM THE CEO Korean Air is poised to rise Dear stakeholders, opportunity to transform the way we do our as a leading global airline First, I would like to express my heartfelt business, rather than merely viewing it as a gratitude for your unwavering support for, case of crisis management, so that we can by pursuing creative changes and interest in, Korean Air. We at Korean Air regain your trust and confidence. and innovations. take great pride in providing world-class air The year 2014 marked our 45th anniversary, travel services to our customers, and have for which we set ourselves the goal of ‘boostbeen striving ceaselessly to become a leading ing our growth momentum by improving the global airline that represents Korea, by confundamentals of our business’ for 2014. To stantly embracing changes and innovations. attain this goal, we made aggressive efforts We are fully aware that all the successes and toward developing markets with growth poachievements that we have made so far were tential. Two A380 aircraft were added to our only made possible by your enduring support fleet to improve our passenger services, and and encouragement. This 10th Sustainability currently a total of ten A380 airplanes fly longReport that we are about to publish presents distance routes to major global hubs includthe results of our efforts to achieve sustainaing Los Angeles, New York, Paris, and Atlanta. bility during 2014. The report is also intended In addition, we opened a new route to Houto serve as an important channel of commuston, the largest city in Texas, U.S., further nication with our stakeholders. augmenting our global network. Looking back, the first half of 2014 was a We installed the latest models of high-effitesting time for all of us amid the prolonged ciency equipment and machinery, secured economic slowdown and the repercussions business with global corporations, and made of the sinking of the Sewol passenger ferry, inroads into new markets such as Vietnam while the business environment saw a turn and Central and South America in order to for the better in the second half following a raise the profitability of our cargo business. drop in the price of oil fell. On the other hand, Korean Air also began competing globally as a we deeply regret that the incident involving developer of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) Korean Air stirred up a huge social controafter developing Korea’s first indigenous unversy and caused a great deal of distress to manned aerial reconnaissance vehicle. our stakeholders. However, I would like to assure you that we have learned our lessons and that we remain determined to take this KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 02/03 We expect that many challenges and opporwhile disposing of old airplanes such as the All the officers and employees of Korean Air tunities lie ahead in 2015, and believe that esB747-400 in a bid to upgrade and modernize devoted themselves to faithfully fulfilling the tablishing a culture of flexibility and creativity its fleet. Korean Air also plans to launch new duties of transporting people and cargoes, will be essential if we are to bring about the routes to major cities in China, including Heand its social responsibilities as the nationalnecessary changes and make a new leap forfei, Nanning, and Guiyang, and to increase the flag carrier, thereby eventually contributing to ward. We will overhaul management system flights on key routes including Dubai. the advancement of Korean society. to ensure that employees can perform their Our plans for 2015 include our social responJust as it has survived numerous challenges duties most efficiently, and improve corporate sibilities as a corporate citizen. Korean Air and difficulties over the past 45 years, Korean culture with a focus on effective communicahas been involved in a variety of social activiAir will continue with its efforts to become a tion and consensus-building, by collecting ties including planting trees in the Kubuqi Detruly great company by taking full advantage diverse opinions from within and outside the sert of China and Mongolia, implementing the of its know-how as well as the advice and organization. ‘Global Planting Project,’ which is aimed at support of its stakeholders. Finally, I humbly Furthermore, we will expand our growth pomaking the inner city of Los Angeles greener, ask you to provide continued support as we tential by maximizing profit. Our management sponsoring Korean language services at the grow with you. goal for 2015 is 'creating profit in all business world’s major museums, supporting disasThank you. areas by enhancing profitability and expandter-struck areas, and sponsoring a variety of ing growth potential.' In response to the growsporting and cultural events. As a participant ing competition brought about by low-cost airin the UN Global Compact, Korean Air follows April 2015 lines and the entry of foreign airlines into the its ten principles in the fields of human rights, Cho Yang-ho Korean market, Korean Air plans to put highlabor, environment, and anti-corruption, and Chairman & CEO, Korean Air tech airplanes with cutting-edge first-class will do its best to be a corporate citizen that and business seats such as the B747-8i and earns the respect of communities and stakethe B777-300ER onto long-distance routes, holders alike. We celebrated our 45th anniversary in 2014 and, once again, we would like to stress our appreciation of the support that you have shown for Korean Air. Over the past 45 years, Korean Air has been dedicated to carrying passengers and cargos safely around the world. BEGIN AGAIN ABOUT KOREAN AIR INTRODUCTION CORE BUSINESSES Founded in 1969, Korean Air celebrates its 46th anniversary this year. Air Transportation As of the end of 2014, Korean Air owns 148 units of aircraft, and offers in-flight meals, duty-free items for sale, and limousine services, in addition to passenger and cargo transportation services. As part of its continuous efforts to expand the scope of its business, Korean Air is tapping into the aerospace business including the development of aircraft parts and aircraft maintenance. Corporate Overview >> G4-3 / G4-4 / G4-5 / G4-6 / G4-7 / G4-8 / G4-9 / G4-10 As of the end of 2014, Korean Air owns a fleet of 148 airplanes, opCompany Name Korean Air Lines Co., Ltd. erates scheduled flights to 12 cities in Korea and 114 cities in 44 Headquarters 260 Haneul-gil (1370 Gonghang-dong), countries, and carries 23,270,000 passengers and 1.53 million tons Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea of cargo per year. Our aerospace business includes the designing and Phone Number 02-2656-7114 manufacturing of aircraft, maintenance services for commercial and Website http://www.koreanair.com military aircraft, and R&D on satellites. Our other businesses include Business Areas Passenger & cargo transportation, catering services and in-flight duty-free sales. All these businesses aerospace, cartering services, in-flight sales, limousine services are run in ways that can create synergy effects. Sales 11,680,400 million won Aerospace No. of Employees 20,543 persons(including employees of overseas subsidiaries and branches) Air Fleet 148 Routes 126 cities in 45 countries No. of Passengers 23,270,000 Carried Cargo Carried 1,530,000 tons Subsidiaries See Disclosures by Korean Air** on http://dart.fss.or.kr * As of December 31, 2014. With the experience and technological expertise we have accumu** ‘IX. Matters Concerning Subsidiaries, etc.’ on page 377 of the 2014 lated over the past 38 years in the design and production of manned Business Report. aircraft for domestic and foreign clients, licensed production, performance improvement, repair, renovation, maintenance, and development and manufacture of aircraft structures, Korean Air plans to consolidate its position as a manufacturer of finished unmanned airKOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 04/05 Revenue (unit: 100 million won) craft and eventually grow into an aerospace company that produces Our high-quality limousine service connects Incheon International both manned and unmanned aerial vehicles. Airport and Gimpo International Airport to major hotels in downtown 116,804 Catering & In-Flight Sales Seoul. Since the launch of the limousine service in 1992, it has been offering a safe and convenient transportation option for locals and international visitors alike. Korean Air transferred the limousine Revenue service to Korea Airport Services on February 1, 2015 to increase from transportation services Revenue from management efficiency. other businesses 99,048 Auxiliary 9,088 revenue OUR FLEET 8,668 A380-800 B747-400 Passenger planes 10 Passenger planes 14 Transportation Cargo planes 17 A) Catering _ Korean Air produces in-flight meals that cater to the (unit: 10,000 persons/10,000 tons) varying tastes and travel schedules of our passengers. The menu Passengers is developed based on surveys on our customers' preferences. The B747-8F B777-300ER / 300 / 200 meals are cooked on the ground in line with the flight schedules and Cargo planes 5 Passenger planes 33 2,326.9 provided to other airlines as well as to Korean Air. International flights B777-F A330-200 / 300 1,661.4 B) In-Flight Sales _ Customers flying on international routes can Cargo planes 4 Passenger planes 26 purchase duty-free items during their flight. We operate the ‘advance Domestic flights order system for in-flight duty-free items’ as part of our efforts to 665.5 B737-800 / 900 / 900ER make in-flight sales more efficient and convenient for our customCargo ers. Surveys are regularly conducted in order to offer a wider variety Passenger planes 39 of items, meet the changing needs of customers, and raise customer 152.8 International flights 143.4 satisfaction through strict quality control. Limousine Service TOTAL 148 Domestic flights Passenger planes 122 9.4 Cargo planes 26 * Excluding cargo planes under wet lease, and Biz Jets. BEGIN AGAIN ABOUT KOREAN AIR FLY TO THE GLOBAL SKY Korean Air, After Hanjin Group took over Korea Air Lines Co. in 1969, Flying hours Passengers carried 46 Years of Commercial Korea’s first trans-Pacific cargo route between Seoul and (unit: 1,000 hours) (unit: 10,000 persons) Air Transportation LA was opened in 1971, followed by the launch of the pasin Korea senger route to LA the following year. 1969-2014 Korea’s airline industry continued to grow until the mid2,327 2,207 1990s, but it was faced with new challenges in the late 1990s 618 due to global oversupply and intensifying competition. In 2000, Korean Air formed SkyTeam, a global airline alliance, together with leading global airlines such as Aeroméxico, 385 Air France, and Delta Air Lines. 1,226 EXCELLENCE IN FLIGHT 202 In commemoration of its 35th anniversary in 2004, Korea Air declared its new vision as ‘a global airline that leads the 360 105 world’s airline industry’ and adopted ‘Excellence in Flight’ 70 as its guiding mission for the future. Korean Air remained 20 the world's No. 1 cargo carrier for six consecutive years from 2004 to 2009, emerging as a leading global airline. 1969 1980 1990 2000 2014 1969 1980 1990 2000 2014 ‘A GLOBAL AIRLINE THAT LEADS THE WORLD'S AIRLINE INDUSTRY’ This is the vision that drives Korean Air today. Korean Air rose to countless challenges and faced numerous crises in the long process of transforming a troubled Korea Air Lines 1960s 1970s into a global airline, and our success today is the culmination of our experiences in meeting the challenges head-on Mar. 1969 Apr. 1971 Opening of the first scheduled cargo route to North America over the years. Korean Air soars high in the sky with the goal Foundation of Korean Air (Seoul-Tokyo-LA) of becoming the airline on which customers in Korea and Oct. 1973 Opening of the first scheduled cargo around the world choose to fly. route to Europe(Seoul-Paris) Mar. 1979 Opening of the first passenger route(Seoul-New York) KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 06/07 Cargo carried Aircraft Operating income Equity capital Total assets (unit: 10,000 tons) (unit: air plane) (unit: 100 million won) (unit: 100 million won) (unit: 100 million won) 116,804 3,378 214,204 2,989 153 148 112 107,480 128 55,590 1,740 16,791 72 29,033 5,587 51 37 284 7,374 14 11 36 57 15 0 1969 1980 1990 2000 2014 1969 1980 1990 2000 2014 1969 1980 1990 2000 2014 1969 1980 1990 2000 2014 1969 1980 1990 2000 2014 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Dec. 1981 Completion of Korean Air's Apr. 1990 Opening of a passenger route to Jun. 2000 Formation of SkyTeam, a global alliance, Jul. 2011 Introduction of next-generation cargo terminal at Los Angeles Oceania(Sydney) together with Aeroméxico, Air France, aircraft A380 International Airport May 1992 First graduates from Korean Air and Delta Air Lines Mar. 2012 Introdcution of Enterprise Resource Jan. 1983 Launch of the Total Passenger Pilot Training Academy Jun. 2005 World No. 1 ranking in cargo Planning (ERP) Service System (TOPAS) Oct. 1992 Opening of a passenger route to transportation Apr. 2013 Korean Air signs a contract to acquire Jan. 1984 Opening of the Incheon Flight South America(Sao Paulo) Sep. 2005 Introduction of a new uniform for flight a stake in state-run Czech Airlines Training Center Dec. 1994 Opening of a route to China(Beijing) attendants (Korean Air becomes the second Jun. 1989 Purchase of the first B747-400 Oct. 2006 Publication of first edition of in-flight largest shareholder of Czeck Airlines) Mar. 1995 Delivery of our 100th airplane (B747-400) monthly entertainment magazine Sep. 2014 Launch of the new Passenger 'Beyond' Service System (PSS) BEGIN AGAIN >> G4-12 / G4-24 / G4-25 / G4-26 / G4-27 OUR VALUE CHAIN “ Korean Air has in place PROCUREMENT MARKETING & SALES multiple channels through Purchase of agricultural products(ingredients for in-flight meals), Planning and implementation of marketing campaigns for which it communicates jet oil, and other products necessary for aircraft operation from Korean Air's services and products, and sales thereof, with stakeholders in all aspects of farms, markets, oil refineries, and other stakeholders. e.g. promoting and selling air tickets, cooking in-flight meals, business activities from · Responses to Climate Change (p.56) · Aircraft Noise Management (p.60) and performing aircraft maintenance. procurement to provision of · Minimizing Environmental Impact (p.62) · Process Innovation (p.38) · Diversification of Business Portfolio(p.35) services; it is taking active steps to · Shared Growth with Suppliers (p.76) · Giving Back to Society (p.78) · Branding as a Premier Airline (p.69) meet their demands ” and expectations. COMMUNICATION CHANNELS Communication with local communities and community support Korean Air's website, SNS channels such as blogs, programs(sister relations with rural villages), local procurement, PR events, fair trade agreement, 24-hour real-time chat service, Shared Growth Council, Internet Suppliers Portal(ISP), regular travel information website(travel.koreanair.com), meetings with suppliers, Technology Council Sky News(skynews.co.kr). •  ,283,000 trees have been planted so far as a result 1 • The new passenger service system PSS has been introduced. of our global afforestation project. • T  raditional Korean course menu, and steamed rice • 1,334,000 million won has been invested in purchasing aircraft. with soybean paste sauce have been added to the in-flight meal options. • Contracts signed to export more fresh Korean produce. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 08/09 FLIGHT OPERATION POST-FLIGHT OPERATION Transportation of passengers and cargo. Passenger transport includes Cleaning of aircraft and disposal of waste after provision of all check-in, boarding, meal service, and in-flight entertainment. services. Surveys of customers' opinions on services and reflection · A Better Decision-Making Process(p.22) · Human Rights for MOT Employees (p.23) thereof in future operations. · Striking a Balance between Work and Personal Life (p.48) · Continued Enhancement of Profitability (p.32) · Safe Flight and Stronger Security (p.66) · Stricker Management of Business Risks (p.40) · Customer Satisfaction (p.72) Communication Plaza, support for emotional laborers, collective agreement, Intranet, IR meetings, corporate information sessions, disclosures, Labor-Management Council, Grievance Resolution Office, mentoring system, annual reports, insider information from employees, IATA(International Air Transport Association), AAPA(Association of Asia Pacific Airlines), sustainability reports, Voice of Customers(VOC), travel photo SkyTeam, a microsite dedicated to environmental issues (sky.koreanair.com) contest(photo.koreanair.com) • * 394 posts on Communication Plaza • 5  8,061 posts on VOC / decreased by 5% • T he Labor-Management Council met once. •5  12 employees completed mental healthcare education programs. *Data from March to May 2015 BEGIN AGAIN OUR FLIGHT ROUTES As of December 2014, Korean Air operates passenger and cargo routes to 12 cities in Korea and 114 cities in 44 countries. Korean Air is working hard to create synergy effects by taking full advantage of our infrastructure in different parts of the world, and to raise the Anchorage international profile of Korea. ▲ Destinations in the Vancouver Americas ▲ 16cities ▲ Seattle Toronto ▲ Destinations in Chicago Las Vegas Korea San Francisco ▲ Sapporo ▲ ▲ ▲ New York Dallas Wonju/Hoengseong ▲ ▲ 12 cities Hakodate ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ Washington D.C. ▲ Honolulu Los Angeles Miami Cheongju/Daejeon Ulsan ▲ Houston ▲ Aomori Fukuoka ▲ Atlanta Seoul/Incheon Seoul/Gimpo Nagoya ▲ Akita Niigata ▲ Tokyo/Narita ▲ ▲ Komatsu Tokyo/Haneda ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ Daegu Gunsan ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲▲ ▲ ▲ Shizuoka ▲ ▲ ▲ Busan ▲ Gwangju ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ Jinju/Sacheon Okayama Jeju ▲ Oita Destinations in Yeosu/Suncheon Osaka Sao Paulo Japan Kagoshima ▲ Nagasaki 15 cities KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10/11 ▲ New Routes Copenhagen Destinations in China Saint Petersburg Stockholm ▲ London/Heathrow ▲ ▲ ▲ Oslo ▲ Moscow Irkutsk 26 cities ▲ Vladivostok Mudanjiang ▲ Frankfurt Brussels Amsterdam ▲ ▲ ▲ Beijing ▲ Prague ▲ ▲ Ulaanbaatar ▲ Yanji Paris ▲ ▲ Zhengzhou Shenyang ▲ ▲ Tashkent ▲ ▲ Vienna ▲ ▲ Zaragoza ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ Tianjin ▲ Urumqi Dalian ▲ ▲ Rome ▲ Destinations ▲ Istanbul Chiang Mai Siem Reap ▲ Weihai Milan Madrid Navoi in Southeast Asia Jinan ▲ Changsha Tel Aviv ▲ Kathmandu Da Nang Phnom Penh ▲ Qingdao Zurich ▲ Cairo Riyadh ▲ ▲ ▲ Hanoi ▲ Nha Trang 24cities Chengu Xian ▲ ▲ Nanjing Shanghai/Hongqiao ▲ ▲ Basel ▲ ▲ Wuhan ▲ ▲ Dubai Mumbai Yangon ▲ ▲ ▲ Manila Shanghai/Pudong Jeddah ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ Guam ▲ ▲ Bangkok ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ Hangzhou ▲ Kunming Colombo ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ Cebu Taipei ▲ ▲ Ho Chi Minh Palau Guangzhou ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲▲ Xiamen Destinations in Phuket Kota Kinabalu ▲ Male Singapore Shenzhen Huangshan Europe, Nairobi Penang Middle East and Africa Kuala Lumpur ▲ ▲ Hong Kong Bali Jakarta 29cities Brisbane ▲ ▲ Nadi(Fiji) Sydney ▲ Destinations in Oceania Auckland ▲ 4cities BEGIN AGAIN OUR VISION AND PHILOSOPHY Korea Air is stepping up its efforts to offer innovative services in ciples. Our goal is to grow with society and to create new values order to maximize customer satisfaction and transform itself into with all our stakeholders. Our vision and philosophy are based on a global airline that plays a leading role in the international airline this sense of mission. industry, while remaining firmly bound by its basic values and prinMISSION VISION EXCELLENCE IN FLIGHT Operational Service Innovative To be a Respected Leader Excellence Excellence Excellence in the World Airline Community KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12/13 BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY Adhering to standards and principles Organizational management Developing future growth engines based on expertise and autonomy with competent human resources •E  stablishing standards and principles on par with global standards •M utual respect for expertise in various fields • Formulating a top-tier team •P  ursuing flexibility in business based on •R ational decision-making based on an • Devoting to fostering of key talent standards and principles efficient management system • Gearing toward ‘employee-first’ corporate •E  liminating short-cut business operations •S eeking creative solutions through culture harmonious relations Principle-Based System-Based Appreciation Management Management of Talent Change-Embracing Customer-Oriented Management Management Creating an innovated and bettered Creating customer loyalty with highest corporate culture level of customer satisfaction •E mbracing a progressive and youthful mindful •C omprehensively and systematically approaching •C hange-embracing organizational culture customer relations •F uture-oriented reshuffling of business structure by •P romptly attending to customer needs focusing on core competencies •M aximizing customer value through the Management By Wandering About (MBWA) practices BEGIN AGAIN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS >> G4-38 / G4-40 lution, the members of the nomination committee, the majority of Our board of directors, which is composed of the CEO, four internal whom are external directors, selects candidates. Shareholders who directors, and five external directors from diverse backgrounds in meet specific criteria can recommend external director candidates academia, law, government, and finance, thoroughly reviews key isin accordance with the pre-determined procedures. Personal inforsues and analyzes their impact on the economy, environment, and mation including the qualifications of director candidates including society before making decisions. External directors are appointed by external director candidates is disclosed on the electronic discloa resolution at a general shareholders' meeting. Prior to the resosure system prior to the general shareholders' meeting. Members of the Board Type Name Gender Position/Career Background Date of Appointment Term (years) Note Internal Cho Yang-ho Male Chairman & CEO Mar. 22, 2013 3 Chairman of the board directors Chi Chang-hoon Male President & COO Mar. 22, 2013 3 Lee Sang-kyoon Male President & CFO Mar. 21, 2014 3 Cho Won-tae Male CMO Mar. 27, 2015 3 External Kim Seung-yu Male Chief Director of Hana High School, former CEO Mar. 27, 2015 3 directors of Hana Financial Group Lee Sog-woo Male Lawyer, Doore(law firm), former Chief Justice of the Mar. 22, 2013 3 South Seoul District Court Lee Yun-woo Male Chairman of Geoje Big Island Asset Management, Mar. 27, 2015 3 Chief of the Audit former vice president of Korea Development Bank Committee Bahn Jahng-shick Male Dean, Graduate School of Management of Technology, Mar. 27, 2015 3 Sogang University Former vice minister of the Ministry of Planning and Budget Ahn Yong-seok Male Lawyer, Lee & Ko Law Firm Mar. 21, 2014 3 Committees of the Board of Directors (as of Mar. 27, 2015) Committee Members Name Purposes and Authority External Director Candidate Internal directors 2 Cho Yang-ho, Chi Chang-hoon, Kim Seung-yu, To nominate external director candidates according to the laws, the Nominating Committee External directors 3 Lee Sog-woo, Bahn Jahng-shick company's bylaws, and the regulations of the Board of Directors. Audit Committee External directors 3 Lee Yun-woo, Lee Sog-woo, To audit the books and business operations, and execute matters delBahn Jahng-shick egated by the Board of Directors to the committee according to the laws, the company's bylaws, and the regulations of the Board of Directors. Management Committee Internal directors 3 Cho Yang-ho, Chi Chang-hoon, To make decisions on other matters than those that the relevant External directors 3 Cho Won-tae, Kim Seung-yu, laws and the company's bylaws require should be decided at a Lee Sog-woo, Ahn Yong-seok general shareholders' meeting, and matters delegated by the Board of Directors to the committee. Insider Trading Committee Internal directors 1 Lee Sang-kyoon, Lee Sog-woo , To perform preliminary reviews of material inside trading activities External directors 2 Lee Yun-woo involving specially-related persons as defined in the Fair Trade Act, and recommend corrections to inside trading activities that may potentially violate laws. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14/15 Statistics on BOD Activities COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The CEO and chairman of the company concurrently holds the position of chairman of the board so as to deal with major business issues more efNo. of meetings Korean Air's Board of Directors consits of four committees: the Audit Comficiently, and is entrusted with the management of all business matters, inmittee, the External Director Candidate Nominating Committee, the Inter2012 8 cluding economic, environmental and social issues, to ensure that business nal Trading Committee, and the Management Committee. These commit9 decisions are made in a timely manner. The high-level council, a standing 2013 tees work to ensure the efficient operation of the Board of Directors and body composed of executives who are heads of key divisions or higher in 2014 9 its compliance with laws and regulations. Notably, the Audit Committee is position, makes decisions on strategic business and sustainability mancomposed entirely of external directors so as to enable strict monitoring of agement. This council functions as an effective decision-making body by No. of resolutions the directors’ performance of their duties and the company's operations, actively responding to the expectations and demands of stakeholders on and to provide an effective system of checks and balances. Senior execu2012 47 economic, environmental, and social trends and by reviewing and reachtives in charge of finance and audit attend the meetings of the Audit Com2013 47 ing a consensus on issues from a company-wide perspective. The council mittee to provide assistance with the reviewal of issues. meets regularly to monitor and evaluate the progress of the issues dis2014 51 cussed at the meetings. ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS >> G4-43 Rate of attendance(all directors) Korean Air's board of directors held nine meetings to discuss and vote on EVALUATION OF AND REMUNERATION FOR DIRECTORS AND 2012 84 fifty-one matters. The BOD meets regularly at least once every quarter to SENIOR EXECUTIVES 2013 78 engage in in-depth discussions on and thoroughly review major corporate >> G4-44 / G4-45 / G4-46 / G4-47 / G4-51 / G4-52 / G4-53 / G4-54 / G4-55 issues; and extraordinary meetings are convened whenever necessary. The 2014 80 The executive remuneration cap is determined by a resolution at a general annual meeting schedule is published in advance in order to increase the rate shareholders' meeting (GSM). The 2014 GSM approved 5.0 billion won for Rate of attendance(external directors) of attendance. The average rate of attendance was 80% (89% for external diexecutive remuneration, of which 4.67 billion won was paid. The top decisionrectors), i.e. the meetings were attended by 10.2 directors on average in 2014. 2012 89 making body analyzes the business environment and the risks and opportuSenior executives in various business areas such as passenger and cargo nities associated with individual businesses each year in order to set sustain2013 94 transportation, finance, and technology attend the board meetings in order ability management performance indicators for senior executives, and their 2014 89 to help the directors better understand the issues discussed at the meetings. bonuses are paid according to their performance. The median value of the Executives in charge of individual business areas present the relevant issues combined pay awarded to all Korean Air employees was 2.54% of the annual to the board and answer any questions pertaining to those issues. salary of the highest-paid employee. There is a gap of 3.2% in the growth rate between the pay of the highest-paid employee and the pay of all employees. AVOIDING CONFLICT OF INTEREST WITHIN THE BOD >> G4-41 The bylaws and the rules of the BOD stipulate that the voting right of direcCHANNELS OF COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS >> G4-48 tors who are specially interested in the matters to be voted on at a board Korean Air uses a variety of channels including business reports, semi-anmeeting is restricted, and that such directors are not counted among the nual and quarterly reports, the posting of IR information on the corporate number of directors required for a resolution. Members of the board are website, general shareholders' meetings, IR sessions, and the electronic informed of this rule ahead of a resolution. disclosure system to communicate major business issues to shareholders and stakeholders in a timely fashion, and to gather opinions from them at the HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY AND SOCIALLY same time. Approval for publication of the sustainability report, a major chanRESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT nel of communication with stakeholders, should be obtained from the vice >> G4-34 / G4-35 / G4-36 / G4-37 / G4-39 / G4-42 / G4-49 / G4-50 presidents and presidents of all the business divisions prior to publication. BEGIN AGAIN ETHICS MANAGEMENT Korean Air declares the code of ethics publicly to make it known to on sound judgements, to behave appropriately, and to take proper all its employees and to interested persons outside the company. actions. A whistle-blowing system has been introduced to discourage All employees at Korean Air are encouraged to faithfully follow the employees from violating the rules and regulations in the course of code of ethics in the course of performing their duties. In addition, we performing their duties. In addition, a self-regulation program has make continued efforts to put various systems in place and educate been adopted to ensure fair trade, along with an internal supervision our employees so that ethics management remains an integral part system. Since the management declared its committment to volunof our business operations. tarily observing the rules of fair trade in 2004, Korean Air has been operating an independent organization within the company dedicated to promoting fair-trade practices, preventing unfair trading activities, KOREAN AIR'S CHARTER OF ETHICS >> G4-56 and eradicating cartels. BUSINESS ETHICS PROGRAMS Korean Air regards transparency and responsibility as vital management values. We respect free market principles and abide Our business ethics programs include the Charter of Ethics, guideby relevant rules and regulations in our business practices. With lines on the implementation of the code of ethics, and the whistlethese principles, we strive to promote prosperity for the company blowing system. These programs apply to all Korean Air employees and society as a whole. As a result, Korean Air institutes a Charter at home and abroad. of Ethics, which we vow to put into practice at all times. ● Regard customer satisfaction and safety as our highest priority. Program Content ● Respect all employees and make an effort to enhance their Charter of Ethics Presents the corporate philosophy and quality of life. management direction. ● Exert best efforts to increase investment value for our investors. Guidleines on the Set forths 7 principles on how to make the right ● Promote joint development with our business partners based on implementation of value judgements and behave appropriately. the code of ethics mutual trust. ● Respect the principles of free competition and that we are the frontGuidelines on dealing Provides specific guidelines and clear standards with ethics issues on how to respond to problems. runner in the development of the airline transport industry. ● Contribute strongly to the development of society and to the Risk management Whistle-blowing system system Appointment of compliance officer preservation of the environment. Employees are required to voluntarily report ● Acknowledge the corporate principles set forth by the company and potential conflicts of interest that may arise from uphold all of our obligations and responsibilities. family members or relatives who work for companies associated with or related to Korean Air. OUR ETHICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM THE WHISTLEBLOWING SYSTEM >> G4-57 / G4-58 / G4-SO5 Under our ethics management and supervision system, the Audit The whistleblowing system was introduced in 2002 in an effort to Office serves as the ethics secretariat and the heads of business diviroot out personal and business favors requested and/or provided by sions and executive officers function as ethics managers. The sysemployees, illegal acts, corruption and other irregularities that often tem encourages our employees to make the right decisions based arise in deals involving suppliers. Anyone can report any of the aboveKOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16/17 mentioned irregularities via e-mail at jebo@koreanair.com. Once a GREATER AWARENESS OF ETHICS MANAGEMENT report has been received, the facts will be established through in>> G4-SO3 / G4-SO4 vestigation, and punishment and corrective actions will be imposed Korean Air's intranet has a permanent segment on ethics manageaccording to the findings. Whistleblowers are strictly protected acment that provides business guidelines in connection with ethics cording to the internal rules and procedures, and are kept up to date management. All our officers and employees are required to comwith how the case is being handled. In 2014, a total of seventeen plete business ethics education every other year on the internal anonymous letters and reports were received, and all of them were learning network and to sign a pledge of ethics upon completion thoroughly investigated and dealt with. of the education, which is intended to maintain their awareness of the importance of ethics management as a strategy for sustainable A CULTURE OF FAIR TRADE AND COMPLIANCE >> G4-SO7 growth and to motivate them to follow the code of ethics. The culture Korean Air has been faithfully implementing the Compliance Proof ethics management will be further promoted and expanded in the gram since 2006, and signed the 'Fair Trade and Shared Growth years to come by ensuring that foreign officers and locally-recruited Agreement' with aircraft manufacture-related suppliers in 2013, as employees of Korean Air receive regular online education programs recommended by the Fair Trade Commission. Our efforts to create on ethics management. a culture of fair trade include the adoption of the four actions that the Fair Trade Commission recommends companies to take, and the Anti-Corruption Education Programs (unit: persons) operation of an unfair trade report center. Program 2012 2013 2014 Violations of Fair Trade Regulations International Regulations on Cartels 3 2 1 Compliance with Anti-Trust Laws 206 1,019 2,778 Date of Date of Sexual Harrassment-Free Workplace 21,485 17,685 18,339 Summary Sanction Imposition Payment Ethics Management at Our Company 824 826 19,202 Violation of a Swiss anti-trust Understanding the Compliance 16,785 1,027 law due to a collective action Imposition of Jan.10, Jan.18, Officer System by air freight forwarders a fine of 40,000 2014 2014 (Period subject to sanction: Swiss francs. Apr. 2004 ~ Feb. 2006) * The number of employees who completed the 'Ethics Management at Our Company' program increased sharply in 2014, when completion of the program became mandatory for all employees. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM PROMOTING ETHICS MANAGEMENT AT SUPPLIERS Korean Air operates the Internal Accounting Control System to proOur efforts to promote ethics and create a transparent corporate duce and disclose reliable accounting information for transparent culture extend beyond Korean Air to include our suppliers. When management, and to constantly monitor financial activities. The syschoosing a supplier to work with, its ethics policy, protection of its tem monitors not only finance but also the entire business operations employees' human rights, and fulfillment of corporate social responof the company in order to identify areas for improvement in each sibilities, among other factors, are considered as part of the selection business process. criteria. Furthermore, we actively advertize our ethics management policy and ethics programs to suppliers. BEGIN AGAIN MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS Korean Air conducted a materiality assessment to understand the STEP 1 IDENTIFICATION varying expectations and interests of our internal and external stakeholders and to identify material sustainability management issues. Relevance was determined based on a survey on employees, an analIssues were prioritized largely based on the materiality assessment ysis of issues covered in the sustainability reports of other domestic standards of the GRI G4 Guidelines and the methodology recomand overseas companies in the industry and media reports over the mended in the ISO 26000 Guidelines. The prioritization outcome also recent 5 years, and in-depth interviews with stakeholders. impacted our sustainability management strategies and the table of contents in this report. >> G4-18 STEP 2 PRIORITIZATION Stakeholders were surveyed online in order to prioritize 50 issues Process for Determining Materiality and Reporting Scope identified as relevant to Korean Air. A total of 174 stakeholders responded to the online survey and 25 of the issues were finally STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 selected. Identification Prioritization Validation REPORT Frequency Percentage Sustainability Materiality Completeness Internal Employees 94 54.02% Context Total 94 54.02% Evaluate Verify Interview relevance scope, External Central and local governments 2 1.15% stakeholders Evaluate boundary, Customers 68 39.08% Conduct materiality period, (domestic and overseas) benchmarking suitability -A  nalyze media Affiliated companies & subsidiaries 1 0.57% coverage Community 2 1.15% -R  eview major Suppliers 2 1.15% issues from the previous year Colleges & research institutes 4 2.30% Non-permanent workers & interns 1 0.57% Total 80 45.98% Interview with stakeholders and Total Subtotal 174 100% online survey STEP 3 VALIDATION Issues listed as ‘material’ were reviewed internally for validity, and feedback from stakeholders on the sustainability report and recommendations made in the ESG evaluation by an outside organization were reflected in this report. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18/19 RESULTS OF THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Structure of the Report >> G4-19 / G4-20 / G4-21 A total of 25 issues were selected as material issues. InTrend Issues (10) Reporting cluded in the final list are trend issues that scored 4.00 Growing demand for the safety of products Relevance to Boundary points or higher, and impact issues that scored 3.50 points and services Table of ContentsIntroduction Material Issues GRI G4 Internal External or higher. Stakeholders inside and outside Korean Air Increased importance of need for talent Introduction ● 2 Governance · Governance ○ Diversified customer needs ● 8 Growing demand for corporate · Corruption ○ were most keenly interested in the growing demand for transparency Response to exchange rates and oil prices ● 9 Corruption at affiliated companies the safety of products and services, increased importance ● 20 Corruption(stronger internal control Intensifying market competition of need for talent, governance, and market presence. Optimizing socially responsible and protection of whistleblowers) investment (SRI) Sustainable · Continued enhancement ● 5 Response to exchange rates and · Economic ○ growth of profitability oil prices performance 5.00 Growing demand for corporate transparency into a global · Diversification of business ● 6 Intensifying market competition · Indirect economic ○ ○ 1 Corruption among employees of affiliated airline portfolio ● 7 Optimizing socially responsible impacts ○ Materiality to stakeholders companies · Process Innovation investment (SRI) · Market presence · Stricter management of ● 13 Changing the conservative and old· Employment ○ Growing concern among consumers about business risks fashioned corporate image 9 4 2 4.50 3 impact on health, environment and society ● 15 Economic performance(earnings, 14 taxes, etc.) 20 16 12 10 8 7 Increased demand for fair competition 18 15 11 5 and mutual growth ● 23 Indirect economic 25 17 6 impacts(infrastructure investments, 21 19 13 ripple effects to related industries) 4.00 22 23 Impact Issues (15) People· People-centered ● 3 Increased importance of need for · Non○ 24 centered management talent discrimination Governance(decision-making process) corporate · Striking a balance between ● 11 Market presence · Training and ○ culture work and personal life (wage, procurement, recruitment) education Market presence(wage, procurement, ○ 3.50 recruitment) · Labor-management ● 14 Employment(gender, new, temporary) · Equal relations for co-prosperity ● 18 O  ccupational health and safety remuneration for Changing the conservative and old-fashioned ● 19 Training and education women and men corporate image ● 21 Non-discrimination(hiring of high · Occupational ○ 3.00 school graduates) health and safety Employment(gender, new, temporary) Economic performance(earnings, taxes, etc.) Green · Environment management ● 22 Equal remuneration for women · Emissions ○ management systems and men Customer health and safety for future · Responses to climate 2.50 generations change Product and service labeling(customer · Aircraft noise management 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 5.00 satisfaction) · Minimizing Environmental Materiality to Korean Air Occupational health and safety Impact Training and education Absolute · Safe flight and stronger ● 25 Emissions(air quality, greenhouse · Customer health ○ ○ safety and security gases) and safety Anti-corruption(stronger internal control and protection of whistleblowers) high-quality · Branding as a premier ● 1 Growing demand for safety of services airline products and services Non-discrimination(recruitment of high · Customer satisfaction ● 4 Changing demands of customers school graduates) ● 10 Growing concern among · Shared growth with consumers about impact on health, Equal remuneration for women and men suppliers environment and society Indirect economic impacts · Giving back to society ● 16 Customer health and safety (infrastructure investments, related ● 17 Product and service industries, ripple effects) labeling(customer satisfaction) Anti-competitive behavior(air cargo cartels) Shared values ● 12 Growing demand for fair competition · Product and ○ for society and shared growth service labeling Emissions(air quality, greenhouse gas ● Anti-competitive(air cargo cartels) 24 · Anti-competitive ○ emissions) behavior BEYOND CHALLENGES CHALLENGE #1. A Better Decision-Making Process CHALLENGE #2. Human Rights for MOT Employees CHALLENGE #3. Sponsoring the PyeongChang Winter Olympics This special edition of our sustainability report covers the major issues relating to sustainability management that were raised in connection with the air transportation industry as a whole and Korean Air's management performance in 2014, and the actions we took in response to those issues. Going forward, Korean Air will remain committed to actively responding to sustainability management issues and to disclosing the details of how Korean Air deals with such issues in its Sustainability Report, thereby effectively communicating with stakeholders and building a sustainable future. CHALLENGE #1 A BETTER DECISION-MAKING PROCESS Statistics on the Communication Plaza OVERVIEW (unit: postings) MINI CASE | R  elief aid initiated on Communication Nowadays, communication is increasingly viewed as a tool that Plaza helps corporations to create new values and innovations, as well as Many of the suggestions that employees make on Communication Plaza ▃ Suggestions 215 to share information, resolve problems and conflicts. Given the growlead to actual changes in our operations and business activities. Follow▃ Inquiries 86 ing importance of communication, many corporations are steering ing the major earthquake in the vicinity of Kathmandu, Nepal in April Category ▃ Compliments 9 away from the traditionally vertical and formal decision-making 2015, employees expressed the opinion on Communication Plaza that ▃ Complaints 8 mechanism. Information and opinions collected through the new Korean Air, as the only Korean airline operating a direct flight to the city, ▃ Others 76 communication system are widely used in improving the ways in should do something to help the victims of the earthquake. On the back of the strong consensus among and support of its employees, Korean Air which corporations run their organization and conduct their business decided to transport, free of charge, a total of 100 tons of relief supplies activities. donated by Korean Air and other organizations to the victims. OUR APPROACH & PERFORMANCE ▃ March 139 'HANMAEUM COMMUNICATION CAMPAIGN' No. of ▃ April 197 'COMMUNICATION PLAZA', A FORUM FOR HORIZONTAL Korean Air started the in-compa▃ May 58 postings OPEN COMMUNICATION ny campaign in 2011 to enable its In March 2015 Korean Air opened the 'Communication Plaza' on its officers and employees to conintranet as a virtual space where employees can freely exchange centrate resources and efforts ideas in perfect anonymity and build a corporate culture of open on achieving a shared set of val* Postings from March-May 2015 communication. The plaza serves as a channel through which ofues and goals and to promote a ficers and employees share a wide variety of ideas on corporate isculture of seeking shared growth sues and on how to improve the corporate culture. Employees of with stakeholders outside the company. A number of initiatives inthe relevant departments post replies to comments on issues that cluding the Hanmaeum concert, Hanmaeum manito, and Hanjin do concern their duties. More importantly, the management frequently Dream (a visit to airport facilities) were undertaken in an effort to monitors the comments and replies posted on the Communication create a culture of mutual trust and enhance the sense of connectedPlaza, and ensures that issues are reviewed by the relevant departness among employees as well as with people from outside the orments and that changes are made when necessary. As such, the ganization by fostering a better understanding of airport operations plaza has become an important component of our communication from an insider's perspective. strategy within the organization. In just two months from its launch in March 2015, a total of 394 entries were posted, attracting 960,000 Slogans for Communication Campaigns views, indicating a keen interest in the plaza among employees. The plaza is clearly promoting a healthy culture of communication within 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 the organization. Excellence in HARMONY WITH Hanmaeum(All Begin again Community of One Mind) CHALLENGE #2 HUMAN RIGHTS FOR MOT 22/23 EMPLOYEES OVERVIEW wish to manage their stress effectively and to prevent mental health problems. Employees can consult professional clinical psychologists As companies compete ever more fiercely to offer better customer and take tests at the psychological counseling center whenever they services, the human rights of emotional laborers who are required need to. to hide or control their emotions in the course of interacting with customers are emerging as a serious concern. The airline industry Mental Health Care Programs Offered in 2014 hires a relatively larger number of MOT employees than do other industries, including flight attendants who serve customers in unique No. of Course Program Title Target Employees Participants settings with acute spatial restrictions (i.e. airplanes), call center Practical Guide Mental Health Field workers(in-flight 85(7 sessions) employees who process flight reservations and airport staff who asto Services and Stress service and cargo) sign seats and handle luggage claims. Given the large number of Learning More Mental Health New employees of 266 MOT workers, continued interest and support are necessary at both About Corporate for Office the call center (13 sessions) Clients Workers recruited the corporate and societal levels. by outsourcing companies Leadership for Understanding Flight crew 68(4 sessions) Captains the Basics of Captaincy candidates OUR APPROACH & PERFORMANCE Mental Healthcare CHANGES TO JOB QUALIFICATIONS Mental Mental HealthNewly appointed line 93(4 sessions) Healthcare for care Techniques team managers Previously, successful female flight attendant candidates were reNew Cabin Line quired to be at least 162 cm tall, but this requirement has been abolTeam Managers ished, and other requirements that may violate equal rights, including education, have been either eliminated or amended. In addition, female flight attendants are now allowed to wear trousers instead GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION of a skirt when on duty in uniform, and other discriminatory pracThe captains' union represents flight crew in negotiating matters retices have been corrected while providing employees with the right lating to flights, including flight schedules, in-flight working hours, to choose. and break times. In addition, we listen to and review the difficulties faced by our employees in the course of performing their duties MENTAL HEALTH CARE PROGRAMS through the hotline on our HR portal, the HR Counseling Office, ComKorean Air runs programs designed to promote mental health among munication Plaza, and other channels. high-risk groups of emotional laborers including flight attendants, customer service staff, and call center workers. A range of mental healthcare and educational programs is available to employees who CHALLENGE #3 SPONSORING THE PYEONGCHANG WINTER OLYMPICS OVERVIEW OUR APPROACH & PERFORMANCE In June 2011, PyeongChang was chosen as the host city for the 2018 THE 2018 PYEONGCHANG WINTER GAMES, ‘NEW HORIZONS’ Winter Olympic Games by a large margin at the general meeting of The city of PyeongChang in Gangwon Province finally won the right the International Olympic Committee held in Durban, South Africa. to host the 2018 Winter Games after failing two previous bids, after With the hosting of the Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, Korea, which Korean Air chairman Yang Ho Cho was appointed to Official where only five years ago winter sports were largely marginalized, is partner for the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympic Games. The city expected to rise as the hub of winter sports in Asia and as a leader in won a majority vote because it fulfilled the promises that it made to international sports diplomacy. Furthermore, the Olympics are anthe IOC concerning the building of the infrastructure including the ticipated to generate massive economic ripple effects and to raise stadiums, the enhancement of its winter sports capability and perforKorea's international profile, thereby placing Korea among the ranks mance, and the operation of dream programs, while its presentation of leading countries. of the slogan 'New Horizons,' which is designed to convey the message that winter sports need to be promoted in less developed regions where they are less popular, appealed strongly to the committee. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24/25 SUSTAINABLE OLYMPICS What is the Dream Program? Environmentally-Friendly Olympics ● The Dream Program that POCOG presented to the IOC in 2010 as part of PyeongChang's bid for the 2018 Winter Olympics, aims to support and train The PyeongChang Organizing Committee for the 2018 Olympic & young winter sports athletes from around the world. Paralympic Games (POCOG) considers sustainability as a key ele● 1,574 young athletes from 75 countries joined the program from 2004 to 2015. ment in preparing for the event as it has been a strong advocate of an environmentally-friendly, high-tech Olympics since the bidding stage. ● The program provides opportunities for young athletes with growth potential to build friendships beyond national boudaries and other differences The POCOG is concentrating its efforts on making sure the Winter including ethnic backgrounds by allowing them to experience and train for Olympics are environmentally friendly in all respects from the conwinter sports such as skiing and other ice sports. It is particularly benefistruction of the stadia to the management of the games. To that end, cial to those young athletes from countries where winter sports are less the POCOG has adopted the slogan 'O2 Plus Winter Games' for the developed due to various constraints including weather. 2018 PyeongChang Winter Games and set specific tasks in each area, including the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Paralympic Excellence Program Europe Asia The POCOG has created the 'Accessibility Manual' and monitors com225 534 pliance with the accessibility criteria in order to ensure equal access The Americas Africa Korea to all facilities and services, and the infrastructure of the host city for 289 PyeongChand the physically challenged, in order to increase public interest in the 521 Oceanis Paralympics. The first 2018 PyeongChang Paralympic Day was cel5 ebrated earlier this year, and the celebration of the day will continue each year until 2017 so as to raise public awareness of the Winter Paralympics and thus of sports for the physically disabled. KOREAN AIR'S INITIATIVES FOR SUCCESSFUL HOSTING OF THE WINTER OLYMPICS Youth Programs Korean Air has become involved in various activities to support the sucIn January 2015, Gangwon Province successfully hosted the 'Dream cessful hosting of the 2018 Winter Olympics in a bid to ensure that the Program' which is aimed at supporting young winter sports athletes event will bring together all the Korean people by arousing a strong sense from around the world. Under the banner 'You Are the Champs, We of solidarity, and to raise Korea's global status. Under the leadership of Are Friends', the program was joined by 172 young athletes from 42 chairman Cho, who was voted as the leader of the POCOG in July 2014, countries around the world. Among the participants were 26 disabled some thirty Korean Air employees have been dispatched to work with the athletes from 7 countries including Ruanda, Mongolia, Vietnam, EcPOCOG, providing their expertise in such areas as international affairs, uador, Kenya, Hong Kong, and Korea, all of whom had an opportunity facility management, planning, finance, PR, and IT. As a major official to experience Korean culture as well as participating in the training. sponsor of the PyeongChang Winter Olympics, Korea Air is responsible for providing air transportation services for both cargo and passengers, including members and staff of the POCOG, athletes participating in the games, and delegates. SUSTAINING SUSTAINING EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE PAGE. 28 PAGE. 64 Sustainable Growth into a Global Airline Absolute Safety and High-Quality Services PAGE. 42 People-Centered Corporate Culture PAGE. 74 Shared Values for Society PAGE. 52 Green Management for Future Generations We would like to express our gratitude to all of you for showing continued support for, and interest in, Korean Air. Korean Air’s rise as a leading global airline is attributable to effective communication and cooperation with our stakeholders on an ongoing basis. 01 GROWTH FOR EXCELLENCE Sustainable Growth into a Global Airline The two pillars that have made Korean Air Korea's No. 1 airline over the past forty-six years despite the rapidly changing circumstances both at home and abroad are steadfast adherence to the basics and principles, and a relentless spirit of challenge that has enabled us to blaze new trails. We are actively investing in aerospace and other high value-added businesses in an effort to find new growth engines while consistently generating profits in our core business areas such as passenger and cargo transportation services. Our dreams and challenges reach far beyond national borders and are now heading toward the universe. MATERIAL ISSUES ● PROGRESS IN 2014 ● Economic Performance (earnings, taxes, etc.) Incheon-Houston (7 flights per week) and Incheon-Nha Trang (2 flights ● Optimizing socially responsible investment (SRI) per week), two routes that have large growth potential were opened, further expanding Korean Air's global network. ● Growing Market Competition Innovative customer services were provided through the PSS Project, ● Changing the conservative and old-fashioned corporate image which upgraded the entire passenger transportation system including ● Indirect Economic Effects (Infrastructure investments, seat assignment, reservation, ticketing, and transportation. associated businesses, ripple effects) Korean Air established Inha University in Tashkent, Uzbekistan's ● Responses to Exchange Rates and Oil Prices first foreign IT educational institution and Korea's first exportation of education services to another country, in 2014. INTERVIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS ● OUR ACHIEVEMENTS “I hope that Korean Air achieves a new level Sales of growth by restoring the profits from its core routes and by employing a combination 116,804 (100 million won) of different strategies to expand its competencies.” Operating profit Recently, the air transportation industry has been booming amid falling oil pric3,725 (100 million won) Year-on-year change 3,905↑ es and a growing number of overseas tourists. In addition, Korean Air's status as Korea's representative airline has been further consolidated. Korean Air, one of the major airlines that connect Asia and North America, has a significant Cargo volume at Navoi International Airport impact on the national economy and Korean society as a whole, given its market 32,675 (tons) 32,649 (tons)↑ from 2008 1,257 (times) ↑ share and overall size, as well as exerting a massive influence on the nation's labor market as it employs a large number of people in diverse positions ranging from specialized jobs such as pilots to flight attendants and other general ● FUTURE PLAN service jobs. Slowing sales from the North American routes, the key source of the company's revenues, remain a concern, however. A strategic approach is required to bring the profit from the core routes back up to previous levels. If Incheon-Houston (7 flights per week) and Incheon-Nha Trang (2 flights Korean Air improves its financial structure based on a careful analysis of the per week), two routes that have large growth potential were opened, strategies of its competitors, and strengthen its competencies by choosing and further expanding Korean Air's global network. implementing a set of the most appropriate strategies, it will likely stabilize its Non-financial risk management systems will be upgraded across the finances and grow to the next level, taking advantage of the industry's expanboard in order to cope with risks in a more proactive manner. sion, which is expected to continue. Korean Air will provide maximum support to create synergy effects in connection with the Navoi Project, such as training qualified Jinjoo Hong professionals through Inha University in Tashkent, and will continue to Senior Analyst / Metals & Logistics / Research Center / Shinhan Investment Corp. manage Navoi International Airport until 2018. GROWTH FOR EXCELLENCE CREATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE Korean Air fully discloses CONTEXT Earnings by Business Category (unit: 100 million won, %) the value that it creates from the Korean Air fairly shares the value generated from its corporate activibusiness it conducts, and fairly ties with a variety of stakeholders including the government, investotal 116,804 distributes the gains to different tors, customers, communities, and employees. In addition, it makes ▃ Air transportation 92.2 % stakeholders, thereby contributing conscious efforts to carefully manage and enhance its corporate ▃ Aerospace 6.8 % to the balanced development value so that it can give back more to stakeholders. ▃ In-flight services of society. (food & beverages) 0.8 % ▃ Hotels & limousines 0.2 % PROGRESS IMPACT ISSUE CREATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE >> G4-EC1 ● Economic Performance Air transportation 107,716 Based on the consolidated financial statement, Korean Air's gross Aerospace 7,965 sales amounted to 11,680,400 million in 2014, with air transportation BOUNDARY generating 92.2% of the entire sales. Of its sales, 8,163,000 million In-flight services 910 (food & beverages) ● Korean Air won was distributed to stakeholders, amply demonstrating Korean Air's commitment to the fair sharing of profit. Hotels & limousines 213 ● Shareholders ● Suppliers ● Customers Distribution of Economic Value (unit: 100 million won) ● Community ● Others Employees Tax authority • Wages: 14,388 Tax au • Corporate tax dues: 15 yees • Welfare benefits: 2,364 plo tho ri Em ty Local community al community Shareholders Loc Shareholders • Donations: 99 • Dividend: Cr Suppliers ed rs itor lie s Supp Creditors • Rent: 1,854 • Fuel: 40,314 • Manufacturing-related expenses: 7,818 • Interest expenses: 4,100 • Airport-related expenses: 10,680 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30/31 FINANCIAL STABILITY >> G4-EC1 NEXT STEP In recent years, Korean Air has maintained financial stability despite • To distribute fair shares of the economic gains generated by the challenging domestic and international circumstances, by emour business activities among stakeholders. ploying multiple financial crisis management techniques. In 2014, the financial indicators for growth improved mainly due to falling oil • To further improve the financial indicators and maintain a stable prices and a rise in the number of tourists. financial position through effective financial management. 최근 3개년 주요 재무지표 Item Unit 2012 2013 2014 Stability Liquidity ratio % 48.96% 43.73% 37.68% Current assets/Current liabilities Debt-equity ratio % 771.14% 823.31% 982.00% Total liabilities/Total capital Ratio of total borrowings and bonds Borrowings*/Total assets % 39.30% 38.41% 37.77% payable to total assets Interest coverage to operating profit times 0.5652 -0.0412 0.9085 Operating profit/Interest expenses Profitability Operating income to sales % 2.26% -0.15% 3.19% Operating profit/Sales Net income to sales % 2.12% -2.48% -1.76% Net profit/Sales Net income to total assets % 1.27% -1.40% -0.97% Net profit/Average total assets Net income to stockholders' equity % 11.39% -12.51% -9.67% Net profit/Average shareholders’ equity Growth Growth rate of sales % 3.89% -4.48% -0.27% Growth rate of net income % -186.22% -211.89% -29.26% Growth rate of total assets % 2.25% 1.38% 2.18% Asses turnover ratio times 0.5996 0.5625 0.5512 Sales/Average total assets * Borrowings: sum of short-term borrowings, current portion of long-term debt, long-term borrowings, bonds, ABS-related borrowings, and long-term borrowings for debt acquisition GROWTH FOR EXCELLENCE CONTINUED ENHANCEMENT OF PROFITABILITY Korean Air is working to build a CONTEXT ● Supply aircraft that fit the circumstances of different markets to increase business structure that will generprofitability and operate optimal aircraft that meet the needs of individual As the global economy steadily rebounds, cargo demand as well as ate profit on a long-term basis, by passenger transportation demand is also growing, and the upward routes to raise productivity. launching new routes in new ● Maximize the use of high-tech airplanes with cutting-edge first-class and trend is forecast to continue amid the falling oil prices. At this critical business-class seats to increase high-class sales, and accelerate alliance markets, upgrading cargo planes for juncture, Korea Air is intent on taking full advantage of the booming marketing efforts targeting the premiumand economy-class markets. greater fuel efficiency, and taking industry to maximize its sales and profits, with the ultimate goal of ● Expand the long-term growth base by developing new markets with high other steps to support the continued rising as a global leader in the field of air transportation. growth potential and create additional potential demand by launching more joint operations, and thereby create a larger network growth of its core business of passenger and cargo transportation. PROGRESS To that end, Korean Air is expanding the scope of its business to include BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND OUTLOOK MINI CASE | Opening of new routes and future plans aerospace, enhancing its in-flight The number of inbound and outbound overseas tourists increased As the initial stage in securing new growth momentum, Korean Air is meal services and sales, and 12.2% year-on-year in 2014, reaching a record high. According to in the process of expanding its network by exploring new markets. Our the Airline Industry Performance published by the International Air future efforts will be concentrated on developing new markets in China designing and implementing busiand Central and South America and on expanding our global network Transport Association (IATA), global passenger transportation is ness strategies based on an to sharpen our competitive edge. forecast to increase markedly in 2015, and cargo transportation is in-depth analysis of the business also expected to grow at a faster rate than in 2014. As such, Korean New routes opened in 2014 environment. Air has reviewed and revised its strategies for key individual business Route Model No. of flights per week Official launch areas in order to make the best use of these positive changes in the Incheon-Houston B777 7 May 2014 IMPACT ISSUE business environment and cement its position as a global airline. Incheon-Nha Trang B737 2 Oct. 2014 ● Economic Performance PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION New routes to open in 2015 BOUNDARY Competition remains fierce but the world economy is on a path toward Route Model No. of flights per week Official launch steady recovery and international oil prices are on a downward trend. Incheon-Hefei B737 5 Mar. 2015 ● Korean Air In line with changes in the domestic and international markets, we Incheon-Nanning B737 2 May 2015 ● Shareholders are implementing the following strategies to expand our passenger Jeju-Guiyang B737 3 May 2015 ● Suppliers transportation business and to achieve sustainable growth. Daegu-Shenyang B737 3 Jun. 2015 ● Customers ● Community ● Others Conduct aggressive Raise aircraft marketing strategies Develop new productivity for both premiummarkets and economy-class sales KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32/33 CARGO TRANSPORTATION OTHER BUSINESSES While moving on with the growth momentum that has been boosted In addition to its core businesses including air transportation and by its superior quality, global network, and broad range of products aerospace, Korean Air is also running other businesses such as inand services, Korean Air has adopted the following strategies to flight meal services and in-flight sales. further accelerate growth in our cargo business on the back of the steady recovery of the global economy and our increased presence In-flight meal services In-flight sales in the new markets we have tapped into. Offer a wider set of choices Increase sales efficiency and that better cater to the changing tighten quality control needs of our customers Optimally place Increase basic Improve new cargo airplanes demand as a global transportation on routes forwarder processes NEXT STEP • T  o determine the core tasks and specific action plans to achieve the 2015 goal of creating profit in all business areas through enhanced profitability and building a stronger foundation for growth. ● Increase profitability by optimally placing new cargo planes on routes and by increasing the ratio of new, high fuel-efficiency models from 35% to 40%. 2015 Business Strategies and Core Tasks Create new sources of revenue by developing new markets including ● Phnom Penh of Cambodia and Santiago of Chile, and expand demand for cargo transportation between third-party countries (Southeast Asia/ChinaCreating profit in all business areas through enhanced profitability Europe) by taking advantage of the geographical situation of Navoi Interand building a stronger foundation for growth national Airport. ● Focus on raising profitability by securing the basic global forwarding deImprove Increase transportation volumes and create greater demand mand, and switch to a marketing strategy of customizing services to the earnings by for services whose price per unit is relatively high. needs of individual market segments such as pharmaceuticals and medical raising profit Keep supply flexible and adjustable to seasonal demands products, fresh produce, and e-commerce. per supply and changing market demands. ● Increase profitability through revenue management (optimize the use of Design and implement sales strategies that can minimize the available supplies → maximize profit per supply), and provide better cusimpact of exchange rates. tomer services by improving transportation processes and procedures. Optimize the Operate optimal aircraft and flight schedules that are tailored operation of to the characteristics of individual routes. network and Expand the network in markets with large growth potential. AEROSPACE BUSINESS aircraft Increase the rate of operation of new aircraft while As Korea's leading unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) company, Korean grounding outdated models. Air is building a UAV lineup and stepping up its R&D efforts with the Strengthen Improve the business portfolio by expanding sales of aim of competing in the global UAV market. the business and profits from aerospace, in-flight meal services and sales. portfolio for Raise productivity by streamlining business processes. sustainable A global leader in aerospace capable of producing both manned Reduce costs by increasing the efficiency of human resources growth and unmanned aerial vehicles management. GROWTH FOR EXCELLENCE DIVERSIFICATION OF BUSINESS PORTFOLIO Korean Air is accelerating its efforts in the arena of aerospace, which has unlimited growth potential, and is channeling much of its resources into various high value-added businesses with the capacity to drive the company's future growth. In this context, the Navoi Project was a critical step that Korean Air took to secure a competitive edge in the race to become a logistics hub of Central Asia. BOUNDARY ● Korean Air ● Shareholders ● Suppliers CONTEXT PROGRESS ● Customers Amid intensifying competition in the air transportation industry, it is ● Community Aerospace Business becoming increasingly important for airlines to gain a competitive ● Others advantage and find future growth engines so as to differentiate themINDUSTRY OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK selves from their rivals and break away from the pack. Based upon Aerospace added 796,500 million to the total sales posted by Korean the capacity it has built up over the last forty years in the aerospace Air in 2014. Although this amount only represents around 8% of our area, Korean Air is working hard to secure next-generation growth total sales, aerospace is a fast-growing sector whose sales have exengines while emerging as a logistics hub that connects Central Asia panded at an annual average rate of about 25% over the last five to other parts of the world under the Navoi Project, which it is executyears. Fully aware of the unlimited growth potential offered by aeroing in cooperation with the government of Uzbekistan. space, Korean Air is focusing on utilizing the know-how it has accumulated over the past forty years to develop technologies that will place it squarely in the lead, as well as significantly expanding its R&D capacity. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34/35 Annual data EXPANDING R&D CAPACITY recognition for its technology and business performance after successfully designing and manufacturing a high-tech structure made Korean Air runs an R&D center dedicated to conducting research and Heavy maintenance with composite materials for Boeing's next-generation 787 model, a development projects across the full spectrum of the aerospace incargo door for Airbus A350 model, and sharklet structures for the A320 100 civil aircraft dustry, including manned and unmanned aerial vehicles, satellites, and space launch vehicles. Korean Air was involved in an international joint model. In addition to being selected to supply winglet structures for the B737 MAX to Boeing, Korean Air won the contract to manufacture and project to develop civil aircraft including the B787 and A350, and is cursupply the wing structure for Airbus' A330 NEO in 2015, attesting to its rently working on a project to improve the performance of the P-3C Parts maintenance superior technology and competitiveness. maritime patrol aircraft. In the aerospace sector, Korean Air performed 25,000 aircraft an important role as the systems integration company in the successful launch of Naro, the Korea Space Launch Vehicle (KSLV). AIRCRAFT HEAVY MAINTENANCE AND PARTS MAINTENANCE Major R&D Achievements 2012-2014 Since the production of Korea's first 500MD military helicopter for the R&D Cost Korean Army in 1975, Korean Air has been performing depot mainteYear Title of Project Expected Effects R&D investment (unit: 100 million won) nance for combat planes, carriers, and helicopters of the U.S. army 2012 Design of a prototype of the LOX main pipe Creation of 2013 828 assembly of the KSLV-II propulsion feeding system. new business stationed in Korea and the Asia-Pacific region. With the first-class Design and manufacture of a certified model Domestic technical know-how it has accumulated in the heavy maintenance 2014 1,180 of a 2nd-stage hard copper structure made of production of civil aircraft over the past 40 years, and its capacity to handle the composite materials. Q1, 2015 363 Development of a model structure for a moon Domestic maintenance of four B747s simultaneously, Korean Air performs heavy probe. production maintenance on more than 100 civil aircraft each year, including aircraft R&D ratio (unit: %) 2013 Design of the details of a testing facility for the Creation of operated by other companies such as the B747, B777, A330, and A300parts of a propulsion system (3rd stage). new business 600. In addition, Korean Air repairs or replaces parts for approximately 2013 0.70 Development of the structure for the Korea Creation of Multipurpose Satellite-3A, or KOMPSAT-3A. new business 25,000 aircraft per year, including navigation equipment, hydro-pneu2014 1.01 Joint development of a TR-6X TAL TROTTER-type Creation of matic systems, fuel systems, and auxiliary power units. UAV (for technology verification). new business Q1, 2015 1.29 Development of a UAV for division-level Creation of 2014 reconnaissance. new business UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE (UAV) Creation of As Korea's first and leading systems integration company for unmanned new business aerial vehicles, Korea Air is working diligently to build an UAV lineup and to establish its presence in the global market. Following the successful * KSLV-II: 2nd-stage development of Korea’s space launch vehicle (1.5-ton satellite launch vehicle) exploratory development of a large, strategic-grade unmanned recon* TR-6X: Unmanned aircraft whose size has been reduced to 60% of the naissance aerial vehicle at the end of 2012, as part of a government previous model; developed by the Korean Aerospace Research Institute using project, Korean Air has embarked on the follow-up development project, smart unmanned aircraft technology, not only for military use but also for a wide range of civil applications which is scheduled for completion in 2016. Meanwhile, the division-level unmanned reconnaissance aerial vehicle currently under development PRODUCTION OF AIRCRAFT PARTS is scheduled for mass production in 2015. In addition, Korean Air is curKorean Air has been developing, manufacturing and supplying various rently in the process of developing an unmanned tiltrotor that can take types of aircraft structures to Boeing, Airbus, and other leading global off and land vertically, and of reforming the 500MD for unmanned opaircraft manufacturers. Notably, Korean Air has received widespread eration as part of its efforts to develop unmanned aircraft technology. GROWTH FOR EXCELLENCE DIVERSIFICATION OF BUSINESS PORTFOLIO THE LOGISTICS HUB OF EAST ASIA: VISION THE NAVOI PROJECT A hub of global logistics and the global economy in Southeast Asia Korean Air recognized early on the geographical advantage and unlimited growth potential of Navoi in Uzbekistan, and has been working on the Navoi Project since 2008 with the aim of transforming Navoi into the main logistic hub of Central Asia. GROWTH ENGINES PROGRESS AND PLANS The Navoi Project IT/Logistics HR Industry Support Since its takeover of the management of Navoi International Airport, · Airport management · Education and · Grow Navoi FIEZ Korean Air has modernized and augmented the airport facility and training · Network building · Provide opportunities constructed a traffic network that links the airport to a much wider for Uzbekistani to participate project · Integrated transporarea. The next steps in the development of the airport include instudents in Uzbekistan (IT, tation capabilities creasing air cargo volumes and attracting global logistics companies · Expansion of airport infrastructure, · Construction of aviation industry, Inha University, by 2018. As a bridge that connects Southeast Asia, the CIS, and Euairport, roads, and and hospital) Tashkent rope, Navoi will become the center of the logistics network of Central railways Asia and a leading logistics hub of Asia. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36/37 AIRPORT OPERATION STATISTICS Aircraft (unit: flight) Cargo (unit: tons) Passengers (unit: persons) Revenues (unit: USD10,000) 9 times↑ 1,257times↑ Twofold↑ Fourfold↑ Passengers Cargo 32,675 59,900 943 2,560 548 341 25,017 708 110 26 2008 2014 2008 2014 2008 2014 2008 2014 2008 2014 SYNERGY EFFECTS Hanjin and Central Asia Trans established a joint venture to offer logispression of Korea among local people, as well as improving public tics services between Europe and Asia in order to make the maximum health in the community it serves. use of the infrastructure constructed under the Navoi Project. As of 2015, the joint venture owns total of 23 trailers, including 20 trucks and freezer trailers. Korean Air is actively pushing the boundaries of NEXT STEP its business to create synergy effects, including the transportation of • To expand the application of aircraft maintenance know-how high-quality agricultural products grown in the Navoi Special EcoThe company’s competitive edge will be sharpened by taking full nomic Zone. advantage of advanced maintenance technology for both civil and military aircraft. INHA UNIVERSITY, TASHKENT AND INHA UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL • To enhance the company’s global business competencies through Inha University, Tashkent (IUT) established at the initiative of Hanjin involvement in a variety of aerospace industry projects Group, is Uzbekistan's first foreign IT education institution and Ko• To successfully complete the Navoi Project in 2018 rea's first export of higher education services. The main building conTo increase the number of trucks for logistics services in the sisting of seven floors was constructed in June 2014, and ninety-one Eurasian region (Joint venture of Hanjin) for greater competitiveness. faculty and staff members are now working and teaching computer Inha University, Tashkent will be managed in such as way that it can science & engineering and information communication engineering successfully position itself as an integral part of the local community as major subjects. Inha University Hospital has been offering free and serve as a cradle of high-quality human resources equipped medical services in Uzbekistan since 2010, creating a positive imwith professional knowledge – synergy with the Navoi Project. GROWTH FOR EXCELLENCE PROCESS INNOVATION The entire passenger CONTEXT Expand Korean Air's business and innovate transportation system has been Air transportation technology is evolving rapidly. Efforts to embrace customer services through the development of a new upgraded in order to raise new technologies and introduce exciting new innovations to services passenger transportation system operational efficiency and are required in order to operate the systems required to provide serprovide innovative customer vices such as seat management, reservation, ticketing, and cargo Flying with PSS transportation more efficiently and to increase the timeliness and services. Design the Future, Be the Innovator quality of the services. BOUNDARY PROGRESS ● Korean Air It was necessary to upgrade the systems to cope with changes in the ● Shareholders NEW PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM global business environment and to raise the quality of customer ● Suppliers services. Korean Air decided to use the Central Reservation System In September 2014, Korean Air decided to introduce the Altea sys● Customers tem of Amadeus in order to meet the diverse needs of its customers (CRS) and the Departure Control System (DCS) of Amadeus' Altea ● Community and to cope with the ever-changing global business environment, system because they meet global standards, are highly stable, and are scalable on a continuing basis. ● Others and launched the PSS project it had been working on. In line with the launch of the project, Korean Air adopted the vision of expandDESIGN AND LAUNCH OF THE PSS ing the business and innovating services by developing a new passenger transportation system, while collecting and analyzing ideas The CRS and DCS were customized to incorporate the unique feaand opinions from customers and employees, particularly those who tures of Korean Air's passenger transportation system into the new serve and interact directly with the customers, thereby performing an PSS while adopting the basic elements of Amadeus' Altea system, issue-resolving function. As a result, Korean Air’s customer services to allow the new PSS to improve business processes and provide are expected to improve significantly. differentiated services. The entire passenger management system including the customer WHAT IS THE PSS (PASSENGER SERVICE SYSTEM)? management system (SKYPASS), website, and customer services PSS refers to a series of key systems used by airlines to manage support system was upgraded and the infrastructure was rebuilt. different parts of their passenger transportation business including The existing systems were either consolidated or simplified by reseat management, reservation, ticketing, and transport. Korean Air organizing them and realigning them along with the purpose and uses the PSS it developed in 1990. system type. Previously, all the individual systems were interwoven into a complicated structure, but the entire passenger management system has now been switched to an open system, and all the related processes and functions have been made far more flexible and scalable. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38/39 EXPECTED EFFECTS NEXT STEP User-friendly, graphic-based services systems • To evaluate the PSS The seat management, reservation, ticketing and transport systems The PSS will be evaluated in all aspects including application, all use a graphic user interface(GUI) to make them more user-friendoperation, and utility (scheduled for the second half of 2015). ly, while the employees spend less time on learning and switching to The PSS will be monitored on a regular basis to check if planned the new systems. or expected improvements have been made and if there are any additional issues to address. Improve customer services The underlying causes of problems will be identified, solutions Any changes to services that customers request are automatically devised and backup plans drawn up. verified, and it takes less time to reissue a ticket and refund the ticket The solutions will be incorporated into the system, which will be price. Customers can personally choose and make changes to the continuously improved. services on the Internet, which were previously available only via a call center. Shorter processing time and greater accuracy The processing time will be shortened and greater accuracy will be achieved as a result of the automation of many functions, leading to greater customer satisfaction. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS Opinions are gathered through personal visits to the employees who use the PSS and to the worksites where it is used. Problems and areas requiring improvement are identified through personal observations of how the PSS is used, and the employees who operate it are encouraged to make suggestions on how to improve the system. Employees are free to make suggestions on how processes and procedures can be improved, and their suggestions will be reviewed immediately and accepted provided that they are valid and feasible. GROWTH FOR EXCELLENCE STRICTER MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS RISKS Business-associated risks CONTEXT accomplished are sorted out by function and department. Progress is monitored on a regular basis. are classified into two Rapid social changes have brought about a wide variety of new risks categories, financial and nonthat did not previously exist in the business environment. In order FINANCIAL RISKS >> G4-2 financial, for more effective for Korean Air to remain a sustainable corporation, it is essential Korean Air manages market risks systematically and aggressively management. All potential to proactively deal with newly emerging issues and to manage risks in order to eliminate or minimize financial risks stemming from efficiently and effectively. risks are strictly managed on volatility in oil prices, exchange rates, and interest rates. To minia proactive basis. mize market risks, Korean Air employs a combination of two hedgPROGRESS ing techniques of financial risk management: natural hedging and active hedging. BOUNDARY RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM >> G4-14 ● Korean Air NON-FINANCIAL RISKS >> G4-2 Korean Air analyzes the external and internal environments in which ● Shareholders it operates, and evaluates issues identified by the analysis, from Among the non-financial risks that Korean Air is managing sys● Suppliers multiple perspectives including the degree of their impact on our tematically are operational risks associated with business strate● Customers business, the cause-and-effect relationship, and potential problems. gies, climate changeand environment-related risks, risks associ● Community Core risks are sorted out based on the results of a multi-faceted ated with compliance with domestic and international regulations, ● Others evaluation. Once the risks have been identified, responses to and and risks due to unforeseen events such as aircraft hijacking and strategies for managing the risks are designed, and the tasks to be natural disasters. Risk Management System Sort out Monitor risks by function changes in the Monitor progress Identify risks Plan responses and department business regularly for effective environment management KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40/41 RISKS OF KOREAN AIR FINANCIAL RISKS Exchange rate risk Interest rate risk Oil price risk Korean Air seeks to maintain a balance Korean Air maintains an optimal ratio between The impact of the market prices of between revenues and expenses in each fixed-rate borrowings and floating-rate oil products including jet oil on individual currency and to minimize the borrowings and enters into interest rate swaps business performance and cash flow risks posed by changing exchange rates to cope with the risk of rising interest rates. is assessed and managed. through currency swaps. NON-FINANCIAL RISKS Strategy/Operation Environment Regulation Event risks The Communication Plaza Company-wide efforts to preA regular monitoring system is in A safety and security center was set was created to allow vent environmental risks were place to ensure compliance with up under the direct control of the employees to freely comundertaken and the regulations local laws and regulations, and a president in charge of the business municate, exchange, and on how to respond to environconsiderable portion of our reto ensure integrated and effective gather opinions and ideas mental accidents were introsources including the legal departmanagement of all safety and security in order to avoid risks origiduced to deal more effectively ment and legal experts is allocated matters so as to prevent aircraft acnating from inappropriate with climate change and to proactively manage regulatory cidents, hijacking, and other accidents business decisions and environmental accidents. High risks. Other actions include stratemore effectively and to minimize changes in the business fuel-efficiency aircraft were acgically purchasing certified emislosses. Regulations, guidelines and environment. The informaquired and short-cut routes were sion reductions (CER) at a low cost manuals on how to cope with aircraft tion security system has developed as part of our efforts in response to carbon regulations accidents have been made available. been restructured to better to minimize environmental imsuch as the target management The emergency response system is protect personal data. pacts. In addition, a greenhouse system and the CER system, and regularly checked and company-wide gas inventory system maximizing the efficient use of aircraft accident response training has been implemented. oil and oil products. involving all employees is conducted. NEXT STEP • To identify more risks to be managed as core risks in order to enlarge the scope of risk management. • To overhaul the company-wide risk management system in order to respond to risks more effectively. 02 PEOPLE FOR EXCELLENCE People-Centered Corporate Culture A safe and pleasant workplace, peaceful labor-management relations, and effective communication ensure that Korean Air employees are happy and satisfied, which in turn drives our growth. In accordance with our philosophy that people are the backbone of Korean Air, our employees enjoy maximum support when performing their duties so that their achievements at work, their second home, lead to self-realization, as well as enjoying the benefits of our employee welfare system, one of the best in Korea. MATERIAL ISSUES ● PROGRESS IN 2014 ● Market Presence (wages, purchasing, employment) Qualifications and criteria that are not critically related to job performance such as academic qualifications and the height requirement for flight ● Employment (gender, new and non-permanent workers) attendants have been eased. ● Increased importance of need for talent ● Non-discrimination Multi-dimensional evaluation tool, which is suitable for organization made up ● Education and training ● Equal remuneration for women and men of a wide range of different jobs, is used to evaluate employees' performance. An upward evaluation system is implemented for employees who perform field ● Occupational health and safety work, thereby encouraging managerial-level employees to develop both their leadership skills and a sense of responsibility. The retirement age, which is currently 56, has been raised to 60, and a wage peak system has been introduced as part of the efforts to increase job security. INTERVIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS ● OUR ACHIEVEMENTS “Korean Air’s biggest asset is its people!” New employees 1,421 (persons) change from previous year: 237 (persons)↑ Korean Air's biggest asset is its people. As the air transportation industry involves direct interaction with the customers in the course of providing its services, it is imporOnline education contents tant to create a corporate culture that instills a sense of ownership among employees 866 (materials) change from previous year: 4(materials)↑ and encourages them to love themselves and their job, which will eventually lead to better services for customers and greater customer satisfaction. In this context, I Occupational injury rate think company-wide efforts need to be made to build a stronger sense of solidarity among our employees and to boost their morale by recognizing their contribution and 0.06% offering praise. It is also necessary to exercise a sense of community and proactively change from previous year: 0.02%↓(National average: 0.53%) respond to the issues of non-permanent workers, who have been attracting a great deal of social attention recently, and to treat suppliers and other business partners ● FUTURE PLAN with respect and consideration as part of our wider efforts to create a better employment culture and thereby become an exemplary corporation. In addition, Korean Air should continue making efforts to improve the quality of its services. Given that the Korean Air is doing its utmost to develop the competencies and competitiveness of workforce is quickly again across the board including the tourism, aviation and hotel its employees by continuously improving its education and training systems, as well industries, I sincerely hope that Korean Air will continue to consolidate its status as establishing the Flight Training Center which is scheduled for completion in 2016. as one of the leading companies that achieve sustainable growth by employing and Field employees such as aircraft maintenance engineers will be provided nurturing fit and talented persons who will help raise productivity and bring more with fine dust-filtering masks to reduce health risks, and an analysis creativity to the organization itself and to the way it conducts its operations. of accident-prone working areas and types of accidents will be performed to improve the working environment. Changsoo Koh General Manager & Team Leader / Facilities & Equipment Team / Various online and offline channels will be created to facilitate communication Maintenance Planning Dept. / Korean Air and gather opinions. GROWTH FOR EXCELLENCE PEOPLE-CENTERED MANAGEMENT With the firm belief that people CONTEXT hold the key to our future, our 'People' are a value and a resource that Korea Air deems the most education and training programs precious. Our philosophy that a corporation is all about its people is have been reformed in ways embedded in every aspect of our human resources management inthat will help our employees to cluding our personnel management principles and recruitment practices. This philosophy is perceived as an underlying rule that governs be globally competitive, and our entire personnel policy. more support will be provided in the near future. PROGRESS turnover rate has been declining each year, and the average length of IMPACT ISSUE EMPLOYEE DATA >> G4-10 / G4-EC5 service is currently 14.2 years. Korean Air pays new entry-level em● Market Presence(wages, As of the end of December 2014, the total number of employees workployees who perform general duties three times the minimum legal purchasing, recruitment) ing with Korean Air stood at 20,428, of whom 8,709 were female emwage (5,210 won per hour in 2014), which is the highest wage in the ● Employment(gender, new ployees, representing approximately 43% of the entire workforce. As a industry. Both male and female employees are paid the same basic and non-permanent workers) result of our consistent efforts to increase employee satisfaction, our starting salary in all job categories. ● Non-discrimination ● Training and Education Employee Data BOUNDARY By Employment Contract and Type of Job ● Korean Air Employment Contract Employment Type(Permanent only) ● Shareholders Permanent(male/female) Non-permanent(male/female) Administration(male/female) General(male/female) ● Suppliers 18,328(10,961/7,367) 2,100(758/1,342) 3,725(2,750/975) 14,603(8,211/6,392) ● Customers ● Community ● Others By Region Overseas Japan China Southeast Asia North America Europe Others Subtotal Domestic (male/female) (male/female) (male/female) (male/female) (male/female) (male/female) (male/female) 18,232 251 635 533 426 239 112 2,196 (10,784/ 7,448) (133/118) (173/462) (196/337) (245/181) (128/111) (60/52) (935/ 1,261) * As of Dec. 31, 2014(excluding officers). KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44/45 New Employees and Turnover >> G4-LA1 / LA12 (unit: persons) “A corporation is all about 2012 2013 2014 its people!” All New Employees who All New Employees who All New Employees who People are a precious employees employees left the company employees employees left the company employees employees left the company resource indispensable to a corporation. Gender Male 11,732 684 409 11,724 470 402 11,719 573 551 People are at the heart of a corporation’s growth. Female 8,902 769 807 8,709 714 788 8,709 848 555 Korean Air seeks to grow with its people. Age Below 30 5,588 1,142 543 5,076 933 473 4,865 1,146 411 30~39 6,590 275 359 6,586 199 395 6,475 241 325 40~49 5,904 25 149 6,089 43 148 6,243 24 99 50 and above 2,552 11 165 2,682 9 174 2,845 10 271 Region Domestic 18,127 1,062 755 18,322 861 730 18,232 975 743 Overseas 2,507 391 461 2,111 323 460 2,196 446 363 * As of Dec. 31 of the year(excluding officers). DIVERSITY IN EMPLOYEES Employment of Local Human Resources >> G4-EC6 Recognizing that localization is the key to successful expansion into Equal Employment and Prohibition of Discrimination >> G4-HR3 the global market, Korean Air actively employs and develops highKorean Air does not discriminate against potential and current emquality local human resources. Job applicants are not discriminated ployees based on gender, age, religion, and region of origin in all asagainst on the basis of their nationality, cultural background, religion pects of personnel management including recruitment, placement, or other factors. Our HR development policy focuses on merit and evaluation, and compensation. Academic background is no longer a performance, and we are operating multiple programs designed to part of our qualification criteria for job applications. Qualifications enhance the competency of local employees hired in other countries that are not closely or directly related to the job will be either elimiwith a view to fostering them as local managers. nated or reduced so that more people can apply for our positions, and our equitable employment policy will remain firmly in place. No Local Employees in Manager Positions (unit: persons/%) cases of discrimination were reported in 2014, which attests to our commitment to equitable employment (G4-HR3). Korean Air comItem Local managers plies with the local laws and regulations in all the countries in which Employees working in overseas subsidiaries, 2,459 it operates. In addition, Korean Air strictly prohibits child labor and branches and offices forced labor, and wage exploitation according to the Labor Standards % of local workers 89.3% Act of Korea and the regulations of the International Labor Organi% of locals in managerial positions 13.9% zation (ILO). * As of Dec. 31, 2014(excluding officers). GROWTH FOR EXCELLENCE PEOPLE-CENTERED MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR A GLOBALLY-COMPETITIVE Major Achievements in 2014 WORKFORCE • Online education programs: Online education programs offer selective learning options that meet the varying needs of individual HR Development System employees, and eliminate restrictions of time and space for emKorean Air operates a specialized education system aimed at producployees who work shifts. ing globally-competitive human resources. A broad range of multilevel courses on business administration, specific job skills, services, Online Education Contents (unit: materials) and foreign languages is available to all employees in all positions and job categories. These courses are offered either on-line or off2012 799 ( 151↑) line, or in a combination of both to maximize their effectiveness. 2013 862 ( 63↑) Education & Training 2014 866 ( 4↑) Separate organizations that specialize in education and training were set up to run various education programs in a more efficient man• Education for Overseas Local Employees: The overseas education ner. The Human Resources Development Center is responsible for team was set up to provide educational and training support to designing and implementing education and training policies, with the overseas branches in a timely manner. Regional service instrucgoal of developing human resources in a systematic way, while edutors are trained to meet regional educational needs. cation for specialized jobs such as in-flight services, navigation, and maintenance is provided by another separate organization. • Lifelong Learning: Korean Air established Jungseok College, Korea's first technology college run by a private company for its Employee Education >> G4-LA9 (unit: persons/hours) employees, in 2000 in order to support the lifelong education of its employees. A total of 1,181 students received a degree, including Male Female 766 bachelor's degrees and 415 associate's degrees, over the 14 No. of No. of hours of No. of No. of hours of years from its foundation to 2014. >> G4-LA10 Year persons education per person persons education per person 2012 11,867 100 8,897 125 Scholarships for Employees on Graduate Programs (unit: persons) 2013 11,724 101 8,709 131 2014 11,719 102 8,709 130 2012 170 2013 185 2014 189 KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46/47 NEXT STEP MINI CASE | E  ducational Support for the Improvement of Employees' Human Rights • Development of new education programs We at Korean Air believe that employees who are healthy in mind and New curricula and programs will be developed on an ongoing basis body can provide the best customer services and perform their duties to further improve the competency and capabilities of our employees; to the very best of their abilities. In keeping with this belief, Korean Air and a variety of educational contents will be created to better meet offers more than forty online education programs on human rights and the needs of our employees. healthcare that all employees can choose from. • Change educational environment Our regularly available programs are designed to instill our employees Provide state-of-the-art equipment for more efficient and effective with a greater sense of self-esteem as members of a global airline education company and increase their awareness of the importance of selfmanagement. • Changing the educational curriculum Change the curriculum and provide new contents that cater to the changing needs amid the constantly evolving business circumstances MINI CASE | Investments in Future Education • Expanding the competency and capacity of overseas employees We have constantly increased our investments in education aimed at Develop the educational curriculum and revise the education fostering first-class human resources, and opened the Shingal Trainsystem so as to support the growth of overseas employees in a ing Institute, a state-of-the-art integrated training facility that offers systematic manner. a pleasant learning environment, in 2014. In addition, Korean Air and Boeing are constructing the Navigation Training Center in Yeongjong Sky City, Incheon under a joint investment project, with the goal of providing the world's best pilot training program and producing worldclass pilots. An Overview of the Shingal Training An Aerial View of the Navigation Institute Training Center PEOPLE FOR EXCELLENCE STRIKING A BALANCE BETWEEN WORK AND PERSONAL LIFE Korean Air ensures fair CONTEXT Total Compensation performance evaluation Higher personal satisfaction among employees in the workplace and provides a reasonable which is most effectively raised by granting proper rewards and compensation system in incentives leads to higher corporate competitiveness. A well-deBenefits Incentive Payment · Medical benefits / · Profit sharing(PS) · By occupation order to keep its employees signed performance evaluation system can strengthen employees’ co-payment for and performance and position(rank) sense of solidarity and promote leadership not only on an individual motivated and to raise the retirement pension plans incentives(PI) · Set the basic level but also on a team level; therefore, it is an integral element that · Safety salary competitiveness of the ensures the sustainable growth of a corporation. · Discounted or free Performance · Partial airline tickets Incentive Program company. · Support for housing introduction of annual salary and education IMPACT ISSUE PROGRESS expenses ● Equal remuneration for MULTI-DIMENSIONAL EVALUATION SYSTEM >> G4-LA11 women and men and to perform the emergency procedures in an irregular situation, The KAL Performance Appraisal System (KALPAS) is a useful tool for ● Occupational health and safety in lieu of a performance evaluation. The results of the test are used conducting a multi-dimensional evaluation of an organization conto determine their annual salary and promotions. sisting of broad a range of different occupations. Employees identify BOUNDARY their core target tasks based on the contribution that the tasks make UPWARD EVALUATION AND LEADERSHIP EVALUATION FOR ● Korean Air to the organization and the company, and formulate implementation SUPERIORS ● Shareholders plans. Their performance is assessed according to the extent to which they accomplish the tasks assigned to them. For field work, there is An upward evaluation system is used to evaluate employees working ● Suppliers a standardized performance table for each occupation, according to in the field at home and overseas in order to help managers acquire ● Customers which performance is evaluated. Given the unique nature of the job, leadership skills through active vertical communication between ● Community flight crew are tested for their technical skills, such as their ability to employees in different ranks and to foster a desirable workplace ● Others control and fly the proper model of aircraft on the designated routes setting. In addition to the upward evaluation, a leadership survey is conducted across the board to reinvigorate the organization through Measure expressed two-way evaluation. For the leadership survey, employees are asked Reflected in competency personnel to provide their own personal assessment of their superiors’ basic decisions(objective/ qualities as managers. The results are quantified and provided to the Measure reasonably commensurate with superiors as feedback in order to encourage self-improvement and performance Comprehensive position and type to enhance their sense of responsibility. of job) Personality Type/ analysis Vocational Aptitude EMPLOYEE WELFARE BENEFIT PLAN Test The results are used mainly for HR Our employee benefit plan is designed to meet the practical deSuperior’s Leadership development and training purposes. mands that arise in the daily life of our employees and to guarantee Assessment them a decent quality of life. Employees and their family can fly on KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48/49 Major Financial Supports in 2014 any of the routes operated by Korean Air at discounted fares, which (unit: 100 million won) is intended to help them enjoy travelling and gain a global perspecMINI CASE | A Fair Reward System >> G4-LA2 tive. Our employee benefits include housing, financial support for the Korean Air does not discriminate against temporary or part-time workHealth Insurance educational expenses of employees' children and medical expenses, ers, and treats them in the same way as it treats its permanent em425.7 leisure programs, and support for post-retirement life. Korean Air ployees. They are treated equally and fairly in monetary terms including is working to introduce a defined benefit pension plan by 2016 that their basic wage, performance incentives, and the Safety Performance will allow employees to choose the type of pension plan for themIncentive Program, and receive all the benefits of our employee welselves. The pensions and investments that Korean Air paid out in fare plan such as discounted airline tickets, financial support for major Illness, accident, and death of employees or spouses family events, medical expenses, and condominiums. However, some 2014 amounted to 56.2 billion won in total. of the benefits that require long-term service to qualify for, such as in22.4 Key Employee Benefits dividual pension plans, health insurance, and investments in the credit union apply only to permanent employees. Item Details Pensions and Investments in 2014 >> G4-EC3 (unit: 100 million won) Health Health insurance policy (KRW 42.57 billion) Care Subsidy for health insurance plans purchased by employees SPECIAL BENEFITS FOR FEMALE EMPLOYEES >> G4-LA3 TOTAL 562.0 F  inancial support in the event of illness, accident or death of employees and their family members Korean Air adheres to the policy of gender equality in its HR manageNational Pension Plan C  ompany's financial support in 2014: KRW 2.24 billion ment, and has been hiring a growing number of female employees Medical expenses incurred by flight attendants staying while enhancing the status and wellbeing of female employees by pro349.1 overseas or by other employees during overseas business trips(The company covers the amount of the expense in viding a customized benefits plan. In addition to the employee benefits Individual Pension Plan excess of USD 200 up to USD 20,000) that are legally required, female flight attendants are allowed to take 101.4 Leisure Offers 25~35 tickets per year pregnancy leave starting from the day they become aware of their Owns 298 accounts of major condominiums in Korea Investment in credit union Discounts for major hotels in Korea and overseas pregnancy, and leave for fertility treatment. 111.5 Supports the activities of 23 in-house clubs Living Housing (2,237 units) Maternity Protection Statistics (unit: cases/persons/%) Loans for house purchase or rental Financial support that covers the entire school tuition fees for Type of leave 2012 2013 2014 children from middle school to college in Korea Maternity leave(cases) 691 709 702 Subsidy that covers part of the tuition fees for children attending major foreign universities Rate of return to work after maternity leave 100% 100% 100% School tuition for the children of employees working overseas Pregnancy leave 452 476 403 and support for language learning Parental leave 612 562 670 Tuition for employees attending designated universities and graduate programs Rate of 1-year job retention after 76.0% 76.0% 78.6% returning from parental leave PostNational Pension Plan retirement Ratio of male employees 1.6% 1.1% 2.1% Individual pension plans for all employees: KRW 50,000 won life The largest employee credit union in Korea, and financial support for investments in the credit union upon retirement Incentives Performance incentives, Safety Performance Incentive Program PEOPLE FOR EXCELLENCE STRIKING A BALANCE BETWEEN WORK AND PERSONAL LIFE EMPLOYEE SAFETY >> G4-LA5 / LA6 / LA8 now asked to place their luggage in the designated section at the bottom of the employee shuttle buses before boarding the bus, and Korean Air has established the Occupational Safety and Health Comthe previous two-flight stairway has been changed to a 3-flight stairmittee and implemented comprehensive provisions for health and way for greater safety. safety, hygiene, medical checkups, and employee welfare, which it observes strictly. The Labor-Management Joint Safety and Health Committee monitors and advises on occupational safety and health programs on behalf of all employees, and the chairman convenes a quarterly meeting. As a result of all these efforts, the accident (injury) rate was 0.06%, which was far below the national average of 0.53% in 2014. Accident Rates: National Average vs. Korean Air (unit: %) Change to the stair design Loading luggage in the designated section before Nation Korean Air boarding the shuttle bus 1.00 0.90 0.90 0.77 0.80 0.85 0.71 0.70 0.69 0.65 0.70 0.77 0.77 0.72 0.59 0.59 MINI CASE | Dustproof masks 0.60 0.53 0.50 0.49 All outdoor workers were supplied with a dust 0.40 0.36 mask as part of our efforts to make employees’ 0.30 working conditions safer. Masks were provided to 0.16 0.15 0.20 0.11 1,517 persons, including the employees of our sup0.09 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.10 0.12 pliers who work outdoors for 3 hours or more in 0.00 Korea and China. This practice will be applied to a 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 growing number of employees in the future. * Accident rate=(No. of injured workers/annual average number of workers)*100 PREVENTION OF WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS >> G4-LA7 NEXT STEP Whenever an injury occurs, Korean Air immediately identifies the • To establish a fair performance evaluation and reward system cause and takes the necessary remedial action to ensure that all • To introduce a retirement pension plan employees work in a safe environment. The number of unworked days due to occupational injury and other accidents was 727 days • To further improve employee safety from 2014 to February 2015, with 41% of all injuries resulting from Analyze sections of workplace where accidents are more prone to falls. An analysis of individual cases revealed that most injuries were occur and types of accidents to find ways to minimize accidents sustained while using the steps on shuttle busses and other stairSupply dustproof masks to more employees ways. To address this problem and prevent accidents, employees are PEOPLE FOR EXCELLENCE LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 50/51 FOR CO-PROSPERITY Korean Air is doing its utmost CONTEXT clearly specified in the collective agreement, and employees are notified of all these changes in a timely manner(50 days prior to layoff and to promote cooperative Given that Korean Air is characterized by multiple business areas 30 days prior to general termination of employment). labor-management relations and that are clearly distinguished from each other, such as flights, serto achieve shared growth and vices, and maintenance, creating a culture of communication and EXTENDED RETIREMENT AGE AND WAGE PEAK SYSTEM co-prosperity for both the mutual trust is essential to ensure sustainable growth. Korean Air In 2015 Korean Air agreed to extend the retirement age and introcan grow into a global company only when labor and management company and its employees. duce a wage peak system. Under the wage peak system, the wage share common goals and work together on pressing tasks. is gradually reduced by 10% each year from the year immediately preceding the year the employee reaches the age of 56 until his or BOUNDARY PROGRESS her retirement. Employees subject to this plan will be eligible for ● Korean Air interim settlement and the payment of a retirement allowance so as ● Shareholders HARMONIOUS LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS to minimize any potential disadvantages to them. More importantly, ● Suppliers FOR CO-PROSPERITY the retirement age has been raised from 56 to 60, which will increase ● Customers employees’ financial stability and improve the quality of their postBased on our philosophy that a company is all about its people, retirement life. ● Community Korean Air is striving to protect the rights of individual employees and ● Others to build desirable labor-management relations so that our employees GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION >> G4-LA16 can grow together with the company. As of the end of 2014, there were three registered unions including the general labor union(employees The Grievance Resolution Committee and the Personnel Affairs of Korean Air), the pilots' union, and the new pilots' union. Counseling Office were established to address employees’ grievances and suggestions, thereby helping to improve relations manLabor Unions (unit: person, %) agement within the organization and boost morale. Details of the meetings are recorded and kept confidential. Counselors respect Non% of Union unionized unionized employees who come to them for advice and ensure that they can General members employees Total employees trust them and feel safe when discussing their grievances. In 2014, 13 Flight Pilots' Union 10,527 3,621 14,148 74.4% grievances were reported through the official channels for grievance New Pilots' Union 1,114 resolution, and 12 of them (92%) were resolved. (G4-LA16) 445 2,324 80.9% 765 NEXT STEP PRIOR NOTIFICATION OF MAJOR CHANGES CONCERNING BUSINESS >> G4-11 / G4-LA4 • To successfully operate the wage peak system. The unionization rate for the general union is 74.4%, and the combined To improve the underlying conditions for building mutual trust rate of unionized flight crew for both pilots' unions is 80.9%. The outbetween labor and management. comes of collective bargaining apply to all employees. The notification To create more online and offline channels of communication. period for material changes including changes in business and layoff is 03 PLANET FOR EXCELLENCE Green Management for Future Generations We cannot overemphasize how important it is to protect and preserve the planet Earth, the foundation of our life. Korean Air, as a member of the global community, cares about the sustainable future of the Earth. As such, we have declared our commitment to green management as part of our efforts to fulfill our social responsibilities as a leading global airline, and are engaged in a variety of activities and campaigns to protect the environment in all aspects of our business operations. MATERIAL ISSUES ● PROGRESS IN 2014 ● Emissions(air quality, greenhouse gas emissions) Under close cooperation with the Operation Division, the two-way management system has been adopted to manage the greenhouse gas emissions caused by the increase in flights and to cut down on emissions more effectively. The Flight Operations Quality Assurance(FOQA) and the Flight Following System(FFS) are in operation to reduce the gap between scheduled flights and actual INTERVIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS fuel consumption and to raise fuel efficiency. Our 10th environmentally-friendly A380 has been put into operation, leading to a 10% “Korean Air needs to take proactive reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft on standby during operation, actions such as running pilot flights on and a 35% increase in passenger transportation, which added to the bottomline. biofuels in order to build a corporate image as an environmentallyfriendly company and play a role in keeping prices stable by using ● OUR ACHIEVEMENTS alternative fuels.” Environmental education It is time for Korean Air to concentrate on developing new routes and 7,281(persons/hours) Change from previous year: 3 (persons/hours)↑ diversifying its services in order to respond to changing customer needs and demands more effectively and to remain sustainable as a globally competitive airline. Korean Air should assume the role Energy used in ground operations of a trendsetter and strengthen its corporate image as an environ2,093,345 (GJ) Change from previous year: 27,885 (GJ)↓ (1.31%↓) mentally-friendly airline by performing test flights using biofuels that have not yet been introduced to the domestic market and by taking Amount of recycled water other leading actions. Korean Air’s use of alternative fuels could have a significant impact on keeping prices stable as well. In light of the 35,984 (tons) Change from previous year: 8,984 (tons)↑ (28.18%↑) ever-growing competition in the air transportation industry, Korean Air needs to analyze the strategies of its competitors and adopt strategies ● FUTURE PLAN that will set it apart from its rivals by providing unique services that others do not. In order for all these efforts to produce tangible results, it is essential to create a corporate culture that is conducive to resolvMultiple fuel management indicators will be developed to promote a target manageing the conflicts that arise within and outside the organization and to ment system, while the 3s (Smart, Standard.Simple) system, a fuel management building a horizontal and flexible communication system within the system, will be improved to manage fuel consumption more effectively. company. I hope that Korean Air, which is driven by a profound sense of Models that generate less noise such as the B747-8i, B787-9 will be brought mission as the national flag-carrier, will build on the know-how it has in gradually by 2020 to maintain a pleasant living environment for residents of the accumulated so far and grow into a leading global airline. neighboring communities. Tighten the recycling policy on packaging materials for air transportation, replace Yongseok Kim disposable items used for in-flight services with environmentally-friendly items, Team Leader / Aviation safety office / Korea Transportation Safety Authority and make efforts to reduce costs and increase the recycling rate. PLANET FOR EXCELLENCE ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Korean Air operates an Environmental Management Strategies environment management Vision for Environmental Management system and carries out a To create a pleasant and prosperous life by achieving a healthy range of activities including balance between aviation and the environment education and investment to protect the environment. Direction of Environmental Management Strategies Compliance with the greenhouse gas regulations and BOUNDARY expansion of green management capability ● Korean Air ● Shareholders ● Suppliers CONTEXT Environmental management strategies and main goals ● Customers Air transportation generates a number of pollutants including air ● Community Efficient reduction Communication on Green management pollutants and waste in the process of aircraft repair and mainteof greenhouse the environment in action ● Others nance, flights, and other operations. Korean Air draws up environgases and energy consumption ·R aise internal and ·G et back to the mental management plans each year and assesses its performance external environbasics · Implement mental confidence ·S tandardize environthereof in order to make improvements where needed and to miniplans to cut ·C onduct environmental performance mize the amount of by-products and pollutants that its corporate greenhouse gas mental protection indicators emissions campaigns and activities inevitably generate. ·A dopt a preventive · Comply with activities at home approach to domestic and and abroad environmental maninternational ·R aise employees' agement regulations on awareness of ·U pgrade the environPROGRESS greenhouse gas environmental mental emergency emissions issues response system VISION AND GOALS OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Under the environmental vision of 'creating a pleasant and prosperous life by achieving a healthy balance between aviation and the A GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM environment', Korean Air is committed to minimizing the negative Korean Air has designated a team to take responsibility for operating impact of aircraft operations on the environment and to preserving within the HQ an environmental management system, which each of the environment in the neighboring local communities. the other business divisions in charge of aircraft maintenance, aircraft manufacture, and catering, and each division is operating at its discretion, following the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) process. Korean Air acquired the ISO14001 certification in 1996 and has maintained its EMS in conformance with the global standard through regular continuous assessment and re-assessment. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54/55 Environmental Management Certification mental education, while individuals in charge of the EMS are specially trained to increase the knowledge and competency they require to Standard ISO14001 manage the system. Workers who are exposed to and deal with enviDate of acquisition Dec. 13, 1996 ronmental pollutants in the course of performing their duties receive Date of re-assessment Nov. 13, 2014 on-the-job training and education to ensure that all the legal requireAssurance body British Standards Institution (BIS) ments regarding environmental education are met. Areas of certification Headquarters(general) Maintenance In-flight meal production Aircraft manufacturing Environmental Education (unit: persons/hours) 2012 2013 2014 ISO14001 Certification Organization for Environmental Management Basic education 4,187 3,389 3,398 Specialized education 1,337 862 890 CHAIRMAN On-the-job(OJT) education 1,790 3,027 2,954 Total 7,666 7,278 7,281 PRESIDENT Headquarters Aircraft Aircraft manuIn-flight meal (general) maintenance facturing production NEXT STEP • Keep abreast of the relevant laws and regulations by business Executive in Executive in Executive in Executive in charge charge charge charge and ensure compliance Director in Head of the Head of Head of Regularly update the registry of environmental laws and regulations charge of the Maintenance the Aerospace the Catering and provide the related education. Environment and Division Business Business Construction Division Division Improve the business process (i.e. revise and update the Management Dept. environment-related guidelines and manuals). • Establish an environmental performance indicators EMS Dept. EMS Dept. EMS Dept. EMS Dept. management system Environment Maintenance Production Catering & Construction Planning Dept Support Dept. Business Compile an environmental performance indicators database and Management (Facility & (Facility Division create an operation and management system. Dept Equipment Management (Quality Control (Environment Team) Team) Team) • Expand the competency of individuals in charge of Team) environmental issues Provide advanced on-the-job education and help develop the necessary expertise. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION • Launch and continuous implementation of environment Korean Air runs a wide spectrum of education programs designed to related campaigns meet the needs of different target groups, business areas, and employee positions. All employees are required to receive a basic environPLANET FOR EXCELLENCE RESPONSES TO CLIMATE CHANGE Korean Air is actively CONTEXT >> G4-EC2 Korean Air aims to reduce its CO2 emissions in accordance with the targets set by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), raise responding to global issues Amid the increasingly acute global warming, the Korean government fuel efficiency by an average of 1.5% per year by 2020, attain carbonsuch as climate change and is working on various policies with the focus on the greenhouse gas neutral growth by 2020 and beyond (CNG2020), and ultimately cut its global warming by taking initiative (GGI). The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) CO2 emissions by 50% by 2050, compared with 2005. actions to reduce greenhouse under the UN is discussing global market-based measures(GMBM) for 'carbon-neutral growth beyond 2020' in the global aviation sector. INTRODUCTION OF CUTTING-EDGE, HIGH-EFFICIENCY gas emissions, and fuel and Korean Air supports this global commitment by the industry and is AIRCRAFT energy consumption. making continuous efforts to minimize the risks to corporations and The most effective way for the air transportation industry to respond the environment by closely cooperating in dealing with changes in the to climate change is to use the latest models of aircraft, which have BOUNDARY environment at home and abroad and taking proactive measures. demonstrated greater fuel efficiency. Starting in 2015, Korean Air ● Korean Air plans to take delivery of the latest models of aircraft in phases, ● Shareholders including the B787-9, B747-8i, B747-8F, and B777F, all of which are with cutting-edge materials, aerodynamically designed, and ● Suppliers PROGRESS equipped with environmentally-friendly engines, while disposing of ● Customers OUR TARGETS outdated aircraft including the B747-400, B737-800, and B737-900, ● Community thereby modernizing the fleet. ● Others Although the combined amount of CO2 generated by aircraft in flight accounts for a mere 2% of the global total, the industry is becoming Aircraft Reception and Disposal in 2014 increasingly responsible for CO2 emissions due to the ever growing global demand for air transportation services. In order to meet the Aircraft received Aircraft disposed of or sold increasing demand and curb the rising CO2 emissions concurrently, Model No. of aircraft Model No. of aircraft IATA CO2 Reduction Roadmap A380-800 2 B777-200 1 A330-300 3 A300-600 2 CO2 emissions ■ Development of alternative fuels and Increases B747-8F 1 B737-800 1 new technologies without B777F 1 B747-400F 2 ■ ■ ■ Improvements in technology, flight, reduction infrastructure efforts Total 7 Total 6 ■ Market-based measures Spending on New Aircraft (unit: 100 million won) Carbonneutral growth 2012 14,811 2013 18,510 -50% by 2050 2014 13,340 2005 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 56/57 GREENHOUSE GAS MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions >> G4-EN19 (unit: tCO2e) Efficient fuel management is a critical part of our efforts to mini2012 2013 2014 mize greenhouse gas emissions, which are based on the following Economical Flight 144,658 136,125 141,168 three strategies: raising flight operational efficiency by analyzing the Performance Improvement 98,249 95,097 97,793 patterns of fuel consumption during flight, cutting costs by raising Flight Planning 156,769 156,822 168,039 the efficiency of fuel consumption, and protecting the global environWeight Management 19,741 32,443 24,873 ment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Total 419,417 420,488 431,874 Fuel Management System Airport Weight Management · Carry optimal amount of potable water · Reduce pay load variance · Use light-weight containers · Restrict fuel overload Weight Performance Management Flight Management Maintenance Flight Operation · Use economical ground equipment while ·R  efrain from using reverse thrust when formance Organic rations parking landing Ope Per · Use water to wash the inside of engines Management ·U  se only one of the engines after takeoff · Restore the exterior of fan blades in the engines System ·M  aintain the optimal flight speed to · Raise fuel efficiency by installing winglets on save fuel and costs B737s Flight plan ·E  nsure the optimal use of flaps during takeoff Flight Planning · Develop the nearest alternate airports and shortcut routes · Revise and improve the fuel loading regulations · Load fuel based on statistical analyses of fuel consumption patterns · Plan optimal flights using the Flight Operations Quality Assurance (FOQA) Flight Planning PLANET FOR EXCELLENCE RESPONSES TO CLIMATE CHANGE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION >> G4-EN7 MINI CASE | K  orean Air Wins Contract to Supply SharClose Cooperation with the Operation Center klets, a Wing Structure for the A330 NEO The previous one-way fuel management system was replaced by a Korean Air won an exclusive contract to supply sharklets, an element two-way management system that allows more efficient cooperation of wing structure used on the A330 NEO(New Engine Option) for the through close collaboration with the operation center. Under the new Airbus, in addition to sharklets for the A320. A sharklet is a winglet system, the operation center directly manages variations in the paymeasuring 2m in width and 4m in size that is made of high-tech comload or carrying capacity of an aircraft, which affects the flight weight, posite materials and installed on the tip of the main wings of an airby assigning added points or penalties accordingly, so that payload craft. It reduces air resistance on the tip of the wings, thereby raising variance can be controled more effectively at individual airports. fuel efficiency by 4%, enhancing aircraft performance, and reducing CO2 emissions simultaneously. Korean Air was chosen as the supplier *Payload: the combined weight of passengers, cargo, luggage, mail, etc. in an auction worth around 100 billion won in which leading global aircraft components manufacturers competed. Fuel Management System Korean Air carefully analyzes flight patterns using Flight Operation Quality Assurance (FOQA)* to load optimal amounts of fuel. The Flight Following System (FFS)** enables us to reduce the margin of FUEL AND ENERGY USE >> G4-EN3 / G4-EN4 / G4-EN6 error between planned flights and actual fuel consumption, and to Korean Air has further increased the fuel efficiency of its air transincrease fuel efficiency as well. port by replacing its fleet with environmentally-friendly models of * F light Operation Quality Assurance (FOQA) : FOQA is a method of capturing aircraft and analyzing fuel consumption patterns during flight, and every second data related to the flight plan from among the data stored in has reduced energy consumption in its ground operations by making the aircraft system, in order to compile statistics and analyze the flight route, altitude, speed and fuel consumption and compare it against the plan. company-wide efforts involving all its business divisions including **Flight Following System (FFS): This system compares the flight data the aircraft maintenance, manufacture, and catering businesses. transmitted in real time from an aircraft against the original flight plan, and In 2014, we further enhanced our energy efficiency by adopting byissues an automated alarm if the gap between the actual flight data and the plan exceeds a certain level. product fuel, which emits relatively fewer greenhouse gases and air pollutants, as an alternative to B-C oil, and we will lower energy use continuously. Fuel Use in Air Transport (unit: tons) Change from 2012 2013 2014 previous year (%) Jet oil 4,019,028 3,923,102 4,006,984 2.14 * Based on the amount of jet oil used for domestic and international flights. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 58/59 Energy Use in Ground Operations (unit: GJ) consequent rise in the use of jet oil, emissions per won in air transportation and ground operations declined as a result of companyChange from wide reduction efforts. 2012 2013 2014 previous year (%) Direct BC oil 263,349 243,815 174,124 -28.58 Greenhouse Gas Emissions in Air Transportation and Ground Energy BB oil 16,333 ConsumpOperations >> G4-EN15 / G4-EN16 (unit: tCO2e) tion Nautral gas /diesel oil 296,657 252,705 245,097 -3.01 (light oil) Change from Boiler kero2012 2013 2014 previous year (%) sene 466 304 0 -100.00 Air transporScope 1 12,780,177 12,483,403 12,750,860 2.14 Byproduct tation fuel No. 1 21,722 15,818 9,675 -38.84 Subtotal 12,780,177 12,483,403 12,750,860 2.14 Byproduct Ground Scope1 61,474 55,536 54,201 -2.40 fuel No. 2 82,427 operations Scope2 64,854 62,769 62,738 -0.05 Gasoline 11,283 10,861 10,509 -3.24 Subtotal 126,328 118,305 116,939 -1.15 Jet oil 33,314 38,021 33,157 -23.02 Total 12,906,505 12,601,708 12,867,799 2.11 LNG 272,442 257,974 241,459 -6.40 LPG 7,485 3,901 3,786 -2.95 * Data include emissions of CO2, N2O, and CH4. Subtotal 923,051 823,399 800,234 -2.81 Indirect Electricity 1,305,627 1,256,891 1,267,959 0.90 Greenhouse Gas Emission Intensity >> G4-EN18 (unit: kg_CO2e/100RTK) Energy Hot water Consump(medium30,107 35,888 25,152 -29.90 tion temperature) Change from Subtotal 1,335,734 1,292,780 1,293,111 0.03 2012 2013 2014 previous year (%) Total 2,258,785 2,121,230 2,093,345 -1.31 Air transportation (kg_CO2e/100RTK) 88.20 87.35 85.56 -2.05 Ground operations (ton_CO2e/sales 10.30 10.10 10.01 -0.88 * Direct and indirect energy consumption is monitored at forty-four business amount: 1.0 billion won) sites under the Low-Carbon Green Growth Act, and the data are assured by a third-party assurance body (PWC(2012), KMAR(2013), DNV·GL(2014)). * 100RTK: one ton of goods that is transported for 100km (conversion of passenger weight: 100 kg including items of luggage per passenger). Energy Intensity >> G4-EN5 Change from NEXT STEP 2012 2013 2014 previous year (%) • Active use of the target management system through the Air transportation (GJ/RTK) 12.64 12.51 12.26 -2.00 Ground operations 183.02 179.02 179.22 0.11 development of various fuel management indicators (GJ/sales amount: 1.0 billion won) • Continued improvements in the loading policy based on analyses of fuel consumption comprising the use of statistical techniques * RTK(Revenue Ton Km): one single ton of goods that is transported for one kilometer. • Reinforcement of the fuel management system 3S (Smart, GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS >> G4-EN19 Standard, Simple) Although our total greenhouse gas emissions in air transportation • Review and introduction of new technologies to reduce rose by 2.14% in 2014 due to an increase in passenger flights and the emissions and protect the environment PLANET FOR EXCELLENCE AIRCRAFT NOISE MANAGEMENT Korean Air complies with CONTEXT >> G4-SO2 models of aircraft; and ensures that these procedures are adhered to during takeoff and landing. Korean Air complies with the noise-redomestic and international noise Aircraft noise has a direct impact on the living environment and duction procedures that airports in other countries require to be fol-reduction regulations and quality of life of local communities within the vicinity of an airport lowed, and implements the Noise Abatement Departure Procedure procedures in order to create a and may cause serious physical and psychological damages and (NADP) and the Continuous Descent Approach (CDA) of the ICAO with pleasant living environment in disturbance to the residents of those communities. Korean Air has some modifications. implemented flight policies intended to minimize aircraft noise, and local communities in the vicinity strives to maintain a pleasant environment in neighboring communiof airports and has introduced ties through a variety of activities including the introduction of lowNADP 1 ∙ Designed to reduce noise in noise-sensitive areas environmentally-friendly lownoise, environmentally-friendly aircraft and the implementation of a in close proximity to the departure end of a runway during noise aircraft to minimize noise-reducing take-off process. takeoff. NADP2 ∙ Desgined to reduce noise in noise-sensitive areas the volume of noise generated relatively distant from a runway. during flight. PROGRESS CDA ∙ Aircraft maintain a fixed descending speed until they reach the final altitude upon approaching a runway. BOUNDARY COMPLIANCE WITH NOISE-REDUCTION PROCEDURES ∙ Positive effects on flight safety in the near-landing phase. ∙ Emits less noise and CO2 than are generated by Korean Air stipulates noise-reducing flight procedures in the com● Korean Air conventional descents in a stair-step fashion. pany's aircraft operation regulations and the guidebooks for different ● Shareholders ● Suppliers ● Customers Landing Procedure by Continuous Descent Approach ● Community ● Others Basic continuous descent approach profile Conventional approach profile Establish on the Instrument Landing System(ILS) RUNWAY Area of noise benefit KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 60/61 Aircraft noise level ■ Models currently operated by Korean Air ■ Models to be introduced 0 EPNdB -5 CHAPTER 3 -10 ■ 737-800 A330-223 ■ ■ 737-800Winglets ■ 737-900 -15 ■ ■ A330-322 ■ 777-300ER 747400F ■ 777200 ■ 747-8 ■ 747-400 -20 CHAPTER 4 ■ 787-8 -25 ■ A380-800 -30 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 LANDING PROCEDURE BY CONTINUOUS DESCENT Payments of Surcharge by Domestic Airports in 2014 APPROACH (unit: 100 million won) All the aircraft of Korean Air meet the criteria of ICAO Chapter 4 and the 6th level criteria, the lowest noise level under Korea's airport Gimpo International Airport 13.8 noise-related laws. The new models, such as the A380, 747-8i, and Ulsan Airport 0.2 B787-9, that Korean Air plans to introduce generate less pollution Busan International Airport 7.0 and noise, and are more environmentally-friendly than the existing Yeosu Airport 0.1 models currently in operation, thereby contributing to the creation Jeju Airport 6.5 of a more pleasant environment for the inhabitants of communities Total 27.6 situated in the vicinity of an airport. NOISE SURCHARGE PAYMENT NEXT STEP Korean Air pays a noise surcharge for every flight according to the • Low-noise models including the B747-8i and B787-9 will be regulations set by individual airports. The noise surcharge paid by introduced gradually by 2020. airlines is used to reduce aircraft noise and to support noise-affected • Flight crews will receive continuing education on noise-reduction areas according to the plans of individual airports. procedures. • Children living in the noise-affected areas around Gimpo International Airport will be given opportunities to experience aircraft operations and other activities at the airport PLANET FOR EXCELLENCE MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Korean Air strictly manages inputs CONTEXT WATER POLLUTANTS MANAGEMENT and outputs in consideration The ongoing depletion of resources and the increasingly acute environKorean Air operates transportation equipment repair and washing facilities of the entire service-providing mental pollution facing the global community have led to a tightening of and a wastewater discharge facility including industrial waste gas cleansing and condensation facilities. Our aircraft are washed in places where pollutprocess so as to minimize the regulations, which in turn poses a risk for corporate activities. In addition, ants are drained into water pollution-prevention facilities to prevent them impact of corporate activities on people are becoming increasingly aware of environmental issues and, from leaking out of the working areas. If a working area is likely to generconsequently, more interested in the environmental impact of corporate the environment and to proactively ate water pollutants, a pollution management manual is kept at that area activities in general. In this context, it is becoming more and more imcope with environmental portant for Korean Air, as an air transportation company that has a direct for workers to follow according to the Environmental Facility Management regulations. Guidelines, and Korean Air implements its internal standards and regulaimpact on the atmospheric environment, to take the lead in making eftions which are 50% stricter than what is required by law and closely forts to reduce the environmental impact of airlines’ activities. monitors water pollution in order to prevent the leakage of pollutants. BOUNDARY Water Pollutants Discharge (unit: tons) ● Korean Air PROGRESS ● Shareholders Change from WATER MANAGEMENT ● Suppliers 2012 2013 2014 previous year (%) ● Customers Water supply, treated water, and ground water are the main water Biochemical Oxygen 25.572 39.677 42.293 6.59 Demand (BOD) ● Community sources from which we obtain water for washing the exterior and Chemical Oxygen 19.182 39.518 25.643 -35.11 ● Others parts of aircraft in airport buildings, and for cooking and processing Demand (COD) in-flight meals. Our efforts to reduce water usage include installing Suspended Solids (SS) 38.904 43.436 34.691 -20.13 water-saving facilities, using optimal amounts of water when cookTotal nitrogen 4.722 5.282 4.050 -23.32 ing and processing in-flight meals, and launching water-saving camTotal phosphorus 0.745 1.000 1.041 4.10 paigns. The used water treatment facility operated in the Korean Air Building in Gimpo produces 400 tons of treated water per day, which * The data include water pollutants generated from eight wastewater treatment facilities in the Incheon Maintenance & Engineering Division(A), Incheon Catering is used in bathrooms and gardening. Center, Incheon 1st Cargo Terminal, Korean Air building in Gimpo, Limousine Service Center, Engine Repair Plant in Bucheon, and Gimhae Tech Center. Water Usage (unit: tons/%) AIR POLLUTANTS MANAGEMENT >> G4-EN21 Change from 2012 2013 2014 previous year (%) Air pollutants such as dust, THC, and NOx are discharged by aircraft Total water usage* 1,514,530 1,250,341 1,300,020 3.97 during landing and takeoff and by Korean Air-owned facilities. Korean Recycled amount* 27,519 27,000 35,984 33.27 Air minimizes air pollutant emissions per won by constantly reducing Recycling rate 1.82 2.16 2.77 28.18 the amount of solvents that we use. In addition, Korean Air is implementing a range of measures aimed at decreasing emissions, includ* Data include the amounts of tap water, treated water, and ground water used, based on the utility bills received from water suppliers. ing scheduled checkups and maintenance under the prevention and * The recycled amount is the amount of treated water used in the Korean Air monitoring plan, in order to improve the operational efficiency of its building in Gimpo. air pollutant discharge facilities and air pollution-prevention facilities. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 62/63 Air Pollutant Emissions (unit: tons) agement. More importantly, Korean Air is working to reduce waste and reuse resources through a variety of campaigns and activities. Change from 2012 2013 2014 previous year (%) Dust 23 23 27 17.39 MINI CASE | EFB(Electric Flight Bag) Total Hydrocarbons (THC) 16.19 20 29 45.00 NOx 67,379 65,755 67,190 2.18 We have replaced all the various types of paper documents used in our SOx 9 7 11.2 57.14 airplanes including the manuals for pilots and mechanics, and the map SO2 3,977 3,900 3,984 2.15 providing information necessary for takeoff and landing with Electric Flight Bags (EFB), thereby saving resources and raising operational efficiency si* The data combine the amounts of air pollutants emitted from six of Korean multaneously. The use of tablet PC-shaped EFBs has not only removed all Air's facilities including the Incheon Maintenance & Engineering Division(A), the clutter of manuals, booklets, and other paper materials that used to sit Korean Air building in Gimpo, Engine Assembly Plant in Bucheon, Parts Repair in the cockpit, but also performs other useful jobs such as calculating the Plant in Bucheon, KAL Hotel Seogwipo, and Gimhae Tech Center. weight and speed of an aircraft for takeoff and landing, instantly searching information as needed, monitoring the aircraft conditions for repair or WASTE MANAGEMENT maintenance purposes, and providing information needed for repairs. EFB is currently in place on our Boeing 747-8 cargo planes, Boeing 777s, and AirPassenger and cargo transportation generates waste paper, waste bus 380s, and all new planes due to be received will be installed with EFBs. wood, waste plastic, and other types of waste, and such designated wastes as oil, paint and organic solvents are discharged from the aircraft maintenance and manufacturing process. The wastes generated at all our business sites are discharged, collected, transported, and disposed NEXT STEP of according to the Process Map, which details every step of waste man• Reduce water use Waste Production and Disposal (unit: tons) Raise employees’ awareness of the importance of saving water through water-saving campaigns Change from Prevent the excessive use of water in the cooking and processing Type 2012 2013 2014 previous year (%) of food Amount Municipal 22,506 23,244 23,825 2.50 • Decrease waste discharge of waste Discharged 934 1,043 1,032 -1.05 Conduct campaigns to save resources on a regular, ongoing basis produced Designated 596 663 602 -9.20 Closely monitor the recycling of packaging materials for air Total 24,036 24,950 25,459 2.18 transportation Amount Incineration 13,333 13,983 14,357 2.67 Replace disposable items with reusable items in airplanes to of waste disposed Landfill 869 641 621 -3.18 increase the recycling rate of Reuse&recycling 9,834 10,326 10,481 1.49 • Improve the operational efficiency of air pollution-prevention Total 24,036 24,950 25,459 2.04 facilities and reduce the use of solvents • Change practices related with the discharge of water pollutants * Municipal waste increased in 2014 due to a 5% rise in the number of passenger flights (OAL). Repair old wastewater treatment facilities according to the environmental facilities maintenance plan * The company-wide waste reuse and recycling rate remained at around 41%. Metals, paper, wood, and other types of waste are separated for recycling Monitor the use of aircraft-cleaning products to prevent overuse purposes and handled by an outside waste management company. and reduce pollution. 04 SERVICE FOR EXCELLENCE Absolute Safety and High Quality Services ‘Safety and satisfaction’ is our top priority and No. 1 promise that we are honor-bound to fulfill. With the aim of becoming the world's safest airline offering premium services, Korean Air does its utmost to ensure safety both in and outside the organization and to provide our customers with a very special flying experience on the basis of our extraordinary services. MATERIAL ISSUES ● PROGRESS IN 2014 ● Growing demand for the safest products and services Each business division developed its own quality assurance program, and is ● Customer health and safety planning and performing annual audits to ensure flight safety. ● Changing customer demands Korean Air introduced a next-generation aircraft equipped with a bar-lounge and duty-free shopping area. All seats feature an on-demand audio and video system, ● Product and service labeling(customer satisfaction) providing passengers with an individualized, convenient, and pleasant flying environment. ●G  rowing number of consumers concerned about impact on Korean Air made further efforts to develop a healthy menu and high-quality health, environment, and society in-flight meals featuring traditional Korean cuisine; and introduced a traditional Korean course menu and began to serve rice with soy bean paste sauce in 2014. INTERVIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS ● OUR ACHIEVEMENTS “Korean Air needs to create new experiences for customers, 1,225 overseas employees received information security building on its core competency education, change from previous year: 288 (persons)↑ in passenger and cargo transportation.” Maintained the IOSA certification for 11 years Korean Air needs to continuously develop new services that will offer customers new experiences, building on its competency in its staple Safety-certified by the U.S. Department business of passenger and cargo transportation. Recently, the scope of of Defense for 15 years CSR has been expanded to include human rights, labor, environment, safety, consumer and governance issues among others, in addition to social contributions such as volunteer activities and charity. In light of ● FUTURE PLAN the growing expectations surrounding CSR, corporations will be able to enhance their social status and successfully manage their sustainability if they build trust with their stakeholders through authentic and Internal security and customers’ personal data management will be tightened meaningful CSR activities. I hope that Korean Air will further broaden with the planned launch of the Security Management System (SeMS), while its potential and stay at the forefront of sustainability management, the existing security measures will be integrated in order to manage security and have a positive impact on society by finding unique ways of fulfillthreats more effectively. ing its CSR and creating new values, based on integrity, expertise, and Korean Air will operate a counter exclusively for pregnant women, disabled transparency, and through close partnerships with its suppliers. persons, and wheelchair users, and give them priority in boarding, as well as introducing more services for people with physical challenges or restricted mobility. Minseok Kim Korean Air will continue with its efforts to incorporate traditional Korean cuisine Team Leader Senior Manager / Corporate Social Responsibility Team / into our in-flight menu, and become actively involved in international expos as an Business Support Officer / LG Electronics avenue to promote an in-flight menu based on traditional Korean cuisine. SERVICE FOR EXCELLENCE SAFE FLIGHT AND STRONGER SECURITY Safety is our top priority. As such, CONTEXT Safety Management Organization our safety management system The safety and security office is under the direct control of the Air transportation has an inherent potential for massive human casensures that our airplanes remain ualties and property damages because it is exposed to a wide range president in charge of the matter and is responsible for creating a company-wide security management system and managing safety safe on the ground as well as up of internal and external risks such as changing weather conditions, systematically. The director in charge of safety and security reports in the sky. Korean Air refuses to terrorist attacks, mechanical errors, and errors at the control tower, directly to the president so as to ensure that the reporting chanallow itself to become complacent in addition to accidents caused by human error. For this reason, it is nel remains independent and free from external interference and extremely important to manage safety risks strictly and effectively. about meeting domestic and that the top management remains fully informed about all safety international safety standards, and matters. instead implements companyPROGRESS Safety Committee and Council wide quality assurance programs ADVANCED SAFE FLIGHT SYSTEM to make constant changes for the The Central Safety Committee better and exceed customers’ Korean Air became the first airline in Korea to acquire a government Chaired by certification on the regulations and operation of the Safety Managetop management · Reviews and approves comprehensive expectations. safety plans ment System (SMS) in 2008. The regulations concerning Korean Air’s SMS include the organization necessary for safety management, reIMPACT ISSUE sponsibility for safety, safety policy and procedures, and compliance Safety Flight Executive Meetings ● Customer Health and Safety with domestic and international requirements and standards. Heads of related · Revises safety regulations and procedures divisions · Reviews and approves safety-related BOUNDARY · Safety policy · Monitoring of safety projects and investment plans · Commitment to and performance ● Korean Air responsibility for safety · Continued improveSafety & Security Monthly Meetings ● Shareholders · Safety goals and plans ments to SMS · Emergency Response · Quality assurance ● Suppliers Plan(ERP) licy assSaf Heads of related  nalyzes irregular flight data and makes ·A po als u · Coping with changes plans to prevent their recurrence ● Customers · Documentation of SMS go teams Saf y and record-keeping andety et ance · Closely cooperates with the related ● Community Safety r teams on pending safety issues Management ● Others System ag · Identification of safety Man afet e et of s f y r ment ot y Saion threats isk o m · Safety education and s pr · Human Factors Analytraining sis and Classification · Safety communication System(HFACS) · Risk-reduction procedures · Safety Council KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 66/67 Safety Promotion Programs Korean Air operates the Safety Confidential Reporting System (SCRS) and other safety promotion programs in order to minimize the loss of human life and property that could be caused by safety threats and to create a better safety culture. INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL SAFETY ASSESSMENTS Korean Air implements different quality assurance programs cusSafety Management System >> G4-PR1 tomized to its individual business divisions, as part of the broader Korean Air takes a three-tiered approach to safety management: exquality assurance program that governs the entire organization, and post response, ex-ante prevention, and prediction. ‘Ex-post responsthe company as a whole, with each business division devising and es’ involves an investigation of events that have already occurred and implementing audit plan each year. an analysis of the causes; ‘ex-ante prevention’ focuses on minimizing the impact of risks by identifying safety threats through safety reports IOSA-Certified Airline and safety examinations; and ‘prediction’ is based on an analysis of Korean Air became Korea’s first airline to be registered as an IATA flight data and regular flight monitoring data to keep a close watch IOSA-certified airline in January 2005 by meeting safety standards on safety. This multi-layered safety management system is a critical consisting of over 900 items according to the IATA Operational Safety component of our safety management efforts. Audit (IOSA), an international safety audit program developed by the IATA. Korean Air have been re-audited every two years to remain on the IOSA registry. Risk Risk Risk Identification: assessment: assessment: assessment: safety threats seriousness probability actions to take Identification of Assessment of Evaluation of Decision on safety threats the seriousness the probability actions to take associated of damages of a safety threat according to the with aircraft, that may be inturning into a results of the equipment, curred by safety risk. risk assesshuman life, and threats. ment: i.e. to organization. take risks or to reduce risks. SERVICE FOR EXCELLENCE SAFE FLIGHT AND STRONGER SECURITY FLIGHT SAFETY AND SECURITY MEASURES As flight safety and security has emerged as a major concern in the wake of a series of accidents in recent years, we are taking the following preventive actions to better protect our passengers and aircraft. ● Collection of security information on all domestic and international destinations and issuance of flight security grades for individual airports on a monthly basis. ● Operation of a close cooperation network by sharing information with branches, relevant departments and national security agencies. ISAGO Program ● Analysis of global security trends and data gathered from Korean Air joined the IATA-developed ground safety program, Safety international security conferences that we attend, and implementation of the latest security measures. Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO), in April 2009 and is monitoring the manufacturers of aircraft and parts supplied to Korean Air ● Provision of regular security training and education for employees, and regular monitoring to ensure that security under the program. In addition, as a member of the ISAGO Pool Adsystems are properly working in each area. visory Group, Korean Air shares information and works closely with ● Publication of the emergency response manual; regular other organizations to standardize international safety practices, and checks to ensure that proper safety equipment is available for to promote the safety of ground handlers around the world and the immediate use when necessary. ● Emergency response training on how to avoid or deal quality of their operations. with aircraft hijacking and how to respond upon receiving The U.S. Department of Defense Safety Certification information about possible security threats Korean Air has remained certified by the U.S. Department of Defense as a safe airline to use since 2001 by meeting its safety standards under the Airlift Transportation Program. The program assesses the safety of private airlines to determine whether they are safe enough NEXT STEP for employees to fly on business trips. The program determines whether or not airlines can provide safe, high-quality, and reliable • Advanced Security Programs services by conducting a paper review every six months and an on-Operation of the SeMS (Security Management System) site inspection every two years. -Organic integration of existing security measures to manage security threats more effectively. SERVICE FOR EXCELLENCE BRANDING AS A PREMIER AIRLINE 68/69 Korean Air is consolidating its CONTEXT position as a globally renowned As the market is becoming increasingly competitive due to the ever premier airline by further growing number of low-cost airlines and foreign airlines offering low enhancing customer convenience prices, airline companies are trying to attract customers by offering with the introduction of nextnew and additional services that reflect their changing needs and desires, in addition to transportation services. generation aircraft and A380 Forwarder Stairs Celestial Bar differentiated high-class services. PROGRESS PREMIUM IN-FLIGHT MEALS INTRODUCTION OF NEXT-GENERATION AIRCRAFT Our high-quality in-flight meals are designed to meet the varying BOUNDARY Korean Air plans to introduce a number of next-generation airplanes needs of passengers and customized to reflect the different require● Korean Air such as the B747-8i and B787-9, and is successfully operating ten ments of diverse regions and routes. ● Shareholders A380s, also known as 'the five-star hotel in the sky,' as part of its ● Suppliers efforts to modernize its fleet and raise the quality of its transportaFood Safety Management ● Customers tion services. The newly introduced A330-300 boasts prestige suites Korean Air’s catering business was designated as an HACCP busi● Community for maximum customer comfort and privacy. Our A380 also features ness in 2000, attesting to the strict food safety and hygiene manage● Others two unique spaces, a bar-lounge and a duty-free shopping area, for ment that we enforce in our in-flight meal production process. Our greater entertainment during flight. The B737-900ER, which operFood Safety Research Center closely monitors food production and ates mainly on medium and short-distance routes, has adopted the distribution for hygiene and quality by conducting chemical analyses Boeing Sky Interior to design the walls and windows differently. In adof ingredients and hazardous materials tests, and tests for microordition, all seats are equipped with audio and video on demand (AVOD), ganisms (bacteria responsible for food poisoning and colon bacillus). creating a comfortable and entertaining cabin environment. The In-Flight Meal Safety Advisory Committee ensures that we only serve safe food of the highest quality. Special Menu Korean Air offers twenty-four different types of meal options for customers who follow a restricted diet for religious or health reasons, and for infants and children. The special meal options are available for vegetarians, people with diabetes, religious people (Muslims, Hindus, Jews, etc.), infants(less than 2 years), and children(less than 12 years). * Special meals should be ordered at the service center 24 hours prior to departure. Prestige Suites SERVICE FOR EXCELLENCE BRANDING AS A PREMIER AIRLINE menu' and 'rice with soy bean sauce' that we developed jointly with Hansik specialists as a wellbeing food and began to serve in January 2014 are expected to showcase the authentic taste and excellent quality of Hansik to passengers from all around the world. PROFESSIONAL EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES The Air Medical Center of Korean Air is dedicated to handling medical emergencies in a timely and effective manner. Premium Quality Korean Air plays a part in making traditional Korean food, also known In-Flight Emergency as 'Hansik,' known to more people by serving a healthy well-being All cabin crew are trained to respond to the types of emergencies menu based on traditional Korean cuisine. Our menu widely uses that can arise during flight, including first-aid treatment and CPR. At fresh seasonal ingredients of superior quality. The 'Hansig course each training session, doctors and nurses certified by the U.S. Heart Association as emergency instructors educate all cabin crew to be able to respond to medical emergencies promptly. Menu ∙ Bibimbap and bibim noodles (Mercury Award winners), samgaetang (boiled chicken with ginseng and sweet rice), Transportation and Support for Passengers with ox bone soup, hansik jeongchan, dongchimi noodles, dried pollack soup, makgeoli(rice wine), rice bread, rice with soy a Medical Condition sauce-marinated crabs, steamed rice with gondeure (a kind of thistle) rice, and other seasonal dishes. Korean Air operates the Emergency Medical Call System (EMCS)*, ∙ Assorted low-calorie, wellbeing salads a separate organization responsible for the safe carriage of passenIngredients ∙ Environmentally-friendly menu prepared with beef and gers with medical needs. Flight and cabin crew or airport workers chicken raised at farms around Mount Halla, Jeju Island, ask the EMCS Team for medical advice in the event of a medical which has been designated as a clean area. ∙ Chemical-free agricultural products including bell peppers emergency during flight or at the airport, and the team offers prompt and cherry tomatoes produced under strict quality control medical advice on in-flight emergency treatment and on eligibility for throughout the production process. travel in an airplane. Wines and ∙ 44 brands of wine and champagne from 11 countries * EMCS (Emergency Medical Call System) is a 24/7 emergency medical support champagnes including France, the U.S., Italy, Germany, Australia, and system operated on the ground to help carry passengers with medical needs. Chile. The EMCS team consists of four medical specialists including emergency ∙ Premium champagnes such as Belle Epoque of Perriermedicine specialists from the Air Medical Center and seven nurses. The EMCS Jouët, Belle Epoque Blanc de Blancs, Blason Rose, Grand remains closely linked to major domestic university hospitals and receives Brut, etc. medical advice on different fields of medicine from the university hospitals Dishware ∙ Our dishware is carefully designed to symbolize and when necessary. visualize the traditions of Korea. ∙ Wine is served in Riedel wine glasses. * Some of the services above are available to first-class and prestige passengers only. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 70/71 SERVICES FOR PASSENGERS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS NEXT STEP The Family Care Service is intended for passengers who need special • Services for people with restricted mobility care such as children, seniors, and the physically challenged. Minors who are not accompanied by an adult can still safely travel with KoA designated counter exclusively for pregnant women, disabled persons, wheelchair users, and persons with other types of rean Air if they use the escort service. In addition, we provide special handicaps services for visually and hearing-impaired passengers. Priority in pre-boarding Flying Mom Service Priority in the luggage claim area The Flying Mom Service, available as part of the services for unacWith Flight Information Display System(FIDS), designated counter is easily identifiable and accessible companied minors, was launched in 2002 to meet the needs of worried parents whose children need to travel by themselves. A desig• More hansik (traditional Korean food) on the menu nated flight attendant takes care of the unaccompanied minor and Continues to play a role in promoting traditional closely checks his or her food intake, sleep, rest, moods, and health Korean cuisine overseas during flight. All of these details are recorded in a letter that is trans• Presentation of our flagship hansik menu at international expos mitted to the minor’s parent or guardian at the end destination. Many Attends the 2015 Korea-China Culture and Tourism Exchange customers express their heart-felt appreciation for this service. Expo in Xian, China Amenity Kit The amenity kit is available for pregnant women flying on international routes to help them relax and alleviate their travel fatigue. The kit includes an organic blueberry foot cream, an organic skin care cream, a pair of organic Amenity Kit for Pregnant Women cotton socks, and tea that helps relieve morning sickness. The kit also contains a special luggage handle designed to allow women in the early stages of pregnancy to be easily recognized and provided with the assistance or consideration they may need from others. This little act of consideration is an expression of our efforts to join the social movement to encourage childbirth. SERVICE FOR EXCELLENCE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Creating customer surprise CONTEXT Service Forum and customer value are our As the supply of air transportation services increases and the marCustomer most important goals. As such, ket inevitably becomes more competitive, customer satisfaction has we are constantly seeking to a significant impact on customer loyalty and the purchase decisions Reply Service Forum (Intranet VOC bulletin board) enhance our customer services of both existing and prospective customers. It also helps to create (Automatically sorts out a positive corporate image and build brands as well as increasing by embracing changes and customer complaints and Understanding of front-end profits. generates responses) innovations. customer services and sharing of information Feedback & improvements IMPACT ISSUE PROGRESS Feedback to services ● Product and Service Labeling CUSTOMER-CENTERED MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY Improvement of Analysis of (Customer Satisfaction) policy and systems customer needs Customer satisfaction and safety is our No. 1 priority. To that end, we are taking a number of actions aimed at building customer loyalty by BOUNDARY maximizing customer satisfaction. Company ● Korean Air ● Shareholders SERVICE EXCELLENCE PROGRAM ● Suppliers The Service Excellence Award is presented to employees in recogVOC MANAGEMENT FOR CUSTOMER SATISFACTION >> G4-PR5 ● Customers nition of their contribution to enhancing customer satisfaction. The One of our key policy goals is to listen to the voices of our custom● Community recognition is intended to serve as a catalyst for providing better cusers and reflect their voices in the way we deliver our services. The ● Others tomer services by inducing healthy competition among employees. Voice of the Customer (VOC) is an important tool for monitoring and In 2014, a total of 25 employees were recognized and rewarded for analyzing the moments of truth(MOT) and the services we provide to service excellence. our customers. SERVICE FORUM Statistics of VOC (unit: cases) All data on communication with customers is gathered and clas2012 2013 2014 % change sified in order to be managed under an integrated system. On the Praises 4,812 6,637 7,359 +11% forum, chief customer complaints and suggestions are shared with Complaints 4,789 4,124 4,158 +1% all employees, and recurring complaints are listed as improvement Suggestions -10% 1,051 629 568 tasks for which fundamental solutions must be devised. The forum Inquiries 50,215 48,787 44,041 -10% contributes to significantly improving customer services. Others 4,520 1,941 1,935 0% Total(change from 65,439 62,118 58,061 -5% previous year) * Others: Inquiries and opinions unrelated to customer services. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 72/73 Information Security Management System (ISMS) MINI CASE | Customer Satisfaction Management Award Korean Air, as the vice chair company of the Korea Online Privacy AssoKorean Air was ranked number one in the 2014 National Customer Satisciation, a leading private organization dedicated to personal informafaction Index survey conducted by the Korean Productivity Center (KPC) in tion protection, is actively involved in the dissemination of professional recognition of its superior performance in customer satisfaction manageknowledge on promoting personal data protection. Korean Air was ment based on its customer-centered services. In addition, Korean Air has certified for the Information Security Management System(ISMS) by ranked No. 1 in air transportation for ten consecutive years in the Global the Korea Internet & Security Agency(KISA) in 2005, which assures that Customer Satisfaction Competency Index compiled by the Japan ManageKorean Air has top-rated information security management. Since its ment Consultants Association (JMAC) up to 2014, consolidating its leaderinitial certification, the ISMS has remained fully certified to the present. ship in customer-centered management. Information Security Education All domestic and overseas employees handling customers’ personal PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION >> G4-PR8 information are required to receive education on information security Customers’ personal information can be exposed in the process of proand personal data protection twice a year, and some of the programs viding such services as transportation, reservation, and in-flight servicare available to all officers and employees all year round. The educaes that require contact with customers. In line with the growing social tion covers the entire process of information security from the collecdemand and policy requirements for information security and personal tion of customer data to its destruction, and employees also learn the data protection, our information security capability has been further security precautions to take when using a personal computer during expanded with the focus on preventing cyber terror and personal data the education session; thus raising their security awareness. leakage. Specifically, mock hacking tests are regularly conducted, and Statistics on Information Security Education (unit: persons) all personal data collected from SkyPass members, website users, and customers who use the call center and our branches at the airports 2012 2013 2014 and in downtown are managed and protected according to the Personal Corporate Domestic 7,455 9,492 7,402 information security Data Protection Act and the Act on the Promotion of Information and Overseas 1,043 157 656 Communications Network Utilization and Information Protection, etc., Personal data Domestic 7,556 7,379 7,284 protection Overseas 1,081 810 599 and other relevant laws. Furthermore, technical, administrative, and physical safeguards are firmly in place in order to ensure security. Leak of Customers’ Personal Data (unit: cases) Integrated Information Security Management 2012 2013 2014 Korean Air set up a unit responsible for the security of corporate No. of cases of personal data leak 0 0 0 and customer data to monitor compliance with the regulations on personal data protection and the performance of the employees in charge. Once problems are identified, corrective actions are taken NEXT STEP immediately. The unit was previously under the General Administration Department, but was reorganized in October 2014 into an inde• Strengthen personal data protection pendent department that reports directly to the president in charge, • Expand the scope of information security management and resulting in the empowerment of the unit. security management capacity 05 HARMONY FOR EXCELLENCE Shared Values for Society It is essential for Korean Air to develop competencies in different areas by building close partnerships with suppliers in order to take its industrial competitiveness to the next level and to maintain its market leadership in the long run. Sharing what we have and do well with local communities can create new values and translate into unexpected positive outcomes. Sharing is a way of creating new values and happiness for all in the kind of future that Korean Air is working to build with stakeholders. MATERIAL ISSUES ● PROGRESS IN 2014 ● Growing demand for fair competition and shared growth Provided technical, educational, and financial support to suppliers located within Busan Tech Center, playing a part in enhancing Korea’s competitiveness in the aviation industry Made social contributions that best utilize our own resources and knowhow: transported relief goods to the earthquake-stricken INTERVIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS region in Nepal and provided free air transportation for emergency patients “Korea Air is expected to create shared value as a corporate citizen in all of its management strategies and to ensure authenticity Taking the lead in vitalizing the economy of local communities by and sincerity in all the activities it carries out to that end.” constructing aviation infrastructure such as the Flight Training Center and the Aircraft Engine Repair Center in Yeongjong Sky City Before, business performance was virtually the only criterion used to rate corporations; now, however, corporations are expected to care about society as well as the broader world and to seek shared ● OUR ACHIEVEMENTS growth, including taking care of the bottom line. Companies will find it hard to maintain a good reputation even if their business performance is good if they fail to form good relations with stakeholders including CEO, employees, and suppliers. In this context, reputation risk is emerging as a major Charity for social contribution purposes concern for corporations nowadays. Korea Air is expected to create shared value (CSV) as a corporate citizen in all of its management strategies and to ensure authenticity and sincerity in all the activities 260 (million won) it carries out to that end. Korean Air should faithfully fulfill its corporate social responsibilities by change from previous year: 57 (million won)↑ working closely with local communities and other organizations over the long haul in order to become a trusted company in Korea and in the global community. Monthly meetings with suppliers Sung Yeon Kim Regional Director / Aircraft Service Div. / KTS global Volunteer hours per person INTERVIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS 1.9 hours “Korean Air needs to be supportive of its suppliers so that they develop a sense of community and pride as part of the air transportation industry.” ● FUTURE PLAN Since customer service is the backbone of air transportation, Korean Air should constantly remind itself that people are at the heart of its business and pay close attention to its employees who come in direct To choose suppliers and provide them with information and knowhow necessary for them to acquire AEO certification and regular contact with its customers. Korean Air works with a relatively large number of employees from the suppliers in aircraft maintenance, general services, and other areas directly related to its core To continue with the existing social contribution activities including businesses. In this respect, I think it is important for Korean Air to provide more support to its suppliers monthly donation of a small fraction of employees’ pay and and do things to instill a sense of community among them so that they can perform their job with the afforestation program in Mongolia, which have been going on for pride that comes from being part of Korean Air. Building on the founding philosophy of people-centered more than 10 years, and to build organic cooperation networks with local communities management, Korean Air should create a corporate culture wherein all stakeholders are respected; this in turn will drive sustainable growth in the long run. To support the successful hosting of the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games and expand social contribution activities on a YongShik Lee Head / Partnership Development Division / Habitat for Humanity Korea global scale HARMONY FOR EXCELLENCE SHARED GROWTH WITH SUPPLIERS Our shared growth programs CONTEXT are based on mutual trust and Choosing competitive suppliers and maintaining good relations with implemented on a voluntary basis. them are important to ensure the safety and quality of services -two We make the best use of our essential elements in the air transportation business, which routinely knowhow and expertise in aviation involves direct contact with customers. Fair trade with and support for suppliers are also instrumental in building internal and external and logistics to help related confidence. In the rapidly changing environment, Korean Air as the naindustries and suppliers become tional flag carrier has an important role to play in creating an advanced more competitive. culture wherein it grows with suppliers as well as the entire industry and in providing the impetus for the industry’s development. IMPACT ISSUE ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE FOR SUPPLIERS ● Anti-Competition Behavior PROGRESS Korean Air is working with more than 560 suppliers as of 2014 and is (air cargo cartels) SELECTION OF SUPPLIERS AND RELATIONS MANAGEMENT striving to realize shared growth with them. To this end, Korean Air makes all payments to its suppliers in cash; it has also been steadily BOUNDARY In principle, suppliers are selected by competitive bidding. The longcutting the payment schedule short. In addition, Korean Air is opterm partnership prospect from the total cost of ownership (TCO) per● Korean Air erating a sale & leaseback program wherein expensive equipment spective is one of the key criteria in choosing suppliers to work with, ● Shareholders purchased by Korean Air is leased back to the manufacturer supplier and the final selection is made based on a comprehensive evaluation ● Suppliers in order to help ease the supplier’s financial pressure and other difthat takes into account the ethics policy, financial conditions, employficulties. On the other hand, Korean Air’s cooperation benefit sharing ● Customers ee programs, safety and health policy, human rights and compliance program seeks to share the gains from saving cost by developing ● Community with labor laws and regulations, and certifications. Suppliers are also technologies jointly with suppliers on a quarterly basis. ● Others evaluated after they are selected to identify areas for improvements and to help them become even more competitive. Supplier Evaluation Process Key Information Selection of Candidates Scoring Reporting Management for Evaluation Evaluation category Selection of candidate management suppliers Qualitative evaluation Analysis of evaluation results Evaluation indicators Selection of evaluators Quantitative evaluation Post-evaluation process KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 76/77 SUPPORT FOR THE CERTIFICATION OF SMALL SUPPLIERS SUPPORT FOR EDUCATION AND EMPLOYEE WELFARE As a growing number of companies ask for the imposition of AEO Korean Air supports suppliers in their efforts to enhance their technostandards when entering into a trade agreement, there is an increaslogical competitiveness so that they can be self-reliant. It also helps ing need for AEO certification, yet small-sized suppliers often lack suppliers have their employees vaccinated as part of its efforts to help capital and infrastructure to acquire certification. Thus, Korean Air them improve employee welfare. In addition, Korean Air closely listens offers education on customs-related laws and operational guideto suppliers regarding the difficulties and challenges facing them by lines. Korean Air plans to select two or three suppliers each year and holding regular meetings with the CEOs of suppliers and makes provide them with information and knowhow necessary to acquire sincere efforts to promote shared growth with suppliers. AEO certification. Major Shared Growth Programs * AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) is defined as a party involved in the cross-border movement of goods and which has been certified by a national customs administration to be compliant with laws and safety regulations. Cash payments for purchases: paying suppliers in cash instead of issuing notes to help suppliers improve liquidity AEO(Authorized Economic Operator) Sale & Leaseback: Korean Air purchases expensive equipment and leases it back to the manufacturer Importer Cooperation Benefit Sharing Program: sharing the benefits from joint technological developments and cost reduction Small-sized Customs exporter broker Technological and educational support Meetings with CEOs of suppliers and technology council meetings Exporter Airline NEXT STEP • Support for AEO certification Bonded warehouse Shipping Each year, the selected 2 or 3 suppliers will receive information and operator company operational knowhow from Korean Air for their AEO certification • Expansion of the Voluntary Shared Growth Program Bonded Identify areas where small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) transportation Freight and related industries can organically cooperate company forwarder Unloading Create well-organized shared growth programs and implement them company on a long-term basis HARMONY FOR EXCELLENCE GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY Korean Air gives back to society CONTEXT MINI CASE as part of its corporate social Social contribution is expanding its scope beyond fund-raising and responsibilities through volunteer sponsorship to include responses to various social issues and activiTransport of Relief Goods to Earthquake-stricken Nepal activities to share with the local ties to create common values. Korean Air as the national flag carAs the only Korean carrier that operates direct flights to Kathmandu, communities and the global rier makes efforts to minimize its impacts on society, economy, and Nepal, Korean Air maximized the environment as it does business and to grow together with other community. resources it has as an air carrier members of society. and played an active role in helping earthquake victims in Nepal. Korean BOUNDARY Air carried clothes, bottled water, PROGRESS blankets, and food donated by its employees and around 100 tons of ● Korean Air medicine, tents, and other relief goods to the earthquake-stricken area. PHILOSOPHY OF SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ● Shareholders ● Suppliers According to the belief of its founding chairman Joong-hoon Cho, i.e., Transport of Emergency Patients ● Customers “the profit of a company must be given back to society as the one that Korean Air carried a Korean student ● Community makes it possible,” Korean Air is engaging in a wide range of social who figured in a traffic accident while contribution activities beyond volunteering to help the disadvantaged ● Others traveling in Prague, Czech Republic class in areas such as environment, culture, education, sports, and in March 2004, shouldering the full medical care. expense associated with the transportation. Six seats were transBUSINESS-SPECIFIC SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION formed into a bed for the patient, who was unconscious at the time. Korean Air paid the full airfare for the two local doctors who were flying Korean Air as a global air carrier takes full advantage of its global with the patient to make sure that the patient was able to safely return network and actively engages in social contribution activities that are to Korea. The patient regained consciousness, receiving rehabilitation linked to its core businesses, such as carrying relief goods and emertreatment at present. gency patients in case of natural disasters. Chartered Plane for Pope Francis Korean Air provided a chartered plane for the pope and his entourage on their way back to Vatican City after the pope’s visit to Korea in 2014. Veteran flight crew and cabin crew with excellent language skills served the pope and the entourage on board to ensure their safe journey back to Vatican City. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 78/79 SHARING WITH THE COMMUNITY >> G4-SO1 / G4-SO2 / G4-EC7 / G4-EC8 MINI CASE  Under the slogan 'Wings of Love, Wings of Hope,' Korean Air Flight Training Center and Aircraft Engine Maintenance Center does a variety of volunteering activities to share with local comon Yeongjong Island munities, such as one-company, one-village sisterhood and Korean Air and Boeing Company of the US are jointly building a flight training rice donation. In addition, Korean Air is working diligently to center as the cradle for pilots and the largest aircraft engine maintenance develop social contribution projects that are unique and specenter in Yeongjong Sky City, Incheon. The strategic investments in industrial cific to Korean Air so that they can serve as lasting sources facilities are expected to enhance Korean Air’s business competitiveness, create new jobs, and stimulate the local economy at the same time since the of new values. By working together with local communities to projects will bring in the machinery and mechanics necessary for the repair build infrastructure in areas where Korean Air can operate at its and maintenance of large engines. best, Korean Air is seeing its activities realize synergy effects of boosting the economy of the local communities and expanding business competencies. Volunteer Activities (unit: persons) 2012 5,705 Yeongjong Training and Flight Center Aircraft Engine Maintenance Center 2013 4,129 2014 4,102 Navoi International Multimodal Logistics Center Navoi International Logistics Center is a Social Contribution Fund* (unit: million won) cargo terminal constructed jointly by Korean Air and the Uzbek government within Navoi 2012 198 International Airport. Since the construction 2013 203 of the cargo terminal, annual cargo transport has increased from 26 tons to 32,675 tons. 2014 260 With 12 cargo flights per week connecting Asia and Europe, Navoi is emerging as a logistics hub of Central Asia. * The Social Contribution Fund was set up to cover the expenses of social contribution activities by the volunteer group of Korean Air (the total social contribution expenses including the Social Contribution Fund and The Wilshire Grand Hotel in LA donations were approximately 9,700 million won in 2014.) The Hanjin Group invested more than 1.0 billion dollars to build the Wilshire Grand Hotel in Los Angeles, which is currently under construction. The project will provide fresh momentum for the sluggish local economy since it is expected create around 1,700 jobs and add more than 160 billion dollars to the city’s tax revenues each year. HARMONY FOR EXCELLENCE GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY GREEN MANAGEMENT SPONSORING CULTURAL AND SPORTING EVENTS Transportation is the major driving force behind globalization, yet it As an expression of its appreciation to Korean customers for flying imposes growing pressure on nature and environment. Korean Air Korean Air and raising awareness of Korea overseas, Korean Air is declared creating the value of a pleasant, prosperous life by striking sponsoring cultural events at famous locations and international a balance between aviation and environment as its corporate envisporting events, thereby building a positive image of Korea and the ronmental philosophy, based on which it actively engages in social company itself in the global community and contributing to the decontribution activities. velopment of Korean sports. MINI CASE MINI CASE Planting Trees in the Desert Sponsorship of Korean language service at Musée d'Orsay As part of the anti-desertification Korean Air now sponsors the Kodrive it started in 2004 in Asia, Korean language service at Le Musée rean Air is planting trees to build an d'Orsay in addition to the worlds’ erosion-control forest in Baga Nuur, three major museums: Le Musée du Mongolia; it also created the 'Korean Louvre of France, British Museum Air Green Ecological Park' in Kubuqi of the UK, and Hermitage Museum Desert in China. These afforestation of Russia. With these sponsorships, efforts are expected to decrease yellow dust blowing in from China and Korean Air is enhancing the global profile of the Korean language and to play a role in improving bilateral relations between China and Korea. instilling a sense of pride among Korean people. In addition to the Korean language audio guide, Korean language map and guidebook are also available to tourists for their convenience. Environmental Achievements Official Sponsor of the 2014 Incheon Asian Games ‘Korean Air Forest’ in Baga Nuur, Mongolia Korean Air was an official sponsor of Area: 44 ha / 83,000 trees the 2014 Incheon Asian Games. Our sponsorship of the Asian Games, held in the port city of Incheon, helped Korean Air Ecological Park in Kubuqi Desert, China a lot in advancing sports in Asia and Area: 401 ha / 1,200,000 trees promoting local tourism and economy. In particular, Korean Air invested 133,300 million won in the construction of Wangsan Marina, which was Distributed seedlings on Arbor Day used as the venue for yacht racing for the Games; thus enabling the loJack bean-growing kit, mimosa, cal community to be known as the city of culture, tourism, and leisure. sweet basil, etc. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 80/81 Major Social Contribution Activities ACTIVITY '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 ● Monthly donation of a small fraction of employees’ pay ● Pink Ribbon Campaign for Breast Cancer Prevention ● Afforestation in Mongolia ● Rice donation ● Sisterhood relations with rural villages ● Love for Sky Bazaar ● Support for Korean language service at museums in other countries ● Medical care by the Korean Air Medical Center ● Sponsoring underprivileged children in traveling to Jeju Island ● Sisterhood relations with a military unit ● UN next-generation leadership development program EDUCATION PROJECTS AND SCHOLARSHIPS NEXT STEP Based on the education philosophy of the founding chairman, i.e., • Cultural Sponsorships “growing people is the most meaningful business of all in one’s life,” Korean Air has been granting around 15,000 million won in scholSponsored the exhibition for the winners of the Korean Air Travel Photo arships each year for the last ten years to Jung-seok Inha School, Contest, the largest amateur photo contest in Korea, at Ilwoo Space and other exhibitions, aside from sponsoring art education programs which it established; it is actively participating in global industryacademe collaboration projects using the resources and expertise • Expanded social contribution activities in the domestic and global that it possesses as a logistics company. arenas • Actively developing social contribution programs that can take advantage of the company’s resources as a transportation and logistics services provider • Encouraging employees to participate in social contribution activities on a voluntary basis APPENDIX PAGE. 83 PAGE. 95 Key Sustainability Indicators UN Global Compact PAGE. 96 PAGE. 88 Third-Party Assurance Statement Major Awards and Memberships PAGE. 90 GRI G4 Index APPENDIX KEY SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS 82/83 Economic Performance Unit 2012 2013 2014 Economic performance and share Sales 100 million won 122,617 117,124 116,804 Benefits distributed to stakeholders 100 million won 91,467 85,034 81,632 Summary of Financial Statements Current assets million won 2,973,522 2,925,307 2,392,892 Quick assets, etc. million won 2,491,880 2,473,265 1,976,223 Inventory assets million won 481,642 452,042 416,669 Non-current assets million won 17,704,514 18,038,947 19,027,555 Investment assets million won 1,762,767 1,494,004 2,168,639 Fixed assets million won 14,404,534 15,049,843 15,120,652 Intangible assets million won 299,444 342,223 320,606 Other non-current assets million won 1,237,769 1,152,877 1,417,658 Total assets million won 20,678,036 20,964,254 21,420,447 Current liabilities million won 6,072,875 6,688,806 6,350,692 Non-current liabilities million won 12,231,492 12,004,885 13,090,042 Total liabilities million won 18,304,367 18,693,691 19,440,735 Capital stock million won 366,754 298,931 298,931 Other paid-in capital million won 125,678 11,248 11,248 Other capital components million won 33,636 368,227 206,894 Retained earnings million won 1,847,601 1,592,157 1,462,639 Total capital million won 2,373,669 2,270,563 1,979,712 Operating profit million won 277,581 △18,001 372,508 Net profit million won 259,597 △290,460 △205,477 Basic EPS (won) million won 3,844 △4,540 △3,502 Diluted EPS (won) million won 3,844 △4,540 △3,502 *△ indicates negative figures APPENDIX MAJOR SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS Social Performance Unit 2012 2013 2014 Employees Total employees person 20,634 20,433 20,428 Gender Male person 11,732 11,724 11,719 Female person 8,902 8,709 8,709 Age Below 30 person 5,588 5,076 4,865 30~39 person 6,590 6,586 6,475 40~49 person 5,904 6,089 6,243 50 and above person 2,552 2,682 2,845 Region Domestic person 18,127 18,322 18,232 Overseas person 2,507 2,111 2,196 Permanent Male person 10,938 10,917 10,961 Female person 6,752 7,546 7,367 Non-permanent Male person 794 807 758 Female person 2,150 1,163 1,342 Administrative positions Male person 2,911 2,841 2,750 Female person 800 914 975 General positions Male person 8,027 8,076 8,211 Female person 5,952 6,632 6,392 Domestic employees Male person 10,782 10,549 10,784 Female person 7,613 7,513 7,448 Overseas employees Male person 950 1,175 935 Female person 1,289 1,196 1,261 New Employment and Turnover New employment Male person 684 470 573 Female person 769 714 848 Below 30 person 1,142 933 1,146 30~39 person 275 199 241 40~49 person 25 43 24 50 and above person 11 9 10 Domestic person 1,062 861 975 Overseas person 391 323 446 KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 84/85 Unit 2012 2013 2014 Employee turnover Male person 409 402 551 Female person 807 788 555 Below 30 person 543 473 411 30~39 person 359 395 325 40~49 person 149 148 99 50 and above person 165 174 271 Domestic person 755 730 743 Overseas person 461 460 363 Recruitment from local communities Local employment No. of overseas employees person 2,507 2,378 2,459 Ratio of locals % 89.3 88.8 89.3 Ratio of locals in manager positions % 13.3 14.1 13.9 Maternity Protection Use of the maternity Maternity leave before and after child birth person 691 709 702 protection system Rate of return to work after the maternity leave % 100 100 100 Pregnancy leave person 452 476 403 Childcare leave person 612 562 670 Rate of retention for one year after returning to work % 76.0 76.0 78.6 from childcare leave Ratio of male employees % 1.6 1.1 2.1 Collective Bargaining Labor union Eligible employees (managers, assistant managers, staff) person 12,734 13,839 16,472 Rate of unionized employees % 75 78 75 Employee Education No. of employees who took Male person 11,867 11,724 11,719 education programs Female person 8,897 8,709 8,709 Male person 100 101 102 No. of hours per person Female person 125 131 130 No. of contents content 799 862 866 Online learning contents Change from previous year content 151↑ 63↑ 4↑ APPENDIX 주요 지속가능성 지표 Unit 2012 2013 2014 Social Contribution Social contribution Volunteering hours per person hour 2.8 2.1 1.9 Social contribution expenses million won 14,841 10,404 9,679 Information Security Corporate information Domestic person 7,455 9,492 7,402 security education Overseas person 1,043 157 656 Personal data protection Domestic person 7,556 7,379 7,284 education Overseas person 1,081 810 599 Customers’ personal data Personal data leak case 0 0 0 Environmental Performance Unit 2012 2013 2014 Environmental Education Environmental education Basic education person 4,187 3,389 3,398 Professional education person 1,337 862 890 On-the-job training person/hour 1,790 3,027 2,954 Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Greenhouse gas reduction Economical flight tCO2e 144,658 136,125 141,168 Performance enhancement tCO2e 98,249 95,097 97,793 Flight planning tCO2e 156,769 156,822 168,039 Weight management tCO2e 19,741 32,443 24,873 Fuels and Energy Fuel consumption for air Jet oil tons 4,019,028 3,923,102 4,006,984 transportation Direct energy B-C oil GJ 263,349 243,815 174,124 consumption for ground B-B oil GJ 16,333 operations Gas/Diesel oil (light oil) GJ 296,657 252,705 245,097 Boiler kerosene GJ 466 304 0 Byproduct fuel No. 1 GJ 21,722 15,818 9,675 Byproduct fuel No. 2 GJ 82,427 Gasoline GJ 11,283 10,861 10,509 KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 86/87 Unit 2012 2013 2014 Jet oil GJ 33,314 38,021 33,157 LNG GJ 272,442 257,974 241,459 LPG GJ 7,485 3,901 3,786 Energy intensity Air transportation GJ/RTK 12.64 12.51 12.26 Ground operations GJ/sales amount: 1.0 billion won 183.02 179.02 179.22 Greenhouse Gases GHG emissions from air Scope1 tCO2e 12,780,177 12,483,403 12,750,860 transportation GHG emissions from Scope1 tCO2e 61,474 55,536 54,201 ground operations Scope2 tCO2e 64,854 62,769 62,738 GHG emission intensity Air transportation kg_CO2e/100RTK 88.20 87.35 85.56 Ground operations ton_CO2e/sales amount: 1.0 billion won 10.30 10.10 10.01 Water Resources Water use Total water intake tons 1,514,530 1,250,341 1,300,020 Recycled amount tons 27,519 27,000 35,984 Recycling rate % 1.82 2.16 2.77 Water discharge BOD tons 25.572 39.677 42.293 COD tons 19.182 39.518 25.643 SS tons 38.904 43.436 34.691 T-N tons 4.722 5.282 4.050 T-P tons 0.745 1.000 1.041 Air Air emissions Dust tons 23 23 27 THC tons 16.19 20 29 NOx tons 67,379 65,755 67,190 SOx tons 9 7 11.2 Waste Waste generation Municipal tons 22,506 23,244 23,825 Discharge tons 934 1,043 1,032 Designated tons 596 663 602 Waste disposal Incineration tons 13,333 13,983 14,357 Landfill tons 869 641 621 Recycling tons 9,834 10,326 10,481 APPENDIX THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT Dear Korean Air Group Management and Stakeholders •R  eview of the consistency between the financial performance data and the company's 2014 audit report/publicly announced data Introduction • Examination of internal documents and basic materials The Korean Standards Association (‘KSA’) was commissioned by Korean Air to Assurance Results and Opinions perform a third-party Assurance Engagement of ‘2014 Korean Air Sustainability [On an assurance principle/process level] Report’ (the ‘Report’). KSA presents independent opinions as follows as a result of KSA reviewed the draft version of this Report to present our opinions as an assurfeasibility of the data contained in this Report. Korean Air has sole responsibility for ance provider. Modifications were made of the Report content if deemed necescontent and performance contained in this Report. sary. We were not aware of any significant errors or inappropriate descriptions in Independence this Report as a result of our Assurance Engagement. As such, we present our opinions of the 2015 Korean Air Sustainability Report as follows. As an independent assurance agency, KSA does not have any kinds of commercial interest in businesses of Korean Air apart from undertaking a third-party assurInclusivity ance on the Report. We have no other contract with Korean Air that may undermine H  as Korean Air engaged its stakeholders in strategically responding to credibility and integrity as an independent assurance agency. sustainability? Assurance Standards and Level We believe that Korean Air is making an all-out effort for major stakeholders’ participation in promoting sustainability management, and we assured procureThis Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008) assurance standards ment and operation of diverse stakeholder communication channel of Korean Air. to provide Moderate Level assurance. We checked the three principles of inclusivity, We were not aware of any omission of significant stakeholder group. Notably, the materiality, and responsiveness in combination with information credibility of the reporting communication channels for stakeholders according to value chains Report. We also verified whether the Report content was created in accordance showed advancement compared to the previous year. Still, we advise preparing with the GRI G4 Guidelines and ISO 26000. a process wherein internal and external stakeholders will be able to participate Assurance Type and Scope proactively and reflecting their demands specifically in order to deal with sustainability issues regularly every year. We performed a Type 2 Assurance Engagement in accordance with AA1000AS. This implies that we verified the accuracy and quality of the statements made by Materiality Korean Air and the sustainability performance data included in this Report. This H  as Korean Air included material information in the Report to help Assurance Engagement covered data from the calendar year 2014. Information stakeholders make informed decisions? from the first half of 2015 was also included depending on content. The scope We are not aware of any significant omissions or exclusions of data that is material of this Assurance Engagement primarily includes the systems and initiatives unto stakeholders. We verified that Korean Air conducted materiality test with issues dertaken by Korean Air including its sustainability management policies, goals, identified from analyses of internal and external environments and reported acprojects, standards and performance during the reporting period defined in the cording to the result. Nonetheless, we advise making a more specific report on Report. While the company’s environmental and social data as well as financial the opinions of stakeholders in the process of deciding materiality and carrying data was verified, the scope of review concerning stakeholder engagement was out such process continuously by integrating at the enterprise level so that it is limited to the materiality test process. not short-lived. Assurance Methodology Responsiveness We used the following methods to gather information, documents and evidence H  as Korean Air appropriately responded to stakeholder requirements and with respect to the assurance scope. interest in this Report? • Analyses of articles related to Korean Air’s sustainability management published by We verified that Korean Air responded stakeholders’ needs and interests through domestic media outlets over the last three years reflecting stakeholders’ opinions in the Report. We are not aware of any evidence • Visit Korean Air headquarter/Interview with employees in charge of sustainability that Korean Air’s response to significant issues of stakeholders was reported inmanagement and managers of respective issues appropriately. Still, we recommend establishing sustainability strategies in the • Verification of management system and process to improve achievement in sustainfuture in order to respond actively to the demands of stakeholders and to select ability management and to prepare the Report strategic tasks and major indicators to enforce such strategies. KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 88/89 Verification of Material GRI G4 Indicators ing its strength on developing new businesses as shown by its success in developWe confirmed that this Report was prepared in accordance with GRI G4 Compreing Korea’s first UAV for division-level reconnaissance. We advise continuing to hensive Option. Based on data Korean Air provided, we also confirmed a validity maintain stable, effective business management so that such efforts by Korean of the contents related to General Standard Disclosure and Specific Standard Air will become fruitful. Disclosure indicators. Environmental General Standard Disclosures From the operation of sustainable, eco-friendly management system, the environWe verified that this Report is in compliance with requirements for General Standmental sector seems to be receiving attention from the executive management ard Disclosures of Comprehensive Option. We examined indicators below. board as well as weighty operation by the departments in charge. Such systematic management is helpful in improving data reliability as well as the management G4-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, status. In order to be on a par with international rivals in the future as a global 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, aviation company, we advise establishing a system for managing and reporting 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 environmental performance indicators that set mid-term and long-term quantitaSpecific Standard Disclosures tive goals on core issues and reveal the results in reports. Mid-term and long-term We checked DMAs with respect to Material Aspects identified from a decision goal management is not only advantageous in terms of continuous improvement; making process on which content to be disclosed. We examined indicators below. it will also provide significant help in improving communication with stakeholders G4-EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4, EC5, EC6, EC7, EC8, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN15, through sustainability reports. EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA6, LA7, LA8, Social LA9, LA10, LA11, LA12, LA16, HR3, SO1, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5, SO7, PR1, PR2, Due to the strengthened safety and health issues following the Sinking of MV Sewol PR3, PR4, PR5, PR8 and MERS incident, the physical safety of airplanes and concerns related to safety Opinions and Recommendations by Sector and health for customers have become more important. In this aspect, the efforts of Korean Air in improving its safety standards, as shown in the safety improvement [On a performance/issue level] program as well as other programs, seem to be positive along with its investment We present the following recommendations to help Korean Air establish a comin the local community, accompanying growth and meaningful international CSR pany-wide sustainability management strategy and respond to continuous issues activities. Nonetheless, we suggest measuring the satisfaction rates of internal of sustainability. employees in an objective manner and making consistent improvement based on Economic trust between labor and management. The domestic aviation market is experiencing lower market entry barrier and inAugust 2015 creasing market competition due to competitive factors such as active operations by low-cost airline companies and entry of foreign airline companies. Moreover, Baek, Soo-Hyun the overall aviation market situation is influenced by various social factors. KSA Chairman & CEO Given such situation of the aviation market, Korean Air is making efforts to improve profitability in the field of passenger transportation business by introducing new equipment, developing new routes, and improving its service; it is also focusKorean Standards Association (KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance with the Law for Industrial Standardization in 1962, is serving as a knowledge service provider who distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, KS certification and ISO certification. KSA is committed to the sustainable development of Korean society as an ISO 26000 national secretary, certified GRI training partner, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI(Korea Sustainability Index) operator, UN CDM DOE(development operational entity), and assurance provider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas energy target management system. APPENDIX GRI G4 INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Disclosure Page(s) Third-Party Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) regarding the relevance of 2 sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of organization 4 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 4 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 4 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates and names of countries where the organization has major operations or which are 4 specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 4 G4-9 Scale of the organization 4 Total number of employees Total number of operations Net sales (private company) or net profit (public company) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (private company) Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender 4 b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Total workforce consisting of employees and supervised workers by gender d. Total workforce by region and gender e. C  larification of the substantial portion of the organization’s work being performed by workers legally recognized as self-employed or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. Any significant variation in employment numbers G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 51 G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 8 G4-13 Any significant change during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain 1 G4-14 Clarification of precautionary approach or principle being addressed by the organization 40 G4-15 List of externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 95 subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 List of memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations 96 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 a. List of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 1 b. Clarification of inclusion of any entity in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents not covered in the report G4-18 a. Process of defining the report content and aspect boundaries 18 b. Explanation on how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List of all material aspects identified in the process of defining the report content 19 KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 90/91 General Standard Disclosure Page(s) Third-Party Assurance G4-20 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundaries within the organization are as follows: 19 * Clarification of the relevancy of the Aspect material within the organization * If Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report one of them: G4-17 List of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which Aspect is not material G4-17 List of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which Aspects are material * Any specific limitation regarding Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary outside the organization is as follows: 19 * Clarification of relevancy of the Aspect material outside of the organization * If Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify entities, groups of entities, or elements for which Aspect is material and describe the geographical location where Aspect is material for the entities identified * Any specific limitation regarding Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Effect of any reiteration of information provided in previous reports and reasons for such reiteration G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 8 G4-25 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders to engage 8 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 8 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement as well as the organization’s response; report stakeholder 8 groups raising each key topic and concern Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for the information provided 1 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report (if any) 1 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) 1 G4-31 Provide a contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 G4-32 a. “In accordance” option chosen by the organization b. Report GRI Content Index for the chosen option 1 c. Report reference to the External Assurance Report (if the report has been externally assured) G4-33 a. The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 1 b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance c. Relationship between the organization and assurance providers d. Clarification of involvement of the highest governance body or senior executives in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body Identify committees responsible for decision 15 making regarding the economic, environmental, and social impacts G4-35 Process of delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and 15 other employees G4-36 Clarification of existence of the organization’s appointment of executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, 15 environmental, and social topics and necessity of reporting directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Processes for consultation between the stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental, and social topics; if 15 consultation is delegated, describe to whom as well as any feedback process within the highest governance body APPENDIX GRI G4 INDEX General Standard Disclosure Page(s) Third-Party Assurance Governance G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: 14 Executive or non-executive Independence Tenure on the governance body Number of each individual’s significant positions and commitments and nature of those commitments Gender Membership of under-represented social groups Competencies related to economic, environmental, and social impacts Stakeholder representation G4-39 Clarification of the chair of the highest governance body concurrently serving as executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the 15 organization’s management and reasons for such arrangement) G4-40 Clarification of nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, criteria used for nominating and selecting 14 the highest governance body members, including: Consideration of diversity Consideration of independence Clarification of expertise and experience related to the economic, environmental, and social topics being considered Clarification of stakeholders’ (including shareholders) involvement G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 15 G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value, or mission 15 statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social impacts G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics 15 G4-44 a. P  rocesses for the evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to the governance of economic, environmental, 15 and social topics b. Actions taken in response to the evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to the governance of economic, environmental, and social topics at the very least, including changes in membership and organizational practice G4-45 a. T  he highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and 15 opportunities (the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes) b. Clarification of stakeholder consultation being used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s management processes with regard to economic, 15 environmental, and social topics G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 15 G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects 15 are covered G4-49 Process of communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 14 G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns communicated to the highest governance body and mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them 14 G4-51 a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 15 b. Clarification of performance criteria in the remuneration policy related to the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees G4-52 Process of determining remuneration: Clarification of remuneration consultants involved in determining remuneration and their independence of 15 management: report any other relationship that remuneration consultants have with the organization G4-53 Clarification of stakeholders’ views sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including results of votes on remuneration policies and 15 proposals (exercise of voting rights, etc.) G4-54 Ratio of total annual compensation for the organization’s highest paid individual in each country of major operations to the median total annual 15 compensation for all employees (excluding the highest paid individual) in the same country G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in total annual compensation for the organization’s highest paid individual in each country of major operations to the 15 median percentage increase in total annual compensation for all employees (including the highest paid individual) in the same country KOREAN AIR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 92/93 General Standard Disclosure Page(s) Third-Party Assurance Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organization’s code of conduct and code of ethics 16 G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, matters related to organizational integrity such as 16 helplines or advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior 16 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Page(s) Category: Economic Generic DMA Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 30-31 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 66 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 49 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from the government Market Position (wage, G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to the local minimum wage at major locations of operation 44 purchase, employment, etc.) G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at major locations of operation 45 Direct Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 79 Effects G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including extent of impacts 79 Category: Environmental Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 58 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 58 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 59 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 58 G4-EN7 Reductions in the energy requirements of products and services 58 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE 1) 58 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (SCOPE 2) 58 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (SCOPE 3) G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions 59 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emission 57, 59 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) G4-EN21 NOx, Sox, and other significant air emissions 62 Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work Employment (gender, new, G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 45 temporary) G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees not provided to temporary or part-time employees according to the major 45 locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates according to maternal or paternal leave 49 APPENDIX GRI G4 INDEX Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Page(s) Labor-Management G4-LA4 Minimum notification period for significant changes to business (including clarification of inclusion in the collective bargaining 51 Relations agreement) Occupational Health and G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor 50 Safety and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism; total number of work-related fatalities by 50 region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of occupational diseases 50 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 50 Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category 46 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in 46 managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees undergoing regular performance and career development review by gender and by employee category 48 Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 Composition of the highest governance body and employees by employee category (type)(according to diversity indicators including 84 Opportunity gender, age, minority group) Labor Practices Grievance G4-LA16 Number of grievances regarding labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 51 Resolution System Sub-Category: Human Rights Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 45 Sub-Category: Society Local Communities (Social G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 79 Contribution) G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities 79 Anti-Corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and significant risks identified 17 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 17 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 16 Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 17 Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Customer Health & Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 67 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle by type of outcomes (treatment of violations) Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling (customer satisfaction) and per percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 72 Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breach of customer privacy and loss of customer data 73 APPENDIX UN GLOBAL COMPACT >> G4-15 94/95 The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that that the core values of the Compact are in line with the Company’s comare committed to aligning their operations and strategies through ten prinmitment to business ethics, transparent management and corporate sociples related to the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticial responsibility. Korean Air will continue to embrace and support the ten corruption. Korean Air joined the UN Global Compact in July 2007, believing universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact as listed below. AREA PRINCIPLES KOREAN AIR’S ACTIVITIES PAGE(S) Human rights 1. We support and respect the protection of •  ducation on business ethics and sexual harassment E 17 internationally proclaimed human rights prevention 2. We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuse Labor 3. We uphold the freedom of association and effective • Ensuring the freedom of association and the right to 44-45, 51 recognition of the right to collective bargaining collective bargaining 4. We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and • No forced labor or child labor under the stipulations compulsory labor of the Korean Labor Standards Act and ILO 5. We uphold the effective abolition of child labor Conventions, no case of such violations 6. We uphold the elimination of discrimination in • Increasing the employment of women and disabled employment and occupation persons • Hiring international talents without discrimination based on nationality, culture, and religion Environment 7. We support a precautionary approach to •  trict compliance with GHG emission regulations at all S 54, 56-59, 62-63 environmental challenges our business premises 8. We undertake initiatives to promote greater • Company-wide ISO14001 certification environmental responsibility • GHG Inventory System and GHG emissions reduction 9. We encourage the development and diffusion of initiatives environment-friendly technologies • Adopting cutting-edge, eco-friendly aircraft and engines with higher fuel efficiency and less noise emissions Anti-corruption 10. We work against corruption in all its forms, • P  roclamation of the Ethics Charter and compliance 16-17 including extortion and bribery with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact • Anti-corruption education • Whistleblowing program • Fair trade voluntary compliance program • Implementing compliance support programs APPENDIX MAJOR AWARDS AND MEMBERSHIPS >> G4-16 AWARDS ORGANIZATION DATE CATEGORY ASSOCIATIONS AND ORGANIZATIONS Voted as one of the TOP 3 foreign airlines most GLOBAL TIMES(环球时报) Dec. 16, 2014 Aviation International Air Transport Association (IATA) loved by the Chinese people Association of Asia Pacific Airlines (AAPA) Foreign Airline of the Year Cargo (2013) MAB (Malaysia Airport Holdings Berhad) Nov. 21, 2014 Sky Team, Korea Civil Aviation Development Association (KADA) 2014 Korea Advertising Awards Korea Federation of Advertising Nov. 11, 2014 Federation of Korea Aeronautics, Korea Aeronautical Engineers Grand Prize in TV Advertisement/Gold Prize in IMC Associations Association / Silver Prize in Print Advertising Korean Society for Aeronautical & Space Sciences, Korean Association of Ranked 1st in the air passenger transport service Japan Management Association Jun. 26, 2014 Air and Space Law, Aviation Management Society of Korea category of the Global Customer Satisfaction Index Consulting (GCSI) Economy Korean Business Council for Sustainable Development, Business Institute for Sustainable Development of the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Excellence Award for Love of Environment Consulate General of the Republic of Jun. 10, 2014 Industry (KCCI) Korea in Shanghai Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Economic Research Institute, Happy Corporation Grand Prize Dong-A Ilbo Jun. 3, 2014 Korea Employers Federation Effie Award Korea 2014 Effie Award Korea May 23, 2014 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Federation of Economic Grand Prize and Digital Platform Award Winner Organizations, Korea-Japan Economic Association 2014 DFNI Asia/Pacific Awards DFNI (Duty Free News International)紙 May 13, 2014 Korea Listed Companies Association, Korea Exchange, Korea Customs -Best online services & in-flight sales Logistics Association 21st Advertising Awards Korea Advertising Society Apr. 6, 2014 International Management Institute of the Federation of Korean Industries, -First Prize in the print advertising category Korea International Trade Association, Korea-US Economic Council National Brand Grand Prize The Economist/JoongAng Daily Apr. 2, 2014 Environment Green Companies Council, Business Council for Green Growth Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism Awards Korea Advertisers Association Mar. 28, 2014 Gangseo Business Group for Environmental Practices, Voluntary –print advertising category Agreement of the Aviation Industry on GHG Reductions 22nd Consumers’ Choice of Good Advertisement Korea-China Future Forest Awards TV advertising Society Nanum Korea, Korean Council on the Protection of Personal Information Ranked No. 1 in the international air Korea Productivity Center Mar. 25, 2014 transportation category of the National Customer Korea Forum for Progress, Asia Society Korea Center Satisfaction Index Korea-Mongolia Forum, Visit USA Committee Korea, Seoul International Best Service Innovation Award Voyage(新旅行) Mar. 6, 2014 Forum Best Transport Finance Award The Asset Asian Award Feb. 13, 2014 Korea Mecenat Association, Korea Management Association, Takamadonomiya Memorial Foundation 2014 Consumers’ Choice for Best Brand Forbes Korea Jan. 23, 2014 Korea Support Committee for the International Vaccine Institute Best Airline Travel & Leisure (旅游休闲) Jan. 15, 2014 Habitat for Humanity Korea, Visit Korea Committee, The Institute of Nation 2013 Best Foreign Airline Oriental Morning Post(东方早报) Jan. 9, 2014 Brand Promotion 260 Haneul-gil, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea / Postal code: 07505 / Tel +82-2-2656-7114 www.koreanair.com
