ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JULY 2015 ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC Plot No. 22 RAK Free Zone Technology Park Ras Al Khaimah United Arab Emirates PO Box 54595 Tel:+971 7 243 4839 Fax: +971 7 243 5257 www.armour-works.com sales@armour-works.com ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKSFZC (UAW) is a privately owned company registered in RAK Free Zone, United Arab Emirates. The company was established in 2005 and currently employs approximately 260 full time staff from 19 different countries. UAW facilities operate 24 hours, six days per week to ensure annual production targets. We believe that we are among the market leaders for quality and reliability. We aim to be ranked by our staff as the best place to work in our industry. Ultimate Armour Works FZC Plot No. 22 RAK Free Zone Technology Park Ras Al Khaimah United Arab Emirates PO Box 54595 Tel: +971 7 243 4839 ISO9001:2008 Quality Management Systems Fax: +971 7 243 5257 9 July 2015 United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon 1st Ave. and 46th Street New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Sir, Since joining the United Nations Global Compact initiative, Ultimate Armour Works sustains its commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are currently working towards incorporating Global Compact into our website, informing our stakeholders of our commitment. Therefore it is with great pride that we hereby submit our second Communication of Progress Report for July 2014 to July 2015. Yours faithfully Mark Regenass Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Protection of human rights is one of our core business principles. We encourage a work environment that fosters mutual respect and acceptance and offer a work environment free from discrimination of all forms and equal opportunity for advancement . Actions in 2014 Measurement of Outcome 2015 Objectives and Targets Increased employment of women. During 2014 and early 2015 we increased We want to encourage woman to be more our women staff by employing two ladies. independent and broaden their working experience and skills. UAW supports and provides financial We donated financial aid to an organizaton Identify and support organizations striving sustenance to local human rights supporting migrants. to put an end to human rights violations organizations. not only where our business operates but worldwide. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: Business will uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Abolish child labour Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation UAW does not prohibit the right to freedom of association. UAW does not conduct or condone any forms of forced and compulsory labour or child labour. UAW complies with all labour laws, regulations and recommendations in order to ensure a safe, fair and non-discriminative workplace for our employees . Actions in 2014 Measurement of Outcome 2015 Objectives and Targets Staff sent on various courses and seminars 8 members of UAW staff improved their UAW continues to encourage its staff to attend improving their qualifications. knowlage and professional experience. courses and seminars to obtain further training 1. Level 2 Emergency First Aid At Work that will enhance their knowledge and working training course skills in their particular profession. 2. ISO 9001:2008 QMS Internal Auditor Course 3. Paint Shop Management Seminar 4. UN Global Compact Meeting Encourage teamwork and unity amongst all All professional and private related matters and Our aim is to encourage team spirit and a sense employees. problems risen by employees have been of camaraderie amongst the staff. resolved. Based on the above, we have improved our communication system within the company. Actions in 2014 Measurement of Outcome 2015 Objectives and Targets As part of our 10th year anniversary all 260 Team games were organised, bringing staff and Our aim is to be able to give our staff a better employees and directors spent a day at the management together. For many of our perspective in life so they are able to interact water park. employees this was a first time experience in with others comfortably. such a facility. New equipment was provided for workers Staff accommodation became more accommodation: comfortable. 1. Projector and screen Employees can spend their free time interacting 2. Basketball net leisurely. 3. Hi -Fi system 4. Badmington net Having respect for the different cultures and Enhanced respect for each other’s culture and Continue fostering mutual respect and religions of our employees, we celebrate the beliefs. understanding. following holidays and festivities: 1. Chinese New Year for Vietnamese Nationals 2. Eid Al Fitr and UAE National Day for Arabic community 3. Easter and Christmas for Christians 4. Onam for Indian community Staff loan scheme was launched to encourage 23 staff have taken up loans to purchase land or home ownership among staff with no commence building of homes for their families alternative access to loans and capital. in their home country. Currently staff from Vietnam, Cameroon, India, Bangladesh and Philippines are now land or home owners as a result of the scheme. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Support a cautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. UAW FZC is committed to protect the environment by reducing carbon emission, energy and water consumption. Our aim is to continuously improve the environmental performance within our facility by using efficient technologies and provide continuous training to our employees. UAW FZC operate in full compliance with applicable national, international, state and local environmental regulations. Actions in 2014 Measurement of Outcome 2015 Objectives and Targets A new electronic managment system was The system reduced the usage of paper and Continue to improve electronic management introduced whereby tablets are used for office consumables. system to include additional features e.g. production monitoring, training, quality control customer relationship management (CRM). and staff appraisal. Paint thinner re-cycling machine installed. Less paint thinners usage and reduction of Keep educating staff about their work associated pollution. environment and the safety hazards. Health, safety and environment training has Environmental awareness has been been given to all staff. considereably improved. The amount of injuries reported has reduced compared to previous years. Medical expenses have reduced by 36% from May 2014 to May 2015. Actions in 2014 Measurement of Outcome 2015 Objectives and Targets Staff is more aware about saving electricity by Continue to follow ISO 14001:2004 and ISO switching off lights when not necessary, saving 18001:2007 standards. water by making sure that the taps are turned off properly, making sure that their work areas are safe. Electricity consumption from May 2014 to May 2015 has reduced by 11%. From May 2014 to May 2015 our water consumption has reduced by 19%. Recycling of used batteries. Hazardous wastage has been reduced. Continue to prevent waste of potentially useful Containers for used batteries have been materials. strategically placed within the facility. UAW replaced its vehicle fleet with new Fuel consumption has reduced by 15% Adittional vehicles and machinery will be models. from May 2014 to May 2015. purchased to continue to reduce energy usage and air pollution. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Work against corruption, in particular bribery and extortion UAW does not accept or condone any form of corruption including bribery and extortion“. Actions in 2014 Measurement of Outcome 2015 Objectives and Targets Anti-bribery and anti-corruption Employees of UAW are well vetted prior to We aim to prevent corruption by further awareness has been risen to all employees being employed and are constantly education, advocacy and system review. and the public. reminded about the implications related to bribery, corruption and extortion. Our suppliers are evaluated via No case of corruption, bribery and questionnaire based on the ten (10) extortion has been reported. principles of the UN Global Compact. INNOVATION NOT IMMITATION ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC Plot No. 22 RAK Free Zone Technology Park Ras Al Khaimah United Arab Emirates PO Box 54595 Tel:+971 7 243 4839 Fax: +971 7 243 5257 www.armour-works.com sales@armour-works.com
