United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) Polaris in Brief: Polaris Parks was officially launched in January 2008 by the Turkish president, Abdullah Gul, as the first initiative of its kind in Egypt, both as a private industrial park and as a large-scale joint collaboration between Turkey and Egypt, aiming to enhance the competitive edge of both countries in order to enable them to penetrate global markets. The both projects, Polaris International Industrial Parks and Polaris Al Zamil Industrial Park, are focusing on attracting industrial investors operating in light industries with clean processes, abiding by the environmental regulations in accordance with the governmental regulations. Accordingly, Polaris International Industrial Parks is the first environmentally friendly industrial park in the MENA region, setting great importance on the additional value added to investors through measures such as solar lighting system in the streets to reduce overhead costs and carbon footprint, and 80.000 square meters of planted green areas and regulatory By-Laws to support coherent existence between different industries. Polaris Parks works for the development of the country together with its industry in order to adapt and compete in the global economy by preparing the necessary environment for industry while aiding investors through difficulties of the start-up period and moving into operational phases. In order to do this Polaris Parks develops unutilized areas into industrial compounds with infrastructure networks, offering value-added facilities and providing professional management systems. Polaris International Industrial Parks was honored In Financial Times FDI Magazine. The magazine ranked Polaris International Industrial Park No. 45 in their Global Free Zones of the Future Report 2012/2013. FDI is the world's premier publication for the business of globalization and a prime division of The Financial Times Ltd, specializing in all areas relating to foreign direct investment and investment promotion. Statement of continuous support : Polaris International is pleased to confirm and reiterate its support of all United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and antiCorruption. Polaris International with its policies and strategies, is promoting industrial development and economic performance while adopting the highest standards of environmental protection and improving the quality of broad Egyptian industrial community through dedicated development initiatives. *Polaris International is aware of the importance of creating an environmentally developed industrial area to assist in the global battle against climate change. In this spirit, Polaris International environmental protection is main key of its corporate pillars is using advanced Solar system to reduce carbon print . * In year 2015 , Polaris International has put extra efforts and investments to implement more advanced irrigation system in the park for water consumptions * A quality and facility personnel is responsible to monitor environmental facilities and assure its accurate operation (Water measuring – electrical consumptions – maintenance ….) . * Still “WEF “ Polaris International SR arm is promoting UNGC principles throughout its activities : Engaged more than 5 new members to be participants . While operating and dealing with stakeholders WEF is promoting UNGC principles . WEF has submitted its COE mentioning its continuous support for UNGC . * Polaris is still supporting Gender equality . * An open door complaints is applied directly with the Chairman and GM , everyone has the right to take openly about his concerns and problem if any . An immediate action is taken . * A talent Development department is created to handle all aspects related employees taking into considerations the main 2 principles human rights and labor practice (complaints – fair evaluation – working conditions – training and development ) * For the second year the employee evaluation system has been implemented that works in depth with transparency taking into consideration new monitoring aspects that commit to UNGC principles and moreover with motivation system to protect the labor rights. * AS mentioned last COP , Polaris International for promoting environmental aspects has participated in wind energy tender , and this year we are pre-qualified for the project of Wind ….. *As Polaris is always looking for sustainable development and as it is looking for its stakeholders benefit a Residential (Housing) project is in launch phase . The housing main purpose is to retain investors employees by providing them the facility of owning a nearby home .By providing the Housing project Polaris will create the first industrial gated providing beneficiaries all facilities needed . *Polaris International is providing to its employees and stakeholders a formal framework – guidelines, actions to be taken , monitoring its operations to ensure the business as a whole complies with all applicable antitrust laws. Finally as We are totally supporting the UNGC , Polaris has been nominated as steering committee member in UNGC Egypt . Polaris and WEF has supported UNGC Egypt network to be independent entity . United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) UNGC SPHERE OF SOURCES OF ACTIONS INDICATORS principles BUSINESS CORPORATE TAKEN CORRESPONDE INFLUENCE GOVERNANCE NCE Human Rights Principle1 Employees – Internal policies Training and G4HR2, HR4 Businesses Investorsand code of ethics awareness for should support contractorsstaff and and respect stakeholders on the protection human rights of aspects internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Employees – Internal policies HR policies and G4-HR,HR2-HR4 Human Rights Investorsand code of procedures Business should contractors ethics declared. make sure they Talent are not development complicit in department human rights created abuses. Labor Principle 3: Employees – Internal policies Training to HR5, LA9,LA4, Labor Investorsand code of employees for LA5 Businesses contractorsethics labor aspects should uphold then Follow up the freedom of with monitoring and assessment association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Employees , Internal policies No HR2 –HR7 The elimination investorsand code of Case of of all forms of contractors ethics forced or forced and compulsory compulsory labor in Polaris labor Principle 5 EmployeesInternal policies No case of child HR6 The effective Investorsand code of labor abolition abolition of Contractors ethics in Polaris as it is child labour clearly declared from the beginning Principle 6 Employees – Internal policies Clearly declared LA2; LA14; EC5; The elimination Investors and code of with updated HR2; HR4; EC7 of contractors ethics agreement with discrimination recruitment in agencies respect of Updated employment interview and occupation system for employment Environment Internal policies and code of ethics Principle 7 Employees – Internal policies As we are first EC2, Businesses Investors – and code of environmental EN3,EN8,EN18, should support contractorsethics industrial park EN30 a Governmental an ongoing precautionary university environmental approach to (Cairo policies is environmental University applied challenge Water consumption Quality and monitoring system is applied Principle 8 EmployeesInternal policies Continuous EN6, EN7 , EN30 Undertake Investorsand code of approaches and initiatives to communities ethics advices supplied promote to develop more greater industrial areas . environmental responsibility Principle 9 Employees , Internal policies Pre-qualifies EN6, EN7, EN18 Encourage the communities and code of nomination development ethics stage and diffusion for government of “wind energy” environmentall y friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Employees – Internal policies Give training on SO2, Businesses investorsand code of ethical SO3,SO4,SO5 should work contractorsethics behaviors to its against communities stakeholders corruption in all and promoting its forms, for importance including of integrity on extortion and economic and bribery SR
