Sustainability Report 2014 www.sidpec.com Find out more online -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.This Sustainability Report is a summary of information that is expanded upon online Our website www.sidpec.com Contents About Us Vision Mission CEO word Sidpec objectives Sidpec production process Labors Environment Anticorruption Human rights Strategic plan 2014 About Us SIDPEC is an Egyptian joint stock company established on 16 November 1997 Under Egyptian investment law SIDPEC is considered the ﬁrst integral step towards the petrochemicals future in Egypt. We utilize the latest available technology and design in order to satisfy the Egyptian environmental regulations and requirements. SIDPEC production portfolio includes: Ethylene polymer grade. Polyethylene (ultimate product). LPG } Butene-1 Secondary Products The trade name of SIDPEC polymer is named Egyptene polymer portfolio includes linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE) and high-density polyethylene (HDPF). Vision To be a leader in providing innovative, value added and highest quality petrochemical products worldwide while creating a superior shareholders value. Mission To produce and market high quality petrochemical products through the integration of most efﬁcient staff, best updated technologies and business systems within the highest standards of ethics and integrity for the purpose of achieving sustainableand proﬁtable growth. CEO word for sustainability report Welcome to Sidpec’s inaugural sustainability report, as part of an on-going initiative to respond to our stakeholders. Sidpec’s sustainability report is prepared to cover our performance and operations during 2014. Sidpec continues to provide the utmost attention to the Environment while ensuring the health and safety of our human capital in all operation processes. At Sidpec, we understand the importance of being socially responsible as core of our values and principles. One of our objectives is to share not only our success but our I’m pleased to reconﬁrm that Sidi excellence with the community. Kerir Petrochemical Co. (SIDPEC) While exerting our utmost effort to is continually supporting the ten reach excellence in performance, we principles of the Global Compact maintain valuable and beneﬁcial on human rights, labors, cooperation with private and public environment and anti-corruption. organizations to work together on With this communication, we creating a better future for individuals express our interest to continually as well as the whole nation. Our implementing those principles. We primary business is manufacturing are committed to making the petrochemicals with the highest quality Global Compact and its principles using state of the art technologies. as part of the strategy, culture and However, our objectives are more day-to-day operations of our inclusive. Our success is measured in company. terms of the difference that we make in the community around us Chairman & CEO Eng. Ahmed Helmy SIDPEC Objectives * Maintain Polyethylene local market leadership through strict compliance with product quality and marketing services to attain Customer’s satisfaction. * Maintain and develop our global market share. Thanks to our technology edge in the ﬁeld of polyethylene production. * Fulﬁll the requirements of Egyptian Petrochemical Co. of Ethylene instead of importing it to produce PVC. * Maximize value of Natural gas resources in Egypt. * Maximize proﬁt through production and marketing of secondary products as LPG, Butene-1. * Comply with Egyptian Environmental Regulations through adopting a state of the art technology that consumes less energy and has the least impact on the environment. SIDPEC Production Process 1Ethylene Plant Plant Capacity : 300 KT/ year Feed Stock : Ethane / propane mixture Technology & Know How : ABB Lummus (USA) Startup date : August 2000 General Contractor : Toyo Japan 2Polyethylene Plant Plant Capacity : 225 KT/ year Feed Stock : Ethylene Technology & License : BP Chemicals (Ineos) Startup date : October 2000 General Contractor : Samsung – Korea 3Utilities& Facilities: Plant Capacity : 2000 m3/hr ﬁltered water : 150 m3/hr demineralized water : 24000 m3/hr Cooling water : 2250 m3/hr Fire Fighting water : 4000 Nm3/hr Instrument air : 3600 Nm3/hr Plant air. : 100 ton/hr HP steam. Startup date : January 2000 General Contractor : Enppi 4Butene-1 Plant Plant Capacity : 10 KT/ year Feed Stock : ethylene Technology & Know How : IFP Startup date : September 2000 5LPG Plant Plant Capacity : 50 KT/ year Feed Stock : C3 and heavier Technology & Know How : ABB Lummus (USA) General Contractor : Toyo Japan Startup date : May 2002 LABORS OurEmployees sidpec’s sustainability as a company depends on the skills,commitment and behaviours of our people Human Resources: Medical Care Services for SIDPEC human resources are the Employees and their families: driving force for its success. • Sidpec provides a medical care Therefore, SIDPEC foremost for employees and their families responsibility is to provide its staff through direct contracting with with all the tools and skills to medical specialties (physicians, accomplish its business plan and hospitals, medical laboratories, objectives. prosthetic devices, etc.) Human resources services include • Periodic medical examinations design of work positions; hiring; for employees (500 employees in reward and recognition; performance 2014) development and appraisal systems; • Annual medical examination for and career succession planning. employees above 50 years Human resources personnel (40 employees in 2014) contribute to SIDPEC by constantly • Medical Training programs (ﬁrst assessing the effectiveness of HR aid) are provided (50 employees in services, sponsoring change in work 2014) practices and build employee loyalty • Regular medical bulletins on the to SIDPEC. internal network of Sidpec. Services We deliver and continuously improve Employees Involvement: services as payroll, recruitment, Sidpec involves its employees in pensions, and beneﬁts. setting its goals and achieving them. We track, monitor and manage Performance improvement is service performance to ensure that accomplished through the delegation it’s delivered to the required quality of authorities and teamwork through and at the optimum cost. several mechanisms, including: Medical beneﬁts, and health insurance, are among the most valuable of employee beneﬁts options * Formation of workers' committee of that SIDPEC HR team excels to representatives from various handle employee beneﬁt needs, departments of the company. providing signiﬁcant support for Its main role is the direct employees and their families through communication with employees of a rich portfolio of high-quality health different levels to share ideas, collect care providers (Hospitals, clinics, their suggestions and their views, pharmacies and labs). and submit a feedback to superior SIDPEC employees are automatically management to allow employees to enrolled in different retirement take the initiative to improve and beneﬁts systems and get their ﬁrst continuously develop systems inside contribution with their ﬁrst paycheck, Sidpec. these competitive retirement plans enhance employees involvement and * Employees to be trained one year in belonging also increases retention the new position before accession of and longer stays within the company, the middle and top management level as mentioned below: so that they can exercise responsibili* Offering social insurance ties before promotion and ensure contribution that obtains the their ability to carry out their duties. employee the highest pension grade when reaching retirement age. * Supervision: in some cases * Sidpec provides an additional a decision is taken that employee pension beneﬁt ( supplementary supervise the activities of some pension ) departments in addition to their tasks * Offering a life insurance policy as a delegation of authority or to subsidized by SIDPEC. shortcut series of supervisory * Qualiﬁed deferred compensation channels. retirement plan offered to all employees, this plan provides a retirement reward at the age sixty. HR sector is committed to select the • Formation of committees, task best training providers with highly forces for new projects and equipped labs to maximize the technical, beneﬁts of our employee. feasibilitystudies,tenders,auctions, practices and any other mandates. Recommendations of these Sidpec management believes in the committees and task follows are importance of training in the implemented as initiative for the company since its inception. Sidpec employees to work and innovate. has set up a developed center for training and development. This • Leaders of Sidpec provide an center plays a pivotal role in the appropriate environment for training process and the preparation creativity and innovation of of cadres. The center is provided employees through several regular with updated equipment in addition methodologies, including the to a simulation center, which train application of Lean Six Sigma personnel on monitoring operations methodology, which determine the and deal with the different scenarios purpose and ﬁeld study and analysis that may occur during actual of the elements of the initiative and operation. This contributes to the choose the most appropriate development of human capital on solutions. an ongoing basis. Examples: • An annual training plan is preProject to reduce hexane chemical pared based on the training needs consumption. provided from each department. Project to reduce steam and Implementation of the training plan demineralized water consumption. raise the skills and capabilities of Training the employees, which in turn is SIDPEC believes that its extensive reﬂected in the achievement of training is one of the major factors strategic plans for the company. that prepare its workforce for the • measurement of the effectiveness constantly changing markets it faces. of the training on the employee and SIDPEC HR team seeks to provide the performance of his work or his the opportunity to continue training behavior after attending the training after they have joined us. This gives program and notify the general them the skills and qualiﬁcations they managers with annual results to need to climb the career ladder. take them into consideration when Everything we do is centered on proposing a training need for his maximizing relevancy and personnel the next year. applicability, skills and knowledge. • Training quality procedure: HR sector strive very hard to ensure (QP-602-01) that training courses are relevant and necessary. * Plan the training 2014: • Number of Sidpec trainees in Egypt for the year 2014 (978 employees) • Number of Sidpec trainees abroad in 2014 (21 employees) • Number of SidpecTraining programs in Egypt: (134) • Number of SidpecTraining programs outside of Egypt: (10) Wages and incentives: * Sidpec adopts a system of rewards and incentives from the beginning of establishment so that the employee becomes a partner in the production and keen on achieving the production and sales target. * Wages in Sidpec have two forms: • Fixed salaries: Monthly salary, which includes basic salary and settled bonuses. • Variable incentives: associated with the productivity, performance and behavior the employees. • In addition to incentives associated with achieving the production plans. • This is in addition to the bonus system and incentives to achieve production plans. • Employees who made activities that reﬂected in saving time, money and more production are being rewarded. • Sidpec permit, employees to get postgraduate degrees and give them annual bonuses. The Environment We are working with legal and other requirementsto monitor and evaluate the environmentalimpacts .Sidpec is working to avoid, minimize and mitigate environmental impacts wherever we do business. 1. Performing and regularly reviewing Environmental Impact Assessment. Sidpec performs Environmental Beside compliance with Egyptian Impact Assessment on surrounding environmental Laws, SIDPEC is community through the implementaworking to improve its environmental tion of a documented management performance through programs to system of the environment. Sidpec is identify environmental aspects and committed to comply with local and evaluate their effects on the internal international standards and obtaining and external environment, measuring the necessary approvalsof the state and recording consumption of Natural authorities throughout the company Resources (water, natural gas) and construction phase and production wastes to reduce environmental risks. phase and matching the measurements SIDPEC considers environmental of the criteria applied in accordance aspects on the top of its social with the applicable laws and state responsibility in the following regulations: procedures: • The stage of preliminary studies and development of Environmental Impact Assessment. • The stage of construction using 4. Chemicals Handling environmentally friendly materials. • Identiﬁcation of chemicals and • The stage of prestart up and quantities is done in accordance production in which measurements with legal permits. on air quality and waste liquid and • Prevention of use of banned solid industrial and sanitation were chemicals. takento make sure no impact on the • Putting the MSDS (Material internal and external environment. Safety Data Sheet) for the materials • The company has an environmental in Arabic language and distribution record supported by the governmenthrough the Sidpec internal network tal authorizations, whichcontains all and in production sites. the various environmental activities • Arrange training programs on of the company. handling of hazardous chemicals. • Corrective and Preventive Actions are taken in the case of objectives 5. Promote awareness and education deviations or cases of non-conformi• Training programs for employees. ty of the purpose of sustainable • Participation in conferences and development. local and international exhibitions. • Communication with the 2. Cleaner and efﬁcient production: surrounding community to explain •This is achieved through obtaining the industrial process in Sidpec, its certiﬁcate of conformity of Product impact on the environment, and the for food approval and REACH precautions taken to prevent damage compliance certiﬁcate. Sidpec also to the environment applies energy conservation system 6. Energy consumption: and environmental management • Sidpec is currently implementing system throughobtaining the the goal of reducing energy International Standard ISO-50001 consumption (gas/ electricity) by and ISO-14001. 10% during the period (2014-2018). 3. Waste management : • Compliance with laws regarding the disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous waste. • The sequential pyramid system is applied in reducing waste (reducing from the source re-use-recycling Treatment disposal). • Waste is disposed of through several contracts, such as recycling oils and recycling of waste paper and contracting with the authority of management of hazardous materials 7. Environmental projects: The industry involves logging trees • The objective is sustainable to produce pulp. Burning waste development throughapplied of paper produces carbon dioxide. some projects for the sustainable Biological decay of waste paper in use of resources such as electricity garbage dumps also causes / raw materials / water: production of methane gas which is another greenhouse effect gases. Title 1: Project of conservation of A study conducted by Xerox the organic solvent hexane in order International Company (a large to protect the environment paper production company) Summary Thread: indicated that a normal employee • Organic solvent (Hexane) is a consumes 10-12 kg of paper hydrocarbon material with a annually. A percentage of 45% of chemical formula C6H14 colorless this weight is dumped in the same with a boiling point of 50 to 70° C day. similar to gasoline. Therefore, institutions and organiza• It was noted that consumption of tions can contribute positively to organic solvent (Hexane) rate (1.7 reduce carbon emissions by kg per ton polyethylene) is more conservation in paper consumption than the design rates (1.2 kg per and its recycle. ton polyethylene). Based on the above and Sidpec • An assigned team succeeded in commitment to contribute effectively reducing the amount of the solvent in the community service, a team from 388 tons to 278 tons per year. from Sidpec has launched an A cost reduction of 800 thousand initiative to reduce paper consumpLE per year. tion based on two approaches. • The project applied Lean Six 1Collection of waste paper and sell Sigma, a system that uses modern it to paper industrial companies to methods of quality management recycle it or give it as donations to and statistical analysis of the data. community service organizations. • The project was to follow a Road 2Implementation of conservation Map for Lean Six Sigma known as of paper consumption through: DMAIC. aAssigning a day without paper throughout the company to spread Title 2: Reduction of paper the awareness in this ﬁeld consumption in Sidpec and bUse of alternatives of paper contract to recycle waste paper in a transmittals and letters as electronic paper industrial company. media (emails, mobile messages, Summary Thread: telephone, etc.) Paper Industry has a negative impact on climate change and global warming. Title 3: Water conservation: Impact:A program for the management of 1.Compliance with the environmental water resources based on reduction laws and legislation. of consumption,waste water 2.Reduction of greenhouse gas treatment and reuse. emissions Examples: 3.Optimization of the use of raw • Reduction of demineralized water materials and steam in production units 4. Ensuring theeffective and efﬁcient Reduction of high pressure steam use of resources. waste by better control of pressure 5. Identiﬁcation of criteria of in steam network and minimize the monitoring, followingup, and venting process. This was done by managing the impacts of the proposed an implementation of operational projects maneuver The result is a reduction of steam loss in an average of 4.2 tons / hour. Increase efﬁciency of the unit of recovery emulsiﬁed oil (DOX) by changing type of ﬁlter media. The result is maximize ﬂow rate of the recovery unit and minimize the use of makeup water by a percentage of 25%. • Control of domestic sewage from administrative buildings (Attached strategic plan) • Control of industrial waste from production units.(Attached strategic plan) • Mitigate climatic change: Sidpec contributes to reducin greenhouse gas emissions. Installation of CO2 extraction and recovery unit from ﬂue gas to reduce CO2 emissions by 20% in ﬁrst stage.(Attached strategic plan) • Sidpec avoids getting • Sidpec Identiﬁed the involved in any busiRisks of Corruption, ness is not consistent Implement and Mainwith Human rights. tain Many Policies and • Sidpec do not enter Practices to Counter into partnership or Corruption, Sidpec relationship with any Rules Such as HR, partner that commits Purchasing, Marketing human rights abuses. and all of its Rules Anticorruption • Sidpec avoids any Counter Corruption. Human rights relationship with • Sidpec’s Leadership entities, which engaged is a Clear and Perfect in antisocial activities. Pattern for Anticorrup• Sidpec has effective tion, provid Commitgrievance mechanisms ment, encouragement that protect human Implementation of rights anticorruption Polices. • Sidpec eliminates all • Sidpec Code of forms of forced or Conduct Emphasizes compulsory labor. The Rules of Anticor• Sidpec do not use ruption. child labor internally or • Sidpec Always Work among its suppliers or to raise the Awareness customers. of its People and All • Sidpec respects the Stake Holders about right of own property. Corruption. • Sidpec respects access to due process and right to a fair hearing before any internal disciplinary measure had taken. Sidpec sustainability Strategic Plan 2014-2020 The principal goal of our Strategic Plan for substantiality is to improve our performance to ensure healthy ecosystems, social equity and good organizational governance Objectives: 1. Reduce energy consumption by 10% within 5 years. 2. Initiate project for zero discharge of treated industrial water from production 3. Reduce CO2 emission from ethylene plant by 20% within 3 years. 4. Reduce near misses by 80% within 4 years. 5. Encourage and systematize communication with our stakeholders. 6. Ensure employment of disabled personnel to reach 5% by 2020. 1. Reduce energy consumption by 10% from 2014:2018. 2. Initiate project for zero discharge of treated industrial water from production plants :3. Reduce CO2 emission from ethylene plant by 20% within 3 years :4. Reduce near misses by 80% within 4 years (2014-2018) 5. Encourage and systematize communication with our stakeholders: 6. Ensure employment of disabled personnel to reach 5% SIDPEC commits to encouraging a safe, supportive and reproductive work environment through cooperative and sustainable principles of conduct and ethical behavior. We envision added human rights and social value by incorporating Social Responsibility into our activities. Our approach is built upon a holistic view, transparency and an open dialogue with consideration to our stakeholders’ interests. We are accountable for our impact on society, the economy and the environment with respect to the rules of law and international norms of behavior. “It is easy to say what we must do, but the proof is in our actions”. 1Governance: Our decisions are taken in pursuit of our objectives and are built upon factual Data. We gain credibility by adhering to our commitments, displaying honesty and integrity and reaching company goals solely through honorable conduct. Management is responsible for demonstrating through their actions, the importance of this code. “Refer to our vision &mission”. 2Human Rights: We believe that all employees deserve to work in an environment where they are treated with dignity and respect. We are committed to creating such an environment because it brings out the full potential in each one, which in turn, contributes directly to our business success. We are an equal employment entity and are committed to providing a workplace that is free of discrimination of all types of abusiveness, offensiveness or harassing behavior. Any employee who feels harassed or discriminated against should report the incident to his or her supervisor or department manager. If the employee is not satisﬁed that the matter has been appropriately addressed, the employee should feel free to address this issue to the company’s Chairman. We oppose child labor in our premises and among our stakeholders. 3Labor Practices: We endeavor to invest in our employees by providing them with the best possible skills and abilities in order to develop their individual potential to the maximum, and thereby contribute to a sustainable success and competitiveness of our enterprise. We provide speciﬁc training to the employees as regards to technical aspects connected with our processes and the ﬁeld of health & safety at the workplace as well as other relevant aspects connected with the enterprise activities. We strive to create working conditions that give our employees the convenient environment to work considering the human aspects and particularly without any risk for their health and industrial hygiene. We have clear recruitment and promotion criteria for all employees. Our grievance procedures are identiﬁed and we recognize the right for employees’ representation to participate in a transparent social dialogue. 4The environment: We are committed to conserve the natural environment, endorsing the principles of sustainable use and minimum impact on the environment in full compliance with the applicable laws and regulation. Our stakeholders should be sensitive to the impact of their operation on the local community and cultural setting within which they work and minimize any adverse effects. We encourage our stakeholders to develop their own, and others’ understanding of the environment protection and the behaviors that can adversely affect it. Within our decisions and activities, we adopt special practices that take into consideration the direct and indirect economic, social, health and environmental implications. We envision ourselves in future as a zero liquid discharge, zero pollutants emission and zero wasted energy company. “Refer to our HSE policy”. “Refer to our quality policy”. 5Fair Operating Practices: We prohibit corrupt or non-ethical practices. We investigate all reported instances of questionable or unethical behavior and take appropriate actions that prevent such unethical behavior in the future. Our commitment to integrity begins with complying with laws, rules and regulations. We are dedicated to ethical, fair and vigorous competition. We sell our products based on their superior quality, functionality and competitive pricing. We respect the property right of others. We do not acquire or seek to acquire improper means of a competitor’s proprietary or conﬁdential information. 6Consumer Issues : We are keen to provide products which achieve our customers’ satisfaction. We provide our customers with fair and transparent information of our products. We review our customers’ complaints and improve practices in response to them. We offer adequate and efﬁcient support and advice system for our customers. We always take adequate measures to protect our customer health, safety and business. “Refer to our quality policy”. 7Community Involvement and development : We consider ourselves as an integral partner of the community in approaching educational development projects. We provide continuous contributions to the surrounding communities to promote higher levels of well-being in these communities. We provide employment opportunities for our surrounding community either directly through us or indirectly through our subcontractors. We never cease to invest tremendously on our community health care projects. We support research and development projects in cooperation with governmental institutions and universities. Chairman & CEO Eng/ Ahmed Helmy
