EDF TRADING A leader in the international wholesale energy market United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to confirm that EDF Trading reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this, our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. John Rittenhouse Chief Executive Officer 2 EDF TRADING EDF Trading • EDF Trading is a 100% owned subsidiary of the EDF Group, which is a leading energy player active in all major electricity markets and the world’s leading nuclear energy company. • EDF Trading operates worldwide, with major offices in London, Paris, Houston and Singapore and other business activities in Amsterdam, Calgary, Austin and Beijing. • Nine business units cover energy trading, coal and freight, upstream gas and energy services. • Around 1000 employees worldwide. • Shareholders equity of €2.5 billion in 2014. • Over one million transactions executed in 2014 with over 650 counterparts. • EDF Group has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012 and is at the advanced level. 3 EDF TRADING Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals EDF Trading supports the International Declaration of Human Rights and will not engage with any counterparts that are known to abuse human rights. EDF Trading has adopted the EDF Group Code of Ethics which mandates respectful treatment of employees and stakeholders, including protecting their human rights. EDF Trading has a strong policy on bullying and harassment and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with dignity. 4 EDF TRADING Human Rights Implementation EDF Trading has a grievance procedure in place to resolve any problems experienced in the workplace. EDF Trading Human Resources policies reflect our proactive stance on human rights and include policies on Equal Opportunities and Bullying and Harassment. The greatest risk to human rights from our activities is likely to come from our supply chain for products such as coal and biomass. In order to ensure a coal supply chain with no human rights violations we are active participants in Bettercoal, which is a not-for-profit initiative to promote corporate responsibility in the coal supply chain, with a specific focus on mines. We are implementing a clause into our coal purchase contracts to say that all coal must be sourced from mines that participate in the Bettercoal assessment programme. All biomass contracts contain a sustainability report which gives details of the shipment and its sustainability credentials. This ensures our biomass purchases are consistent with the EDF Group Sustainable Biomass policy. Outcomes EDF Trading has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. All grievances raised during 2014 were resolved internally without the need for a tribunal. In order to promote equal opportunities EDF Trading works with Westminster City school, which is next to its headquarters. Four students per year are selected to receive a scholarship for the duration of their university education. In addition, five students per year are mentored by employees and groups of younger students visit the office to learn about our business. In the 2014 staff survey 83% of employees said they were satisfied with the respect with which they were treated at work. 5 EDF TRADING Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals EDF Trading supports the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation. All employees of EDF Trading have a contract of employment stating their terms and conditions. An employee handbook is available, which gives information on company policies, benefits, grievance and disciplinary procedures. EDF Trading complies with all relevant health and safety legislation. Trade Unions are active at our Rietlanden subsidiary and all Europe-based EDF Trading employees are able to stand for election and vote for the EDF Group European Works Council. 6 EDF TRADING Labour Implementation All EDF Trading employees are invited to regular CEO update meetings to inform them of current strategies and plans. More regular CEO updates are also distributed by email. All employees have a biannual appraisal. EDF Trading has a health and safety management system which covers all offices and sites. This includes regular external health and safety audits for all industrial sites. EDFT Trading has a range of Human Resources policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment, including an Equal Opportunities Policy. Comparable pay for comparable work is ensured through the use of external salary benchmarking. Labour related risks in the supply chain are managed through membership of organisations such as Bettercoal. Outcomes EDF Trading has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other events related to the violation of the Global Compact labour principles, or any health and safety prosecutions. EDF Trading has a diverse workforce with employees of 35 nationalities. Each employee received, on average, 13 hours of training during 2014. EDF Trading has a very low rate of sickness absence and lost time incidents (only 2 LTIs during 2014 across the whole group). In the 2014 staff survey 89% were satisfied with their physical working conditions. Since April 2015 all EDF Trading employees have been paid the London Living Wage. 7 EDF TRADING Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals EDF Training has adopted the EDF Group Sustainable Development Policy and the EDF Group Sustainable Biomass policy. The majority of our employees are office based and we encourage recycling, efficient energy usage and paper-free offices. 8 EDF TRADING Environment Implementation Our Rietlanden Terminals subsidiary (a coal terminal) is ISO 14001 certified and aims to reduce its environmental impact by recycling waste water and using electric vehicles where possible. It has also pioneered an innovative approach to reducing coal dust pollution by spraying coal stockpiles with a solution of paper pulp. Our US upstream gas business recycles waste water to reduce its use of fresh water and operates a coal bed methane recycling programme, which extracts methane from coal mines (thus improving safety) and supplies it to local heating companies, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. EDF Trading is an active participant in the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) which encourages a worldwide reduction in carbon emissions. Outcomes EDF Trading has had no reportable environmental incidents and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Rietlanden Terminals has an annual external environmental audit. No major issues have been reported. EDF Trading is involved in around 180 CDM projects. These are predominantly in Asia, but also in Africa and the Caribbean. 9 EDF TRADING Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals EDF Trading has a zero tolerance Anti Fraud and Bribery Policy. EDF Trading supports the UN Convention against Corruption and complies with all relevant laws, including the UK Bribery Act. EDF Trading conducts a detailed risk assessment for all new counterparts and areas of business, with a particular focus on countries and regions with a higher risk of corruption. 10 EDF TRADING Anti-Corruption Implementation EDF Trading is a member of the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) which is a business network aiming to reduce corruption in the maritime industries through collective action. From 2015 all EDF Trading employees will undergo Anti Bribery & Corruption (ABC) and Anti Money Laundering (AML) training annually. In previous years a risk based approach has been taken. EDF Trading has a comprehensive whistleblowing policy, which covers all offices and subsidiaries. A confidential hotline is available 24/7 in all relevant languages. Outcomes EDF Trading has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption of bribery. During 2014 across Europe and Asia, anti bribery and corruption (ABC) training was completed by 95% of relevant employees and contractors, and anti money laundering (AML) training by 91%. In the US 98% of relevant employees and contractors completed ABC and AML training. 11 EDF TRADING Contact information EDF Trading (Headquarters) 3rd Floor, Cardinal Place 80 Victoria Street London SW1E 5JL United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0) 20 7061 4000 Fax: +44 (0) 20 7061 5000 Email: enquiries@edftrading.com Or visit our website : www.edftrading.com 12 EDF TRADING
