anNual REPORT 2014 Strengthening our way 1 Index 04 06 16 Letter from the About Ineco Activity Chairman Who we are 08 Aviation 18 Our management team 10 Railways 22 Consolidating our 11 Roads and Intermodal 26 strategic model Projects in focus 32 Our figures 13 Ineco around the world 14 2 56 68 100 Integrity and Commitments Annexes transparency Regulatory framework 59 Committed to our clients 70 Balance sheet 100 Governance model 63 Committed to our team 75 Profit and loss account 103 Committed to society 84 Committed to the 90 environment Committed to our 97 suppliers 3 Dear shareholders, clients and employees, Letter from the Ineco’s ability to adapt and make full use of our Chairman experience in the global market has led to a 13% growth in revenue from services provided outside Spain in 2014. “ We ended the financial year having taken 182.4 million euros in turnover and showing an operating profit of 4.3 million euros, concluding the first stage of a journey characterised by new challenges that Ineco has confronted by combining the strength of more than four decades of experience with the transformation of our organization and business model. ” This change was necessary to guarantee the company remained sustainable and competitive and, with no little effort, it has begun to bear fruit. Ineco’s human and technical capital, accumulated over a long period of developing Spanish transport’s large infrastructure, is now coming of age and being made available to new clients outside of Spain. Not forgetting, of course, our mission to serve the Spanish Administration and our shareholding companies, our order book and revenue figures for 2014 reflect the evolving global demand for engineering and consultancy services: the market that experienced the greatest growth was that of non-EU countries, where our revenue went from 44.7 million euros in 2013 to 51.1. Great regions in the world, such as the Middle East and Latin America, are undergoing their own economic and social transformation process. An inevitable part of this is the development of efficient and modern transport infrastructure capable of guaranteeing that future economic growth is unhindered. This is where Ineco offers its value-added 4 services which are endorsed by our long history of working on Our vocation for public service is encapsulated by the works we carry roads, railways and airports, which has led to Spain becoming one out under different agreements such as those signed in Brazil and of the countries with the best transport infrastructure in the world. Panama. Thanks to these projects, Ineco supports the strengthening of institutions and the national infrastructure plan, respectively. Air traffic continues to grow across the planet, which is a global trend that even the recession has not been able to slow And naturally, in 2014 we have continued to lend specialised down. Ineco’s aeronautical projects across the world hinge on technical support to our shareholders, Enaire, Renfe, Adif and modernising and improving airports, optimising air space use Adif Alta Velocidad, as well as to Aena and to Spain’s Ministry and increasing safety. This is exemplified by new contracts such of Public Works and Transport to maintain and modernise as the commissioning and Operational Readiness and Airport national infrastructure. Transfer (ORAT) of Abu Dhabi Airport’s new terminal, which was awarded in conjunction with Aena, and the supervision of the As we are well aware of the vital importance of innovation, enlargement works carried out on the Jorge Chávez International we have been launching new projects designed to improve Airport in Lima, Peru. And let us not forget the existing projects our solutions, as well as new product offers, throughout the that we have continued to make progress with, such as the year. All this increases the efficiency and sustainability of the Kuwait International Airport expansion project which we have transport systems that serve our society. Our efforts in the area of been managing since 2011, and the improvement programme innovation have been recognised by Bentley Systems in the UK for 50 regional airports across Brazil. As a result, income from due to our work on the railway station Delta Junction on the HS2 aeronautical projects –a fifth of our international portfolio– line, where our use of technological tools such as BIM (Building increased compared to 2013, up to 46.2 million euros. Information Modelling) proved invaluable. With regard to railways, the large-scale projects already begun As such, over the course of the year, innovation, technical in previous years continued full steam ahead in 2014. In terms of knowledge and our mission to serve have been our key values, high speed, it is worth mentioning the High Speed 2 project in the together with the ten principles we subscribed to under the Global UK (London-Birmingham), the beginning of the track assembly Compact, and which we renew for another year with the firm process for the Mecca-Medina line in Saudi Arabia and the final commitment of supporting the protection of the environment, supervision phase of the work on the central section of the Ankarahuman rights and labour standards, to follow good business Istanbul line in Turkey. We also began to work on another railway practices and to fight corruption. restoration project: the Dugo Selo-Novska line in Croatia. Given its relevance, it is worth noting that we have been contracted for the I would like to extend my thanks to all our employees, clients next six years to coordinate and supervise the deployment of the and shareholders for the trust they continue to bestow on our European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) for the nine company, which has enabled us to consolidate our transformation railway corridors that run across EU member states. process and end the year convinced that we are on the right path. In the sphere of urban transport, preliminary studies that are We will continue to work on adapting to the market requirements worth noting include the one conducted for the implementation and develop infrastructure of the best possible quality using of a light rail system in San José, the capital of Costa Rica, and the experience and courage of the professionals we are lucky the work carried out as part of Ecuador’s National Strategic enough to have at our disposal. We will tackle the challenges the Mobility Plan. Ineco continued to work on the Urban Plan for future brings safe in the knowledge that we are fully prepared to Muscat in Oman, which will provide the city with a modern, successfully overcome them. efficient system. Jesús Silva Fernández With regard to roads, it is worth highlighting our ongoing largeChairman scale projects such as the enlargement of the GuadalajaraColima highway in Mexico and the completion (North Stretch) of the Rodoanel Mário Covas, the São Paulo ring road in Brazil. 5 About Ineco “ Few engineering firms can boast of the quality of services that Ineco provides. Our global and multimodal nature, as well as being present throughout the life cycle of infrastructures, really sets us apart from our competitors. ” Ana Rojo, Engineering and Services Managing Director 6 7 Railways Aviation Who we are Roads Urban transport Ineco is a global leader in transport Ports engineering and consultancy. With an expert team of around 2,500 professionals, Environment we have been contributing to infrastructure development in the aviation, railway, road, urban transport and port sectors for over 45 years in over 50 countries around the world. Our services encompass projects’ entire lifecycles, from preliminary feasibility studies to commissioning and maintenance. Global Thanks to our high level of technical expertise, we have diversified into new markets whilst reinforcing our presence in those in which we are already established. engineering and Our high level of technological capability allows us to bring the most advanced, consultancy profitable solutions to the projects we work in, both in the public and private sectors. Around 2,500 professionals More than More 45 years of than 50 experience countries 8 Why we are different… Global and Commitment to our A multidisciplinary, multimodal clients highly skilled team We are present in over This commitment Ineco’s value lies 50 countries across five is manifested in the in its people, with continents. We bring a excellence and quality around 2,500 expert comprehensive approach of our work, its longprofessionals ready to to the projects that we term success and our address any engineering carry out in all modes of dedication to innovation. challenge. transport. Wide experience Flexibility and High technological Over 45 years working competitiveness capability to develop efficient and We adapt to our clients’ Research and innovation sustainable transport needs and successfully are a major part of our systems aimed at address the challenges raison d’être: to reach the improving people’s posed by different highest levels of quality mobility. geographic, climatic, social in our work. and cultural situations. Profitability and Support in decision Strong commitment efficiency making to society We guarantee We evaluate all the Our work has a direct maximum efficiency possibilities in order to impact on the progress in our methodologies identify the best solution. of societies. and propose the most profitable alternatives possible. 9 Our management team José Manuel Tejera Ana Rojo Infrastructures and Transport Engineering Operations and Jesús Silva Ignacio Fernández-Cuenca Managing Director Services Managing Director Chairman Corporate Managing Director At December 2014 10 Consolidating our strategic model 2014 has been a year of consolidating the company’s can adapt itself throughout the entirety of a project’s lifecycle. globalisation strategy, as defined in its 2014-2015 Business Plan This is a unique global advantage which makes Ineco a leading which was approved in 2013. engineering company in infrastructure development. The company has continued to transform itself in order to adapt This transformation has enabled Ineco to maintain the high its business model to market demands. In this regard, Ineco’s level of quality of service it provides to its customers, whilst matrix structure has now been fully implemented and new succeeding in maximising its efficiency and profitability in an operational procedures have been consolidated, which were increasingly competitive environment. Even in this context, established over the course of 2013, enabling Ineco to reinforce the company has succeeded in remaining, for another year, the its globalization strategy. It is a well ordered process with a clear leader in the international engineering sector, contributing to focus on the specific needs of our clients. the sustainable development of infrastructures and producing value and wealth in the countries it operates in and the projects Ineco’s diversity is founded on its more than 45 years of it works on. experience, which enables it to offer one of the most detailed and diverse product catalogues in the sector. This means it Being Consolidating as the business’s competitive transformation as possible in international markets Talent retention Commitment to innovation and quality Improvement in risk management Revision of critical processes and analysis of lessons learned Remain cost efficient Execution of Business Plan 11 Mission To contribute to the sustainable development of transport infrastructures and the generation of value and wealth in the countries we operate in by offering competitive, tried and tested, flexible engineering and consultancy services which are focused on clients and shareholders’ interests. Values TEAM Expert Dynamic EfFicient Global profitabLe COMMITTED Innovative Sustainable Vision To be the leading firm in the world specialising in providing transport and consultancy services and to be recognised for our technological expertise and remarkable productivity in the main global areas of engineering. 12 Our figures Ineco earned 182.46 million euros in 2014, from which the rise in revenue from services rendered to the international market stands out, growing by 13%. Turnover Operating profit Staff 182.46 4.37 2,366 million euros million euros employees As at December 2014 Revenue by geographical region in 2014: Revenue by service rendered: Regions 2014 Service 2014 2013 Europe € 131,320,339.95 Public sector € 154,937,908 € 134,351,824 Spain € 125,529,466.73 Private sector € 27,522,879 € 53,104,061 Asia € 32,665,317.03 Grand total € 182,460,787 € 187,455,885 South America € 13,826,680.27 Central and North America € 4,040,959.95 Distribution of 2014 portfolio by sector: Africa € 470,992.61 Sector Domestic International Oceania € 32,709.50 Railways 70.84% 62.14% Grand total € 182,460,787 Aviation 11.75% 15.74% Intermodal 17.41% 22.12% Revenue by sector: Data related to annual portfolio average Sector 2014 2013 Railways € 111,394,238 € 121,432,378 Aviation € 46,291,409 € 44,705,404 Intermodal € 24,775,140 € 21,318,103 Grand total € 182,460,787 € 187,455,885 13 Ineco around the world Ineco has been adapting itself to new market contexts and successfully overcoming the challenges that have been put before it for nearly 50 years. Over the last few years, it has consolidated its international presence, carrying out projects in over 50 countries. More than 50 countries Ineco has two subsidiaries, lneco do Brasil (in Brazil) and Inecomex (in Mexico), and it has holdings in Tenemetro (10%), CEAVMM (1.5%) and AIE Crida (16.67%). Ineco also has branches in the following countries: • Ecuador • Cape Verde • Chile • India • Colombia • Singapore • Panama • Saudi Arabia • Peru • Kuwait • United Kingdom • United Arab Emirates • Turkey • Oman In addition, due to the agreements in place in certain countries it operates in, Ineco has formed various types of association America with other companies, such as joint ventures and temporary business associations. Argentina El Salvador Bolivia Jamaica Brazil Mexico Chile Nicaragua Colombia Panama Costa Rica Peru Ecuador Venezuela 14 Africa Europe Asia and the Middle East Oceania Algeria Mali Bulgaria Norway India Oman New Zealand Angola Mauritania Croatia Poland Iraq Philippines Cape Verde Morocco European Commission Portugal Jordan Qatar Egypt Namibia Denmark Serbia Kazakhstan Saudi Arabia Ethiopia Uganda Estonia Spain Kuwait Singapore Kenya France Turkey Nepal United Arab Emirates Italy Ukraine Lithuania United Kingdom 15 Activity “ The works developed through 2014 make clear that our presence in strategic countries is being strengthened, and that we have opened new markets in which we have positioned ourselves as the leading Spanish engineering firm. All of this, without forgetting the support of our clients and shareholders in Spain. ” José Manuel Tejera, Transport and Infrastructure Managing Director 16 Aviation The development of more than 30 projects in over 21 countries, including Spain, has allowed Ineco to raise the turnover of its aviation activity compared to the previous year. A positive figure which the company expects to increase even further in 2015, both in national and international territories. 18 Air transport is, by definition, a global, been suffered, for a number of different supranational and ever-growing mode of reasons; and it paints a picture that leaves On the up transport: according to the latest figures published by the ICAO (International little room for doubt as to air transport’s economic and social significance and the Civil Aviation Organization), global air impact it has on national economies, both traffic increased by 4.5% compared to in more developed and emerging parts of the previous year, transporting 3.1 billion the world. passengers on scheduled flights and 40% of all global commodities in terms of value. Ineco operated across all these areas Furthermore, 40% of international tourists throughout 2014, with more than across the world travel by plane and 30 projects in 21 countries, including Spain, 29 million employees rely directly or where it increased its activity, providing indirectly on the airline industry. services to Enaire and Aena, as well as its institutional clients: Spain’s Directorate These figures show a growing tendency General of Civil Aviation (DGAC) and the that flies in the face of the economic Spanish Aviation Safety and Security recession and the recent setbacks that have Agency (AESA). Over the course of a key 19 year for the company, against a backdrop of a changing economic in Cali, where a new international terminal is being built; tendency at home and of consolidation and expansion in the in the capital, Bogotá, monitoring the construction of the overseas market, Ineco tackled its objectives to breathe new life control tower in the Eldorado airport, which was another into business in the domestic market and stimulate and increase project Ineco was involved in; and various projects on the its activity in strategic regions abroad. airport in Cartagena de Indias. The results show just how positive Ineco’s progress has been, The Middle Eastern countries, in particular those around which is reflected in its increase in revenue in the aviation sector, the Persian Gulf, are also fully committed to air transport. which totalled 46.2 million euros in 2014, compared with In 2014 Ineco reinforced its presence in the area with new 44.7 in 2013, which represented over 15% of Ineco’s international contracts, such as the commissioning and Operational portfolio (annual average), worth more than 25 million euros. Readiness and Airport Transfer (ORAT) of the new terminal being constructed in the Abu Dhabi airport, won along Being able to count on a modern airport infrastructure which is with Aena. The company possesses the broad experience appropriate to the anticipated volume of traffic and having the it amassed during the enlargement of major Spanish necessary equipment, procedures and systems for air navigation airports such as Madrid-Barajas, Barcelona, Málaga, are vital components for efficient and safe air transport. In 2014 Alicante and Gran Canaria. Ineco continued to make the Ineco provided engineering and consultancy services in areas very most of this experience throughout the year gone with great potential for growth, such as the Middle East and Latin by, as it progressed with its ongoing projects, such as the America. In Brazil, Ineco continued its modernisation work on project management of the expansion works of the airport 50 regional airports; and in Peru it began supervising the greatest in Kuwait, which began in 2011, and the design of flight expansion the Lima airport has undergone to date, as well as procedures for the airports in Muscat and Salalah in the the planning and pre-investment studies for the new airport in Sultanate of Oman (2013), as well as for Changi Airport Chiclayo. In Colombia Ineco worked on airports in the country’s in Singapore. It is also worth noting the progress made in main cities, such as the construction project to enlarge the airport another project which is already underway and predicted to be completed in 2015, Nepal’s Civil Aviation Restructuring Plan, as well as the work carried out on airports in African countries such as Cape Verde, Uganda and Angola. As well as its activity abroad, Ineco continued to work on Spanish airports in conjunction with its shareholders and Aena. This work includes transferring the new northern dyke and remodelling and improving Gran Canaria Airport’s terminal building; the certification process; and drawing up an Energy Efficiency Plan for the 47 airports across the network. With regard to air navigation, Ineco supported Enaire in projects such as its analysis into improving air-toground communication coverage in the central northern and eastern regions and the Canary Islands and the development of the new 4.1 version of the COVERCOM tool. In addition, Ineco carried out more than 170 radioelectric simulation studies to determine the effect caused by the presence of new obstacles and the application of software (MEDVSA) in order to automatically calculate radioelectric rights violations in CNS (Communication, Navigation and Surveillance) systems. In the area of TMA operations management, Ineco continued to support the commissioning of the SantiagoAsturias free route (FRASAI) project which is part of the FAB (Functional Airspace Block) between Spain and Portugal; it was involved in implementing A-CDM (Airport Collaborative Decision Making) procedures in the Barcelona and Madrid airports; it conducted runway capacity studies for the Gran Canaria, Bilbao, Málaga, Palma de Mallorca and Barcelona airports; and it analysed the feasibility of altering the control sector’s scope in the eastern part of Spain. Ineco also carried out a number of different safety assessments: applying Eurocontrol’s Safety Assessment Methodology (SAM) to the safety studies of the services 20 of En Route Communications and Surveillance and TM; to visual framework for airport service providers in Spain. The Spanish segment surface (VSS) evaluations in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Aviation Safety and Security Agency (AESA) commissioned Ineco Almería and Asturias; to situations in which contingency plans in to conduct aviation inspections, such as those carried out in the various airports and control centres change; etc. Murcia-Corvera, Castellón and La Seu d’Urgell airports. With regard to developing air navigation systems, Ineco conducted In the next financial year, 2015, Ineco is planning to increase accelerated-time simulation studies into resectorising airspace its activity in all the aforementioned areas, both in Spain and in the TMAs of Madrid, the Gran Canaria airport and the Palma overseas, with targets such as opening new markets –at the de Mallorca airport and it came up with a way of estimating CO2 time of going to press it had already signed its first contract emissions based on the real trajectory. The company also estimated in Oceania– and succeed in becoming involved in large-scale the operating capacity of the control tower´s ATC positions in the international projects that consolidate and reinforce its position Tenerife Sur, Málaga and Gran Canaria, and conducted simulation in strategic markets. Meanwhile, the company has approved studies for the cost-benefit analysis of PBN manoeuvres for Almería and launched its innovation programme for 2015, as one of the airport (ACCEPTA project). foundations of its future business development, which includes projects such as a study of runway pavements and developing a Other noteworthy projects Ineco carried out for Enaire included specific tool for designing air navigation procedures. implementing the Radio Assistance Integration System SIRA (phases 1 and 2); lending engineering support for the improvement of radio, telephone, voice, etc. communications in the ACC and Madrid-Barajas airport; and adapting the Automated Air Traffic Control System (SACTA) to new functions. 46.2 million € revenue In the field of satellite navigation, Ineco was involved in both 11.75% domestic portfolio projects in the European SESAR 1 programme and future SESAR (annual average) 2020 projects, as well as the adaptation of the MCC (Mission Control Centre) facilities located in Spain for EGNOS use. 15.74% international portfolio Furthermore, in 2014 Ineco worked in conjunction with Spain’s (annual average) Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGAC) to draft the Airport Regulation Document (DORA) which will set out the regulatory 21 Railways Through 2014, Ineco continued to commit to the upkeep of the Spanish rail network -one of the best in the worldwhilst strengthening its presence in the abroad market through its participation in relevant projects in Europe, Asia and Latin America. 22 Better connected regions From the very beginning, Ineco has had railways in its DNA. Over the course of more than four decades Ineco has been amassing experience through its involvement in the development and modernisation of the Spanish rail network. It is fair to say that this knowledge is now one of the company’s strengths–expertise that encompasses all the phases of a railway project’s lifecycle and is being made full use of in the international market. Armed with this wealth of knowledge, Ineco confronted the challenges that the 2014 financial year posed, such as the very complexity of its large projects abroad, and its commitment to maintaining a Spanish rail network that ranks among the best in the world. The company’s objectives for the railway department in 2014 were, on the one hand, to make progress with its considerable ongoing railway projects; and on the other, to play a greater role in the competitive international market. A key aim of Ineco’s project management strategy –which is an essential service in the company’s product catalogue– has been to develop more efficient and integrated work practices, which are vital in projects involving a large number of different companies. In this regard, Ineco has been enhancing the way it uses the advanced technological platforms and tools that enable information to be shared and a multitude of tasks to be coordinated. From a business perspective, Ineco has continued to increase or maintain its presence in areas with particularly dynamic economies, such as Latin America and Asia, but also in mature markets such as Europe, unlocking the potential of the knowledge it has accumulated. A good example of this is Ineco’s contract with the European Commission, signed in December, to supervise the deployment of the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) across the continent. Ineco, as part of the consortium, will, among other things, oversee projects, coordinate all the bodies involved and manage the technical and financial aspects of the work until 2021. The ERTMS, which will enable rail traffic across the whole of Europe to be brought together by a “common language”, will also equip the Dugo Selo–Novska line in Croatia, which is particularly important with respect to the country’s connections to the international network, and it is being renovated and modernised under Ineco’s technical leadership. 23 The company has also been in charge of the project management of another considerable international project since 2011: the contract for phase two of the high speed line between Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia, which includes the design, supply, installation, testing and commissioning of 450 kilometres of track and five stations. Throughout the year, Ineco has been moving forward with its track assembly work (which started in mid-2013). As well as heading up the project management tasks, Ineco has drawn up not only the drafts but the blueprints and constructive plans for the track, electrification, signalling, telecommunication, etc. The company has also been tasked with providing quality assurance, document management and general services. The UK has been one of Ineco´s main activity areas. High Speed Two Limited (HS2) is the company in charge of developing and promoting the new high speed rail network. Phase One will link London with Birmingham. Ineco, in conjunction with an English company, has been working on the preliminary design of the network’s third section (the Country North section), which is a highly complex route with two tunnels, 60 viaducts and three railway on the Quito-Durán and Otavalo-Salinas Santiago de Chile, whose existing contract junctions. In 2014, Ineco also obtained rail sections. As Brazil has embarked on a with Ineco has been broadened to the design service supplier qualification in considerable transformation project on modernisation of 49 trains which were Achilles Link-up, the system that determines its railway model, Ineco has suggested manufactured by Alston in the 70s. companies’ suitability for working with the they employ a common set of regulations British rail sector’s main clients. within the framework of an agreement with Somewhat more recently, also being EPL (Empresa Pública de Planejamento e updated is the fleet of 113 trams in the city In Turkey, work was completed on the Logistica). Ineco, which has worked in the of Pavlodar, in Kazakhstan, which have central section of the Ankara–Istanbul country for over two decades, continued each been in service for an average of 30 line (158 km of track between Inönü and to do so in 2014, supervising the design years. Ineco is heading up the consortium Köseköy). For three years, Ineco has been and commissioning of 26 new CAF trains that carried out the previous modernisation providing consultancy and supervising for the São Paulo underground (which study in 2014, which was financed by the high speed adaptation work on the will continue until 2016). Ineco has also the European Bank for Reconstruction existing infrastructure. Projects were also been carrying out the same type of work in and Development. Another feasibility completed in other parts of the world, Medellín, in Colombia, on three new trains study carried out in 2014 was that on such as Ecuador, where signalling was from the same Spanish manufacturer. the tram-train commuter system for the carried out on 562 junctions and level Another Latin American city that is crossings across 500 km of railway track modernising its suburban rolling stock is 24 metropolitan area of San José, the capital of Costa Rica, Making the very most of the company’s technical expertise which is a small area with 2.6 million people –60% of the with new markets and clients will be one of its aims for the country’s population– living there. next financial year. For instance, the partnership agreement signed at the start of 2015 with a British consultancy, to bid Meanwhile, in Spain, with the support of the Ministry of for railway projects in United Kingdom, is very much along Public Works and the shareholders Adif and Renfe, Ineco these lines. continued to complete or progress with various high speed projects across the country, such as the ValladolidIn Spain, meanwhile, Ineco will continue to work with its León, Alicante-Murcia and Extremadura lines and the shareholders, Adif and Renfe, as well as with the Ministry Mediterranean Corridor, as well as maintaining and of Public Works, to complete the work that is in progress improving the conventional network. on the high speed network and the renovation and improvement of the conventional network for commuter With regard to Adif, the functional studies that were carried trains and freight, with particular emphasis on rail links out (Murcia, Júndiz, Alicante-Murcia); the platform projects in ports and logistical hubs. Improving rail safety and (Elche, Loja bypass); the track assembly monitoring incorporating new technology –for both management and services in different sections; and various studies and operations– will be key to Ineco’s projects, both in Spain specific projects in the Pajares tunnel are all worthy of note. and abroad. Furthermore, Ineco has carried out construction projects, provided technical assistance on railway facilities and updated and improved signalling, telecommunications, ERTMS’s, overhead contact lines, substations and remote control systems on both conventional and high speed lines. In addition, Ineco was also involved in the Independent Safety Assessments of the modifications to the conventional network’s signalling. In the area of inspection, load tests were carried out on the Galician Atlantic Axis and on various other sections. In 2014, Ineco also worked in conjunction with the public operator, Renfe, on its modernisation and expansion project. With regard to the architecture and civil work sectors, the projects that were drafted and the project management and technical assistance services that were provided certainly stand out. In the field of rolling stock, among other work, technical audits on maintenance, factory inspections and asset valuation were conducted and assistance was provided on train modification. In order to make Ineco’s management and operations more efficient, ICT tools such as COPERNICO have continued to be developed for another year; and in the security domain, Ineco has remained working in conjunction with 24-hour regional centres on emergency management. For 2015, Ineco’s objectives for its railway department –which represents more than 60% of its international portfolio and 70% of its domestic portfolio– 111.4 million € revenue are to, on the one hand, meet the demanding targets set by its considerable international projects, such as the high 70.84% domestic portfolio speed line Mecca-Medina and HS2, as well as increase its overall turnover in the area, especially in high speed. Not (annual average) forgetting the development of other underground and tram networks which will make cities easier to travel in, such as 62.14% international portfolio the metro in Medellin, where the company is supervising (annual average) the manufacture and the commissioning of new trains. 25 Roads and Intermodal On its pledge to improve the mobility of the people, Ineco has undertaken through 2014 several projects related both with road network and also those that involve several modes of transport. Both areas of activity together have totaled the 17% of the domestic portfolio and 22% of the international portfolio (annual average). 26 Roads connect regions in order to make operating, maintaining and managing millions of people and a considerable roads in all four corners of the globe. Efficient quantity of goods more mobile. The Even in those areas in which the level of network directly influences societies and mobility required demands various modes networks is an essential part of regions’ economies. of transport to be linked together; when Ineco’s experience in developing this type transportation by land, air and sea is united of network, along with its team’s technical in order to break down barriers and enable expertise, enables the company to design, efficient mobility. plan and become involved in building, 27 Roads In 2014, Ineco carried out new international projects and progressed with those already underway, meeting the deadlines and objectives set out for each one of them. With regard to the Spanish market, Ineco continued to support the Ministry of Public Works in their modernisation work on the current network, which is one of the largest in Europe. The company pressed on with the first generation highway conditioning plan and began drawing up various projects to improve capacity and accessibility in various parts of the State Road Network of Spain. Also, in Madrid, Ineco is providing engineering services to design the remodelling work on the Nudo de Eisenhower on the A-2 highway’s junction for the M-40. In Torrelavega, Cantabria, the company took on the improvement work on the junction between the A-67 and A-8 highways, which was essential in order to connect traffic between inland and northern Spain. In Galicia, the Ordes bypass on the N-550 (in the province of A Coruña) will no longer go through a city centre which over 6,000 heavy vehicles pass through each day. Ineco also proceeded with its monitoring and surveillance work on one of the last sections of the A-7 highway still to be under construction, in the area of Motril in the province of Granada. Planned to open in 2015, a high-capacity road will be commissioned, which will run along the Mediterranean coastal area of Spain, from the French border to the province of Cádiz. Outside Spain, Ineco has been operating in various parts of the world, especially in Latin America. Over the last few years, countries such as Ecuador have invested significantly in its road network, which runs across an area whose regions have highly contrasting orography and natural environments. In 2014, one of Ineco’s most important projects on Ecuadorian roads was drawing up definitive engineering projects on the Juján bypass and the Santo Domingo Ring Road which has been divided into two sections due to the sheer size of the area it covers. Ineco also drew up preliminary design studies for the highway between Santo Domingo and Quevedo, and Quevedo and Babahoyo, which is more than 200 km long. It also developed the financial 28 framework for its competitive bid to operate the road and develop the necessary additional work to build it, as well as its Conservation, Operation and Maintenance Plan. Ineco was also active in Mexico, performing the role of Administrative Supervising Agent for the Guadalajara-Colima Highway. The company also progressed with another major project in Brazil, providing consultancy services to coordinate work on the final section –named Trecho Norte– which will complete the Rodoanel Mário Covas, the 177 km-long São Paulo ring road which encircles one of the largest metropolitan areas in the world, with more than 19 million inhabitants. During 2014, particularly significant advancements were made in the area of tunnels and viaducts. In 2015, the main challenge Ineco’s road projects will pose will be that of meeting the commitments it has taken on in the shape of the major international projects it is involved in. In Spain, which has an extensive, mature and appropriately sized road network, work will largely consist of maintenance and modernisation, in line with the Ministry of Public Works’ strategic plan. The encouraging signs of progression in the global economy, the company’s technical expertise and the experience it has amassed over the last few years from its competitive bids on roads are positive factors that indicate that the volume of contracts won by Ineco will increase once again. 29 Intermodal The objectives that were set out for 2014 in the field of intermodal transport comprised of making the most of the company’s know-how, both within and outside Spain, putting forward comprehensive and economically and environmentally efficient transport network proposals, designed with the real-world needs of each country, region and city very much in mind. The Public Transport Master Plan for Muscat, the capital of the Sultanate of Oman, is an example of Ineco’s intermodal planning. In January 2014 the Oman Ministry of Transport and Communications commissioned Ineco to develop the study, with the aim of planning both the infrastructure and the management of a new modern, efficient urban transport system for the city. The archipelago of Malta, in the heart of the Mediterranean, has the highest population density in Europe, with the additional distinctive feature that it is an island. With all this in mind, Ineco began work in 2014 to develop a National Transport Model which will form part of the national plan the Maltese government is carrying out. This financial year saw the conclusion of the consultancy service provided to Ecuador’s Ministry of Transport and Public Works on the implementation of another major project developed by Ineco: the National Mobility and Transport Plan. In 2014, studies were conducted on the ports of Esmeraldas (legislation and management), Guayaquil (management) and Puerto Bolívar (legislation), as well as another study for the competitive bid to work on the country’s main 20 fishing facilities. Staying with Ecuador, in early 2014 Ineco submitted its enlargement project for the Port of Manta to the Ministry of Transport and Public Works; and it worked on optimising the design, as well as lending support for international competitive bidding, throughout the year. Given Spain has the longest coastline in Europe, its ports are of utmost importance to the transport system. Grouped together in 28 port authorities, Spanish ports employ a landlord-style management model which affords them a high level of autonomy. Making regions better connected, in particular by rail, is one of the challenges they are working on, and which Ineco has been involved in over the last few years. In addition, in 2014, it continued to draw up access projects and provided rail consultancy services, as well as technical assistance for work on various Spanish ports. 30 In addition, it was involved in commissioning the Faros de España (Spanish Lighthouses) initiative for the public body that coordinates them, Puertos del Estado (Ports of the State), which consisted of analysing possible additional uses for the annexed facilities, such as accommodation, cultural activities, events and visits. The body also came up with a strategy to manage noise in the ports. In the field of analysis and planning, a project that continued into 2014 was the work for Spain’s Observatory for Transport and Logistics of the Ministry of Public Works, drawing up their final report (the second since it was commissioned in 2013) and expanding their database; as well as improving their search tool, incorporating geographical information and two new metropolitan transport and logistics models. Furthermore, Ineco continued to work alongside the Ministry of Public Works to put in place various development measures for Spain’s Logistical Strategy, which was introduced by the Government in 2012 with the aim of boosting Spain’s goods sector. Lastly, in the field of construction, it is worth noting that Ineco managed the comprehensive remodelling work on the headquarters of the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness and drew up two projects for rehabilitation work on the Ministry of Public Works’ main headquarters. In 2015, Ineco will press on with its ongoing international projects, whilst continuing to serve its clients in the Public Works Group. Before a likely more favourable economic backdrop, its main challenges for the next financial year will be to improve the efficiency and sustainability of its proposals, whilst committing to contribute to social and economic development, which is so closely linked to transport’s intermodality. 24.7 million € revenue 17.41% domestic portfolio (annual average) 22.12% international portfolio (annual average) 31 Projects in focus The projects we develop are the best example of what we are: global engineering and consultancy leader in transport infrastructure, both in the national and international market. 32 Peru Supervision of the expansion works on the Lima airport In 2014, Ineco was awarded the tender to supervise the expansion programme for the Jorge Chávez airport in the capital of Peru, which is the most important airport in the country. The enlargement project will see the airport double in size. In 2013, it was used by almost 15 million passengers and it is managed by a private consortium. Given that its traffic increases by 12% every year, the Lima airport simply has to grow. Therefore, an ambitious expansion programme has been drawn up, which includes, among other things, a second 3,500 m-long runway, new Enlargement of the airports’ surface passenger and freight terminals and greater access roads. area from 3 to 7 million square metres The airport has been managed by private concessionaire New passenger terminal in 2016 LAP since 2001, under the leadership of the public Peruvian body, OSITRAN (Supervising Agency of Investment in Second 3,500 m-long runway Public Transport Infrastructure) which ran an international tender for the award to supervise the work. Ineco, as part 23 million passengers in 2023, of a consortium with a Peruvian engineering company, won compared to current 14.9 the contract which lasts until 2021. 33 European Commission Support for the deployment of the ERTMS in the main European rail corridors Since the 1990s, through ERTMS, Europe has Ineco has already developed the Strategic Action Plan that details the management system that will be applied, and a draft been trying to unify the variety of signalling of the Deployment Programme structure. From 2015, there will systems that complicate the flow of rail traffic in be technical supervision of projects, an activity that Ineco had the Union. As a sign of its definitive backing to already performed in a previous contract. this vital initiative, the European Commission has contracted an Ineco-led consortium to supervise a vast ERTMS deployment programme over the next six years in the nine corridors of the European rail network. The diversity in the rail signalling systems within Europe is a barrier for internationalisation in the sector. In 1996, the European Commission defined a strategy for the future development of the ERTMS, but in February 2014, it was noted that efforts were not sufficient to apply it generally. As such, the Commission contracted an Ineco-led consortium to coordinate this task in the nine main European rail corridors, totalling more than 65,000 km, both from the political perspective and from the technical and financial perspectives. The project also includes the technical supervision of projects, the provision of economic-financial support, and various outreach activities aimed at all of the rail organisations involved: infrastructure administrators, operators, national safety Baltic-Adriatic Orient/East-Med Atlantic authorities, etc. North Sea-Baltic Scandinavian-Mediterranean North Sea-Mediterranean Mediterranean Rhine-Alpine Rhine-Danube Deployment in more than 65,000 km of European rail network 9 priority corridors Duration of 6 years 34 Ecuador Implementation of the National Strategic Mobility and Transport Plan The starting point for Ecuador’s National Strategic Mobility and Transport Plan is a devised plan with a multimodal approach. Between 2013 and 2014, Ineco, which was also involved in drawing it up, worked on carrying it out. The study analyses the needs of all the modes of transport’s infrastructures, as well as management aspects, such as licensing models for roads, ports and airports. Since 2007, Ecuador has been completely transforming its transport system by improving its infrastructure and reforming the rules and regulations that govern it. Therefore, between 2011 and 2012, the Ministry of Transport carried out the National Strategic Mobility and Transport Plan, which Ineco was actively involved in. The Plan set out a route map up to 2037 for the infrastructural development and structural reforms necessary to transform and improve land, sea and river transportation and their intermodality. Once it had been carried out, the start-up process was begun, which the company has also been involved in over the last financial year. Ineco worked on, among other tasks, planning the various sections of the E-25 highway, which is one of the most important in the country. The company laid the foundations for the national port system, promoted the Manta deepwater port and set out the design criteria for fishing ports. More than 800 km of road analysed With regard to airports, the state network management 4 international ports and 20 fishing ports system was evaluated and the country’s various domestic air corridors were analysed. In terms of land transport, size 25 airports and weight regulations were reviewed and various lines of work were suggested. With regard to licensing, the models Plan effective: 2012-2037 that apply to different infrastructures were also reviewed. 35 Brazil Coordination of the Northern Stretch works of the São Paulo ring road Since 2012, Ineco has coordinated the works of the final section of the largest road 44 kilometres, in addition to another infrastructure in Brazil, the ring road known as 3.6 km providing airport access Rodoanel Mário Covas, which has a total length 111 bridges and viaducts of 177 km. Although almost the whole road is already in service, the north section, which is 7 tunnels 44 km long, remains to be completed; around 30 participant companies thirty companies participate in this project. The section known as the Northern Stretch of the Rodoanel Mário Covas is the last section to be completed on this road. It was begun in 2002 and it is a toll highway divided into four concessions of 177 kilometres in total. The section under construction is 44 kilometres long, in addition to another 3.6 km that provides access to the Guarulhos airport, and it is also the section with the most complex route. It is designed with a maximum speed of 100 km/h, it will have three or four lanes, depending on the area; it will also require the construction of seven tunnels and 111 bridges and viaducts. Since the end of 2012, amongst other activities, Ineco has coordinated the planning of the project, the expropriations, and the environmental actions. To monitor the progress of the works, it uses SIOS, a system developed by Ineco itself. More than thirty companies participate in these works, which cover the municipalities of Guarulhos and Arujá, as well as São Paulo. The completion of the ring road will allow decongestion of the traffic of one of the largest metropolitan areas in the world, which has 19 million inhabitants. Currently, over 65,000 vehicles travel on the sections currently in service, many of which are heavy and long-haul. This ambitious macroproject is the BID’s (Inter-American Development Bank) most heavily financed project in South America and is part of the most complex roadworks in Brazil. 36 United Arab Emirates Operational Readiness and Airport Transfer (ORAT) of the new Abu Dhabi airport terminal In 2014, Ineco, along with Aena, won the tender to The ORAT project for Abu Dhabi uses the standard methodology but adapts it specifically for this airport. The services that are carry out the Operational Readiness and Airport being provided include the development of the programme and Transfer of the new Abu Dhabi airport terminal, the Concept of Operations, CONOPS (the description and initial planned for 2017. With over 15 million passengers evaluation of the main processes of the new airport, already conducted) and the implementation of the Airport Management in 2013, the new terminal will double its capacity. Centre. The new operation, exploitation, and maintenance model will be determined, and advice will be given in the adaptation of Since 2001, Ineco has designed and successfully tested its operating procedures. Furthermore, the human resources and methodology in Operational Readiness and Airport Transfer material needs will be identified, the spaces will be assigned, (ORAT) projects of expansions in over 20 Aena airports in Spain, and the different types of tests will be designed. The transition amongst them, those of Madrid, Barcelona, Malaga, Alicante and process also covers familiarisation of staff and planning of the Gran Canaria. The objective of this process, which begins much transfer to new facilities. earlier than the date of entry into service, is to ensure that the installations function properly and in a timely manner, that there are no incidents at the start of operations, and that the level of service complies with the required standards. In 2014, the proposal by Ineco and Aena won the international New terminal of 700.000 m2 tender called by the manager ADAC, Abu Dhabi Airports Company, for the Operational Readiness and Airport Transfer Capacity for 30 million passengers of the new Midfield Terminal Complex (MTC). With 700,000 m2 distributed over six levels, it will allow the current capacity to Operational in 2017 be doubled from 15 to more than 30 million passengers, when it becomes operational in 2017. With 65 positions for aircraft, the new terminal will have 3,000 parking spaces and a baggage handling system with a capacity for 19,000 suitcases/hour. Photo courtesy of Kohn Pedersen Fox (KPF) 37 United Kingdom HS2: London-Birmingham high speed line Progress continues to be made on the During the last financial year, Ineco worked on the preliminary and reference designs for the civil engineering work on the 75 km northern United Kingdom’s second high speed section (including two tunnels , 60 viaducts and three rail junctions), line –the first was the Eurostar in the supported the application for the Hybrid Bill and composed the Channel Tunnel-. It is expected to come Environmental Statement. The company is currently drawing up a more detailed design for phase 1, with the aim of making a competitive into service in 2026. In 2014, Ineco, as part bid for the project. of a consortium with a British consultancy, continued working on the preliminary Proving that Ineco’s hard work on the project has not gone unnoticed, the company’s design for “HS2 Birmingham Delta Junction” was design for the civil engineering work on the recognised by Bentley Systems’ Be Inspired Awards 2013, winning the northern section, which is around category “Innovation in Rail and Transit”. This is international recognition 75 km long. After the first phase of work, for the excellent project carried out by Ineco’s railway experts. the line will be 220 kilometres long and it will connect the capital, London, with Birmingham, the country’s second most populous city. Length of phase 1, London-Birmingham: Over the course of 2014, Ineco continued its work on the 220 km HS2 project, the high speed network that, from 2026, will transform the British rail transport network. When the Northern section (Ineco): 75 km first phase is completed in 2026, it will link London with Birmingham, the country’s second most populous city and Planned maximum speed: 400 km/h one of its main economic and industrial hubs. The line’s planned maximum speed is 400 km/h and the journey will Commercial speed: 360 km/h take just 49 minutes. Then, in the second phase, the line will split into two branches, one towards Manchester and the other towards Leeds -some 340 km of internationalgauge double track. 38 Brazil Support for the implementation of an open access railway model 11,500 kilometres of new railway lines planned Brazil has planned to construct 11,500 kilometres 28,200 kilometre rail network of new freight railway lines under an open access The Brazilian railway transports management model, in which the operation and 70% of the total freight from Latin management of the infrastructure are carried out America and the Caribbean by different companies. Ineco has been lending its support to implement it since 2014. Brazil has a 28,200 km freight rail network, run as a concession, which transports 70% of all the rail cargo operators’ freight from Latin America and the Caribbean. Between 1997, when the franchising system was first implemented, and 2012, freight traffic increased by 83%, according to data from the Inter-American Development Bank. The management model used is that of “vertical” concessions; in other words, concessionaires are responsible for both operating and managing the infrastructure. In 2012, the Brazilian government launched their Logistics Investment Program (PIL), a farreaching plan to construct 7,500 km of road and 11,500 km of new freight railway. The plan was to apply a different management model, known as “open access”, to this new network, in which the infrastructure is operated and managed by different companies. In 2014, within the framework of the bilateral partnership agreement between the Spanish and Brazilian governments, Ineco began to lend support to the public company Empresa de Planejamento e Logistica (EPL, Brazilian Logistics and Planning Company), under the Ministry of Transport, to implement the new railway model. Tasks included carrying out international benchmarking studies and assisting the EPL in setting out their regulatory framework. Ineco also drew up proposals to regulate independent rail operators and safety measures and evaluated the signalling and interoperable rail communication systems which enable the network to be managed under an open access model both now as well as in the future. 39 Kuwait Project management of the Kuwait International Airport’s enlargement programme In 2014, for a third consecutive year, the Kuwait International Airport continued with the most major expansion work in its entire history. This includes, among other tasks, a third runway, a new terminal for 25 million passengers per year The project management services provided for the Kuwait and a second control tower. In order to tackle a airport can be split into three categories: firstly, Ineco monitored challenge of this magnitude, Ineco developed and controlled the scheduling, costing and extent to which the a pioneering comprehensive management terms of the contract had been met for the work (an airfield, a passenger terminal building and private investment projects and monitoring system for the country, which to optimize their use). Secondly, the company coordinated the will continue to be applied until the project is interfaces between the main work and the rest of the ongoing concluded in 2016. projects and operations, including the study into its impact on how the airport operates, anticipating it and minimising risks. And lastly, Ineco integrated the projects’ scope, reviewing the planning, design and contractual documentation –as applicable– in order to guarantee each one was appropriate so projects’ scopes did not overlap. 8,500 million euros invested in ten years New terminal of over 700,000 m² built Three code 4F runways: more than In 2011, Kuwait’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), 800,000 m2 of pavement the department of the Kuwait Government responsible for Two control towers, each approximately managing the international airport, hired Ineco and its local partner as project manager consultant for the implementation 70 metres tall of the expansion projects set out in the Master Plan. This Plan was approved in 2005 and updated by Ineco in 2012 as part 5 kilometres of tunnel under the of a different agreement. In 2014, the company continued to runways, for air freight management employ its advanced control system for document management, costs and contract scope verification and fulfilment, which was developed specifically for this project. It is a pioneering system in the country and the client responded very positively to it. 40 Spain Performance Based Navigation (PBN) with satellite technology and development of flight procedures Throughout last year, Ineco once again provided Ineco also carried out a project to develop flight procedures for Enaire in 2014. Some of the most noteworthy services that Ineco its specialised services to Enaire, which provided include the development of PBN manoeuvres in the manages Spanish air navigation, for major Almería airport and a viability study in the Valencia airport; RNAV tasks such as the first phase of implementing 1 manoeuvres in the Canary Islands TMA and proposals for the Fuerteventura and Lanzarote airports; and a new STAR RNAV Performance Based Navigation (PBN), driven 1 manoeuvre from FORNO for the Santiago airport. In addition, by the ICAO. It was also involved in a whole two proposals were drawn up for the Murcia-San Javier airport as host of projects concerning flight procedure part of the ARIADNA project to design satellite-guided approach procedures for unmanned aircraft (drones) in airports with low development and airspace reorganization. volumes of traffic. Ineco is assisting Enaire in the implementation of Performance Ineco also took measures to guarantee the quality of the Based Navigation (PBN) and the progressive use of satellite flight procedures developed (preparing and reviewing drafts navigation, in accordance with ICAO directives. The main of technical instructions, check lists, etc.), as well as new operations carried out in 2014 were to implement RNAV-5 in instrument approach manoeuvres in the Canary Islands, A airways; RNAV-1 in TMAs; RNP APCH with all three minima lines Coruña, Madrid, Torrejón, Alicante and Barcelona airports. and RNP AR APCH; develop A RNP, implement and develop It worked on organizing and structuring airspace in the Seo the GBAS (Ground-Based Augmentation System), provide de Urgel, Lanzarote, Fuerteventura and Castellón airports; it development support and GNSS services and guarantee GNSS reviewed the new boundaries for the Tablas de Daimel National performance in Spain. Implementing PBN in Spain will continue Park; and it developed the Air Traffic Control Surveillance until 2020 and it is split into three stages. The first stage was Minimum Altitude Chart (ATCSMAC) with the new radar finished in 2014 with the implementation of the most immediately vectors for the Valencia TMA. In 2014 Ineco also conducted beneficial PBN operations, such as RNP approaches in the 118 operational incident studies across Spain into wind farms, Santander, Vigo, San Sebastian and Valencia airports and the new buildings, work in airports and surrounding areas, crane modernization of terminal area procedures, such as the TMAs in installation, advertisements at height, etc. the Canary Islands (east) and Almería. PBN implementation plan in Spain: 3 phases, between 2014 and 2020 Design of flight procedures for more than 20 airports 118 operational incident studies throughout Spain 41 Oman Public Transport Master Plan for Muscat More than a quarter of the Sultanate of Oman’s population –four million inhabitants– lives in its capital, Muscat. However, the city only has three bus routes, with taxis being the primary alternative. Therefore, the Ministry of Transport decided to draw up a multimodal plan to analyse the city’s public transport needs and plan its development. In 2014, Ineco was hired to carry out this work. Improving Oman’s transport infrastructure is closely linked to promoting its fledgling tourism industry, a key component of the sultanate’s economic diversification strategy. Within this framework, in January 2014 the Omani Ministry of Transport and Objective in 2040: 25% modal share Communications commissioned Ineco to draw up a Master Plan for public transport that would enable a new modern, efficient urban transport system to be planned for the capital, Muscat. The aim was to achieve a 317,000 cars and 13,500 taxis and 25% modal share for public transport by 2040. minibuses, versus 3 urban bus routes The Plan, which has now been completed, encompasses all Implementation over three phases modes of urban passenger public transport, both land (buses, minibuses, taxis and future rail systems) and sea (ferry). Taking this analysis as its starting point, the Plan sets out a series of action plans, suggesting that the private sector become involved and that modes of transport which are better for the environment are promoted. One of the most relevant proposals is to create a sole transport authority, led by the Ministry, which the Muscat Council becomes heavily involved in. Progressive implementation of an urban bus network was also proposed, as well as the regulation and modernisation of the taxi sector (which consists of 13,400 taxis and minibuses for different services: airport, hotels, etc.), currently the main alternative to the 317,000 cars driven in the city. It was also suggested that planning should begin for some sort of light rail system – light railway, tram, etc. There was also a wide variety of proposals to promote the use of public transport and disincentivize the use of private vehicles. With regard to how quickly these measures could be implemented, three stages were suggested (with timescales of between 2 and 7 years). 42 Brazil Studies and projects for regional airports The Brazilian government is modernising its regional airport network, and in 2014 Ineco began working with it on the first phase of the 270 regional airports included in the works. The work includes, among others, the first phase of modernisation preliminary studies, projects and geotechnical Almost 3,000 private airports and and pavement analyses for 65 aerodromes. more than 700 public airports across In 2013, the Civil Aviation Authority of Brazil (the Secretaria de the country Aviação Civil or SAC) launched an extensive logistical investment programme in airports in conjunction with the Banco do Brasil. 2,100 aircraft for general aviation Its first phase consists of modernising, newly constructing and (second largest fleet in the world) enlarging 270 regional airports belonging to various states and municipalities. In 2014, Ineco and its local partner were awarded 122.4 million passengers in 2017 in the tender to carry out preliminary and feasibility studies, preliminary and construction projects, as well as geological and the regional aviation market pavement analyses, on 65 of these airports. The country boasts 2,890 private aerodromes and 721 public airports (28 exclusively for military use), of which 10% are managed by their owner, Infraero, and the rest belong to states and municipalities. Regional aviation is extremely important in Brazil due to the country’s extensive land mass of more than 8.5 million square kilometres and the fact that more than half of it is covered by the Amazon rainforest, which means regional air transport is vital to economic development and mobility. In addition, Brazil has one of the largest government fleets in the world, only eclipsed by that of the USA, with approximately 2,100 aircraft and a strong aviation industry. Therefore, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) has calculated that by 2017 the domestic Brazilian aviation market will be the third largest in the world, with 122.4 million passengers. 43 Turkey Consultancy and construction supervision services for the high speed adaptation work on the Ankara-Istanbul line, InönüKöseköy section In 2014, the Turkish rail authority concluded its Alterations were made to both the project design and the way the work was to be carried out in order to deal with the sheer remodelling work on the conventional former line complexity of the task. In 2008 the Turkish government decided between Ankara and Istanbul to adapt it to speeds to alter the original project plans in order to deal with problems of up to 250 km/h. Ineco provided consultancy such as landslides and soil liquefaction. The line which has been progressively coming into service since 2009 does not currently and supervision services for the 158 km-long go right into the centre of Istanbul; rather the rail connection central section, the most complex part of a route terminates under the Bosphorus Strait (Marmaray project). which is 533 km long in total. The line between Ankara and the historic metropolis of Istanbul is the most important passenger and freight corridor in Turkey. Built at the start of the 20th century, 75% of the route, which was originally 576 km long, was composed of just a single track, and 158 kilometres of electrified double the journey time was over six hours. The remodelling work to track: Inönü-Köseköy section enable trains to run at maximum speeds of 250 km/h involved both renovating certain parts of the existing route and building 39 tunnels, 33 viaducts and two new sections. The line is currently 533 km long in total and the cut-and-cover tunnels journey time has been cut by half. 533 kilometres: current total length Turkish State Railways (TCDD) awarded Ineco and its local partner the supervision work of the 158 km-long central section between of the Ankara-Istanbul line Inönü and Köseköy, which involved both reviewing the designs and supervising and monitoring the construction, documentation and 250 km/h: current maximum speed procedures provided by the contractor, as well as the approval of the work. 44 Spain Study of the European Atlantic Corridor The Atlantic Corridor is part of the European Union’s core transport network. Starting in Portugal, it crosses the Iberian Peninsula, connecting roads, ports and airports, passing through France and finishing in Germany. In 2014, Ineco devised the work plan to study the Spanish section of this great trans-European axis. Ineco, as a member of a consortium also involving Portugal and France, conducted the part of the Atlantic Corridor study related to Spain and its border with Portugal, in 2014. The European Union’s new plan, approved in 2011, set out the nine great transport axes that would form the spine of the European Union, two of which were the Mediterranean and Atlantic corridors. The latter connects four countries: Portugal, Spain, France and Germany. It is not a linear axis, but consists of various branches that start from Portuguese ports and the port of Algeciras in the south of Spain, converging in the north and crossing the French border towards Germany. The aim of the study was to develop the work plan for the section of the corridor that runs through Spain. With this in mind, comprehensive analysis was carried out on the transport network’s main features and flows, both current and planned –up to 2030– including roads, railways, ports, airports, waterways, rail-road terminals and urban nodes. Approval and agreement was required from all the different Crosses 4 countries (Portugal, Spain, parties involved: the Ministry of Public Works, Adif, Puertos del France and Germany) Estado (Ports of the State), various port authorities, Aena, certain autonomous communities, etc. 4,535 kilometres of road, with 2,043 in Spain During the planning phase for the work on the corridor, information from official sources concerning the existing infrastructure and 6,483 kilometres of railway, with the planned projects was gathered and analysed. Furthermore, the 2,264 in Spain participants were contacted and information was exchanged with them, bottlenecks were analysed and measures and operations Linking two ports, Algeciras and Bilbao, were put forward to meet the core network’s requirements set out in Regulation (EU) No. 1315/2013. and two airports, Madrid and Bilbao 45 Croatia Improvements and track doubling on the Dugo Selo – Novska line Since 2011, Ineco, as part of a joint enterprise with several European companies, has been in charge of the technical management and renovation of the rail systems of the only section of the Croatian rail network that does not have a double track, between Dugo Selo, near the capital, Zagreb, and the town of Novska, 83 total of 19 stations and stops, which will also be remodelled; the kilometres away. The line is of great importance two terminus stations will be completely rebuilt, as well as those of Ivanic Grad, Popovaca, and Kutina. to the country’s rail communication with the rest of the European network. Ineco’s work in the contract includes the technical management of the project and the implementation of rail systems: electrification, signalling, and communications. The work will cover the renovation of the current line (platform, structures, drainage, track, etc.), and the construction of a second track covering the whole section. A new 10 km-long bypass will also be built between the stations of Kutina and Lipovljani. The railway installations will be completely renovated, and the installation of ERTMS as a management system, in accordance with the European specifications for TEN-T corridors, is planned. All level crossings, a total of 38, will also be removed. Once the work has been completed, towards the end of 2016, the maximum speed will be 160 km/h. As part of its process of incorporation into the European Union, Total length: 83 km which was completed in July 2013, Croatia has received financial support to modernise its transport, with a view to boosting New 10 km bypass its tourism and economic development in general. This is the context in which the project to renovate this railway line is taking Final maximum speed: 160 km/h place, which is very important for its connections with European corridors V, X and VII. In 2011, a consortium of several European Total number of stations and stops: 19 companies won a contract lasting three years to renovate and double the line. Removal of 38 level crossings The 83 km-long Dugo Selo – Novska section runs from west to east in the centre of the country towards Serbia. It is electrified and, although it was designed for speeds of up to 130 km/h, the poor condition of the infrastructure reduces the real speed to between 60 and 80 km/h. The section, with a single track, has a 46 Spain Projects on Spanish high Based in their work bases which are spread across the entirety of the network, Ineco’s teams, in conjunction with speed lines Adif’s, inspect all the components of the rail infrastructure and superstructure, such as viaducts, bridges and tunnels, as well as the track equipment. They also write monitoring reports and devise projects when repair work is required, as well as supervising the spares inventory, drawing up facility In 2014, Ineco worked in conjunction with renovation and improvement proposals and taking turns to Adif to maintain and develop various service be on call throughout the year. lines, such as Madrid-Sevilla, North-East Other notable work on the high speed network that Ineco (Madrid-Barcelona-French border) and carried out in 2014 is that undertaken on the Pajares East (Madrid-Castilla-La Mancha-Valenciabypass on the northern line (linea Norte) between Asturias Alicante). The tasks carried out varied from and León. The company has worked in conjunction with Adif since 2011 on additional work on this section under providing maintenance services and drafting construction, which runs along the entirety of the 25 kmprojects to managing and coordinating work long twin tunnels, the fifth longest in Europe. Once the in sections under construction, such as the platform had been completed in 2011, Ineco took charge of managing, monitoring and supervising the additional Pajares bypass. work (laying pavements, tunnel invert and chanelling), which was necessary in order to be able to begin work on Maintenance is a critically important task for guaranteeing the superstructure and waterproof the tunnels. Various safety and circulation, passengers’ comfort and the other projects had already been carried out on the reliability of infrastructures, as well as prolonging their section beforehand: a hydrogeological survey, monitoring useful life. In the last financial year, Ineco provided Adif assistance, environmental coordination and management with its specialist services in this field for a number of the for the platform work and commissioning the Information network’s sections and lines: Madrid-Sevilla (471 km), and Centre for the Pajares Tunnels, among other things. its La Sagra-Toledo branch (22 km); Córdoba-Málaga (154 km); and Madrid-Castilla-La Mancha-Valencia-Alicante (603 km). In total, this constituted a little over 2,000 km of preventative and corrective maintenance, on both tracks and facilities. 47 Active participation in more than 2,000 kilometres of high speed line in 2014 13 work bases Pajares bypass: two 24.6 km-long twin tunnels 48 Mexico Management and supervision of the Guadalajara-Colima highway In 2014, for the third year in a row, Ineco Furthermore, Ineco reviewed and supervised the work to enlarge the highway to allow space for six lanes as opposed to its original four carried out its Administration Agent and between the 134 and 148 km marks. The company also carried out Supervisor duties for the 148 km-long 17 conservation projects, as well as projects on the operational area. Guadalajara-Colima highway. Over the Another important project involved opening two toll stations in Acatlán II and San Marcos, which came into service on 30 June and 30 November. last financial year, enlargement work on the carriageway continued and two new It is worth underlining the fact that since the AAS contract started, and toll points were opened. The company also thanks to the improvement work, the volume of vehicles on the route has increased (8,462 per day in 2014), but the number of accidents and oversaw the complex enlargement work on emergency response time, which went from 20 to 8 minutes, have both the so-called “mountain section”, near the reduced. Complaints from users are also down by 63%. Colima volcano, which will be completed in 2015. During 2014, Ineco continued its work as the Administration Agent and Supervisor (AAS) of the GuadalajaraColima highway, in line with the 14-year contract it won in 2011, as the head of a consortium of Spanish and Mexican companies. The 148 kilometre-long highway is located in the central western region of the country, and it is part of the Manzanillo-Tampico route that runs right across Mexico. Banobras (Mexico’s National Works and Public Services Bank), the road’s licensee, implemented a new management model, in which a supervisor coordinates the route’s “operation” and “maintenance”, which are both carried out by different companies. One of Ineco’s most notable projects in 2014 was managing 148 km of highway the 4-lane enlargement work on the so-called “mountain 8,462 vehicles per day in 2014 section”, between the 103.5 and 122.2 km marks, which began in 2013. It is a particularly mountainous section Enlarging the “mountain section” to four –running near the Colima volcano– which will be negotiated with the help of 22 large bridges and viaducts. lanes: new 16.5 km alignment and A second 16 km alignment is also being built, separate 22 structures from the current one, so eventually there will be two highway parts, one for each direction. The work is due to be 2 new toll points commissioned completed in 2015. 49 The European Commission The Galileo Service Centre applications; the public regulated service, such as police and customs; and search and rescue. Towards the end of 2014, Ineco won the four-year contract to commission the Galileo Service Centre, located in Torrejón de Ardoz, Madrid. The centre is part of the European Galileo satellite system the European Commission is launching, which provides services with a number of different uses. The European Commission is launching the Galileo navigation system, which consists of a constellation of satellites (there are currently 8 of them and there will be 30 by 2020) and various facilities on Earth. In September 2014, the Galileo Service Centre was opened in Torrejón de Ardoz (Madrid), and Ineco, as part of a European consortium, won the framework contract to commission it. Galileo is the first ever high-performance satellite navigation system for civilian use and it will afford Europe a greater degree The contract, which lasts four years, covers the development of technological independence with regard to the current of the concept of operations, as well as the initial operations navigation systems, GPS (USA) and GLONASS (Russia), whilst procedure and hosting services. Ineco is coordinating two other also complementing and being compatible with them. contracts and acting as an intermediary with its client, the European Global Navigation Satellite Systems Agency (GSA). Thanks to an agreement between the Spanish Government and the European Commission, the Centre is being housed in the National Institute of Aerospace Technology’s (INTA) facilities 30 satellites in 2020, 8 of which whilst another building is being equipped for their purposes, are already in orbit which is expected to be ready in 2015. The Centre mainly acts as an interface between the system and those who use these open 4-year contract and commercial services. 5 types of Galileo service: There are five types of Galileo service: open and free of charge, open, commercial, for critical for all types of user; commercial, for a fee and with better, multiuse features; for critical applications, in other words those where applications, for public regulated safety is of utmost importance, such as air navigation and rail use and search and rescue 50 Colombia Supervision of the manufacture and commissioning of new trains for the Medellín metro The Medellín metro has been renovating its rolling stock since 2010. Since then, Ineco has been supervising the design, manufacture and track tests of the new trains, which were manufactured in Spain. The company continued with the work into 2014 and it will last until 2016. Ineco is undertaking the supervision and technical management of the design, manufacture and fine-tuning of three new units manufactured by the Spanish company CAF for the Medellín metro in Colombia. The city is the country’s second most populous urban centre and it opened its suburban train in 1995, which consists of three conventional metro lines and three “metrocables” (gondola lifts). In 2010, renovation work began on the fleet –currently consisting of 42 units– with 13 new trains, also from CAF. Ineco was also responsible for the supervision and technical management of the design, manufacture and fine-tuning of these units, as well as the signalling equipment (ATC) for 26 driver’s cabs. The Medellín metro hired the company’s services once again in 2014 for the delivery of a second batch of 3 new trains. The first phase of the work is to approve the design, ensuring that any contractual requirements and technical specifications are met. During manufacture all the equipment along with the assembly process were examined, as well as the initial tests; the units were then shipped to Colombia where their transfer to the Medellín metro´s facilities was supervised. Lastly, track tests were conducted and the units were fine-tuned in preparation for coming into service. 16 new trains supervised since 2011 The new units were designed with the features of those already Each can carry more than 1,100 in operation in mind, so they would be similar to operate and drive. The new trains are made up of three carriages each and passengers can carry up to 1,145 passengers. Their planned speed is 100 km/h, although their operating speed will be 80 km/h, and Commercial speed: 80 km/h they are equipped with the latest technology. 51 Spain Studies and projects for the Mediterranean Corridor The work on this corridor, part of the TransEuropean Transport Networks, aims to improve rail freight traffic along the entirety of the Mediterranean coast of Spain. In 2014, Ineco supported the Ministry of Public Works to draw up worldwide studies and adaptation projects that will make the Spanish rail network interoperable with the rest of Europe. Almost half the population of the country and 45% of its industrial activity –in particular automotive and chemical sectors– have all gathered along the Spanish Mediterranean coastline. The country’s main ports, Algeciras and Valencia, among others, are also situated along the 556 kilometre-long strip. The Mediterranean Corridor, together with the Atlantic, is part of the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T) and the Ministry of Public Works has been undertaking the necessary work to implement the standard or international gauge throughout the axle, which runs from Castellbisbal in Barcelona to Cartagena in Murcia. 556 kilometres long The aim is to make it interoperable with the European network, as well as increase trains’ capacity. Trains could be up to 45% of Spain’s GDP is generated in 750 metres long, which would reduce costs. It is a very its surrounding area technically and operationally complex procedure; the work has to be carried out without interfering with the high volume, varied 30 projects and 5 of its studies passenger and freight rail traffic that uses the Iberian-gauge corridor: commuter, long-distance and freight trains (whose final Timescale: 30 months destination is within the Iberian Peninsula), etc. Ineco has conducted a total of 5 (functional and economicfinancial) planning studies and 30 construction projects, which can be categorised into four types of operation: implementing a “mixed” gauge (with a third rail); changing the gauge from ‘Iberian’ to standard; adapting sidings for trains up to 750 m long and converting the gauge to the interoperable European standard; and, lastly, adapting the electrification, safety and signalling installations and, when required, carrying out new electrification. 52 Spain Study of the impact of urban planning on airports DGAC, the civil aviation authority in Spain, must ensure that urban development around airports does not interfere with operations and that it complies with the regulations. During 2014, Ineco provided support in this task. The functions of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGAC), as the highest Spanish aviation authority, include ensuring compatibility between the urban planning of airport surroundings and the requirements of its master plans. Furthermore, it is responsible for regulating the aviation sector, and modifying and adapting Spanish technical regulations to international regulations, as well as civil aviation policy. In 2014, Ineco provided the DGAC with specialised technical support in legal matters, airport and strategic planning, and urban planning. The main tasks were the preparation of documentation and drafts for mandatory urban planning reports, support in the processing of master plans, follow-up of the process of a declaration of general interest in future or planned emerging airports, development of proposed regulations, revision of proposals of new easements, and follow-up of the Aviation Sector’s Development Plan, amongst others. The work carried out in the preparation of documents for the DGAC’s mandatory reports is particularly notable, as well as the adaptation of spatial and urban planning for over 310 municipalities. Fourteen spatial plans were analysed to study potential incompatibilities with airport development. Ineco also collaborated in the setting up of the Airport Adaptation of town planning in Coordination Committees of Castilla y León, the Basque County, 310 municipalities Valencia, Andalusia, Aragón, the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, Galicia, Murcia, Navarra, Catalonia, Extremadura, Ceuta, Study of 14 spatial plans Melilla, and Cantabria. Support in the implementation of Furthermore, it participated in the technical evaluation of 16 Airport Coordination Committees acoustic easements in Bilbao airport, as well as aviation easements in Logroño, Girona, Almería, Ibiza and Granada-Jaén airports, and it has carried out different studies and developed technical notes on the proposal of the Master Plan for HuelvaCristóbal Colón airport. 53 Spain Drafting road routing and Villamartín de la Abadía (junction for the A-6 highway) and Requejo, and between A Veiga and O Barco de Valdeorras. construction projects Additionally, the construction of the Ordes bypass on the N-550 road will mean heavy traffic will no longer pass through the centre of the town as it has had to up to this point. The N-550 In December 2014, the Directorate General of has a high traffic volume, given that 75% of the total population of the region lives in the area around it. Roads of the Ministry of Public Works hired Ineco in order to draft five road transport projects for In Cantabria, the Ministry of Public Works has constructed different points in the country. All these sections and commissioned the A-67 highway in the last few years and work on the section of the A-8 highway between Solares suffer from heavy traffic, which the planned work and Torrelavega is being carried out at present. These two will help to alleviate. highways overlap along the north-eastern stretch of the Ronda de Torrelavega (Torrelavega Ring Road), between the Torrelavega In Madrid, the remodelling work on the so-called “Eisenhower and Sierrapando junctions, resulting in a capacity problem in junction” on the A-2 highway will consist of restructuring the the section. To counter this, current road operation conditions exits onto the M14, which have to withstand a great deal of on the highway, the Sierrapando-Barreda auxiliary route and the traffic, resulting in frequent jams. The junction is located along Sierrapando, Barreda and Torrelavega junctions will be improved. the section between Arturo Soria street and the M-50 ring road, which is often congested. All these routing and construction projects will take 18 months to draft. There are two ongoing projects in Galicia, on two sections of the new A-76 highway between Ponferrada and Ourense and on the Ordes bypass in the province of A Coruña. Projects on 7 routes across 3 The first of these projects is to develop the N-120 route that connects Ponferrada and Ourense, which is considered the autonomous regions main link between Galicia and the Meseta. To this end, two construction projects were drafted for the sections between 5 projects currently being drafted 54 55 Integrity and transparency “ At Ineco, the relationship with our stakeholders is based on transparency, always sticking to the professional ethics that defines our integrity. ” Ignacio Fernández Cuenca, Corporate Managing Director 56 58 Ineco’s values are based on two key corporate concepts: transparency for all its stakeholders and integrity as a key principle for operation and professional ethics. The company has a firm commitment to the environment, and since 2008 it has adhered to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, based on respect and promotion of human, labour, and environmental rights, and the fight against corruption. These ten principles are part of Ineco’s corporate culture, and they are applied in its daily activity and integrated into the services provided by the company. Integrity all of the policies and standards that govern the ethical behaviour of the Regulatory standards company with its stakeholders: framework • Corporate Responsibility Policy • Code of Conduct In its commitment to sustainability, Ineco’s • Environmental and Quality Policy activities are based on three main pillars: • Zero Tolerance to Corruption Policy the economy, society, and the environment. • Information Truthfulness and These aspects are determining factors Transparency Policy in terms of its relationship with its • Harassment Policy environment and they ensure that the • Comprehensive Safety Policy company strictly monitors its management model. It is not only a question of complying These Standards also include all of with the regulations in force in each country the applicable operating methods and in which it operates, but also of preventing, procedures to ensure that Ineco’s activity is promoting, facilitating, correcting, and consistent with its values. supervising, in order that Ineco and all of its professionals act in accordance with The Ethics Committee is the body the main international standards, the legal responsible for monitoring that they are framework, corporate values, and the topical complied with. The organisation also social requirements. displays the Standards on its corporate intranet and through other channels such As such, Ineco has Integrity, Transparency as Welcoming Sessions for new employees. and Commitment Standards that include 59 Corporate Responsibility Policy Ineco contributes to the development and improvement of the society in which it operates, integrating social, labour, and environmental concerns into its strategy and management. Integrity, transparency, and commitment are the principles that govern the company’s activity and are the pillars on which the relationship between Ineco and all of its stakeholders are founded. Employees Suppliers Commitments Attractive corporate Trust and project transparency Increase in welfare and Advertising, competition, progress. non-discrimination. Clients Clear commitment to Confidentiality. innovation, research and Outstanding service Mutual benefits and trust. dissemination of knowledge: Objectivity. Quality and service excellence. · Quality employment. Promotion of Corporate Commitment to long-term · Merit and skill. Responsibility principles. success. · Professional development Ongoing dialogue and trust and training. relationship. Confidentiality and · Equal opportunities, Society reconciliation. objectivity. · Safety and health in all Cultural, social Clear commitment to positions. and economic innovation. · Teamwork, communication development and involvement. Inclusion of people with disabilities. Environment Increase in welfare and progress. Preventive approach Cultural, social and economic development. Priority given to environmental aspects Innovation, research and upon drafting projects and Shareholders dissemination of knowledge. rendering services. Cooperation with other Sustainable results companies of the sector. Responsible use of resources. Creation of sustained and Promotion of corporate Adequate management of sustainable value. responsibility among our waste. Efficient management. employees. Demanding practices for our employees and suppliers. Profitability and transparency. 60 Code of Conduct Ineco has a set of behaviour standards that define the corporate The Code of Conduct is based on respecting the Ten Principles of culture, the adherence to and application of which contributes to the United Nations Global Compact, which are aimed at respect ethical and responsible management in the development of the for human, labour, and environmental rights, and the fight against services and products that it offers, and in the relationships that it corruption. It is mandatory for all employees to abide by these establishes with the different stakeholders. principles in the exercising of their roles and responsibilities, in all of the professional spheres in which they represent the company. Structure personnel, Relationship of managers, and professionals with administrators the stakeholders Principles Knowledge and Relationship with clients: communication: responsible excellence, confidentiality, and ethical professional objectivity, and trust. performance. Relationship with suppliers Respect for and promotion and collaborating companies: of the workers’ fundamental trust and mutual benefit, rights. transparency, and impartiality. Loyalty to the Professionalism and Relationship with the international environment: organisation subordination of one’s own respect for legislation, culture interests to the company’s and customs. Reputation and loyalty to the interests. company. Strict compliance with Truthfulness, accuracy, and regulations. Respect for confidentiality. honesty in economic, and financial management. Transparency and truthfulness Efficient and responsible of the information: clarity, involvement. Application of merit and accuracy, and verifiability. skills principles in hiring new Rejection of gifts, Non-competition with other employees. compensation, and bribes. companies. Fostering the professional Appropriate use of the promotion and training of company’s resources. personnel objectively. Compliance with Enabling and promotion Relationship between environmental, health and of labour integration and professionals safety measures. reconciliation. Respect for others. Non-discrimination. Cooperation and collaboration. 61 Zero tolerance to corruption Compliance Programme In order to ensure transparency and integrity in the pursuit of As a global reference in transport engineering and consultancy, its corporate goals, Ineco expresses that it rejects all forms of Ineco adopts Corporate Compliance as an essential part of its corruption –both direct and indirect– in its Zero Tolerance to corporate culture. As such, and through adapting to the model Corruption Policy. already consolidated in Europe, the company has created an effective programme that guarantees surveillance and security, implementing a global and specific penal prevention model. Transparency and truthfulness The company is working on a Compliance Programme that includes all of the procedures, operation policies, action policies, of information standards, and internal controls for detecting and managing risks of breaches of internal and external regulatory obligations, mitigating the possibility of the criminal prosecution of Ineco, as well as to prevent risks of penalties and/or losses resulting from Ineco has a commitment of transparent management to its failures to comply with the Law. stakeholders, and as such, it works to always provide them with information that is accurate and transparent. The body competent in monitoring Compliance must be In 2014, the organisation implemented Law 19/2013 of 9 independent and autonomous with respect to the Management December on Transparency, Access to Public Information and team of the company. Good Governance, whose objective is to extend and reinforce the transparency of public activity, regulate and guarantee the right of access to information relating to that activity, and establish the obligations of good governance that the public officials must comply with. As such, it adapted its corporate website in order to accommodate the contents required by the aforementioned Law and possess the mechanisms necessary to put into operation access to public information, through an e-mail account as well as a specific communications channel for enquiries relating to issues of information transparency. As a result, Ineco has an inbox and a specific procedure for exercising the right to information, both physical (at the corporate headquarters) and online (through the corporate website http:// www.ineco.com/webineco/transparencia/contacto-transparencia). In terms of financial control, Ineco applies policies that are documented, implemented, and accessible, both for its staff and its collaborators. As such, it allows the following to be ensured: • Effective and reasonable management of the risks associated with the projects. • That the financial statement figures are presented in accordance with criteria of truthfulness, integration, and transparency, in compliance with nationally and internationally accepted accounting principles. Furthermore, Ineco is subject to dual external financial control, the first in application of private legislation, and the second for its integration into the Spanish public sector. All of the above implies that the financial statements submitted by Ineco are an accurate reflection of the assets and financial position of the company, in compliance with the commerce regulations in force and the applicable national and international accounting standards. 62 Ineco has the governing bodies necessary The Chairman of Ineco is the chief officer for ensuring that its values and the of the Board of Directors, the Management Governance management model reach all areas and Committee, and the Ethics Committee. disciplines of the company. The governance model model is determined by the current organisation and strategy, in accordance with the company’s needs. 63 Board of Directors Ineco’s Board of Directors is the body in The Board meets on at least four occasions throughout charge of making decisions and agreements the financial year and it must include a minimum of on strategic issues, preparing the financial five and a maximum of fifteen directors. It also has a statements, and approving budgets and non-board member secretary, appointed by the Board of other proposals raised by the chairman. It Directors. likewise monitors the company’s activity. Composition of the Board as of December 2014 Chairman Mr. Jesús Silva Fernández Chairman of Ineco. Directors Mr. Gonzalo Jorge Ferre Moltó Chairman. Adif. Mr. Javier Marín San Andrés Director General of Spanish Airports. Aena. Legislation Deputy Director-General. Technical Secretariat. Ms. Belén Bada de Cominges Ministry of Public Works. Mr. Mariano Navas Gutiérrez Director General. Cedex. Ms. Alejandra Sánchez Yánquez Advisor to the Technical Department. Economic Affairs Department of the President’s Office. Mr. Alberto Sanz Serrano European Union Deputy Director-General of Commercial Policy and International Trade of Industrial Products. Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness. Mr. Manuel Martínez Cepeda Treasury Manager. Adif. Ms. Violeta González Aleñar Director of Cabinet and Administrative Management. Adif. Mr. Luis Izquierdo Labella Director of Communication of the Cabinet of the Minister of Public Works. Ministry of Public Works. Mr. Ignacio González Sánchez Air Navigation Director. Enaire. Mr. Ignacio Garay Zabala Director of Communication and External Relations. Adif. Mr. Rodrigo Marabini Ruiz Director General. Aena Internacional. Ms. Carmen Sánchez Sanz Deputy Director General of Conservation. Department of Roads. Ministry of Public Works. Mr. Pablo Vázquez Vega Chairman. Renfe Operadora. Secretary non member Ms. Almudena de la Peña Robles Director of Legal Affairs. Ineco. 64 Dismissals and appointments during 2014 Shareholders’ Meeting of 15 July 2014 Dismissals: Mr. Sergio Pérez Saiz, Mr. Luis María Pérez Fabregat and Mr. Luis Fernando López Ruiz. Appointments: Mr. Alberto Sanz Serrano, Mr. Manuel Martínez Cepeda and Mr. Carlos Díez Arroyo. Board of Directors of 15 July 2014 Dismissal: as Secretary of the Board, Mr. Carlos Hugo Cea Pinilla. Appointment: as new Secretary of the Board, Ms Berta Barrero Vázquez. Shareholders’ Meeting of 14 November 2014 Dismissal: Ms. María García Capa. Resignations: Mr. José Manuel Vargas Gómez, Mr. Julio Gómez-Pomar Rodríguez. Appointments: Mr. Jesús Silva Fernández and Mr. Luis Izquierdo Labella. Board of Directors of 14 November 2014 Resignation: Mr. Pablo Vázquez Vega (as Chairman). Dismissal: Ms. Berta Barrero Vázquez (as Secretary). Appointments: Mr. Jesús Silva Fernández (as the new Chairman) and Ms. Almudena de la Peña Robles (as the new Secretary). Board of Directors of 18 December 2014 Appointment: Mr. Ignacio González Sánchez, through the co-option system. 65 Shareholders’ Meeting The Company’s deliberative body is the Shareholders’ Meeting. Its legitimately adopted agreements are binding upon the Company and all of its shareholders. The Regular Shareholders’ Meeting must be held once a year, in the first six months of the financial year to evaluate the management of the company, approve the accounts for the previous year, and decide upon the year’s budget. Likewise, the Board of Directors may call Special Shareholders’ Meetings when it is necessary to approve matters pertaining to the interests of the Company. Audit and Control Commission The main role of the Audit and Control Commission is to support the Board of Directors in its supervisory functions. It consists of four directors, three of which are executives, appointed by the Board from amongst the directors by simple majority. The secretary of the aforementioned Board of Directors acts as the secretary of this commission. Management Committee The Management Committee is the highest internal decision body of the company. It meets weekly and it is responsible for the implementation and development of the strategic guidelines approved in the Board of Directors meeting. Member Position Jesús Silva Chairman Ignacio Fernández-Cuenca Corporate Managing Director Engineering and Services Ana Rojo Managing Director Infrastructures and Transport José Manuel Tejera Managing Director 66 Ethics Committee It consists of the Chairman of Ineco, the Corporate Managing Director, another Director appointed by the Chairman (from the ten most senior Ineco directors) for a period of no greater than two years, and the Secretary General. The Ethics Committee is responsible for the Furthermore, when the subjects at hand require supervision of compliance with the standards it, it may include other directors of the company of corporate integrity, the proposal of preventive and/or be supported by the professionals and or corrective actions in relation to a breach experts that are deemed necessary. of these standards, investigation of the case when applicable, and the updating and internal Any collective body or employee of Ineco that dissemination of the Code of Conduct, as well as its considers that there has been a breach of the Code interpretation in cases of doubt. of Conduct or of any of the Standards of Integrity, Transparency, and Commitment, may report it to this Committee, which will undertake resolve it. Other bodies Furthermore, Ineco has other company communication and management bodies, such as the Human Resources Committee, the Commercial Committee, the Innovation and Product Committee, the Quality Committee and the Knowledge Committee, amongst others. The objective of the company is to create working groups based on subjects of special interest and comprehensively monitor the approved plans and initiatives. Profile of the organisation Ineco is a State-owned Trading Company under the Ministry of Public Works through its shareholders: Adif Alta velocidad 20.68% Adif Renfe 20.69% 12.78% Enaire 45.85% December 2014 67 Commitments “ Our business activity is defined by the firm commitment we keep with our clients and providers, our team, society and the environment. This is how we think and this is how we act. ” Jesús Silva, Chairman 68 Committed to our clients Ineco’s strategy focuses on client satisfaction. The company´s goal is the clients reaching success, and that is why each day it endeavours to maintain excellence and efficiency in the services that it provides. This commitment is materialised in a model based on mutual trust, actively listening to clients’ needs, the application of the highest standards of quality, and value creation through innovative and cutting-edge solutions. 70 Innovation. Creating the future of infrastructure Innovation is the strategic tool that Ineco uses to respond to allocated 2% of its turnover to R&D+i. This consisted of around the needs of its clients. It is not only a question of improving 4 million euros and a human effort that contribute added the solutions that it provides, but also turning its innovations value to its services, improve its productivity, and develop the into a competitive advantage for the global challenges that the socioeconomic development of society. infrastructure sector is facing. As such, in 2014, the company R&D+i Percentage of 34 innovation effort turnover projects € 3.886 M 2.13% 20 internal projects 14 collaborative projects in During 2014, Ineco strengthened its Innovation Management Model, which is a consortium based on three main aspects: alignment with the company’s strategy, close collaboration between all stakeholders, including clients, and return on investment. { 13 international collaborative projects 5 collaborative projects led: FILGAPP, ACCEPTA, Satisfied, OPTA-IN and MinoxStreet { 71 Innovation applied to • In the railway sector: participation in Capacity4Rail and NGTC. We also participated in the IN2RAIL project, which is considered projects in 2014 to be a precursor of the Shift2Rail initiative. This project will establish the foundations for some of the main future railway developments (junctions and tracks, new energy systems, and the future generation of traffic management systems). The implementation of innovation projects developed in the previous tax year is evidence of Ineco’s commitment to Furthermore, Ineco is preparing to participate in the SESAR 2020 innovation in the pursuit of excellence. Ineco applied these initiatives, which will identify the new challenges and solutions projects to different works carried out during 2014. Notable of air navigation, involving the defining of the new operation of amongst them are: air traffic management in Europe over the coming decades, and Shift2Rail, which will establish the foundations of the technology • PEIF: our tool for the generation and use of rail signalling and standards for operating and using European rail in the future. plans, applied to the works that Ineco carries out for the high speed line between Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia. • Spring: signal generator used in the Mecca-Medina high Internal projects speed project for measuring the GSM-R coverage of the solution designed. • PINK: this consists of calculating the dynamic behaviour of Aware of the need to invest in the development of its own the overhead line and the interaction with pantographs, a innovation projects to maintain the quality of its products and tool that allowed us to define one of the solutions proposed in services, and contribute added value to them, Ineco worked on the preparation of an offer that Ineco presented for a project the following initiatives during 2014: in Denmark. • Sirag: development of Google Glass technology for • SADA: low-cost solution for the geometric inspection of the supervising the construction of structures and infrastructure track, used in measuring the rail gradient for the works that Ineco with augmented reality, integrated into a comprehensive is carrying out for TMB (Transports Metropolitans de Barcelona) georeferencing management system. that Ineco developes in projects in Barcelona. • Drones: new drone applications for the inspection of structures and infrastructure that is difficult to access, compatible with the regulatory framework in force. Collaborative projects • SIMA: Comprehensive System for the Management of Rail Maintenance on mobile devices, which combines asset management and maintenance management through tablets that facilitate and improve the field tasks of workers. Ineco is committed to open innovation models and is carrying out collaborative projects with other companies nationally and • NavTools: set of tools for calculating radio and radio navigation internationally. In our country, we highlight the active participation coverage (coverage studies based on conventional radio in the INNTERCONECTA programme with the Arid-Lap project, navigation systems, satellite coverage studies (GPS/EGNOS), which consists of studying solutions that allow rail infrastructure route and procedure managers, GSM-R coverage in tunnels, etc.) to better adapt to adverse weather conditions, thus optimising the for the provision of consultancy services to aeronautical service operation and maintenance phases. providers with the possibility of selling the product to clients. In line with its international focus, the company has continued its • Gestrol: tool for the management of the airport airfield involvement in the European projects of the Seventh Framework pavements. As such, analysis and decision-making is Programme (FP7) and Horizon 2020 (H2020), notable amongst facilitated, on the basis of results, through test information which are: management, use, international standards, and quality levels of • In the aeronautical sector: participation in SESAR, the airport operator. INTERACTION, FILGAPP, Opta-in and Satisfied. Furthermore, during 2014, we participated in the BEYOND project, whose • Monitoring: ICT tool for the continuous real-time analysis purpose is to extend the use of GNSS to different applications, and supervision of track inspection in tunnels for the control particularly aeronautical applications, in Mediterranean of issues and conditions in the structures in construction and countries and Eastern Europe. maintenance phases. 72 Certifications Quality as a sign of Ineco has an integrated environmental management and quality system, certified by SGS, based, respectively, on Standards UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004 and UNE-EN ISO 9001:2008, identity which covers practically all of the company’s activities. It also has an environmental health and safety management system, in accordance with OHSAS Standard 18001:2007, certified since 2012. Maintaining the highest level of quality in its products and services is essential for Ineco in its relationship with its clients. As such, it has a management system In the rail area, Ineco is certified by ENAC (Entidad Nacional de Acreditación – whose key component is quality, and National Accreditation Entity) as a Rail Rolling Stock Inspection Organisation which involves the whole organisation. (Type C) and as an Independent Rail Applications Safety Evaluation The cohesion of teams, the improvement Organisation (Type C), in accordance with the criteria of the standard in work practices, the sustainability of UNE-EN ISO/IEC 17020:2004. the system, and the focus on processes and procedures are the keys to achieving Ineco was the first and is currently the only organisation that technical excellence in our work. has these accreditations in Spain Furthermore, Ineco is certified as a supplier in LINL-UP ACHILLES QUALIFIED SUPPLIER (Qualified via Audit), Nº 095054 for the products: Electrification Consultancy, Development&Review Electrification Standars, Telephone Exchanges (Including Switching Equipment), Transmission Systems, Telecomm Cabling (Multiple Pair Copper), Telecomm Cabling (Fibre), Radio Systems, Wireless Services, Masts (Including Earthing&Ligthening Protection), Wiring, Earthing&Bonding, Switching, Substations/Switching Stations/Track Paralleling Huts, DC Cabling,Trackside Equipment, Main Steelwork, Small Part Steelwork, Support System, Traction SCADA and Non-Traction SCADA. In projects, Ineco also has the following accreditations or certifications: • Software Development • CMMI-Maturity Level 2. Management of Consultancy and Management Systems. • Industrial Area Inspection: • Accreditation 76/EI058 Rail Rolling Material/Independent Safety Evaluation. Attached Accreditation 76/EI058. • Air Navigation Services: • “Design of instrumental flight procedures” accreditation (Public Authority for Civil Aviation. Sultanate of Oman). • Certified as an Organisation that provides Air Navigation Services (PSNA-0002), granted by the State Air Safety Agency – Ministry of Public Works, in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) no. 2096/2005. • Certified as a provider of air traffic control training (PF-ATC-0001), granted by the State Air Safety Agency – Ministry of Public Works, in accordance with Royal Decree 1516/2009. Amongst the challenges, in terms of quality, that the company will face in 2015 is the updating of its Quality and Environmental System certification to the new version of IS0 Standards 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015, the certification of the project “Managing Agent and Supervisor (AAS) for the 358 Guadalajara – Colima road section trust” (110056) in Mexico with Standard ISO 9001, and the design, documenting, and implementation of Standard BS11000 “Framework for commercial collaboration relationships”. 73 The value of client opinions As a result of this effort for improvement, in the year ending This result shows that the high level of Ineco client satisfaction in 2014, Ineco clients rated their satisfaction with the services is maintained. The overall rating of services provided by Ineco in provided by the company, with a score of 8.6 out of 10. The 2014 was 8.6. company also increased its response rate in this survey by 20%. Overall average rating for 2014 8.7 8.7 8.8 Dedication and interest Qualification and Treatment received professionalism 8.5 8.7 8.5 Level of communication Compliance with Documentation technical requirements 8.6 8.5 8.5 Ineco’s capacity Adherence to deadlines Resolution of abnormalities detected 8.6 Overall rating The response percentage in 2014 was 44%. 74 Committed to our team People are Ineco’s most valuable resource. The company knows that its professionals make the difference and, as such, it is committed to promoting and creating a working environment that is increasingly enriched, challenging, effective, and flexible, as well as motivating and involving its employees in the path to success in a changing and increasingly competitive context. Ineco’s talent management model, in line with the company’s strategy, is based on three basic pillars: the identification of talent, its development, and the management of commitment to the organisation. 75 Talent identification One of the keys to successfully negotiating In this regard, Ineco aims to drive forward new collaborations with foundations the adaptation of the company to the dedicated to the professional integration of this group with the objective of challenges and new scenarios proposed by increasing the number of new recruits in the company and the participation of the market is to have the best profiles. As employees in social and volunteering actions. such, in 2014, Ineco focused its recruitment and selection process on increasing its channels for seeking candidates to social networks, fostering premium selection to attract the best qualified professionals who meet the needs of the company. Achieving better positioning in terms of the company’s branding amongst young people, through collaborations with the best reference universities, is key to making Ineco known as a reference transport engineering company to future sector professionals. For this reason, the company encourages participation in career fairs and forums in order to strengthen its image as an employer. As such, and aware of the importance of having a pool of new employees, Ineco has prepared its Grant Scheme, identifying specific training programmes of interest and the national and international universities with which to establish new agreements. The company incorporated 94 interns, converting 26.5% of trainees into employees. Ineco’s commitment to being a socially responsible company was demonstrated with the awarding of 14 grants, as part of the Grant Programme “Opportunity for Talent” for the academic year 2014-2015 to undergraduate and postgraduate students, both nationally and internationally. Furthermore, the organisation participated in the International Congress of University and Disability, in which it had the opportunity to establish contacts with social agents and universities to recruit individuals with disabilities. 76 Development of talent New strategic processes Ineco understands the professional development of its employees • Management by Objectives (GpO, in Spanish) to be the evolution process that they experience throughout their professional career. This personal and professional development Management by Objectives (MBO), implemented in 2014, is occurs in different directions: at the same level, in one position aimed at Ineco staff with variable remuneration. Its objective is through movements between professional careers, and at a to ensure the efficiency, profitability, growth, and quality of the higher level (promotion). organisation, through three main variables: evaluation of the result, the employee’s performance, and their commitment. In With the aim of meeting the professional growth expectations of 2014, the model was applied to 42% of the staff. its employees and aligning them with the organisation’s business strategy, Ineco has designed two professional career models, one • Evaluation of Development (EdD, in Spanish) based on technical specialisation, and the other on management (either of people or of projects). By creating the Evaluation of Development (EOD) in 2014 (a process that will be implemented in 2015) the aim is to detect Furthermore, the company has defined its two strategic the skills, abilities, and specialties of all employees, as well processes for talent management, in order to improve as their potential for development, and their interests and performance and support the professional development motivations. Furthermore, this programme will allow the training of its employees: needs to be detected, and individual development plans to be designed, linking them to remuneration plans, in order to foster the commitment of Ineco’s human capital. 77 Training At Ineco, training is one of the main strategic lines for achieving the highest level of quality in the services provided to clients, and its team is considered to be a key value in the company’s activity. The 2014 Training Plan focused on boosting the technical 98,025 specialisation of the professionals of the company, sharing work models and processes, increasing the training of the organisation and its professionals through the development of critical skills for the different roles, as Hours of training well as developing languages as a key tool for Ineco’s globalisation process. As such, the following programmes have been created: • Language Programme: it includes all training actions aimed at developing the language skills of employees and improving the company’s level of English. • Certifications and Technical Methodologies Programme: this includes the courses aimed at the certification and training of employees in internationally prestigious organisations and the management of reference methodologies in the sector. €2,024,047 • Technical Specialisation Programme: this covers training aimed at providing the organisation with the expertise necessary to achieve its strategic objectives and Investment in training update its technical knowledge. • Work Processes and Models Programme: it includes the courses focused on sharing the organisational 939 processes and models, as well as the company’s key processes. • Skills Programme: it covers the training Training actions aimed at developing the skills and initiatives competences necessary to face the challenges of the organisation. carried out 1,777 Furthermore, and with the aim of addressing the individual training and development concerns of employees, we have established the Up Grading Programme, which provides help Individuals trained, and support for carrying out training representing not covered in the Training Plan. 77% of staff 78 During 2014, different initiatives aimed responsibilities of each position/role. To facilitate the company’s at sharing the knowledge and experience In 2014, the School gave training on internationalisation process, Ineco held of the company’s professionals were construction management, and project International Mobility Seminars aimed at implemented, as well as training in and regions management. individuals who work in other countries, with processes and procedures. We highlight: content on sociocultural and economic• Training in work processes and models: political aspects, and on the daily life of • The Internal Training School: its one of the main aspects of the 2014 the country of destination, thus helping the objective is to have a team of trainers Training Plan is to give courses on the employee to adapt to the new context. who are certified and highly qualified new procedures applied in the company. in their job, and who transfer their As such, last year, we carried out training knowledge and experience to the rest sessions on the Business Management of the organisation, as well as to create process and on Project Management. training programmes on the permanent Average hours of training per year per employee and gender, broken down by employee category: Total no. of Total no. of Total no. of Average no. of Average no. of Average no. of Group by level hours men hours women hours hours men hours women hours Directors 1,021 304 1,325 78.53 76.10 77.96 Management 9,852 2,722 12,574 68.42 75.61 69.86 Technical 46,354 27,190 73,544 42.64 42.02 42.41 Support 4,296 6,285 10,581 22.03 26.19 24.33 Total 61,524 36,501 98,025 42.75 39.38 41.43 In its desire to continue showing its commitment to its team, Ineco is working on new programmes designed for and adapted to the needs of its employees for 2015. In this regard, we highlight the Leadership Programme, which aims to establish a leadership model based on a participative methodology, and the Client Management Programme, whose objective is to create a sales model for the company’s business development team. 79 Furthermore, Ineco has been working with the Norte Joven Foundation for several years to promote the integration of young Management of people at risk of social exclusion, through workshops aimed at showing them how to successfully complete a recruitment commitment process and giving them a first look at the business world. • Equality Plan Ineco is implementing initiatives aimed at promoting gender equality, work-family life balance, and the prevention of sexual It is very important to identify the best professionals and develop and gender-based harassment. As such, it develops awarenesstheir careers, as well as offering them a quality business project, raising and training programmes in diversity management, which consolidates their commitment to the organisation. anti-discrimination tools and control mechanisms, support Aspects such as equal opportunities, work-family life balance, groups and specific work-life balance policies. Furthermore, the opportunities for the growth and development of employees, and company has an action protocol for channelling possible cases of an attractive flexible social benefits package are key to creating a sexual harassment through the figure of a mediator, who provides good working environment that is positive and stimulating, where information and manages these cases, where appropriate, employees can give the best of themselves. guaranteeing the necessary levels of confidentiality. In its commitment to transparency in communication with its employees, Ineco has different channels for improving corporate culture, such as the internal digital journal Sobre la Marcha, which rounds up the main organisational news every month, and provides important information about the development of { projects and their main milestones. There are also tools, such as the “suggestion box”, blogs, and forums, so that the flow of communication is two-directional and as participative as possible. In 2014, an extension of Ineco’s Collective Agreement was In line with this corporate culture, Ineco works to maintain organisational and remunerative coherence, as well as matching signed between the employees’ profiles to the right positions in order to guarantee that all representation and the company, employees are treated equally. Furthermore, in 2014, it continued for two years, from 1 January with the programmes that were implemented a few years ago with the aim of promoting social benefits, the integration of 2015 to 31 December 2016, groups at risk of exclusion, and raising awareness about diversity: with the possibility of it being • Más Programme extended for another two years. Ineco offers its employees a social benefits package that they This important agreement can receive in different forms in line with their preferences: food will allow the current working vouchers, nursery allowance, health insurance, or a combination of these benefits. Ineco employees also receive life insurance conditions to be maintained with coverage in the event of death or permanent disability, as for the staff, thus providing well as a Social Security benefits supplement in the event of temporary disability. stability and continuity to the • Integra Plan improvements achieved with This is Ineco’s plan for integrating disabled people or those who respect to the sectorial collective are at risk of social exclusion, thus contributing to improving their agreement and personal, family, employability and promoting social awareness in this regard. and work life balance. 97.1% of It establishes specific measures for access to employment through organisations for the recruitment and improvement in the total staff is covered by the employability; these measures are aimed at disabled employees Collective Agreement. and victims of domestic violence, financial aid, adaptation of the workplace, a care service, etc. and measures aimed at employees with family members who are dependent on their role, such as paternity/maternity leave extensions, leave of absence, flexibility of holidays, etc. { 80 Through its commitment to its employees, and in order to continue to make progress in terms of equality, for 2015, the company has prepared an update of the measures plan aimed at encouraging work-life balance, which will focus on 4 areas of action: management of working hours; leave, absences and breaks; social benefits; personal and professional development. Composition of corporate governance and staff bodies, broken down by gender and age group: Gender Age 2014 Data Total no. Males Females < 30 30 50 > 50 Director structure 15 73.3% 26.7% 0.0% 66.7% 33.3% Management structure 182 80.2% 19.8% 0.0% 77.5% 22.5% Management structure 197 79.7% 20.3% 0.0% 76.6% 23.4% Technical structure 538 68.6% 31.4% 0.2% 88.5% 11.3% Support structure 1.631 56.0% 44.0% 9.9% 82.5% 7.6% Contract staff 2.169 59.1% 40.9% 7.5% 84.0% 8.5% Total staff 2.366 60.8% 39.2% 6.8% 83.4% 9.8% 81 We are international Ineco’s current strategy, which focuses much of its effort on • Individual meetings, given by the Global Mobility Center, consolidating its internationalisation process, requires the before the transfer of staff to foreign countries, in which they organisation not only to adapt to the new situations that are given detailed explanations about the following aspects: arise, but also to meet future needs. In line with these criteria, security and prevention, training, insurance, and services, the company has adapted its organisation to the needs of labour relations, and immigration advice. its employees, creating specific management dedicated to reinforcing the capacities of the organisation and management of • Ineco Passport: practical guidelines for employees who have individuals in the international sphere. been transferred outside of Spain, with specific information about the destination country, important corporate information The Human Resources programmes and policies of the company for international transfers and a list of steps to take before, are aimed, precisely, at strengthening the management of its during, and at the end of their transfer. international team: The company is currently working to develop the international • International Assignment Compensation Policy which experience of its professionals. Amongst other challenges, Ineco defines the international transfer conditions of Ineco is committed to increasing the interest of employees in projects employees. Its main objectives are to facilitate the process beyond our borders through the implementation of international of incorporation into the destination country, ensure a career plans in the near future. homogeneous, clear, and effective procedure, establish conditions that guarantee internal equality and external In this line, it also aims to carry out specific actions such as competitiveness, and cooperate to ensure that international the creation of a repatriation programme to ensure the proper assignments are conducted safely. reintegration of professionals who are returning to Ineco in Spain or the formation of a Virtual Expatriates Office. The company is • Global Mobility Center (accessible from the Intranet) to support also working on the implementation of international scholarship employees in issues related to mobility and the management of and internship programmes with the goal of promoting a reserve spaces and services within the international sphere. of promising, highly qualified young professionals and in this way, foster professional development through specialisation in the field of transport engineering among an international and multicultural environment. Individuals by geographic region: Total H M Europe 2,277 1,367 910 Spain 2,264 1,358 906 America 29 23 6 Africa 1 1 0 Asia 59 48 11 82 Ineco has an Occupational Hazards During 2014, Ineco began the road down Prevention Policy, demonstrating its firm to the consolidation of a risk management Prevention commitment to the health and safety of its system capable of protecting the company workers in all parts of the world. from threats against its assets, giving it and Safety a strategic focus and adjusting it to the Within this framework, in 2014, the company’s current international expansion. company carried out, amongst other actions, the evaluation of psychosocial Furthermore, actions were carried out risks, the implementation of the aimed at providing training on, and raising Prevention Management System in the awareness about data protection. international sphere, the updating of emergency plans, and the renewal of the OHSAS 18001 certification. 83 Committed to society Infrastructure has a direct impact on the economy and the development of society. Aware of this ability to influence the positive transformation of its environment, Ineco is committed to improving the situation of the communities in which it operates. As a sign of this commitment, the company also implements professional volunteer projects in developing countries, in order to contribute to improving the living conditions of families with fewer resources. 84 A spirit of solidarity and collaboration The company encourages the participation Tecniberia Asince and involvement of its professionals in charity initiatives to achieve a more just Asociación de Usuarios de SAP, AUSAPE (SAP users association of Spain) and egalitarian society. It has a social work platform, iSolidaria, which is focused on European Rail Research Network of Excellence (EURNEX) the management of corporate volunteering. Plataforma Tecnológica Ferroviaria Española, PTFE (Spanish technological railway platform) Here, the initiatives of the company in this field can be consulted, experiences European ATM Research and Development Association (EATRADA) can be shared, and Ineco’s current social Plataforma Tecnológica de la Carretera, PTC (Spanish technological road platform) work projects can be viewed. These types of voluntary activities are evaluated both Club de la Innovación y el Conocimiento (innovation and knowledge club) by the Non-Governmental Organisation with which Ineco is collaborating, and by Asociación para el Progreso de la Dirección, APD (association for management progress) the employees who participate through Fundación Lealtad (Lealtad Foundation) satisfaction surveys, with there being a continuous follow-up of the results. In Asociación Latinoamericana de Metros y Subterráneos, ALAMYS (Latin American train 2014, the overall degree of satisfaction of and underground association) volunteers who participated in volunteering Asociación Española de Fabricantes Exportadores de Material, Equipos y Servicios activities was 4.75 out of 5. Ferroviarios, MAFEX (Spanish association of railway services, equipment and material exporters) In accordance with its spirit of solidarity, in 2014, the company renewed the Airports Council International (ACI) collaboration agreement whereby it is International Association of Public Transport (UITP) established as a friend entity of the Lealtad Foundation. Through this agreement, Civil Air Navigation Services Organization (CANSO) Lealtad Foundation shares knowledge and advises Ineco on the assigning and selection Madrid Chamber of Commerce of companies with which to establish Asociación Española de la Carretera (Spanish road association) agreements, thus guaranteeing the highest level of transparency and objectivity in the Asociación Técnica de Carreteras, ATC (technical road association) company’s participation in the different social work activities and programmes. Asociación Nacional de Auscultación y Sistemas de Gestión Técnica de Infraestructuras, AUSIGETI (national association of auscultation and technical Furthermore, as a global company leader infrastructure management systems) in transport engineering and consultancy, Asociación Española de Túneles y Obras, AETOS (Spanish association of tunnels and works) Ineco promotes cooperation between national engineering companies, and Asociación Científico-Química del Hormigón Estructural, ACHE (scientific and it is a member of various associations chemical structural concrete association) and organisations, both national and GALILEO SERVICES international. The objective is to contribute to enriching and strengthening the Asociación de Acción Ferroviaria, CETREN (railway action association) synergies between all sector agents. In this Asociación Española de la Calidad, AEC (Spanish association for Quality) regard, during 2014, Ineco was a member of the following organisations: Foro Español de Expatriados, FEEX (Spanish Expatriate Forum) Asociación de Reparación, Refuerzo y Protección del Hormigón, ARPHO (Spanish association for the repair, reinforcement, and protection of concrete) Asociación del Foro de la Contratación Pública socialmente responsable, AFCPSR (association of the socially responsible public procurement forum) Asociación Mexicana de Ferrocarriles, AMF (Mexican Association of Railroads) 85 Initiatives in 2014 Every year, Ineco prepares its Social Work Plan, which is part conducts different kinds of activities, including corporate of the company’s Corporate Responsibility Plan, and which volunteering. This programme has been well received and includes actions to be carried out in collaboration with the highly rated by Ineco employees. independent non-profit organisations with which the company Volunteers from Ineco who participated in “Ineco en Ruta” programme with the local team. 86 Below, we outline the initiatives implemented in 2014: En Ruta: Professional corporate volunteer programme of Ineco in Peru For another year, and with the conviction of the benefits of previous campaigns both to society and to employees and the company, Ineco implemented a new professional volunteering project called “Ineco en Ruta” in collaboration with the Codespa foundation, in which 8 Ineco volunteers participated. On this occasion, the project was carried out in the Sacred Valley of the Incas (Peru), a deprived part of the country where the Codespa foundation works to improve the living conditions of families through the development of rural tourism. Despite the great cultural wealth of the area and the abundant flow of tourists, the roads are inadequate, and in the rainy season, tourist access is impractical, resulting in a loss of income for the indigenous people in the region. Ineco’s volunteers collaborated with the project by developing a study for the maintenance, improvement, and restoration of access roads, as well as training local teams in this field, such that, after the volunteering project finished, the local stakeholders had acquired the knowledge necessary for putting the improvements into practice. Codespa presented this study as a technical endorsement to the Municipality of Cusco and, through it, we expect the City Council to allocate a budget item to improving road maintenance, which will allow better access for tourists. 87 Euro Solidario Campaign This is a solidarity campaign in which employees donate a on the tourism created by the recent restoration of the Ibarrapercentage of their monthly pay to funding a specific project. Salinas railway line. Activating the economy and trade of the The company is committed to doubling the contributions of its area by providing complementary rail services to tourists has employees, up to a determined maximum level. increased the quality of life of the populations affected by this activity, mostly communities consisting of economically In September 2013, we implemented the 5th Euro Solidario disadvantaged families. Campaign, active until September 2014. This campaign was linked to Ineco’s professional corporate volunteer project “Ineco Ineco also participated in the project, through its professional en Ruta”, which was carried out during 2013 in the province corporate volunteer programme, by improving the safety of the of Imbabura (Ecuador), in collaboration with the Codespa line and its installations, as well as through a training programme foundation, with a total of €21,832 being collected. for the employees of the Empresa Pública de Ferrocarriles (FEEP) (national railway company of Ecuador), which allowed it to improve The initiative consisted of providing training to the indigenous its competitiveness and the levels of safety in rail operations. people in order to increase their income through capitalising “Hacia el Empleo” Programme. Training for young people at risk of social exclusion Ineco is committed to improving the training and employability of young people at risk of social exclusion, thus improving their entrance into the labour market. As such, it makes the knowledge and skills of its professionals available for this type of educational project. For another year, in 2014, the company collaborated with the Norte Joven Foundation. The team of a selection of staff organised the training through group dynamics, along with individual mock interviews by Ineco volunteers with young people, with the aim of helping them to have better success in their first job interview. Economic and Financial Department also taught a module on the basics of finance, which is useful for their professional career. 88 Operación Kilo: “one kilo of food, one million thank yous” At the end of the year, Ineco implemented a new Operación Kilo for the Food Bank of Madrid. Ineco employees were involved in this initiative and contributed around 350kg of non-perishable products. The Three Wise Men Campaign For another year, the Three Wise Men visited Ineco’s offices to collect the letters of the children and grandchildren of the employees and give them a gift, which on this occasion benefitted the Centro Especial de Empleo Motiva (Special Work Centre of Motiva). The children collaborated by donating children’s books to a public children’s hospital in Madrid. Commitment to disabled people In the framework of the Social Work Plan, Ineco assumes the challenge of promoting actions aimed at improving the employability and labour conditions of disabled individuals and raising social awareness about this situation. As such, in 2014 we organised a Christmas card competition in collaboration with the Randstad foundation, for the children and grandchildren of employees. Likewise, Ineco has collaborated with other non-profit organisations to contribute to the social and labour integration of individuals with disabilities, such as the Prodis foundation, the Aspanias Burgos association, Avante 3, DAU, FEAPS MADRID, the Deporte y Desafío (Sport and Challenge) foundation, the Esclerosis Múltiple (Multiple Sclerosis) foundation – FEM, the Síndrome de Down (Down’s Syndrome) foundation of Madrid, the Juan XXIII foundation, the Once foundation, Famma, Prevent, and Inserta. Finally, as stated on the ‘Talent Identification’ section, Ineco takes part in different initiatives to recruit people with impairments and to improve these workers’ hiring ratio within the company – one further example of the commitment that the company has with this collective. 89 Committed to the environment Ineco is committed to a future in which environmental sustainability is a reality. As such, it is committed to adopting, supporting, and promoting fundamental values in the area of the environment, in accordance with the principles governing the United Nations Global Compact. The company contributes to sustainable development through its environmentally responsible behaviour, thus minimising the environmental impacts resulting from its activity. 90 Ineco has a certified environmental environmental performance, the management system in accordance with company works to share with the whole Environmental UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004 Standard, based organisation the measures to improve on three basic aspects: prevention of the use of resources, reduce the fuel management pollution, compliance with environmental consumption of employees’ vehicles in the legal requirements, and the continuous performance of their activities, identify improvement of the company’s treatment environmental aspects resulting from system of the environment. international activity and promote the responsible use of resources. In addition to carrying out the control, follow-up, and measurement of 91 Responsible use of resources Ineco’s commitment to improving competitiveness and sustainability means that it carries out specific initiatives aimed at mitigating negative environmental impacts. In this regard, the company has different energy efficiency and resource-optimising devices and launches awareness-raising campaigns for the proper use of resources (encouraging the recycling of paper, reduced printer use, submitting documents digitally, etc.). As a responsible organisation that is aware of the importance of involving everybody in the respect for nature, the company also shares best environmental practices with its employees, as well as the results of environmental management. As such, it makes the Environmental Thermometer available to the organisation, through its corporate intranet. Updated quarterly, its objective is to present data related to total electricity consumption, fuel consumption both by vehicles and heating, paper consumption, the energy efficiency of vehicles, and data on waste and emissions. Ineco has implemented the following initiatives aimed at a more efficient use of resources: • Installation of light sensors in the meeting rooms and LED • Implementation, for employees, of the Carpooling tool to lighting fixtures in Ineco’s central headquarters. reduce the effects of Ineco’s carbon footprint. • Installation of electrical switches and timers on each floor of • Publication of a vehicles policy that, amongst other conditions: the Egeo Building. • Encourages the use of public transport and shared • Use of water-saving devices: dual-flush devices in cisterns, vehicle use. motion sensors and timers in taps. • Establishes criteria for purchasing vehicles in which • Photovoltaic electrical production in the installation in the consumption and the environmental impact takes roof of Ineco’s central headquarters at Pº Habana of 74 precedence, as well as the cost. GJ (20,429 kWh) and maintenance of solar panels for the production of domestic hot water. • Promotes the progressive incorporation of green vehicles. • Supervision of the use of the building’s air conditioning system, • Progressive replacement of the fleet of vehicles by others of with the aim of optimising its consumption of resources. lower consumption (all vehicles must have an energy label and, wherever possible, they should be class A or B). • Limitation of the temperature to that established in the implementing regulations (do not exceed 21ºC in winter, when • Relocation of staff to central and temporary offices to use of heating is necessary). optimise space. • Displaying of informative signs in all floors of the central • Broadcasting of awareness campaigns developed in recent headquarters, indicating the legal temperature limits in years (encouraging the recycling of paper, a reduction in the air-conditioned areas. printing of documents, and digital submission of documents to clients, savings in light and water consumption, and efficient • Installation of water, energy, and heating oil consumption driving). Publication of best environmental practices through meters in the heating facility of Pº de la Habana in order to the intranet. evaluate its energy efficiency. • Installation and promotion of video-conference systems and online meetings. 92 As a result, the company has achieved the following: Savings of 5% in the water Savings in paper consumption of the central consumption of 14% headquarters (4% reduction in paper consumption per employee) 58% reduction in 18% decrease 18% reduction toner cartridges in electricity in heating fuel consumption consumption 19% reduction 10% reduction in 14% reduction in fuel flight distances in air-equivalent consumption CO2 emissions 93 Consumption data WATER PAPER Water consumption in the central headquarters (total in Pº Habana) Paper consumption (in total) YEAR / WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) PAPER CONSUMPTION (T) 2014 2,796 69.51 2013 2,996 52.88 2012 2,986 48.81 41.23 2011 3,018 36.19 2010 3,335 30.98 2009 4,689 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Average water consumption in the main offices (m3/employee) AVERAGE PAPER CONSUMPTION PER PERSON (KG) AVERAGE WATER CONSUMPTION IN THE MAIN OFFICES 22.24 (M3/EMPLOYEE) 19.76 15.46 14.57 P. Habana 7.14 14.00 Egeo 6.00 13.4 Bull 6.15 * Main offices in Madrid 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 TONER ELECTRICAL ENERGY Toner consumption (total) Electrical energy consumption (total in Ineco headquarters) TONER CONSUMPTION (TOTAL) YEAR/ ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (GJ) 2014 502 2014 8,693 2013 1,185 2013 10,569.00 2012 9,212.45 * 2010 to 2012 data are displayed in units and not kg (2010, 1004 units; 2011, 814 units; 2012, 907 units) 2011 9,508.23 2010 9,135.36 2009 8,186.44 HEATING FUEL VEHICLE FUEL Total consumption of heating fuel in the central headquarters Consumption of vehicle fuel HEATING OIL CONSUMPTION (LITRES) VEHICLE FUEL CONSUMPTION (THOUSANDS OF LITRES) 2014 6,086 1,829 1,630 2013 7,403 1,432 2012 6,955 1,117 2011 6,600 791 2010 7,700 641 2009 6,500 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 94 TOTAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases DIRECT EMISSIONS INDIRECT EMISSIONS TOTAL EMISSIONS 2014 1,702 2014 4,989 2014 6,691 2013 2,103 2013 5,644 2013 7,747 2012 2,952 2012 4,295 2012 7,247 2011 3,779 2011 4,514 2011 8,293 WASTE Total weight of (hazardous and non-hazardous) waste generated AMOUNT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGED (KG) 1,432 1,117 791 641 2011 2012 2013 2014 AMOUNT OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (KG) DOMESTIC CONTAINERS PAPER AND CARDBOARD 2014 6.765 2014 6.765 2014 34.380 2013 25.250 2013 7.720 2013 36.900 2012 28.976 2012 10.483 2012 287.040 2011 2011 15.576 2011 287.040 43.152 * Values of the headquarters (Egeo Bull and P Habana) INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Flights and train journeys TOTAL KM TRAVELLED BY PLANE TOTAL KM TRAVELLED / PERSON BY PLANE 2014 21,828,449 2014 9,422 2013 24,383,483 2013 9,642 2012 18,136,608 2012 6,409 2011 18,900,708 2011 5,985 TOTAL KM TRAVELLED BY TRAIN TOTAL KM TRAVELLED / PERSON BY TRAIN 2014 2,643,596 2014 1,141 2013 3,49,540 2013 1,245 2012 4,260,659 2012 1,506 2011 6,352,688 2011 2,012 95 Respect for the environment in all of our solutions In its projects, Ineco also incorporates environmental criteria through its support for the initiatives linked to the responsible management of the environment. In this regard, the company has Best Environmental Practice Guidelines that it expanded in 2014, as well as an action procedure that defines the preventive measures necessary to avoid environmental accidents, and the steps to follow if they occur. Furthermore, in its commitment to innovation in developing solutions that respect the environment, the company’s participation in R&D projects related to sustainable development is notable. These projects have a positive impact on climate change: • SONIC BOOM: the sonic boom effect associated with the Doppler effect in high speed rail tunnels. • SESAR (Single European Sky ATM Research): implementation, by 2020, of a high performance European ATM network. • MINOXSTREET: in the framework of the Life programme with the European Commission. Its objective is to achieve the efficiency of catalytic technologies to reduce levels of nitrogen oxide in urban environments. • ARID-LAP: development of technological solutions that minimise or prevent the impact of arid climates on high performance rail infrastructure. • SATISFIED (SAT Improved Use of Flight Corridor for Emissions Reduction): evaluation, through test flights, of the benefits obtained from the planning of flexible routes in the EUR/SAM corridor by airlines. • OPTA-IN (Optimized Profile Descent Approach-Implementing Windows): improvement, implementation, and dissemination of the continuous descent approach solutions that can be developed in the ATM operating environment. • SMART (Shared Monitoring Alert and Reaction Tracking – Oceanic): evaluation of the reduction of CO2 emissions as the result of optimising the use of weather information, and the position and integration of flight plans. Infrastructure consultancy and engineering necessarily include environmental, water, and waste solutions. Ineco provides sustainability and environmental impact studies, consultancy services for waste management, the implementation, maintenance, and auditing of environmental management systems, acoustic insulation and air pollution reduction plans and projects, landscaping, environmental and geographic information systems, environmental engineering and management, environmental follow-up and surveillance in works, as well as environmental management. 96 Committed to our suppliers Suppliers play a vital role in good business management due to the impact they have on the quality of the products and services a company provides. Therefore, in line with its mission to make its processes more efficient, Ineco has a mutually beneficial relationship with its suppliers, based on confidence and respect, through fluid, constant, efficient communication. The company ensures its suppliers meet the conditions set out in its agreements and that they operate in line with its Corporate Responsibility Policy and Integrity, Transparency and Commitment Standards. 97 Communication, equality and transparency The principles that govern Ineco’s internal procurement standards • Principle of confidentiality: The terms and conditions of are as follows: Ineco’s agreements include a confidentiality clause that suppliers are required to adhere to. • Principle of advertising: Ineco publishes competitive bids on its website. In addition, Ineco’s procurement processes are published on the State Procurement Platform, regardless of other additional advertising media specified in the case of contracting arising from management requests. Procurement of works, supplies and services in 2014: The total procurement outlay in 2014 came to € • Principle of concurrence, equality and non-discrimination: 59,654,881.19. However, Ineco is fully committed to the company guarantees free access to its procurement contracting local suppliers in an effort to have a positive process for all companies; the description of the subject impact on the economy of the areas in which it carries out matter of its agreements will be non-discriminatory; equal its projects. Indeed, on an international level, Ineco’s outlay access for all the economic operators of all European Union on subcontracting came to € 5,580,223.07 in 2014 14,38% member states; mutual recognition of degrees, certificates of its total subcontracting outlay. and other diplomas; and the prohibition of providing information in a discriminatory manner, which could give certain bidders an advantage over others. • Principle of transparency: • All participants will have prior access to the terms and conditions of the agreement they are bidding for. • The bid submission deadlines set should be sufficient to allow companies to assess and make their bids. • The objective criteria that bids will be evaluated on will be set out accurately in advance. • The body tasked with making the award proposal and the body with the authority to award the agreement will be made clear in advance. • The agreement will be granted to the most economically advantageous bid, in accordance with the objective assessment criteria set out. 98 99 Annex I Balance sheet 100 Assets 2014 2013 Intangible fixed assets € 680,951 € 540,010 IT applications € 680,951 € 540,010 Tangible fixed assets € 9,124,918 € 10,280,225 Land and buildings € 7,019,404 € 7,409,216 Technical installations, machinery, tools, furniture and other tangible assets € 2,105,514 € 2,871,009 Long-term investments in Group and other related companies € 1,508,925 € 1,414,864 Equity instruments € 1,508,925 € 1,414,864 Long-term financial investments € 841,441 € 1,012,539 Derivatives € 25,090 Other financial assets € 841,441 € 987,449 Deferred tax assets € 5,382,782 € 7,583,506 Total non-current assets € 17,539,017 € 20,831,144 Inventories € 73,831 € 59,164 Advance payments to suppliers € 73,831 € 59,164 Trade debtors and other accounts receivable € 101,857,699 € 80,997,088 Clients for sales and services rendered € 70,625,360 € 45,206,843 Clients, Group and other related companies € 27,137,223 € 34,037,377 Sundry receivables € 611,765 € 274,346 Payroll € 104,182 Current tax assets € 3,379,169 € 1,478,522 Short-term investments in Group and other related companies € 32,491 € 30,369 Other financial assets € 32,491 € 30,369 Short-term financial investments € 546,401 € 1,051,545 Credits to companies € 378,305 € 152,661 Debt securities € 22,667 € 112,748 Derivatives € 124,752 € 69,007 Other financial assets € 20,677 € 717,129 Short-term accruals and deferred income € 105,188 Cash and cash equivalents € 48,768,088 € 55,799,194 Cash € 38,768,088 € 40,825,018 Cash equivalents € 10,000,000 € 14,974,176 Total current assets € 151,278,510 € 138,042,548 Total assets € 168,817,527 € 158,873,692 101 Equity and liabilities 2014 2013 Shareholders´equity € 83,521,735 € 82,705,389 Capital € 8,250,660 € 8,250,660 Subscribed capital € 8,250,660 € 8,250,660 Share premium € 12,857,007 € 12,857,007 Reserves € 58,045,121 € 58,045,121 Legal and statutory € 1,650,132 € 1,650,132 Other reserves € 56,394,989 € 56,394,989 Profit for the year € 4,368,947 € 3,552,601 Grants, donations and bequests received € 64,848 € 146,435 Total equity € 83,586,583 € 82,851,824 Long-term provisions € 1,553,455 € 1,735,694 Other provisions € 1,553,455 € 1,735,694 Long-term payables € 372,543 € 739,377 Other financial liabilities € 372,543 € 739,377 Deferred tax liabilities € 154,232 € 205,897 Total non-current liabilities € 2,080,230 € 2,680,968 Short-term provisions € 10,881,039 € 10,604,443 Short-term payables € 461,798 € 116,477 Derivatives € 292,729 € 12,735 Other financial liabilities € 169,069 € 103,742 Short-term payables to Group companies and associates € 36,018 Trade creditors and other payables € 71,771,859 € 62,619,980 Suppliers € 13,417,562 € 9,787,456 Suppliers, Group and other related companies € 62,064 € 82,708 Sundry payables € 19,006 € 36,961 Payroll (accrued salaries and wages) € 4,657,023 € 2,823,486 Other taxes payable € 7,610,472 € 7,427,356 Advance payments from clients € 46,005,732 € 42,462,013 Short-term accruals and deferred income Total current liabilities € 83,150,714 € 73,340,900 Total equity and liabilities € 168,817,527 € 158,873,692 102 Anexo II Annex Cuenta Profit and deloss Resultados account2014 y 2013 103 Continuing operations 2014 2013 Net revenue € 182,460,787 € 187,455,885 Sales € 182,357,000 € 187,347,017 Services rendered € 103,787 € 108,868 Raw materials and consumables (€ 34,984,582) (€ 33,967,523) Subcontracted works (€ 34,984,582) (€ 33,967,523) Other operating revenue € 1,483,569 € 1,249,007 Non-core and other current operating revenues € 562,557 € 362,092 Operating grants released to income for the year € 921,012 € 886,915 Payroll expenses (€ 119,690,102) (€ 125,666,727) Salaries, wages and other similar items (€ 84,742,913) (€ 89,541,830) Employee benefits (€ 33,278,739) (€ 35,236,160) Provisions (€ 1,668,450) (€ 888,737) Other operating expenses (20,993,946) (20,776,360) External services (€ 18,558,835) (€ 18,158,036) Taxes (€ 1,752,857) (€ 967,819) Losses, impairment and changes in trade provisions (€ 682,254) (€ 1,554,387) Other operating losses (€ 96,118) Fixed assets depreciation and amortization (€ 1,597,598) (€ 1,810,879) Impairment losses and gains/losses on disposal of non current assets (€ 26,319) Impairment and losses (€ 26,319) Other profits € 208,444 Operating income € 6,886,572 € 6,457,084 Financial income € 717,206 € 857,330 From interest in equity instruments In Group and other related companies € 3,119 € 2,152 From negotiable instruments and loans on fixed assets From third parties € 714,087 € 855,178 Financial expenses (€ 116,551) (€ 165,521) From payables to third parties (€ 116,551) (€ 165,521) Changes in the fair value of financial instruments (€ 249,340) € 81,362 Trading book and others (€ 249,340) € 81,362 Exchange differences € 973,357 (€ 1,630,436) Financial (expense) income € 1,324,672 (€ 857,265) Profit before taxes € 8,211,244 € 5,599,819 Corporate income tax (€ 3,842,297) (€ 2,047,218) Profit for the year from continuing operations € 4,368,947 € 3,552,601 Profit € 4,368,947 € 3,552,601 104 www.ineco.com
