R e n e s a Ac n e E l lea s i r o n nv As m e n e t c t r o ec y nics i e t As soc ur es o ciety CS R af ec o m Re ar Ac Ai m in so gt a b oR po c for t ea ie liz eO rt e i f ur ty le l Vi sio na nd 15 Bui Contents 20 ld Ou rF ut ur e 1 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management CONTENTS How to Use Each page in this report contains navigation buttons and category tabs to make it easy to move from page to page. Contents/Editorial Policies 1 Corporate Outline 2 Business Policies 4 ■Category tab Corporate Philosophy and CSR 5 Top message 6 Go to top page in each category. Social Responsibility 8 For Our Customers 9 ■Navigation button Go back one page. For Our Shareholders/Investors 12 Working with Suppliers 13 Publication Date Go forward one page. Working with Sales Partner 15 ■Link button Working with Employees 16 Support/Design (Website) japan.renesas.com/support/index.jsp Working with the Local Community 20 Links to site outside of report. Environmental Report 23 Editorial Policies In this CSR Report, we use the fiscal year, which ends on the last day of March. Renesas Electronics Group Environmental Measures 24 This CSR Report is intended for the many stakeholders of the Renesas Example: Electronics Group, including employees, customers, members of the local Fiscal 2015 (From April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015) Eco-Management Initiative 26 communities where we conduct business, suppliers and partners, and Fiscal 2016 (From April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016) shareholders and investors. With the objective of promoting two-way Eco-Factories Initiative 28 communication between the Company and these stakeholders, this report Reporting Period explains our approach to CSR and the environment and illustrates our specific activities in an easy-to-understand fashion. This report primarily covers the period from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015, and includes Eco-Products Initiative 33 reports on certain subsequent activities. Eco-Communication Initiative 35 Guidelines Used Publication Date ● Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) ● Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) September 2015 (Next publication scheduled: September 2016) ● Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (Third Edition) (Global Reporting Initiative) CSR Management 37 ● ISO 26000: 2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility (Japanese Standards Association) Reporting media Information on our CSR activities may be found on our Website as well as in this report. Corporate Governance 38 Reporting Scope http://www.renesas.com/comp/csr_eco/csr/index.jsp (CSR section) Risk Management 39 The report covers the Renesas Electronics Group, which consists of Renesas http://www.renesas.com/comp/csr_eco/eco/index.jsp (Environmental Activities section) Electronics Corporation, 6 domestic Group companies and 26 overseas Group We report economic information on our Website. Compliance 40 companies. 2 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management Corporate Outline Company Name Domestic Sites Overseas Sites Renesas Electronics Corporation Manufacturing and Engineering Manufacturing and Engineering Sales Companies Service Companies Service Companies Headquarters Renesas Electronics America Inc. TOYOSU FORESIA, 3-2-24 Toyosu, Renesas Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Canada Limited Renesas Semiconductor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Koto-ku, Tokyo 135-0061, Japan Renesas Semiconductor Package & Test Solutions Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Brasil-Servicos Ltda. Renesas Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. Renesas Electronics Europe Limited Renesas Semiconductor KL Sdn. Bhd. Established Design and Application Renesas Electronics Europe GmbH Renesas Semiconductor (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Technologies Companies Renesas Electronics (China) Co., Ltd. November 1, 2002 Renesas Semiconductor (Kedah) Sdn. Bhd. (Started operation on April 1, 2010 as Renesas Electronics Corporation) Renesas Electronics Corporation Renesas Semiconductor Technology (M) Sdn. Bhd. Renesas Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Renesas System Design Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Hong Kong Limited Renesas Engineering Services, Co., Ltd. Design and Application Renesas Electronics Taiwan Co., Ltd. Capital Stock Technologies Companies Renesas Electronics Korea Co., Ltd. 228.3 billion yen (As of March 31, 2015) Sales Company Renesas Semiconductor Design (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Singapore Pte. Ltd. Renesas Design Vietnam Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Renesas Electronics Corporation Major Operations Renesas Semiconductor Design (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Renesas Electronics India Pvt. Ltd. Research, development, design, manufacture, sale, and servicing of semiconductor products North America Employees Europe Japan (Consolidated) 21,083 (As of March 31, 2015) Asia Websites japan.renesas.com (Japanese version) www.renesas.com/index.jsp (English version) South America As of April 1, 2015 3 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management Business Domains and Semiconductor Sales Ratio by Business (Fiscal 2015) 1,000 883.1 785.8 833.0 791.1 Net Sales (¥billion) 750 Automotive Business General-Purpose Business 500 250 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) 120 104.4 Operating Profit or Loss (¥billion) 67.6 60 0 43% 56% -60 (23.2) (56.8) -120 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) 1,000 858.2 786.0 840.1 Total Assets (¥billion) 750 669.1 500 Products Products ■ Microcontrollers ■ Microcontrollers 250 ■ Analog & power semiconductors ■ Analog & power semiconductors 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ■ SoC (system-on-chip) ■ SoC (system-on-chip) Applications Applications Domestic/Overseas Sales Ratio (%) ■ Automotive Control : solutions for control of automotive engines, bodies ■ Industrial / Home Electronics : solutions for industrial equipment, 2015 and so on white goods ■ Automotive Information : solutions for automotive information equipment ■ OA / ICT : solutions for OA (Office Automation) equipment and for ICT (Information and such as car navigation systems Communication Technology) equipment such as network infrastructure FY Note) Sales of other semiconductor account for 1% of the semiconductor sales. ■ General-purpose products : solutions for other general-purpose applications Overseas 58% 42% Domestic 4 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management Business Policies of the Renesas Electronics Group We seek to resolve issues such as soaring demand for electric power, rapid urbanization of developing countries and the growth and aging of populations A clean A safe car A comfortable A secure environment society life society society Car Factory Office City Home We focus on domains where stable market growth is forecast, where the Company can leverage its strengths and where barriers to entry are high and profit growth can be expected Automotive General-Purpose Car ■ Powertrains Factory Home ■ Factory Automation City Office ■ Printers ■ Car bodies ■ Smart meters ■ Network security ■ Automotive analog and power semiconductors ■ White goods ■ Network cameras, etc. ■ Car information systems/ADAS, etc. ■ Lighting, etc. 5 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management Corporate Philosophy and CSR Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter The Renesas Electronics Group believes the CSR we are called on to practice is to contribute to solving the problems Formulated April 1, 2010 that society is facing, like the environment, human rights, poverty, and support for industrializing nations. We do this by conducting business based on our Corporate Philosophy. To that end, the Group undertakes business activities The Renesas Electronics Group will contribute with a balance of environmental, social, and economic aspects. We maintain good relations and value dialogue with to the sustainable advancement of society. As our various stakeholders (customers, suppliers, shareholders, and the local community), and we actively take on an enterprise, we will conduct business that social problems and contribute to the sustainable development of society. helps build a better future for people around the world by supplying superior semiconductor products powered with advanced technologies and by providing customer service that is honest and sincere. We pledge to conduct our Corporate Philosophy business with integrity and in compliance with legal requirements. We will work with and for Harnessing our collective expertise in new the benefit of our stakeholders based on the technologies, Renesas Electronics Corporate Philosophy following guiding principles: contributes to a world where people and the Customer focus planet prosper in harmony by realizing our We will quickly provide optimized, high-quality solutions in vision and building our future. response to our customers’ needs to maximize customer satisfaction and to earn our customers’ trust. Sound business practices We will carry out fair, ethical and transparent business practices and convey these practices to all our stakeholders. Corporate Vision Corporate Vision In addition, we will maximize our corporate value through business practices that allow us to continue to grow. We will be first to respond to customer needs worldwide with our creative power Healthy work environment and technology innovations to become a We will respect the individual personalities of our employees. strong, growing semiconductor We will promote a rewarding, safe, and flexible working environment where each person is able to demonstrate manufacturer and a trustworthy partner. CSR Charter his/her best talents and capabilities. Global perspective As a member of the global community, we will respect the history, culture, customs and human rights of each country and region, and we will not practice or permit any forced CSR activities in response to changes in society and the needs of the times or child labor. In addition, we will promote activities that contribute to the betterment of the global society. Environmentally friendly Employees Environment Local Community Customers Sales Partners Suppliers Shareholders/Investors We pledge to develop, manufacture and sell semiconductor products that respect the environment, and we will strive ● Respecting Human ● Eco-Management ● Communicating with ● Providing Safe Products ● Sharing the superiority ● Promoting CSR ● Making Timely, Rights Initiative Local Communities and Exacting Service of products and Procurement Appropriate and Fair to minimize the environmental impact of our products ● Providing Opportunities ● Eco-Factories Initiative ● Supporting the ● Providing Appropriate services ● Promoting Fair Information Disclosures throughout the entire product life cycle. We will also ● Practicing Proactive participate in activities intended to harmonize human pursuits to Develop and Use ● Eco-Products Initiative Fostering of a New Information and ● Maintaining close Transactions Talents ● Eco-Communication Generation Practicing Dialogue communication with Dialogue by Holding and the environment, promoting increased awareness of ● Building a Safe Initiative customers Briefing Sessions, Etc. ● Returning an issues such as climate change and biodiversity. Workplace Environment Appropriate Profit 6 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management We contribute to the sustainable advancement of society with superior Top Message semiconductor products and customer service that is honest and sincere. The Renesas Electronics Group has a CSR Charter Our aim is to achieve sustainable growth by becoming a declaring that The Renesas Electronics Group will trusted partner of our customers around the world. contribute to the sustainable advancement of society. As an enterprise, we will conduct business that helps Our company started operating as Renesas Electronics build a better future for people around the world by in 2010. Due to various factors, however, including the supplying superior semiconductor products powered Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011, which struck with advanced technologies and by providing customer our main plant, and the persistent trend toward a high service that is honest and sincere. We will continue yen, we were unfortunately unable to produce results in to highlight our technical capabilities and improved line with our stakeholders' expectations. However, we service, with which we can contribute to realization of a formulated a Reform Plan following our capital increase sustainable society. in September 2013, and execution of our reforms has begun to yield steady results, including 104.4 billion yen of profit in fiscal 2014. We will engage in equitable, fair, and transparent business practices, We consider it particularly crucial to further deepen and we will actively engage in disclosure of corporate information. our customers' trust in Renesas Electronics in order to return to the growth track and continue sustaining our The amended Companies Act went into effect in 2015, development into the future. In order to win this deeper bringing demands for development and supervision of Group trust, Renesas Electronics has determined to reinforce governance in the corporation as well as enhancement and and revitalize our human resources as our human wealth, appropriate disclosure of corporate governance. These are as well as to refine the innovativeness of our technology apparent, for example, in the Corporate Governance Code and provide solutions that will increase value for our adopted by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. At Renesas Electronics we respect the requirements of laws and regulations in Japan customers. By becoming trusted partners with our and other countries, and we therefore engage in eguitable, fair, customers, we are confident that Renesas Electronics and transparent business practices, and actively engage in will also be able to generate stable profits and achieve sustainable growth. Takao Endo disclosure of corporate information. This is the course we take to earn the trust of our stakeholders. Representative Director, Chairman and CEO 7 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management Top Message We will contribute to the realization of a sustainable society by realization of a sustainable society. We will do this by In addition to continuing our efforts to foster human providing semiconductor products that take into careful resources through employee education and other measures, providing superior semiconductor products and optimal solutions. consideration their impact on the global environment, from Renesas Electronics introduced a new personnel evaluation design through to disposal, so that our customers can use system in 2014 for the purpose of raising employee In recent years, we have experienced global warming, our products with a sense of security. We will also work to motivation and promoting their ability to work autonomously. localized heavy rainstorms, large droughts and other make semiconductor products that consume less power, Our aim for the future under this new evaluation system is to abnormal weather, together with issues on a global and enable highly precise energy control functionality by create a society and a workplace that enable every individual scale, such as problems of water resources and energy means of our semiconductors, so as to contribute to the employee to work autonomously with a high degree of that have become matters of international concern. The heightened energy-saving performance of our customers' motivation and to display their creative abilities. expanding disparity between rich and poor, the problem equipment. of conflict minerals, problems of human rights and other As good corporate citizens, we will work to increase our We are also committed to continuing consideration of the such issues that can only be addressed by society as a contributions to society with the aim of achieving harmonious problems of human rights, the environment and conflict whole, have grown to overwhelming magnitude. In order coexistence with the local community. minerals. Renesas Electronics has been endorsing and to resolve issues like these and welcome a future of practicing the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global prosperity, Renesas Electronics is committed to providing Our goal at Renesas Electronics is to become a corporate Compact in the four areas of human rights, labor, the customers with superior semiconductor products and citizen that is a familiar, friendly presence for the environment and anti-corruption since 2008. By complying optimal solutions, and in doing so to contribute to the residents of the local communities in which we operate. with these 10 Principles and putting them into practice, we will act as a global enterprise to contribute to the It is important, therefore, that Renesas Electronics also realization of a sustainable society. accurately grasps the needs of the local community members and provides a solid response. The Renesas Electronics Group is engaging in social contribution Our work on developing and fostering human resources programs in different regions throughout the world. heightens their value and our corporate value as well, Looking to the future, we aim to continue serving as a helping to realize a sustainable society. good corporate citizen, to listen to what the residents of Going forward, the key to returning to the growth track and local communities are saying, to become a company that heightening the corporate value of Renesas Electronics is is viewed warmly by local communities, and to coexist in developing and fostering human resources. As we see it, a harmony with them. vibrantly energetic workplace and employees who can work autonomously are also important components. 8 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management i b i lit y po n s l R e s So ci a CONTENTS Customers Shareholders/Investors Suppliers Sales Partners Employees Local Communities 9 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities For Our Customers Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group One of the basic policies of the Renesas Electronics Group is to increase customer satisfaction and earn customer trust by responding quickly to their needs and offering appropriate high-grade solutions. In line with this policy, all Renesas Electronics employees in each division and each office are implementing business activities with the Company’s customers in mind. Seeking Customer Satisfaction through CS Surveys for Better Customer Satisfaction Contact Centers Established for Customers Company-wide Improvement Initiatives and Communication To help customers use the Group’s products safely, The Renesas Electronics Group believes that customer Each year the Group designates March 11 as “Trust and appropriately and effectively, we have established centers to feedback is a valuable management resource for enhancing Peace of Mind Day” on which CS is surveyed, allowing us to provide technical support for users. These provide a variety of customer satisfaction (CS). As a Group-wide initiative, we regularly verify the level of our customers' trust in ourselves, technical information on our products. strive to make improvements so that this management information that is used to further improve our products, The centers received a total of about 14,000 customer resource can help increase customer satisfaction. The services and business activities. Improvement strategies inquiries in fiscal 2015. They are working to respond to such results are reported to upper management and disclosed under way to address the issues extracted from fiscal 2015's inquiries swiftly and accurately. throughout the Group so that all employees have the same survey include “Website renewal” and “Improving accuracy of information. forecast delivery dates.” As part of this, we did a CS survey in March 2015. We received 334 responses from 155 corporate Support/Design (Website) Customer Satisfaction Management http://www.renesas.com/support/index.jsp customers in Japan and abroad. We have been sharing the results throughout the Group to improve CS. 1 Inquiry Breakdown Check (Number of inquiries) MCUs Tools A&P Other Perform CS Customer Evaluation of Renesas Electronics [General Evaluation] 1,500 surveys 4 Identify issues 2 Poor 5% Non-response 1% 1,200 Do Action Somewhat 7% Excellent 17% Everything starts with the poor 900 334 Corporate voices of our customers Solve issues activities About average 21% Good 49% 600 3 Plan 334 customers 300 Corporate image Products/ General evaluation: Respondents evaluated Renesas Electronics generally in nine categories, including 0 services April May June July August September October November December January February March quality of operating activities, technical support for set development, effectiveness of suggestions to customers, product quality, and so on. 2014 2015 10 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities For Our Customers Policy for Product Quality Improvement Quality Control in Each Process The Renesas Electronics Group sets concrete quality Renesas has built a comprehensive quality assurance system that covers every stage from development, design, mass production, and objectives every fiscal year based on the Quality Policy top shipping through to actual use by the customer. In addition, we advance semiconductor product safety as part of quality improvement, as we believe that quality includes product safety. management has committed to. To achieve these objectives, we work for continuous improvement of overall quality Quality Control in Development and Design Processes Product Quality Control in the development, design, manufacturing, and support Optimization and design review (DR) of device construction, circuit We sample finished products and test their reliability in-house processes. Individual divisions and offices set prioritized design, packages, and processes are important components of to confirm that they have the prescribed functions and reliability. semiannual projects for quality improvement, and they ensuring product specifications and building in quality. Every model We also give customer support by providing claims processing, formulate and implement action plans to accomplish these we make only goes to mass production after we have checked the quality information, and other services. projects. Action plans go through an improvement cycle that characteristics of its prototypes and verified its reliability. checks their progress during each six-month period and Product Safety Quality Control in Manufacturing Processes revises them. To promote the safe use of its products by customers, the We have a quality control program to build in quality during manufacturing Group undertakes various activities, including the preparation processes. It uses an electronic data processing (EDP) system that ties of appropriate product specifications and the provision of quality information about our products’ workmanship to information about documents with accurate technical information, as well as Quality Assurance Systems equipment, tools, environment, and manufacturing conditions. Another information pertaining to compliance with environmental laws The Renesas Electronics Group has quality assurance initiative is “Product quality enhancement project activities,” on which and regulations. As a result, no product safety incidents have overseas and domestic factories are working closely together. occurred. systems Group-wide, which we use from development and design to production and delivery. This way we are able to provide high-quality, reliable products and services for greater Quality Assurance Systems CS. We supply products to many companies involved with automobile production. In view of this, we use manufacturing Action Support Quality tools that conform to automobile sector standards. Through Information flow  Quality Information provided  Usage Guide Offered  Defective Product Analysis  Customer Certification Support  Quality Meeting such activities as these, we are continuing to improve the Relevance quality of our products and services so that we are always Development Design/Prototyping Production Process Testing/Inspection Customers able to accommodate the specific requirements of our customers. As quality management systems, we have acquired ISO 9001 quality management system certification Enhanced Quality and Reliability on a Group-wide basis. In the meantime, individual ● Failure Analysis ● Reliability Engineering ● Failure Physics ● Data Collection manufacturing sites and their support sites have acquired ISO/TS 16949 certification. Design Quality Control Production Quality Control Product Quality Control Compliance with Laws and Regulations, Including Those Related to the Environment (Product Safety/Environmental Quality) 11 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities For Our Customers Studying Defective Products and Taking Corrective Action Product Environmental Quality If a shipped product is found to be defective, the quality assurance department leads an effort to determine the At Renesas Electronics Group, we believe that product chemical substance they use in their packing materials. cause and take corrective measures.The quality assurance chemical substance management in all processes, from We also provide information on the chemical substances department tracks defects found by customers and uses material selection during design and development to and RoHS Directive※/prohibited substance analysis data measuring and analysis instruments of various types to preventing pollution during manufacturing process, requires to our customers so that they can use our products with analyze the product failure. Design, production, and other working with the entire supply chain. Thus we have our confidence. Moreover, we allow customers to confirm the concerned departments confer with each other and take the suppliers certify that their products do not contain prohibited Group’s management system for chemical substance and necessary corrective measures as based on study results, substances and provide analysis data. We also conduct the actual activities. and those results are reported to the customer. supplier audits to confirm their management systems. We ※RoHS Directive:A European Union directive limiting the content of specified hazardous substances (lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium and brominated additionally ask our sales companies and agents to manage flame retardants PBB and PBDE) in electric and electronic devices Defective Product Inquiry Flow Product Chemical Content Control throughout the Supply Chain Measures check and follow-up Green Procurement Requested Design Failure analysis department Report Answer Investigation of cause Renesas Quality Quality Raw Materials Component Customer Sales assurance Recurrence prevention assurance Electronics Distributors Set Makers department Manufacturers Manufacturers Defective department Measures taken department Group product (information) Report Production department Measures check Provide Certificate and Evidence (Analysis Data) of Non-use of Prohibited Chemicals and follow-up Report 12 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities For Our Shareholders/ Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group The purpose of our IR activities is to ensure that shareholders and investors appropriately assess our corporate value. To Investors that end, we provide them with the information they need to make investment decisions, and we do so in a timely, fair and ongoing manner. We moreover proactively enhance two-way communication with shareholders and investors. as needed so they have an opportunity to better understand Overview of IR Activities our business activities. We also aim constantly to provide Communication Using Information important management information that is timely, fair, and Disclosure Tools Following our basic policy on IR activities, we seek to easily understood, to as many parties as possible, whether provide shareholders, investors, and securities analysts with they are individual or institutional investors, located in Japan The Renesas Electronics Group uses a variety of tools to information on our business, finances, strategies, and other or abroad. For that purpose, we are enhancing our disclosed disclose information so that shareholders and investors will important matters in readily understandable form. To do this, materials and IR Website. As for opinions and requests know us better. On our IR Website in particular, we offer we work to increase opportunities for top management to that shareholders, investors, and securities analysts have press releases, securities reports, and other publications speak directly to these parties, for example at our general regarding our business activities, top management and other of use to those making investment decisions. We are also meeting of shareholders, quarterly results briefing sessions, parties within Renesas Electronics share this information working to enlarge the range of information available relating or business overview sessions. We also proactively hold periodically and put it to use improving our business to financial results, such as settlement of accounts briefs meetings with institutional investors and securities analysts activities and maximizing our corporate value. and presentations, in addition to English-language materials. Fiscal 2015 IR Calendar First quarter Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter April May June July August September October November December January February March Announcement of Fiscal year First quarter Second quarter Third quarter financial results Annual Shareholders shareholders meeting Management News to Others Business report policy overview shareholders Shareholder news Results briefing session 13 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with Suppliers Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group Renesas Electronics provides suppliers with equal opportunities for competition, while engaging in fair, impartial and open business transactions. Our goal is to contribute to the development of a sustainable society by working with the cooperation of all our partners in the supply chain on collaborative initiatives to meet the various demands of society. These guidelines are disclosed to all suppliers. In addition, CSR Procurement Initiatives Renesas Electronics conducts periodic investigations on the Procurement Policies environmental measures implemented by suppliers. 1. Provision of opportunities for fair competition CSR Activities Through Procurement In addition, the Company advances its procurement We provide information on procurement in an The Renesas Electronics Group requests its business initiatives with the understanding and cooperation of our appropriate and timely manner in order to offer partners to actively work together to drive CSR initiatives suppliers in relation to testing of purchased items for opportunities for fair competition to all domestic and overseas companies who express an interest that uphold social responsibility with regard to environmental hazardous substances, compliance with the European in working with us. protection, fair business and corporate ethics, quality and Union's RoHS directive* and other laws and regulations and safety, information security, health and safety, and human so on. 2. Fair evaluation and selection of suppliers rights and labor. We also practice green purchasing of goods such as office We employ a comprehensive supplier evaluation Also, in order to facilitate a deeper understanding of our supplies and IT equipment. When we select such goods, and selection process that considers: the reliability of the potential supplier’s management; the prices, position on CSR and to promote activities based on a we give preference to eco-friendly products based on the quality, delivery timelines and advanced technical shared perspective, we have created a CSR promotion environmental burden data for each item. Our current green features of the products and services to be handbook for the supply chain, which has been distributed purchasing rate is more than 80%. procured; and the supplier’s CSR policies. to around 1,000 of our business partners. *RoHS Directive: A European Union directive limiting the content of specified hazardous substances (lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium and brominated 3. Development of mutual trust flame retardants PBB and PBDE) in electric and electronic devices Promotion of CSR Procurement (Website) We value communication with our suppliers and http://www.renesas.com/comp/procurement/csr/index.jsp always strive to form relationships of mutual trust that will grow stronger in the years to come. Promoting Green Procurement 4. Management and protection of information We recognize the value of the information that we Renesas Electronics is promoting green procurement. obtain through our procurement transactions, and Specifically, the Company prioritizes the procurement of we manage it appropriately. ecofriendly products free of hazardous substances from suppliers who are proactively promoting environmental protection. 14 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with Suppliers Initiatives Against the Conflict Minerals Problem BCP Initiatives with Suppliers Communication with Suppliers In the Democratic Republic of the Congo and some of its neighboring countries in Africa, some minerals have become Renesas Electronics requests that its suppliers immediately Smooth communication with suppliers is essential for problematic, as they are a revenue source for armed groups notify its emergency information center of any damage in the Renesas Electronics Group business activities. Suppliers and may lead to violations of human rights and the prolonging event of being affected by natural disasters or major accidents. keep us informed about trends in the electronics industry of conflicts. The US’s Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and The Company has a system in place to ensure that, in such an and their own industries and provide valuable suggestions to Consumer Protection Act requires companies listed in the US event, information from suppliers reaches all concerned Group employees, both in Japan and overseas, regardless of when the the Group for the development of society. to disclose information about their usage of conflict minerals event occurs. Based on this system, the employees in question (gold, tantalum, tungsten, tin, etc.). take appropriate measures in a swift and efficient manner in In accordance with this act, the Renesas Electronics Group order to address our customers’ concerns swiftly. is working to eliminate conflict minerals from our supply chain as far as possible. Flow of Recovery Activities Following an Earthquake To ensure follow-through on this initiative, we take a survey Secondary recovery period OrganiTime of our suppliers, asking them to identify the refineries they use. Immediately following earthquake (Epicentral earthquake) Primary recovery period (Emergency recovery system) (Fully-fledged recovery system) Results of the survey are being disclosed to our customers as zation Support from Earthquake Response Supervision Headquarters we strive to procure minerals responsibly through our supply Support from associated companies (places of business) participating in support programs chain. Initial activities immediately following earthquake 1) Safety checks During working hours Securing of facility equipment Establishment of Earthquake Response Headquarters at Checking and reporting on status of Disbanding of Earthquake Response Headquarters Requests for Emergency responses at related companies 2) Guidance for 1) Relief and rescue Occurrence of earthquake temporary Damaged place of business support Requests for support for activities Report concerning evacuation 2) Care for injured 3) Securing of Executive Rapid announcement 3) Removal of General Manager concerning earthquake evacuation area bodies fully-fledged recovery completion of recovery Verification of implementation of emergency recovery measures General Report on damage related companies (places of business) at related companies (places of business) caused by earthquake (places of business) Launch of Earthquake Affairs team Attendance at work status of recovery Can attend work Outside of working hours Response Headquarters Human Resources Collection of information team on casualties and injuries Original recovery activities at related Standby Cannot attend work companies (places of business) Activities of workplace firefighting team (by workplaces and floors) 15 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with Sales Partners Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group In order to provide more exacting service to our customers in regions throughout Japan and around the globe, the Renesas Electronics Group believes it necessary not only to sell directly through our sales companies, but to market in collaboration with our sales partners– authorized distributors, agents, and overseas distributors. Therefore we are working actively to strengthen these partnerships. Collaborating with Sales Partners Voice Comments from Sales Partners Japan We at Hagiwara Electric aim to be a global supplier to our We at Renesas Easton, a technological trading company, customers of one-stop solutions that represent industry best blend our core range of Renesas Electronics products with our In Japan, Renesas Electronics holds meetings with executives practices, from devices to complete systems. own strengths in proposal-based marketing to create of distributors at least twice a year. At these meetings, we The Electron Device Business is the nucleus of the company high-value-added products and to actively work to realize the and the most important operation, and automotive is “smart society” of the future. share the Group’s policies and the policies of each business positioned as a core business domain. The company is based Renesas Electronics Corporation supports us by working unit, while exchanging opinions and information. Furthermore, in Nagoya, the local area of major customers Toyota Motor closely with us on proposal activities that precisely match Corporation, Denso Corporation and others, and has an active customer needs. the Group holds working-level meetings with distributors’ overseas network in seven different countries. In particular, Renesas Electronics Corporation is an extremely valuable staff members once a month to provide information regarding Renesas Electronics Corporation is our largest supplier. partner from the perspective of our growth strategy and we will As a technology-specific trading company with around 120 work to further deepen our strong relationship to achieve future product lineups and technologies. In this way, we engineers working primarily in its Technology Center, Hagiwara continuous growth and to bring about the “smart society” of the Electric is working on initiatives for continuous growth together future. continue to strengthen mutual understanding. with Renesas Electronics Corporation, while continuing Hagiwara Electric's business philosophy of “Creativity and Ambition” and aiming to fulfil its social responsibilities as a good Overseas corporate citizen. Outside Japan, Renesas Electronics holds “Distributor Meetings” at least once a year and management-level Kenji Nishizaki Masahiro Yamazaki quarterly review meetings with distributors in order to confirm General Manager, Device Promotion Division Manager, Sales Planning Department Hagiwara Electric Co., Ltd. Renesas Easton Co., Ltd. local sales policies and business continuity plans (BCPs), and solve region-specific problems in an effective manner. 16 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with Employees Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group Our Company aims to be a positive place for our employees to work. With proper communication and mutual trust, we are building a workplace where each person can work to his or her full capacity. 1. Fostering Human Resources able to Flourish as 3. Creating Mechanisms for Voluntary Learning by Human Resources Development and Leaders on the Global Stage Employees Education Programs Human resources who act as leaders have a great In order to promote independent learning, we believe it is influence on organizations and affect the outcomes of important that individuals be aware of the importance of For Renesas to achieve sustainable growth and contribute those organizations. The continuous fostering of these their own growth, that they understand what they should to society in a global market, all of its employees must grow human resources is an important initiative from the learn, and that they put what they have learned into and be active. Our human resources development system perspective of a company’s growth, sustainability, and practice in the workplace. aims to realize the “required human resources.” This image stability. As concrete examples of these steps, we provide is our vision of the talents, skills and actions required so In addition, we aim to ensure a stable supply of business skill courses that anybody may join, specialized that our employees can think and act for themselves and individuals to each post through 1) Succession plans engineering courses for different fields, distance learning our personnel have the capacity to act and succeed on (plans for successive personnel to fill a post), and 2) programs chosen from a range of 120 courses, and the world stage. The following graphic lays out the specific A system for the cultivation of leaders (plans for the partial repayment of costs for those who complete characteristics we are trying to develop. fostering of human resources). courses. Required Human Resources 2. Creating an Environment to Invigorate Human 4. Creating a Rotation System to Allow Individuals to Resource Cultivation in the Workplace Pursue the Career of Their Choice Because on-the-job training (OJT) is the foundation for By considering the career objectives and abilities Philosophy cultivating human resources, the nurturing of subordinate established during MBO discussions with subordinate Vision staff members is an evaluation metric within the system employees when allocating human resources, the active of management by objectives and evaluation of behavior use of rotation in the context of career development applied to those in managerial positions. Linking this to is further encouraged. In addition, by limiting the Our people evaluation contributes to further enhancements in the implementation of open recruitment, the individual is given awareness of the need to nurture subordinates and to a opportunities to independently build their own career. ● Rigorous problem-solver ● Reliable team-player reassertion of the importance of OJT and OJT methods, ● Relentless challenger leading to more effective cultivation of subordinate employees. Training opportunities are provided to those Strategic Thinking Planning, Decision-making and Problem-solving evaluating others to impart the knowledge and skills Ownership and Initiative Global Mindset Openness to Change required to conduct fair and objective assessments. Innovation Leadership and Teamwork 17 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with Employees 5. Educating New Employees and Invigorating Young For young employees, we offer opportunities to Workers increase a variety of business skills, and we are Promoting Diversity in Human Resources We conduct training of new hires with the aim of getting introducing measures to boost motivation based on them full-fledged and up to speed quickly. By means of their needs, as determined using methods such as The Renesas Electronics Group is strengthening initiatives to 1) Introductory training, factory visits and sales training, questionnaires. promote human resource diversity. At Renesas, we respect 2) A man-to-man training system under which young In addition, we are also working to expand our system differences. We aim to actively use differences to respond employees are responsible for providing guidance to new of training in overseas duties, seeking to offer more young employees the experience of overseas work. most effectively to the changing business environment employees, 3) Review training of the first year, and 4) and diversifying customer needs and thereby establish an Meeting to report on outcomes in the second year, we inculcate the mindset appropriate for a member of society advantage. and an employee of our company, provide training in the Specifically, we recruit people so that, regardless of basic skills and techniques necessary for the specific job, nationality, gender or physical constitution, they can apply and cultivate the ability to switch between roles. By this their individual abilities and contribute to society. In addition, means we create the foundations for human resources the Group aims to create more employee-friendly, pleasant who will thrive in our company. workplaces by placing particular focus on human resource diversity. For example, we are promoting the hiring of more female employees and people with disabilities. Image of skill development system Shared items Items by vocational ability WG for enhancement of WG for enhancement of WG for the enhancement of Training to cultivate Department head class technological capacity sales ability technical skills Personal development (Correspondence course) RRT training MOT training Evaluator training managerial staff Assessment by rank Planning and promotion Planning and promotion Planning and promotion Various lecture meetings Section head class of various human of various human of various human Competence courses/Improvement of various In-house TOEIC test Training for resource cultivation resource cultivation resource cultivation a new position measures, centering on measures, centering on measures, centering on Training to increase Training in technical lectures and a variety of training a skill evaluation system role skill evaluation, initiatives, aiming and a variety of training Chief level ability to implement overseas duties aiming towards the towards the initiatives, aiming business skills /language skills rank-and-file employee tasks strengthening of enhancement of sales towards the technological and marketing ability enhancement of Report on training outcomes for second year competitiveness technical skills New employees Priority training system / Introductory training Being implemented / scheduled for implementation Under consideration Not implemented in FY2016 18 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with Employees Respecting Human Rights Balancing Work and Private Life Communicating with Labor Unions Both the Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter and the With the aim of supporting employees in balancing their Renesas Electronics holds labor-management meetings Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct clearly state work and private lives while realizing their full abilities at work, twice a year with the Renesas Electronics Labor Union, to that the Renesas Electronics Group will respect human Renesas Electronics carries out various support measures. which its employees belong, to exchange frank opinions on rights in hiring, human resources development, employee These measures are implemented in the form of flexible work management policies and business conditions. In addition, treatment and all other aspects of employment, while conditions and leave systems. We are also encouraging our committees consisting of employee and management eliminating any discrimination based on race, belief, gender, age, social position, family origin, nationality, ethnicity, employees to have some variety in their lives. For example, representatives are promoting activities aimed at preventing religion, or physical and mental disability, to ensure that all individual factories and offices establish days when everyone long working hours, improving working conditions and of its employees are treated equally. Also, the charter and leaves at the set time. supporting the development of employees who will play the code of conduct clearly prohibit sexual harassment, as an important role in achieving the future growth of the well as forced labor and child labor. Since March 2008, we People Using the Childcare Leave Program Company. In this way, Renesas Electronics is helping to have also endorsed and participated the United Nations (data over time) build stable labor-management relations. Global Compact for business operation with a strong sense Similar efforts are being made with labor unions at Group of ethics in accordance with international guidelines. As we Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 promote global operations, we ensure that all of our Group companies in Japan. Overseas, our Group companies companies are familiar with these principles. In line with the Men 3 1 0 0 exchange opinions with workers’ unions or employee Number of principles, each Renesas Electronics Group company must representatives based on laws and regulations in their people using Women 154 121 70 52 not only comply with relevant laws and regulations, but also childcare leave respective countries. implement educational and awareness-raising programs on Total 157 122 70 52 human rights and other related subjects. *The number dropped in fiscal 2014 because of such factors as use of our early retirement Specifically, we raise employee awareness of human program. rights during new-employee and position-specific training and e-training programs for all employees, as well as various events during Human Rights Week every year. We put up posters in places visible to employees and use our intranet to inform them about our in-house service for consulting on issues of sexual harassment, harassment of subordinates by superiors, equal opportunity for men and women, and other issues. In these ways, we are endeavoring to facilitate consultation and enable appropriate responses to employee concerns. 19 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with Employees Specific Activities mental health management structure based on lines of command. Occupational safety activities: Through risk assessment At the same time, we encourage the use of a simplified stress processes, disaster risks are identified, and possible check system. Also, the Company includes subjects related countermeasures are prepared. These processes are helping to mental health in various training programs. Through these us prevent disasters and accidents. For Group factories with initiatives, Renesas Electronics is endeavoring to remain a Basic Policy production lines, Occupation Safety and Health Management company where all employees can better maintain their health Systems have already been adopted and labor accident and work with vigor and enthusiasm. In line with the basic policy, “Renesas Electronics prevention activities are being conducted. We have designated March 11 of each year as The Day of “Strength and Trust” in Mental Health Consultation Mechanism shall protect the safety and health of its the Group. We conduct disaster preparedness inspections on Consult employees and work to realize employee-friendly, workplaces and employee homes, all on this one day. Human Resource Division Supervisor safe workplace environments,” the Company is Occupational health activities: Programs are being implementing various measures. implemented by industrial physicians, public health nurses Report and occupational health and safety staff working together Consult to follow up the results of medical examinations, offer Support ● Occupational Health Staff counseling, provide meetings to discuss long-term overtime, Approach Consult ● Health Management Center Occupational Health and Safety offer education on mental health issues and implement Consult ● Counseling Rooms measures to help stop or reduce smoking. These include Employee Group-Wide Initiatives “Promoting and Keeping a Healthy Body,” “Better Mental Cooperation The Renesas Electronics Group is promoting various Health” and “Overwork Countermeasures.” Medical Institutions Consult activities aimed at ensuring disaster prevention, occupational Medical Specialists (Third Parties) health and safety. More specifically, a Company-wide Safety Mental Health Management and Health Conference—consisting of occupational health and safety officers at individual business sites and Group The Renesas Electronics Group considers measures to promote Voice Comments Comments from Health from an Education Course Health Education Attendee at an Attendee Course (Excerpt) at a (Excerpt) a Mental Mental companies—has formulated the Renesas Electronics Group mental health as a paramount management issue and is Self-care Self-care education education Disaster Prevention and Occupational Health and Safety consequently promoting various activities in this regard. Specifically, 1) Industrial physicians give consultations and advice to “I “I realized that it's realized that it's important important to find aa way to find way of dealing with of dealing with stress.” stress.” Management Policy. Based on this policy, the occupational employees working long hours. “I was glad “I was glad toto have another chance have another chance to learn about to learn about thethe company's company's health and safety officers organize related activities. procedure for in-house consultation.” procedure for in-house consultation.” 2) A contact point has been established so that any employee “I Meanwhile, the Company is promoting the sharing of can obtain diagnosis and counseling from industrial physicians, “I got got aa feel feel for important itit is how important for how is to suffer alone' 'not suffer to 'not alone' but to instead but to instead talk talk to your to boss or your boss or aa professional professional body.” body.” information related to occupational health and safety within occupational health nurses, and contracted counselors. 3) The Company provides support to employees who have Education Education for for management management awareness awareness of mental health of mental health the Group. Such information is utilized to prevent disasters taken leave to enable them to return to work by standardizing in the in the workplace workplace and reinforce the Group’s occupational health and safety procedures that last from the start to end of leave. “I understood understood the “I the value of daily value of communication with daily communication subordinates in my subordinates with my in the the department.” department.” activities. The Company periodically offers mental health education programs to managerial employees as part of efforts to establish a “Provided “Provided aa good opportunity to to think good opportunity think again about how again about how to to improve improve thethe workplace workplace going going forward.” forward.” “I would “I would like like this educational program this educational program to to be be continued.” continued.” 20 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with the Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group The Renesas Electronics Group aims to help build a rich society on a global scale through our business, and we have taken a Local Community variety of opportunities to implement social contribution activities. Thinking of ourselves as a member of society, we proactively engage in social contribution activities so that, as a corporate citizen, we can fulfill our responsibility to the community and society. No.1 spot in Japan. RMCR Activities in Japan was held in August 2014 and Basic Policies for Social Contribution Activities March 2015, sponsored by The Renesas Electronics Group’s Basic Policies Working with the Micom Car Rally the Company, and attracted for Social Contribution Activities are as follows. 194 vehicles to compete As a means of supporting the nurturing of engineers 1. As a good corporate citizen, the Renesas through the teaching of craftsmanship, the Company has against each other in a Electronics Group will work to preserve the global long provided backing for the “Micom Car Rally,” a speed technological competition. environment, which is closely related to the sustainability of the semiconductor industry, and competition for microcontroller-driven robot cars. The Micom Official Micom Car Rally Website Official Renesas Micom Car Rally Website www.mcr.gr.jp/ www.mcr.gr.jp/ general make meaningful contributions to society. Car Rally consists of the Japan Micom Car Rally (JMCR), (Japanese language only) (Japanese language only) 2. As it pursues business on a global scale, the Renesas which is aimed primarily at technical high school students, Electronics Group will promote social contribution and the “Renesas Micom Car Rally” (RMCR), which has a activities that help to improve its corporate image. wide range of participants from across generations and that Electronics Workshop 3. The Renesas Electronics Group will implement social has even spread overseas. In JMCR, about 2,300 vehicles From 2013, Renesas Electronics has held electronics contribution activities through cooperation with its from technical high schools nationwide were entered in the stakeholders in order to enhance its brand value. workshops during the spring and summer holidays that regional heats for the FY2015 event, and at the national parents and children can attend together. The workshop competition held in January 2015, competitors aimed for the is aimed at familiarizing attendees with the Company's semiconductor products, primarily in the later years of elementary school, but participants as young as 5 and as old Financial Support for Social Contribution as 74 have so far taken part. In FY2015, in workshops held in Activities during the Fiscal Year August 2014 and March 2015, 141 attendees learned how The Renesas Electronics Group has endorsed the objectives of the 1% Club, established in November 1990 to assemble and run “Micon by KEIDANREN (the Japan Business Federation). Endorsing Racers” that make it easy to businesses voluntarily contribute at least 1% of their learn measurement and control recurring profits to social contribution activities. As one of programming using Renesas these businesses, we have been proactively pursuing social contribution activities in a number of fields. microcontrollers. 21 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with the Local Community Water Splashing Campaign 2014 Takasaki women's softball team for 34 years (the team was PET Bottle Cap Donations (Headquarters) transferred to Bic Camera Inc. on January 1, 2015) and was (RSPT Yonezawa Factory) praised for having contributed to the development of softball The 2014 Nippon Building campaign to cool the city by within Gunma prefecture. On August 25, 2014, the Yonezawa factory of Renesas splashing water (uchimizu) on the pavement held regularly Semiconductor Package & Test Solutions (RSPT) donated at the Nippon Building (Chiyoda Ward, Tokyo) where the 92,000 PET bottle caps (23 cardboard boxes full) to the Renesas Headquarters is located took place on July 30. Yonezawa branch of the Yamagata Bank. This was the Organized by the Chubu Sewerage Office of the Tokyo seventh donation to various groups made as part of the Metropolitan Government Bureau of Sewerage, the Ecocap Movement, in which all employees participate as campaign is part of measures to counter the heat island effect. This year also many people in the Nippon Building part of their contributions to society, and the first donation and neighboring buildings participated. About 80 people since the previous one made in November 2012. The from the Renesas Group took part, using the buckets donated PET bottle caps have a value equivalent to the cost and dippers provided to splash water around the Nippon of vaccinations for 115 people and result in the saving of Building. After only 15 674kg of CO2. minutes of splashing water we felt the effects Cleaning Konan City Together ourselves, as the breeze (RSMC Kochi Factory) that blew by seemed to have carried away the On June 13, 2014, the K ochi Fac tor y o f Renesas earlier sweltering heat. And using recycled water for Semiconductor Manufacturing (RSMC) took part in the “Let's the splashing made for an all make the streets clean! Cleaning Konan City together” environmentally friendly event organized by Konan City. On the day, 45 participants event. divided into four routes and collected litter around the factory. Various kinds of rubbish, including combustible items, nonLetter of Thanks from Gunma Softball Association flammable objects such as bottles and cans, and broken (Takasaki Site) plastic umbrellas had been abandoned in the roadsides On January 17, 2015, the Takasaki Site received a letter and in the grass of the side of thanks from the Gunma Softball Association during a ditches but the volunteers ceremony held by the same association to honor the softball painstakingly gathered and teams and players of Gunma prefecture. The Takasaki Site sorted it, filling around 30 had supported as a corporate sport the Renesas Electronics bags full of litter. 22 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Customers ■Shareholders/Investors ■Suppliers ■Sales Partners ■Employees ■Local Communities Working with the Local Community at neighborhood distribution centers. supplies for victims of the East Malaysian Floods. Due to Activities Overseas the cooperation of employees and of other companies Supporting SHFB within the industrial park, more than three tons of food, gives REA a chance Campaigns on World Environment Day toiletries, mineral water and clothes were collected and to make a difference (Beijing, China) sent to the victims. Moreover, due to shortages of blood in the world from one supplies for transfusion, Malaysia's blood bank put out an bag of groceries. On June 5, 2014, Renesas Semiconductor (Beijing) Co., urgent appeal for blood donations, in which people also Ltd. held two campaigns under the slogan “Breathe participated. The volume University Program To g e t h e r, M o v e To g e t h e r ” t o c o i n c i d e w i t h Wo r l d of blood donations to the (Taipei, Taiwan) Environment Day, namely “Low Energy Consumption hospitals that cooperated Through Eco-Commuting” and “Volunteer Cleaning Around with this appeal was such Renesas Electronics Taiwan (RETW) has been running the Factory.” For “Low Energy Consumption Through Ecothat donations exceeded their “University Program” to deepen collaboration with Commuting,” participants avoided commuting by car the daily target they had universities. By providing education tools and materials, and instead took the initiative to use public transportation set. The company will RETW is now having over 20 partner universities such as buses and the subway. On the day, 138 people continue to support the and had over 1,600 university students were trained. took part, leading to a reduction in use of 768 liters of victims of the floods. Furthermore, to encourage students learning the WW gasoline and 728kg of CO2 No.1 MCU and applying to their real design, RETW emissions. For “Volunteer Helping to Feed the Hungry also sponsors one of the local major MCU contests Cleaning Around the (California, United States) “Intelligent Robot and MicroMouse Contest” which is Factory,” 39 participants hosted by Taiwan Ministry of Education, by providing c l e a n e d u p a ro u n d t h e Since April 2010, Renesas Electronics America (REA) has MCUs, tools and technical consultant. At the Contest factory and collected about been helping to feed the hungry in their local communities. in September 2014, students who adopted Renesas 100kg of litter. By working with the Second Harvest Food Bank (SHFB), MCUs won The Champions for the both group, one of the largest food banks in the nation, REA members “Intelligent Robot” are able to contribute their time, muscle power, and and “MicroMouse”. smiles, to help prepare and distribute food to many Support for Flood Victims who would otherwise go hungry. Several times each (Selangor, Malaysia) year, you can find REA members enjoying an afternoon In January 2015, Renesas Semiconductor KL Sdn. Bhd. together at a main warehouse, boxing and weighing set up a collection center for two days to gather relief fruits and vegetables; or distributing food to families 23 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management p o rt a l R e m e nt v ir o n En CONTENTS Environmental Measures Eco-Management Initiative Eco-Factories Initiative Eco-Products Initiative Eco-Communication Initiative 24 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Renesas Electronics Group Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group Businesses in recent years have begun to take environmental initiatives with a wide range of approaches. Aside from combating pollution, enterprises today are working to reduce Environmental Measures greenhouse gases, lower emissions, regulate chemical content in products, and more. The Renesas Electronics Group works to reduce environmental burdens as guided by the cooperative targets of industry groups. We develop and offer products that save energy and lower environmental burden by increasing environmental performance. The yearly policies and targets of such environmental activities are deliberated by the Environmental Promotion Meeting chaired by the board member in charge of environmental issues. Three Environmental Cornerstones of Renesas Electronics Three Environmental Cornerstones of Environmental Policy Renesas Electronics Environmental Promotion Meeting We will contribute to the harmonization of society and the (chaired by the board member in Some of the key issues in our environmental measures are charge of environmental issues) environment in the course of our business activities. 1) legal compliance, 2) reduction of environmental burden, 3) Eco-Management the development of eco-friendly products and 4) maintaining good relations with stakeholders. We are tackling these issues through environmental Action Guidelines management, in which all employees participate. Such management is based on a so-called Eco-Management Eco-Factories Eco-Products Eco-Communication 1. We will incorporate environmental considerations into system built on the cornerstones of the Eco-Factories, EcoEnvironmental load Eco-friendly product Information disclosure all stages of the product life cycle, including research & Products and Eco-Communication initiatives. reduction at development and internal development, design, procurement, production, sale, manufacturing sites, dissemination ● Eco-Factories Initiative: Aimed at reducing the logistics, use and disposal. others 2. We will strive to prevent pollution as well as to minimize environmental impact of manufacturing sites through the impact of our products on the environment. When the reduction of greenhouse gasses (GHG) and the environmental problems arise, we will take appropriate appropriate management of chemical substances in steps to minimize the environmental impact and disclose manufacturing processes accurate information. ● Eco-Products Initiative: Aimed at supplying eco3. Our environmental management efforts will involve friendly semiconductors produced with environmental compliance with all environmental laws, regulations and considerations in mind throughout their lifecycles, Environmental management system agreements, and we will promote compliance activities. including the control of chemical substances contained in 4 . We w i l l d i s c l o s e e n v i ro n m e n t a l i n f o r m a t i o n t o products and the development of products with excellent stakeholders and encourage communication with society energy-saving performance for the purpose of promoting mutual understanding. ● Eco-Communication Initiative: Aimed at strengthening 5. We will educate all employees in environmental conservation to create a company culture that promotes employee awareness through environmental education harmony between the environment and business activities. and disseminating the Group’s environmental information to society 25 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Renesas Electronics Group Environmental Measures Fiscal 2015 Initiative Results and Fiscal 2016 Targets Voice from Board Member in Charge of Environmental Issues Item Fiscal 2015 Plan Fiscal 2015 Results Evaluation Fiscal 2016 Plan Contributing to Stakeholders through Eco-Friendly Products and Manufacturing ●Promote integration of ISO 14001 ● Completed certification integration ● Optimize environmental management Eco-Management ◎ In addition to reducing the power consumption of our products to enable us to certification of manufacturing sites of new production companies systems and organize certification systems maximally enhance energy conservation performance for our customers who wish to use less power in operating the electronic devices (transportation and industrial ● Comply with action plan of four electric ●Reduced 26% from benchmark ●Reduce 3% or more from benchmark equipment, home electronics, etc.) that make our lives so rich and convenient, and electronics groups for post-Kyoto year (energy consumption per ◎ year (energy consumption per unit Renesas works to develop products that offer energy-saving functions that our Protocol era. unit sales) sales) customers can make use of themselves. In our IC/LSI manufacturing process as well, EcoFactories we consider our impact on the global environment at all stages, from design to ●Reduced PFC emissions 9.5% ●Reduce PFC emissions from disposal, offering our customers products they can use with confidence. ●Reduce PFC*1 emissions (However, increased 0.01GWP△ previous year’s results (per unit As we attempt to make our products ever smaller, the semiconductor industry kg/cm2 per unit wafer area) wafer area) makes use of clean rooms that eliminate as much dust as possible, in addition to high-precision, high-tech equipment. Our production activities consume large ● Dealt with substances subject to Eco●Deal with substances subject to legal ●Deal properly with foreign and amounts of energy, and we use materials that have a high environmental impact. As Japanese and foreign regulations ◎ Products and voluntary regulations Japanese regulations integrated device manufacturer (IDM), semiconductor company that designs and and voluntary regulations manufactures its products, Renesas is introducing energy-saving devices and optimizing systems, increasing the efficiency of our use of materials, and installing ●Published CSR report and ●Publish CSR report and enhance pollution abatement equipment that eliminates environmental impact at all of our Issue environmental report ●  ◎ enhanced Web content Web content Group factories. By means of these measures, we are attempting to realize comprehensive energy efficiency. We are also working to maintain comfortable ● Enhance environmental education ●Revise training materials and environments around our factories by ● Enhanced training materials ◎ establishing voluntary factory emissions materials conduct training Ecostandards that are more stringent than Communication required by law. ●98.3% of employees attended ●Implement Environment e-learning ◎ ●Attendance rate 98.3% or more Through these environmental initiatives, the Environment e-learning Renesas Electronics Group will continue to provide our customers with products of the Continue environmental and social ●  ●Activity implemented (Please ●Continue environmental and social highest possible quality and performance level ◎ that also contribute to saving energy and contribution activities refer to pages 20 to 22.) contribution activities Masahiko Nozaki Executive Vice President for reducing environmental impact, manufactured in *1 PFC: Perfluorocompound (The semiconductor industry has specified CHF3, CF4, C2F6, C3F8, C4F8, SF6 and NF3 for emissions reduction.) Environment Issue clean and efficient factories. 26 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Management Initiative Overview of Environmental Footprint The Group’s Business Activities and Domestic Overseas Environmental Footprint Energy Renesas Electronics Group CO2 The semiconductor products and solutions offered by the Renesas Electronics Group help our customers to make 22,350,000 GJ Business Activities 1,327,000 t their own products and systems smaller and more energy efficient. This boosts protection of the global environment 19,560,000 GJ 2,790,000 GJ Wafer processing 1,126,000 t 201,000 t Electricity 1,830 GWh Electricity 279 GWh by helping to prevent global warming and use resources (Breakdown) (Breakdown) A-heavy oil 2,132 kℓ Light oil 43 kℓ CO2 emissions from energy use effectively. Kerosene 4,467 kℓ LPG 38 t LPG 3,297 t Natural gas 80 t On the other hand, it is true that production activities City gas 19,504,000 m3 Steam 29,000 t place a large burden on the environment. They consume Assembly & inspection energy (electric power, fuel, etc.) and resources (chemicals, water, etc.) while producing waste in solid, liquid, and OUTPUT Chemicals Wastewater INPUT gaseous forms. 1,984 t 16,155,000 m 3 We are attempting to reduce our environmental impact by conducting detailed measurements of our volume of Shipping input and output from production to distribution, and 1,604 t 380 t 15,212,000 m 3 943,000 m 3 making planned reductions. Domestic: PRTR-regulated substances The Renesas Electronics Group is committed to using Overseas: Major constituents of key materials limited resources and energy in an effective manner and to offering eco-friendly products that are manufactured Water Products Waste efficiently. 30,900,000 m 3 25,962 t 29,273,000 m 3 1,627,000 m 3 22,275 t 3,687 t 27 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Management Initiative and freezers more efficient, enabling pumps to conserve electric Internal Audits of Environmental Law ISO 14001 Certification power, and installing LED lighting. Of the costs, air pollution Compliance Systems and Environmental prevention totaled ¥601 million, water pollution prevention Management Systems All of the Group’s domestic sites and all of its overseas ¥1,595 million, soil pollution prevention ¥115 million, and waste manufacturing sites and major sales sites have acquired processing ¥1,067 million. The Renesas Electronics Group’s Basic Rules of Management certification under ISO 14001, the international standard for The economic effects included ¥599 million in proceeds from sets out our Environmental Policy and Basic Rules of environmental management systems. The Group will continue the sales of recyclables.These figures do not include economic effects Environmental Management. Following these guidelines, process of acquiring and sustaining ISO 14001 certification as calculated based on estimates. our bases, including affiliated companies, each establish efficiently and effectively as possible. an environmental management system and conduct environmental initiatives. Each year, we conduct mutual Environmental Accounting Trends audits within the Group to check that our environmental Environmental Accounting (¥ million) Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 management systems and performance are continually 8,000 improving. In fiscal 2015, we performed mutual audits at 15 Major investments in fiscal 2015 were in measures to meet 6,000 sites. The 142 suggestions yielded by this process, including the Water Pollution Control Law. We also took such energy 68 requested improvements, are leading to better outcomes 4,000 conservation measures as making our air-conditioning systems overall. To meet our aim of conducting highly reliable audits, 2,000 the Group has CEAR*1-certified auditors with environmental management system auditor qualifications to perform mutual 0 Capital Investment Costs Economic Effects Fiscal 2015 results audits. Again in fiscal 2015, none of the Group’s business Environmental Conservation Costs Effects sites or Group companies had to pay penalties or fines for Category/Subcategory Description Capital Investment Cost Economic Effects Environmental incidents impacting the environment. There were also no (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) Impact Reduction environment-related lawsuits against the site or companies. Pollution Prevention Pollution prevention (air, water, etc.) 584 2,341 29 *1 CEAR: Center of Environmental Auditors Registration Within Energy Conservation/Global Environmental Conservation Energy-saving measures, global warming prevention, etc. 587 704 1,319 Business Sites Resource Recycling Efficient use of resources through waste reduction, water saving, recycling, etc. 0 1,180 714 Upstream/Downstream Processes Green procurement, product assessment, recovery and recycling of packaging materials, etc. 0 0 ― Energy use reduction Management Activities Maintenance and administration of environmental management systems, environmental education, etc. 0 478 ― 71.9GWh R&D R&D for reducing environmental impact of products and production processes 0 0 ― Social Contribution Activities Local volunteer activities, donations and assistance to environmental organizations 0 18 ― Environmental Damage Clean up of pollution (soil, groundwater, etc.), compensation in connection with environmental conservation, etc. 0 5 ― Total 1,171 4,726 2,062 — A site audit Document audit 28 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Factories Initiative Because the electric power supply is forecast to remain Energy Reduction on Production Lines Global Warming Prevention through Energy Conservation tight in fiscal 2016 and beyond, we will continue to actively take measures that focus on energy conservation as we We are also working toward achieving our energy strive to cut CO2 emissions. We have moreover endorsed conservation target under the Law Concerning the Rational The Renesas Electronics Group takes an active part in Use of Energy, and therefore on our production lines we semiconductor industry initiatives to help prevent global the “Commitment to a Low Carbon Society” put forth by KEIDANREN (the Japan Business Federation), and will seek to reduce the rate of energy consumption by 1% year warming. We also work continuously to conserve energy in on year. Specifically, we have systematically taken such a number of ways to meet electrical and electronic industry continue the fight against global warming by joining initiatives by the electrical and electronic industry associations. measures as putting air conditioners, pumps, fans, etc. associations’ targets and emissions intensity reduction under inverter control, replacing lighting with LEDs and targets under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy consumption per unit sales chillers and boilers with energy-saving models. We are Energy. furthermore optimizing equipment operation depending on Target line To meet these targets, we organize working groups, share Baseline value: Fiscal 2013 energy consumption per unit sales our production volume. information, and carry out effective measures internally while Fiscal 2014 and 2015 energy consumption per unit sales 120 Major Measures Taken in Fiscal 2015 considering new energy conservation measures through partnerships with equipment manufacturers and working with industry initiatives. Renesas Electronics accounts for energy conservation 110 effectiveness and investment effectiveness, giving priority to implementing effective measures. Energy consumption per unit sales (Relative) Reducing Energy Major measures taken in fiscal 2015 included the 100 following. Renesas started participating in the Commitment to a Low ● Replacing lighting with LEDs Carbon Society, an effort of the electrical and electronic ● Making Air-Conditioning Systems More Efficient industry, in fiscal 2014. ● Making freezers more efficient Under the commitment, the baseline value for a business 90 ● Enabling pumps to conserve electric power is the value for fiscal 2013. Our target is to reduce energy consumption from the baseline by an average of 1% per Increasing efficiency by using pure water spray in our air year through fiscal 2021 (7.73% decrease compared to the 80 conditioners (Shiga Factory) value in fiscal 2013). As of fiscal 2015, we have reduced energy use by 26% Making the transition of an air conditioner humidification system from steaming to a pure water spray system has from the benchmark year. 70 enabled us to conserve energy and increase efficiency. ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 ’20 (FY) 29 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Factories Initiative GHG Emissions Reduction Image Reducing GHG Emissions Use Alternative Gasses Reduce PFC Use Use PFC Abatement Systems *1 The Renesas Electronics Group uses PFC gas, which is a Discharge into the Use gasses with a lower GWP Reduce PFC use by optimizing Break down PFCs into gasses Vacuum pump greenhouse gas, primarily as a reaction chamber cleaning production processes with a lower GWP gas for semiconductor production processes. These gases atmosphere Container Container do not readily decompose, and since their global warming potential (GWP*2) is between about 5,000–20,000 or even Reaction chamber Abatement system higher, it is critical to reduce these emissions. Therefore the Group has set PFC gas emission reduction targets and is actively working to help prevent global warming. Methods of reducing the greenhouse effect of PFC gases include PFC Gas Emissions Trend PFC Gases and GWP PFC purchases PFC emissions 300 150 GWP* 1) switching to gases with a lower GWP, 2) optimizing PFC gas processes to reduce the volume of PFC gases used, and CF4 7,390 3) installing abatement systems that remove PFC gases Target (90% or lower as compared to 1995) C2F6 12,200 to break them down. The Group had been developing 240 120 C3F8 8,830 technology to cut emissions to 90% or lower in 2010 as C4F8 10,300 CHF3 14,800 compared to 1995, using a combination of these three SF6 22,800 techniques. Amount Purchased (Relative) 180 90 NF3 17,200 In 2014, we continued working toward that target as we Emissions (%) *2006 IPCC Guidelines engaged in reduction initiatives. While production volume did PFC Gases Subject to Reduction Initiatives have an effect, emissions were kept to only about 22% of Gases subject to reporting under the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures*1 Seven gases subject to reduction by the semiconductor industry the 1995 level. Thanks to our ongoing reduction initiatives, 120 60 we have achieved our reduction targets since 2008 and are CO2 (carbon dioxide) Controlled as CO2 attributable to energy use steadily cutting emissions of greenhouse gases. CH4 (methane) Not covered We will pursue further emissions reductions in 2015 and N2O (nitrous oxide) Not covered beyond. 60 30 HFC (hydrofluorocarbon) CHF3 PFC (perfluorocarbon) CF4，C2F6，C3F8，C4F8 *1: Perfluorocompound (The semiconductor industry has specified CF4, C2F6, C3F8, C4F8, SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) SF6 CHF3, SF6 and NF3 for emissions reduction.) 0 0 NF3 (nitrogen trifluoride) *2 NF3 *2: Global warming potential, a coefficient indicating how much a given mass of greenhouse gas ’95 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (Year) is estimated to contribute to global warming (CO2 = 1) *1: Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures *2 NF3: Subject to reporting from fiscal 2016 30 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Factories Initiative and development for green products and eco-factories. Under Chemical Substance Management risk management, we practice material-balance management Reducing VOC Emissions without rounding down figures on the amount of PRTR *1regulated chemical substances and VOCs*2 we handle. The The Group conducts various assessments of the chemical In the Renesas Electronics Group, VOCs such as isopropyl results of this material-balance management are reported to substances it uses, based on its chemical substance alcohol and xylene are released from factories only after they the relevant authorities, and are also analyzed and utilized in database compiled through green procurement activities our activities to promote the use of alternative substances and have been rendered as harmless as possible by equipment and the acquisition of information about related laws and reduce chemical substance emissions. that processes organic gas emissions. Along with this, regulations. The Group strives to accurately understand and reduce the total volume of chemical substances used and *1: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (A law concerning the monitoring of emissions we optimize production processes and use production manages the volume of hazardous chemical substances used of specified chemical substances into the environment and their management) equipment effectively as we endeavor constantly to lower *2: Volatile organic compounds and their emissions. In this manner, we are pursuing research VOC emissions. Fiscal 2015 VOC emissions fell substantially, by about 28%, compared to fiscal 2001, showing that our Fiscal 2015 Balance of PRTR-Regulated Chemical Substances measures so far are steadily paying off. Going forward, we Emissions into the will continue our proactive efforts to cut VOC emissions, Total Volume of Chemical Substances Handled Detoxification/Removal Atmosphere Used in Products 25 which includes further optimizing production processes. 1,604 t 1,885 t） （ 727 t 869 t） （ t （24 t） 80 t 157 t） （ VOC Emissions Trend 120 100 VOC emission rate (Relative) Numbers in parentheses are fiscal 2014 balance results. 80 Results are rounded to the nearest ton. Rivers Sewage Systems Waste*3 Recycling (Valuable Resources Only) 60 44 t 47 t） （ 1 t 1 t） （ 371 t 440 t） （ 357 t 347 t） （ 40 20 0 ’01 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) *3: Includes waste for recycling at the Company’s expense. 31 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Factories Initiative Conserving Water Resources Environmental Measures in Logistics Operations Waste Management The Renesas Electronics Group is conserving water by The Renesas Electronics Group implements various The Renesas Electronics Group’s waste management target actively recycling and reusing it. environmental measures in its logistics operations. Specific for fiscal 2015 was to “maintain our zero-emissions status In fiscal 2015, total water consumption was 29,352,000 measures include the reduction of energy used for the (landfill disposal ratio of less than 1%).” We were able to realize this goal with a landfill disposal ratio of 0.08%, and m3, of which we recycled 37.0%. Moreover, the amount transport of products and waste, reduction and reuse of thus achieved zero emissions. of water taken from the water supply was down 16.2% product packing materials, and switching to eco-friendly Additionally, we practiced strict legal compliance and compared to the fiscal 2014. company vehicles. continued to periodically visit our industrial waste processing Pursuant to the revision to Japan’s Law Concerning contractors to ensure that they were processing waste the Rational Use of Energy, which stipulates “Specified appropriately. Water Consumption and Recycling Rate Consignor” obligations, the Group is striving to reduce CO2 The Group practices strict storage, management and reporting of equipment that uses PCBs, in accordance with emissions in its logistics operations. In fiscal 2015, the Group the law. The Group practices strict storage, management Total volume of water required (1,000 m3/yr) Volume of water recycled Volume of water procured externally Water recycling rate 60,000 60 reorganized manufacturing sites and warehouses in Japan. and reporting of equipment that uses PCBs, in accordance As a result, our domestic shipping volume declined 11.1% with the law. Concerning disposal of PCB wastes in storage, Water Recycling Rate (%) 50,000 50 from the previous year. We will continue our efforts to reduce we have completed early registration of affected equipment 40,000 40 energy use in logistics operations in fiscal 2016 and beyond. with the Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation 30 (JESCO), which oversees regional PCB disposal programs. 30,000 20,000 20 Domestic shipping volume Domestic Waste Generation and Landfill Disposal Ratio 10,000 10 Fiscal Year Renesas Electronics Totals for Each Group Company Waste generation Landfill disposal ratio 50,000 5 0 0 2011 1,712million ton-km 833million ton-km ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) 40,000 4 Waste Generation (tons/yr) Landfill Disposal Ratio (%) Total volume of water required = Volume of water recycled + Volume of water procured externally Water recycling rate = Volume of water recycled ÷ Total volume of water required × 100 2012 1,255million ton-km 722million ton-km 30,000 3 2013 1,178million ton-km 669million ton-km 20,000 2 2014 862million ton-km 566million ton-km 10,000 1 2015 765million ton-km 505million ton-km 0 0 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) 32 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Factories Initiative Renesas Semiconductor (Beijing) Protecting the Ozone Layer Preventing Soil Pollution On June 5, 2014, Renesas Semiconductor (Beijing) Co., Ltd. held campaigns under the slogan “Breathe Together, Move The Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the In response to the Ordinance to Partially Revise the Water Together” to coincide with World Environment Day. The Pollution Prevention Act Enforcement Ordinance, commonly Ozone Layer classifies ODSs*1 into Class I (CFCs*2, etc.) and campaign called on the company’s employees registered to known as the Revised Water Pollution Prevention Act, we Class II (HCFCs*3). The Group has completely eliminated the park on the company’s grounds to avoid commuting by car are taking appropriate measures in facilities where there use of all these from our production processes. is a risk of groundwater contamination (soil pollution). The and use public transportation such as buses and the subway. Furthermore, we are systematically reducing the use photograph (right) A total of 138 employees took part on the day, reducing shows the status of CFCs used as refrigerants in chillers, refrigerators, air gasoline use by 768L and CO2 emissions by 728kg. A large of work to uncover conditioners and other equipment and replacing them number of employees participated actively in the campaign, buried pipes that had with alternative substances in line with Montreal Protocol not been able to be and it represented an excellent opportunity for each of them program. We are also recovering ODSs when affected checked for leaks. to increase their environmental awareness and take action equipment is scrapped and making sure these substances Work to improve the to prevent environmental pollution. Renesas Semiconductor situation will continue are destroyed. (Beijing) will continue to regularly conduct activities of in sequence. *1: Ozone-depleting substances this type, actively contributing to society and conducting *2: Chlorofluorocarbons *3: Hydrochlorofluorocarbons environmental protection activities in the public interest. Status of work to uncover buried pipes (Kochi Factory) Amount of environmental investment and number of investments in response to Water Pollution Prevention Act Overseas Initiatives Fiscal year Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 The Renesas Electronics Group’s overseas manufacturing Investment (¥ million) 22 100 209 sites conduct environmental initiatives using ISO 14001 Renesas Semiconductor environmental management, based on the Group’s (Beijing)’s Environment Number of investments 7 10 6 Day campaign Environmental Policy. Each manufacturing site sets its own targets and specific measures in accordance with local Since fiscal 2013, the Renesas Electronics Group has legal regulations and industry initiatives. been making environmental investments to ensure our compliance with the Water Pollution Prevention Act. In fiscal 2015, we conducted six environmental investments totaling 209 million yen associated with the Water Pollution Control Act. These investments were completed as of fiscal 2015. 33 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Products Initiative Example of Product Environmental Assessment Sheet Example of Development and Design flow Eco-Products Initiative Creation of Eco-Friendly Products Product planning Customers’ environmental requirements for our semiAs a way to create eco-friendly products, we include Product environmental conductor products are growing stricter every year. The a product environmental assessment (see figure on assessment 1 Renesas Electronics Group is proceeding with its Ecoright), a way of evaluating how much a project mitigates Development and design Products Initiative to meet these requirements. To turn a environmental burden, into our development and design flow. product into an eco-product, it is important to build in a The evaluation compares new products against old ones in Design review variety of innovations at the development and design stages eight categories, including volume reduction, product safety, Pilot production to reduce environmental burden at all life cycle stages, and energy savings. The process yields quantifiable results including procurement, production, usage and disposal. that can be visualized, for example with charts. This helps Product characteristics evaluation Our eco-products are made possible through product improve the performance of our semiconductor product Product environmental environmental assessments, which are comprehensive itself, and when used in our customers’ products, helps assessment 2 evaluations of the product environmental burden reduction make them smaller and more energy-efficient. This ultimately measures. Product environmental assessments are divided decreases the environmental burden of the customers who Product quality certification into two stages: time of development and prior to mass use those products. Mass production production. Eco-Products Initiative at Each Stage Product Environmental Assessment Results Chart and Energy Consumption Comparison New product Baseline product Procurement Production Use Disposal Weight reduction 0.04 Energy consumption (w) LCA Product safety 0.03 ● We do not procure materials or ● Energy conservation by ● Energy-saving versions of ● Eliminate specified chemical subsidiary materials that have shortening production processes semiconductor products (e.g., substances 0.02 lower standby power consumption) Distribution Product high environmental burdens. ● Chemical substances ● Reduction in size and weight of 1 packaging 0.01 ● Energy-saving versions of management products 2 systems made by building Production Energy savings 0.00 processes 3 Baseline New devices into sets product product Information disclosure 34 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Products Initiative Initiatives in China Compliance with Environmental Laws and China’s Administrative Measure on the Control of Pollution Voice — Comments from Fuhrmeister Electronics Co., Ltd. — Regulations Caused by Electronic Information Products—also known as “The manufacture of environmentally conscious China RoHS—requires manufacturers to use specific labels on products that contain designated toxic and hazardous products is a sign of reliability” Embedded in wide-ranging finished products, Renesas Electronics’ semiconductors are being used worldwide. substances. Since semiconductors are too small to mark Established in 1988, Fuhrmeister Electronics Co., Ltd. is a trading In order to ensure compliance with environmental laws with logos and labels, Renesas Electronics provides company that sells semiconductors, electronic materials and liquid crystal display modules to Korea’s LG Electronics, Inc. and LG’s and regulations relating to its products and to enable information relating to chemical substances contained in affiliated companies. The company has a particularly strong record necessary countermeasures for potential issues, Renesas its products and product EFUP values through its Website of sales of our products including automotive MCU, microcontrollers Electronics is working to obtain information regarding such for white goods, and analogue and power devices in Korea. We and through local sales companies and authorized dealers. asked Yoshiaki Kimura of the company’s Electronics Sales laws and regulations in major countries immediately after its Division about Renesas semiconductor products. publication. Product Information for China RoHS (Website) “When selecting semiconductor products, consideration of www.renesas.com/products/lead/specific_info/el/china_rohs_list/ whether efforts have been made to reduce the product’s index.jsp environmental impact is an important factor in addition to the Major Environmental Laws Overseas and Our Response product’s performance and quality. This does not just mean that the product conserves energy. It is necessary to consider the product The RoHS Directive *1 and the ELV Directive *2 of the Initiatives in Europe from the perspective of comprehensive environmental performance. For example, does it clear the requirements of national and regional European Union have defined threshold values for chemical Renesas Electronics is not required to register its laws and regulations, and is it small and lightweight, in order to substances contained in certain products. In response to semiconductor devices under the EU’s REACH Regulation*3, conserve resources? Our customers’ needs also have to be taken these and other similar directives, Renesas Electronics into consideration.” since they are articles (finished products) that do not “Renesas products are subjected to Product Environmental makes sure that it receives product analysis data from intentionally emit chemical substances. Moreover, we obtain Assessments, which include Life suppliers of semiconductor device components as well information relating to substances of very high concern Cycle Assessments (LCA), at major as reports certifying that their products are free of banned development stages. The company’s (SVHCs*4) from the supply chain and provide it to customers. manufacturing process is based on substances. In addition, we conduct voluntary analysis of environmentally conscious design The Group will continue to closely monitor movements of these components to confirm that sub-threshold values are at every stage, from the procurement observed. environmental laws and regulations overseas and implement of materials, through production, appropriate measures. distribution and use, to disposal. To us, *1 RoHS Directive: EU directive on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances this is a sign of reliability that we can in electrical and electronic equipment. Limits content of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent *3 REACH Regulation: Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of recommend to our customers with chromium and brominated flame retardants (PBB, PBDE). Chemicals. Requires registration and evaluation to produce or import chemical substances confidence.” Yoshiaki Kimura *2 ELV Directive: EU directive on End-of-Life Vehicles. Limits content of lead, mercury, in the EU, requires authorization for substances of very high concern, and sets limits (including “In the future, we expect Renesas Deputy General Manager, cadmium and hexavalent chromium. bans) on high-risk substances. to a c hie ve e ve n highe r le ve ls of Semiconductor Sales Department, *4 SVHC: Substances of Very High Concern (because they harm or may harm health and performance and greater reductions safety.) of e nvironme nta l impa c t in its Electronics Sales Division, semiconductor product manufacturing Fuhrmeister Electronics Co., Ltd. processes.” 35 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Communication Initiative Fiscal 2015 Achievement Communication with Local Communities Environmental Education We offered general environmental education covering details including the latest status of environmental problems and Our Kochi Factory agreed to participate in the collection of The Renesas Electronics Group’s environmental education environmental laws and regulations to our development and aluminum cans by the Students’ Association of the neighboring system is divided into a general environmental education design divisions. We also offer an online basic environmental Kagami Junior High School, the proceeds from which are used program and a specialized environmental education program. In the general environmental education program, the Group course intended for all Group employees. In many cases, in career education. The factory collected aluminum cans for provides basic environmental education to help all our Group this course forms part of a division’s targets, and the one month, filling two 500L containers (1,500 cans, weighing executives and employees acquire necessary environmental attendance rate has been increasing annually since its 24kg), the contents of which were donated to the school. knowledge mainly through online sessions. Meanwhile, the introduction in 2011. The results of questionnaire surveys of Each of our production bases actively continued to participates specialized, operation-specific environmental education participants demonstrate the effectiveness of the program, in local clean-up activities with local residents also in fiscal program has been designed to allow employees to gain and are reflected in the materials used when the program is the environmental knowledge required for their respective next conducted. 2015. operations. This program offers education and training specific ● Naka Factory: 76.7kg of waste collected Total number of to the individual fields of development, design, sales and Trends in attendance rate for basic environmental training and rate of comprehension participants: 470 manufacturing. Finally, the ISO 14001 and ISO 19001 education Attendance rate Rate of comprehension ● Kita-Itami: Beautification of Daroku River and area around programs help employees understand the certification systems 100 98.3 company facility 98 participants and help internal auditors develop their auditing skills. 90 88 unit (%) ● Saijo Factory: Saijo City Clean Walk 50 participants Renesas Electronics Environmental Education System 80 ● Kochi Factory: Collective clean-up activities in Konan City 70 Program Purpose Fiscal 2016 target 60 25 participants 50 ● Kawajiri Factory: Work to beautify the area around the factory ● Basic environmental education ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) General Raising the environmental (for all Group employees) (Two occasions) Total amount of waste collected: 417 kg Environmental awareness of employees ● Shiga Factory: Weekly beautification activities in the area Education ● Position-specific education Comments from Environmental Education Participants (new employees/new leaders/new managers) around the factory, in front of the station and the environs ● Abnormal weather is occurring throughout the world as a result of global ● Environmental education for design and warming, and more and more natural disasters are being reported close of Lake Biwa Specialized Gaining environmental development divisions to home. I am concerned, and it is essential that we do something. Environmental knowledge required for ● Environmental education for sales divisions ● I am aware that the development of civilization has resulted in Education operations environmental destruction, and it worries me. We have to make serious ● Environmental education for manufacturing divisions efforts to improve the environment and work to give future children an ● U nderstanding the ISO 14001 environment in which they can live comfortably. ● Basic ISO 14001 education ISO 14001 certification system ● The concept that simply fulfilling our work duties produces ecological ● ISO 19001 education results is easy to understand, and makes us feel pride in manufacturing Education ● Developing the skills of ● Internal auditor education internal auditors products that help the global environment. Collection of aluminum cans Clean Walk Beautification of area around factory 36 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Environmental Measures ■Eco-Management Initiative ■Eco-Factories Initiative ■Eco-Products Initiative ■Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Communication Initiative Forest Preservation Activities Biodiversity Conservation Activities The Group conducts forest conservation activities in Environment-Related Troubles various places. In fiscal 2015 we received certificates of Habitat surveys CO2 offsets as follows. In fiscal 2015, there were no problems of note. In order to ensure that its operations are not affecting surrounding natural habitats, the Yamaguchi Factory has been conducting surveys of bird habitats four times a year Site Reports since 1995. Using three survey points around the factory, and under The Group issues site reports for its instruction from specialists, employees count local bird domestic sites and Group companies species by sight and based on calls, monitoring changes primarily for the sake of local in the number of species. Large numbers of species have CO2 offset certificate issued by Kochi Prefecture Kumamoto Prefecture forest offset certificate communities. been identified in every survey, indicating that a good habitat has been maintained. List of CO2 offset certificates ● Naka Factory, Renesas Semiconductor Business sites Issued by Amount of CO2 Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ● Takasaki Site, Renesas Electronics Site reports 247 t-CO2 over five years, starting in Group Kanagawa Headquarters October 2010 Prefecture (forest CO2 offset calculation statement) Information in Various Formats Kochi 142 t-CO2 Renesas is using social media, such as Kochi Factory Prefecture (Kochi Prefecture CO2 offset certificate) Facebook, Twitter, RSS (our technical Mandarin information web magazine Renesas Edge), ducks Daurian redstart YouTube etc. to facilitate communication 30.97 t-CO2 with and among our customers. Kumamoto Kawajiri Factory (Kumamoto Prefecture forest offset Through such media, we make timely Prefecture certificate) announcements of our social initiatives, symbol sports, exhibitions, and the latest www.facebook.com/Renesas.Japan Annual total: 222 t-CO2 product information, among others. 37 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management e n t a g e m M a n C SR CONTENTS Corporate Governance Risk Management Compliance 38 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Corporate Governance ■Risk Management ■Compliance Corporate Governance Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group Renesas Electronics is working constantly to reinforce its corporate governance, based on the understanding that efficient, sound and transparent corporate management is the key to making continuous improvements in its corporate value. To this end, the Company establishes necessary management frameworks and implements various initiatives. Overview of Boards Corporate Governance Structure Board of Directors Board of Corporate Auditors Corporate Governance Structure ●Makes decisions on important ● Audits Directors’ performance of duties management issues ● Decides auditing policies, etc. Role General Meeting of Shareholders ●Supervises Directors’ performance of ● Supervises Directors’ performance of duties duties Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss ●Five directors ● Four corporate auditors (two outside directors) (four outside corporate auditors) * The chief role of external directors is to * Three of the corporate auditors Report Members Board of Directors audit the execution of duties by other have considerable knowledge of 5 directors (2 outside directors) Accounting Auditors directors for appropriateness and to take finance and accounting. Cooperate part in management decision-making Audit Board of Corporate Auditors * Three of the outside corporate with their outside perspective. 4 corporate auditors (4 outside corporate auditors) auditors are independent. Appoint/dismiss * Both of the outside directors are Appoint/ independent. Supervise Cooperate Report Audit Corporate dismiss As a rule, meets once a month and ● ● As a rule, meets once a month and Auditors Office whenever necessary. whenever necessary. ●M  atters referred to the Board of * To enhance the effectiveness of Directors as a rule go through a preaudits, Corporate Auditors Representative Directors deliberation by the Executive Committee collaborate with the accounting to allow for a fuller deliberation. auditor, Renesas Electronics’ Internal Notes * To c l a r i f y b u s i n e s s e x e c u t i o n Audit Office and other related responsibilities and speed up decisiondivisions and offices to collect Executive Committee (Deliberation on key issues, etc.) Instruct Report Internal making, we have implemented an auditing-related information and to Control exchange views. executive officer system and provide Promotion 11 Executive/Senior Vice Presidents (Including those Internal Audit Office Committee appropriate authority to executive concurrently serving as directors) (Execution of business) o ffi ce rs b a s e d o n th e a re a o f responsibility they are assigned by the Instruct Audit Board of Directors. Divisions and Offices, Corporate Staff, Group Companies, etc. Corporate Governance Report and Internal Control System (Website) www.renesas.com/ir/company/governance.html (As of July 1, 2015) 39 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Corporate Governance ■Risk Management ■Compliance Risk Management System of Risk Management Establishing BCPs Risk Management outside Japan Renesas Electronics has formulated Basic Rules for Risk As part of enhancing its risk management system, Renesas To perform risk management outside Japan, we work with Management and, based on these rules, the Company has Electronics recognizes business continuity plans (BCPs) as the the head office division that supervises each overseas established a Group-wide risk-management structure. primary means to prevent disasters and manage risks. Together site, as well as the local risk management office, to identify Risks in overall corporate management are categorized with our Group companies, we have worked proactively to potential risks associated with each risk event. Then, according to the level of possible exposure and the degree of establish and strengthen our BCPs in order to protect the safety of employees, continue supplying products and services working with the local risk management office, we draft potential impact on the Company. The Company designates a division or office responsible for each risk category. When and safeguard our management resources. We performed countermeasures and write manuals. There are certain a management crisis occurs, Renesas Electronics sets up a a general inspection of our BCP predating the Great East risk events that call for us as a Group to be especially risk-specific task force in line with planned countermeasures. Japan Earthquake and have made further revisions based on vigilant and to share information, such as new strains of These risk-specific task forces do their utmost to minimize the that experience and anticipated damage from an earthquake influenza and terrorism. We are putting a system in place negative impacts of a management crisis. directly beneath the Tokyo metropolitan area and a Nankai to notify Group employees, including those overseas, with Trough earthquake. Specific issues raised included strengthening our emergency the information we collect on such events. And in case of Risk Management Structure response systems and measures for safety, damage mitigation, damage from natural disasters or other events at or near When the situation is normal During emergencies business continuity and quick recovery after a disaster, as the Group, we have a system in place for all Renesas staff Plan Preventive Measures Countermeasures well as enhancing measures for restoring operations in the concerned with risk countermeasures to share information Deliberation by Division/ Level 1 event of a disaster (e.g., establishing recovery procedures and rapidly as we promote global risk management. Risk Identification/ Assessment, Monitoring by Company-wide Emergency specifying who is in charge at these times), putting in seismic reinforcement, establishing alternate production networks and Exposed to Risks Risk Mapping Company-wide Countermeasures Division/Office Responsible Office Responsible for Each Risk Category for Each Risk Category and Level 2 enhancing risk communication with customers. Each division Definition of Division/ Serious Management Crises Office Responsible for Promotion of or office of the Renesas Electronics affected by these issues is Each Risk Category Preventive/Minimization Countermeasures by Multiple Divisions/Offices working out countermeasures and putting them into practice as Measures Level 3 part of their new BCPs. In addition, matters of importance are Definition of the Level of Countermeasures Other Management Crises brought up for discussion at management meetings and carry Countermeasures by Division/ out these efforts at individual business sites. In these ways, we Office Responsible for Each Risk Category are working to enhance the entire Group’s capacity for business Review of Countermeasure Implementation Not Exposed to Risks continuity. 40 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Corporate Governance ■Risk Management ■Compliance Compliance Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group For Renesas Electronics, we define compliance as obeying the law and responding to what society requires of us. We believe that the practice of thorough compliance is critical to a company’s survival. To that end, we formulated the Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct as a common Group guideline for the practice of compliance. Compliance Promotion Structure initiatives on all compliance matters. All Group employees, Compliance Promotion Structure moreover, fill out a questionnaire to verify that compliance Internal Control Promotion Committee (chaired by Chairman and CEO) has taken root. If necessary, the results are shared with the Renesas Electronics’ Internal Control Promotion Committee, divisions/offices in charge of compliance, which find this chaired by the CEO, deliberates and makes decisions on information useful when they revise the measures necessary compliance matters, and reports key issues to the Executive to promote compliance.Division/office heads and Group Committee and the Board of Directors. company presidents and compliance promoters, who assist Division or office in charge of compliance The CEO Office oversees all matters relating to promoting Division/office heads and Group company presidents, compliance and designates a division or office responsible Support lead activities that promote compliance within their own for each compliance risk category. organizations. General managers of Renesas Electronics divisions and Consult/Report Consult/Report offices and presidents of domestic Group companies are responsible for compliance in their respective organizations. Compliance Risks Divisions/ They cooperate with those in charge of compliance in each Offices of Renesas Electronics Domestic Group Companies Major Compliance Risks field to decide on and implement the measures necessary to promote compliance. Fraudulent order/fictitious revenue Subcontract Law violations, camouflage contracting, illegal importing, interest-conflicting transactions If a compliance violation does occur, the division/office or domestic Group company reports it promptly to the head of Illegal export Computer viruses, illegal software copying, the division or office in charge of compliance for the field in Compliance Promotion Activities unauthorized access Deceptive advertising Infringement of other parties’ intellectual property rights question and to the chief of the CEO Office. The division/office in charge of compliance in each field Antimonopoly Law violations (cartels, etc.), transactions with antisocial forces, confidential/personal information Defective products, product data falsification monitors trends in the establishment or revision of laws, etc., leaks, insider trading, internal illegal activities that underlie compliance promotion. Then it raises awareness Inappropriate relationships with sales partners, Accounting fraud by preparing regulations and manuals, providing training and illegal conduct against sales partners practicing communication, and performs monitoring. Human-rights abuses (sexual harassment, etc.), Environmental damage, contamination of specified occupational accidents, corporate entertainment/ The CEO office conducts training and awareness-raising gift-giving scandals, illegal political donations hazardous substances 41 Contents/Editorial Policies Corporate Outline Business Policies Corporate Philosophy and CSR Top Message Social Responsibility Environmental Report CSR Management ■Corporate Governance ■Risk Management ■Compliance Compliance periodically audit all sites in Japan and overseas to ensure Compliance Hotline Initiatives against Antisocial Forces they are constantly maintaining appropriate control, and we provide systematic position-specific and job-specific training Group executives and employees may encounter a situation In June 2007, the Japanese government announced to all employees. in which they are not able to consult with or report to their guidelines for enterprises to prevent damage by antisocial Furthermore, Renesas Electronics has obtained a Special supervisors or divisions and offices responsible due to certain forces. This is part of a rapidly growing movement in recent General Bulk License from Ministry of Economy, Trade reasons and circumstances, even when they have identified compliance-related problems. To deal effectively with such years to eliminate antisocial forces. In our Code of Conduct and Industry, and has been authorized as an “Authorized situations, the Company has established the Renesas and Basic Rules for Rejecting Transactions with Antisocial Economic Operator (AEO) exporter” by Tokyo Customs of Electronics Group Hotline (“Group Hotline”) as a whistleblower’s Forces, Renesas likewise prohibits employees from doing Ministry of Finance of Japan. contact for consultation by executives and employees of business with antisocial forces and has set up a system domestic Group companies and for reporting such problems. In addition, by employing a third party who serves as an to prevent such transactions. Specifically, there is a selfexternal contact point, we have established a system under verifying system at each workplace and affiliated company which the anonymity of the person reporting is protected at his Confidential Information Management/ that uses self-discipline to decide whether transactions can or her request. This external contact point can be accessed not Personal Information Protection go forward and works to prevent business with antisocial only by the Group’s executives, employees or temporary staff, but also by members of the Group’s suppliers and authorized forces. In addition, workplace managers and affiliated The Renesas Electronics Group has formulated its distributors. The Company’s internal rules clearly prohibit the company presidents perform self-audits and check on the Information Security Policy, Privacy Policy and Basic Rules adverse treatment of those who consult with or report to the status of their businesses. for Confidential Information Management. At Renesas Group Hotline. The Company has posted such rules on its Intranet and Internet Websites so that people can use the divisions and Group companies in Japan, persons with Group Hotline without anxiety.The hotline was used 13 times in ultimate responsibility are appointed, along with information fiscal 2015 for consultation or reporting. management promoters. The latter head up our information Security Export Control Initiatives Renesas Electronics Group Hotline management activities. Additionally, our system allows The Renesas Electronics Group’s products are used in personal information to be acquired through the Web and Report (non-anonymous only) Renesas Electronics industries around the world. To ensure that these products handled only if consent is given in advance. This is one of Report Renesas Electronics are not used to disrupt international peace and security, the the ways in which we take great care to ensure that we stay Report Domestic Group (non-anonymous only) Group Hotline Group must manage our exports appropriately day to day. in compliance with the laws of nations around the world. Companies (CEO Office) Third-Party Report Consultation Naturally, the Group complies with laws and regulations Privacy Policy (Website) Suppliers Window regarding security export controls, and by setting out in a www.renesas.com/privacy/ Report Receive non-anonymous Report compliance program the independent actions it should take reports Information Security Policy (Website) (To confirm The person who contacted the from the perspective of risk management, it attains a level www.renesas.com/comp/csr_eco/csr/management/security_policy/ Distributors reporters’ identity) consultation window can request that Report the third party withhold his or her name. more stringent than that required by statute. Moreover, we index.jsp
