CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 2 Heart working people We put our hearts into lifting overall food quality, saving energy and reducing waste. Our sustainability efforts focus on four specific areas: Corporate Governance, Energy & Environment, Products and Employees. 3 CONTENTS About this report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 CEO’s statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Our business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sustainability approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Shaping our sustainability approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 01 Corporate Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 • Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 • Structure & responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 • The Schou Foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 • Responsible sourcing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 02 Energy & Environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 • Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 • Energy consumption & emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 • Waste & water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 • Production processes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 • Investing in Asia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 • Sustainable palm oil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 03 Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 • Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 • Safer foods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 • Healthier foods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 • Reducing food waste . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 • Responsible sales & marketing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 • Going beyond food . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 04 Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 • Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 • Employee health & safety. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 • Employee well-being . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Community connections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Lifting the quality of life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 CSR reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 Independent review statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Reporting practice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Data summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67 GRI content index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is Palsgaard’s fifth annual CSR report, covering the 2014 calendar year. It aims to provide a balanced overview that identifies the impacts and risks our work with food ingredients involves, as well as our activities to counter these and to make positive contributions to a more sustainable world. Report scope For 2014, we have adjusted the scope of our CSR report to focus on Palsgaard’s food ingredient companies, and the research and development company Nexus A/S. Where noted, data also includes the Schou Foundation and Palsgaard Estate A/S and additional subsidiaries. These entities are collectively defined and referred to as ‘Palsgaard’ throughout the report. The underlying methodologies of the reported data are defined in the table ‘Reporting Practice’ on page 66. Reporting principles This report has been prepared in accordance with the Core principles in the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and the associated supplement for the food processing sector. See our GRI Content Index on page 68 for a list of GRI indicators and references. The topics included in this report, and the material aspects we cover, have been selected and prioritised by Palsgaard management on the basis of their interest and relevance to our own and our stakeholders’ reporting needs. These are detailed in the section on Reporting Practice. We consider our most important stakeholders for sustainability to be our customers, our employees, trend-setting retail trade, regulatory authorities, the local community, the media, industry competitors and NGOs. Independent review This report and its data have been reviewed by an independent auditor, which has provided limited assurance. See the auditor’s statement on page 64. PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 5 Figure 1: CORE CSR FIGURES Target Target AND TARGETS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 CO2 emission (kg CO2 per kg of finished product) 0.40 0.32 0.18 0.18 0.17 0.17 0.15 0 Accident frequency (accidents with absence per 20 22 8 14 11 16 – 3 million working hours) Waste water emissions (l per kg of finished product) 1.47 1.22 1.42 1.53 1.39 1.64 – 1.00 Raw material consumption (kg per 100 kg of 107.60 107.90 107.19 106.49 107.37 108.39 – 104.00 finished product) RSPO-certified palm oil (%) – – – – – 8 100 100 Our CSR targets were initially set in 2010. During 2014, three factors played a primary role in slightly increasing our energy consumption and waste: the implementation phase of the Malaysian plant, increased production levels throughout the company, and the production of an intermediate product previously sourced from suppliers. 6 WELCOME TO OUR 2014 CSR REPORT Dear Reader, By 2050, the world could be home to almost 10 billion peocan be devastating. In 2014, our Danish plant achieved RSPO ple*. As a leading supplier of ingredients to food manufacsegregated (SG) certification, expanding on our existing turers, Palsgaard has a supporting role to play in helping to RSPO Mass Balance (MB) capability by enabling us to manufeed this expanding population, while minimising the impact facture SG-certified products, too. of increasing food production on the environment and its ecosystems. GOING FORWARD For 2015 onward, our top priority is to lay plans and introduce In food production, no single solution can create a sustainable new activities to achieve CO2-neutrality at all production future. But with a business model based around optimising facilities by 2020. In Malaysia, for example, we are examining food production, content and shelf life for our customers – as greener fuel alternatives for our production facilities, and in the well as one of the longest histories of social responsibility in Netherlands, we are pursuing more sustainable solutions for the industry – Palsgaard is in a position to support manufacelectricity. turers in sustainably meeting their customers’ needs. We will also continue projects to reduce water usage and Our ingredients and know-how can help, for example, to turn waste water emissions. At our Danish plant, we will be installmore of the calories that will be required to feed so many ing electronic water meters to measure and monitor water mouths into healthier nutrition. And to minimize food waste. usage in real time. And in Malaysia, we already go beyond the local legislative requirements for waste water treatment, but As the inventor of the modern emulsifier, we already view we will intensify our efforts. some of our achievements as pioneering within our industry. And we intend to continue going above and beyond baseline We also intend to continue to increase the use of RSPO-cerrequirements to create benefits for our stakeholders and socitified palm oil in plant locations outside Denmark, and we are ety, and to minimise any negative impacts. working in Malaysia to identify potential suppliers. We will also remain a dedicated partner to our customers, innovating to 2014 PERFORMANCE bring sustainable advantages to them and their customers As a food ingredients manufacturer that uses energy-intensive wherever possible. production processes, we see our most significant impact as environmental. Finally, we are pleased to confirm our continued support for the UN Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment In 2014, for example, we undertook several projects to reduce to the initiative and its principles. our carbon footprint. And we focused on palm oil – a key raw material in our processes. It’s the highest-yielding vegetable We hope that this report will provide you with insight into how oil, but when produced without regard for the environment, the we work with corporate social responsibility – and that you will effects on ecosystems, bio-diversity and endangered species enjoy reading it. Birger Brix Jakob Thøisen CEO and chairman CEO Schou Foundation Palsgaard A/S *Source: World Resource Institute Palsgaard 22 May 2015 Palsgaard 22 May 2015 7 OUR BUSINESS 106 YEARS AS A RESPONSIBLE ENTITY Established in 1908 in the historic grounds of the Palsgaard Estate in Denmark, the company has expanded significantly. Palsgaard’s activities have become increasingly global, with specialised production facilities now operating in Mexico, China, the Netherlands and most recently, in Malaysia. We also have application centers in Denmark, Singapore, China and Mexico, and a sales orUSA ganisation covering over 100 countries. • Head office in Denmark MEXICO • 5 production locations • 4 application centers • 13 subsidiaries DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES EU: 77% Average age: 47 years BRAZIL Male: 188 Female: 110 Americas: 10% Average age: 39 years Male: 26 Female: 15 Asia: 12% 387 EMPLOYEES* Average age: 39 years Male: 31 Female: 14 Africa: 1% Average age: 51 years Male: 1 Female: 2 *Year end 2014 WE HELP BUSINESSES MAKE NEXUS: INVENTING THE BETTER PRODUCTS FUTURE OF FOOD Palsgaard develops and manufactures Our product application areas include: We don’t just adjust the formulation of emulsifiers, stabilizers and other ingre• Bakery existing emulsifiers to meet the needs dients for the food industry. Some are • Confectionery of our customers – we also use our highly specialised, such as emulsifiers • Dairy know-how to invent entirely new ones. for confectionery. Our main customers • Ice cream Nexus, our specialised research and are food manufacturers, but we also • Margarine development company, is based at supply non-food manufacturers with • Mayonnaise & dressings Palsgaard’s headquarters in Denmark. polymer additives, personal care ingre• Processed meat Nexus consists of several laboratories, dients and other technical applications. • Soya-based products serving Palsgaard with innovation, qual• Personal care ity control, and physical and chemical Our products are marketed and sold in • Polymers analysis services. over 100 countries under the Palsgaard® trademark. 8 DENMARK POLAND RUSSIA NETHERLANDS GERMANY FRANCE CHINA DUBAI MALAYSIA SINGAPORE SOUTH AFRICA SALES OFFICE PRODUCTION SITES APPLICATION CENTERS AGENTS/DISTRIBUTOR WAREHOUSES OUR ECONOMIC Figure 2: CONTRIBUTION EFFECTIVE TAX RATE During 2014, Palsgaard earned DKK 1 40.0% billion in revenue, paid an effective tax rate of 30% and provided 387 jobs. 30.0% 20.0% 10.0% 0.0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 9 SUSTAINABILITY AP PROACH OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CREATING SHARED VALUE The European Commission defines Corporate Social ResponAt Palsgaard, we make a positive difference to society through sibility (CSR) as “the responsibility of enterprises for their our interactions, including our business activities. impacts on society”*. We seek to maximise shared value by producing high-quality For businesses, this starts with adhering to legislation and food ingredient products that enhance the food experience for collective agreements, but it also means looking long-term to consumers, help feed a growing world population, and at the strategically integrate social, environmental, ethical, human same time, sustain a profitable business and a caring workrights and consumer concerns into operations. place. We are also committed to mitigating adverse impacts that our operations have on our surroundings – particularly The aim is to maximise the creation of shared value for busienvironmental impacts. ness owners and stakeholders, and explore opportunities for developing products that contribute to societal well-being and Our long-sighted, strategic approach to CSR is facilitated by lead to better jobs. At the same time, businesses should seek our private ownership structure and well-entrenched traditions to minimise any adverse impacts from their activities. in responsibility. *EU COM(2011) 681 final 10 ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT Contribute to sustaining and replenishing our natural environment in the way we select raw materials, consume energy, dispose of waste and conduct logistics. See pages 26-39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRODUCTS Build long-term value by aligning with national and international legislation SHARED Meet our responsibility toward the company, our customers and society to and best practices so that the rules and VALUE develop high-quality products that are processes that direct and control us effective, safe, and cost-efficient, and to balance the interests of stakeholders in market these products in a responsible our company, our supply chain and the manner. communities in which we work. See pages 40-49 See pages 16-25 EMPLOYEES Create an inclusive workplace that is rewarding, safe, healthy and motivating for our employees, and in balance with the wider context of their lives. See pages 50-57 OUR FOUR FOCUS AREAS We work strategically with four specific CSR focus areas: Corporate Governance, Energy & Environment, Products and Employees PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 11 SUSTAINABILITY AP PROACH Virksomhedsnetværk for Socialt The Confederation of Danish The European Food Emulsifiers Ansvar (VFSA – Business Network for Industry (DI – Dansk Industri) seeks to Manufacturers Association (EFESocial Responsibility) promotes diainfluence political decisions concerning MA) maintains links to relevant legislalogue between Danish businesses on growth creation and jobs. As part of tive and advisory bodies and authorities social responsibility. DI’s CSR network and sub-groups, we and takes active part in the preparation discuss legislative proposals and trends and regular updating of product specwww.vfsa.dk and share knowledge. ifications, consistent with good manufacturing practice, safety in use, and www.di.dk protection of the consumer. www.emulsifiers.org CSR DIALOGUE GROWTH & INDUSTRY BEST KNOWLEDGE SHARING PRACTICES OUR COMMITMENTS GROUNDING PRINCIPLES OUR LEGACY OUR TRADITIONS OUR VALUES Palsgaard is owned by the Schou FounFor over 100 years, it’s been a Palsgaard Our values are loyalty, responsibility and dation, which has always maintained tradition to do things right. Part of this commitment. a strong tradition in responsibility. This means looking after our employees, the provides us with a strong starting point communities in which we are located, for sustainability. and society in general. It also means fostering a caring workplace culture Being foundation-owned also means with freedom, flexibility, good prospects that Palsgaard is protected from hostile for job and financial security, and pertakeovers, and can focus on developsonal development opportunities. ment without the same pressure for generating short-term profits that listed companies may face. 12 The UN Global Compact sets out ten The Roundtable on Sustainable The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange principles in human rights, employee Palm Oil (RSPO) seeks to make sus(Sedex) is a database that gives cuswelfare, environment and anti-corruption. tainable palm oil the norm. Members tomers access to information about supWe are committed to abiding by these can seek supply chain certification. plier working environments and other principles. Our Danish plant is certified to RSPO ethical issues. MB and SG levels. www.unglobalcompact.org www.sedex.org.uk www.rspo.org ETHICAL SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES PALM OIL SUPPLY CHAIN SHAPING OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH OUR ATTITUDE OUR VISION OUR MISSION Our company’s unique culture is We will be the preferred, responsible On the foundation of a good workplace embodied in our tagline Heart Workpartner and supplier of quality prodenvironment and advanced technoling People®. This sums up our caring ucts, services and knowledge for ogy, we produce and market highly approach towards colleagues and regional and multinational food compaprocessed emulsifiers and stabilizers stakeholders, and reflects our close colnies as well as non-food manufacturers adapted to meet individual customer laboration and knowledge sharing with within polymers and personal care. requirements in the global food market. customers, our dedication to day-to-day work and food product innovations, and our commitment to our surroundings. PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 13 SUSTAINABILITY AP PROACH CREATING SHARED VALUE WE WORK WITH OUR IN OUR PLANTS, SUPPLY CHAIN TO: WE WORK TO: OPPORTUNITIES ENSURE RESPONSIBLE REDUCE ENERGY & EMISSIONS BY SOURCING BY • Setting aggressive targets for • Carefully selecting and monitoring CO2-neutrality suppliers • Constantly refining our supplier REDUCE WASTE BY Code of Conduct • Improving raw material utilisation • Strengthening purchasing policies • Minimising volumes of waste water & INITIATIVES • Increasing efforts to reduce corruption and the formation of cartels IMPROVE OUR WORKPLACE BY • Sourcing 100% sustainable palm oil • Creating a safer workplace for our • Minimising transport of raw materials employees • Increasing employee skills • Promoting work/life balance INFLUENCE INDUSTRY STANDARDS BY • Aligning with existing food safety standards • Raising the bar for responsibility in food ingredients production 01 SUPPLIERS 02 OUR OUR VALUE PRODUCTION CHAIN IMPACTS • Controlling suppliers one or more • Production of emulsifiers and stabilizlinks away is a challenge ers requires high amounts of energy • Our global reach carries potential for • Local legislation, arrangements and encountering corruption and cartels infrastructure can make it difficult to • Palm oil is a key raw material for most implement sustainability measures of our products • High production temperatures presAND RISKS • Some raw materials are transported ent a risk for personnel internationally over long distances • We produce moderate amounts of • During transport, food safety requires waste water careful control to avoid contamination 14 WE WORK WITH WE HELP CUSTOMERS TO: CONSUMERS TO: REDUCE ENERGY & EMISSIONS LIVE HEALTHIER LIVES BY AND INCREASE EFFICIENCY BY • Enabling lower calorie content in con• Obtaining more sustainable food fectionery, baked goods, ice cream, formulations and processes margarine products, and mayonnaise • Enabling more efficient use of raw and dressings materials in production EAT SAFER FOOD PRODUCTS BY ENSURE FOOD SAFETY AND MEET • Preventing safety issues via our quality CONSUMER PREFERENCES BY control systems and processing • Meeting international food safety and practices food labeling standards • Applying food-grade additives to • Guiding and improving the use of food polymer processing in order to avoid emulsifiers to get the optimal benefits undesirable chemicals in the food from the application of the ingredients in food to meet consumers’ interest in REDUCE HOUSEHOLD FOOD healthy, lean and delicious food WASTE BY • Enabling foods with longer shelf life REDUCE FOOD WASTE BY and lasting appeal in taste and texture • Extending the shelf life of food products • Improving and maintaining product appeal via poylmer packaging additives 03 FOOD 04 CONSUMER MANUFACTURER • Food production uses considerable • Consumers are eating foods with amounts of energy and raw materials high levels of fat – and saturated fats • We often need to travel internationally in particular to visit customers or attend confer• At household level, foods that quickly ences lose their appeal in the consumer’s • When selling directly from Palsgaard’s hands are often disposed of earlier process plants, we have little influence than necessary on transport vehicle sustainability levels • Many consumers see emulsifiers as • Goods may become contaminated undesirable additives, forcing manuduring transport facturers to strive for ‘clean’ labels PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 15 01 CORPORATE FOCUS AREA We build long-term value by aligning with national and international legislation and best practices so that the rules and processes 16 GOVERNANCE that direct and control us balance the interests of stakeholders in our company, our supply chain and the communities in which we work. PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 17 100% 6 H I G H LI G HTS of targeted sales and formalised internal procurement employees policies guide our have received guidance in actions anti-corruption behaviour FOCUS AREA CHALLENGES 01 • We source globally, making transCORPORATE parency of supply and control over suppliers more difficult GOVERNANCE • Business practices and regulations differ among countries and regions • Corruption is present in some industries and countries in which we work • Our sustainability ambitions can be held back by local development realities 18 56% of key suppliers (based on 97% of all raw materials current scope of top 80% of used are sourced spend) have already been by headquarters in assessed by our ResponDenmark sible Sourcing process and 44% are in process HEAD OFFICE PRINCIPLES 2014 ACTIONS FUTURE WE EMPHASISE • 80% of suppliers based on spend • Further strengthen our anti-corrup• The social responsibility example set are now within responsible sourcing tion/cartels programme, including by our founder, Einar Viggo Schou, scope for product raw materials and new policy materials for employees and his son Herbert Schou packaging • Work to have our subsidiaries adopt • Being known as a responsible • Aligned our CSR activities with ISO the various measures more closely producer and business partner 26000 • Implement a new CSR management • The priorities and principles of our • Conducted our biennial customer system owner, the Schou Foundation satisfaction survey • Increase the percentage of key sup• Responsible, sustainable sourcing • Updated our CSR strategy and manpliers by spend assessed for sustain• Combatting facilitation payments and agement system ability by our Responsible Sourcing cartels • Established a CO2-neutrality workprocess • Payment of corporate tax where group reporting to the CEO • Continuous improvement in the CSR income is earned • Joined a two-year project with Red performance evaluation section of Cross and Danida to discover best our biennial customer satisfaction WE ALIGN/COMPLY WITH practices in creating shared value in survey • International guidelines and standards partnership with NGOs The UN Global Compact • Strengthened our supplier code of ISO 9001/26000/FSSC 22000 conduct and Responsible Sourcing Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data programme, making it part of our Exchange) quality management system • Relevant EU regulations • Strengthened the other five formal • Local rules and regulations internal policies, relating them more • Internally established policies closely to the UN Global Compact Code of conduct • Initiated new materials for commuEnvironmental policy nicating our policies and processes Product and quality policy regarding corruption Procurement policy Employee policy Supplier code of conduct PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 19 01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE & RESPONSIBILITIES FOUNDATION OWNERSHIP • The sustainability report is approved at its highest authority Palsgaard A/S is owned by Palsgaard Estate A/S, which is by the Palsgaard CEO and the Group CEO in combination. owned by the Schou Foundation. The foundation’s primary objective is to conduct business, support business-related POLICIES research and development, and manage Palsgaard A/S, NexPalsgaard conducts its business according to approved, freus A/S and the Palsgaard Estate as a beautiful and pleasant quently updated overall policies and guidelines. New policies workplace for its employees. Palsgaard’s governance is closeand guidelines are introduced to the extent we deem necesly connected with the interests and principles of the Schou sary. Key written policies comprise: Foundation. • Code of conduct Foundation ownership provides the company with the freedom • Environmental policy to consider our business in a more focused and visionary • Product and quality policy way, and it allows us to achieve our goals through long-term, • Procurement policy focused, responsible growth rather than solely focusing on • Employee policy short-sighted financial returns. • Supplier code of conduct GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Functional areas do not have written policies but are managed Palsgaard A/S is governed by a board consisting of a chairman through the responsibility of the individual in line with the and two board members. The Schou Foundation and Palsobjectives of the company and current legislation. gaard Estate’s Group CEO are closely involved in determining the direction and actions of the company. Responsibility for ISO-certified quality assurance systems ensure that our the development, approval and updating of the company’s procedures are compliant with current policies, applicable purpose, value and mission statements, strategies, policies, standards and legal requirements. This is supplemented by and goals related to economic, environmental and social written guidelines in the company employee manual and the impacts lies with management and ultimately the CEO of company’s approved strategy. Palsgaard A/S. BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION The leadership of Palsgaard A/S, in alignment with the princiPalsgaard believes that business should be conducted withples and objectives of the Schou Foundation, is ensured by a out facilitation payments. Employees exposed to any attemptstringent succession process for executive positions. ed corruption, bribery or cartel formation must register this and alert senior management. As of 2014, 100% of targeted SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE sales and procurement employees have received guidance in CSR activities are planned and governed by a CSR steering anti-corruption behaviour. committee comprising the executive management of Palsgaard A/S and its sister R&D company Nexus A/S. Nexus Our code of conduct specifically describes our attitude to plays a key role in supporting Palsgaard’s sustainability work, corruption and cartels. Employees receive materials outlining primarily focusing on product-based innovation. their duties in this respect, and all relevant Palsgaard employees must comply with the stance of the company and know The steering committee has overall responsibility for specifythe consequences of non-compliance. Non-compliance with ing and implementing CSR work: anti-cartel stipulations, for example, results in dismissal with considerable penalties. • A CSR working committee is chaired by the CSR coordinator, and its members selected by executive management FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • A CSR coordinator manages the various activities It is fundamental that we conduct ourselves in a financially re• Committee members are qualified to lead the sustainability sponsible way to ensure a stable business through innovation, agenda on the basis of more than 50 years of combined process optimisation and risk minimisation. For example, we are experience within the area a global company, subject to varying local taxation conditions. • Internally or externally arising critical concerns on CSR may be raised with executive management via the CSR coordinator or the CEO 20 Much of Palsgaard’s contribution to society comes from corGRIEVANCE PROCEDURES porate tax, which we believe should be paid in the country in A customer complaint system is included in Palsgaard’s eswhich income is earned. To assist this aim, we comply with all tablished ISO 9001 instructions. These and other grievances relevant legislation and engage in analysis and guidance with are normally referred for the CEO’s attention. our subsidiaries to set correct product prices in accordance with common market conditions. CSR GOVERNANCE OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE As the 100% shareholder in Palsgaard Estate A/S, which fully owns Palsgaard A/S and Nexus A/S, the Schou Foundation has the ultimate command of the group. The Group CEO of the foundation is charged with carrying out the strategic objectives of the foundation in line with its Articles of Association, in observance of relevant legislation and in compliance with the Danish Act on Foundations Carrying on Business for Profit. The board of the Schou Foundation consists of three members – one woman and two men. Any new AUDITORS member of the board is chosen by the existing board members, the resigning board member as well Palsgaard A/S and Nexus A/S are audited as the Group CEO in unison. on an annual basis, ultimately providing audit reports to the board of the Schou Foundation. The Group CEO is responsible for safeguarding the purpose of the Schou Foundation and manages the financial aspects of the foundation to achieve this purpose. He or she also holds the position of CEO in the holding company Palsgaard Estate A/S. AUDITORS PALSGAARD A/S EXTERNAL FRAMEWORK CSR STEERING COMMITTEE INTERNAL FRAMEWORK International legislation, the Danish CompaCEO, CFO, COO, Palsgaard A/S; Articles of Association, tradition, policies, nies Act, and other relevant rulings Dvpt. Director & CEO, Nexus A/S guidelines and values EXTERNAL CSR FRAMEWORK INTERNATIONAL COMMITMENTS CSR WORKING COMMITTEE CO2-NEUTRALITY Palsgaard A/S and Nexus A/S are committed to: WORKGROUP An internal function commissioned by the • The UN Global Compact CEO of Palsgaard A/S. It is responsible Reporting to the CEO, this workgroup in• Sedex for the practical implementation of the forms the CSR committee on issues and • RSPO CSR strategy and the constant applicaactivities related to emissions reduction • ISO 26000 tion of CSR throughout the organisation. and control. • Confederation of Danish Industry The committee reports to the CEO and the Schou Foundation board on the basis of conversations with customers, interest groups, sustainability or environmental RSPO SG IMPLEMENTATION associations and networks, local or national authorities, and internal groups WORKGROUP such as the CO2-neutrality and RSPO SG Reporting to the CEO and top manimplementation workgroups. Both groups agement, this workgroup coordinates refer to the CEO of Palsgaard A/S. the complete implementation of RSPO SG-certified palm oil in our production. PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 21 01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE SCHOU FOUNDATION The Schou Foundation oversees the activities of its compaThe Palsgaard Estate owns 4,125 hectares of forest and nies that work to fulfil the foundation’s aims, including Palscultivated land in Denmark, Latvia and Lithuania. A large area gaard A/S and its subsidiaries. The foundation is charged of uncultivated land, lakes, the manor park and buildings sitwith preserving and further developing the Palsgaard Estate, uated near the Palsgaard Manor also belong to the Palsgaard where Palsgaard’s head office and its factories are located, Estate. The Danish forests are PEFC-certified (Programme as a beautiful and pleasant workplace for employees and an for the Endorsement of Forest Certification). Audited annuenjoyable park area open to the general public. The Schou ally, the certification ensures sustainable management with Foundation also supports the Palsgaard Foundation (see page high levels of forestry and administrative expertise, including 57), and establishes and sustains research and development sustainable principles in terms of financials, consideration for companies in areas that promote its activities. the environment and recreational conditions. The agricultural land managed under the Palsgaard Estate in Denmark is The companies that share the Schou Foundation’s legacy cultivated with wheat, malt barley, rapeseed and grass. The have a common history and the same special culture. straw from the farmland is used in Palsgaard’s own strawOur company’s founder, Einar Viggo Schou, particularly fired heating plant, which provides indoor heating for our valued responsibility, community and the environment. These Danish buildings. It is a significant priority that this agriculture are the standards that frame our traditions and our business is carried out under conditions that consider nature, the enviconduct. They have served as essential cornerstones for ronment and employees. Palsgaard for over a century, well before the development of the term “Corporate Social Responsibility”. THE PURPOSE OF THE SCHOU FOUNDATION 1. To preside over companies that the 4. To provide support for the Palsgaard foundation’s senior management may foundation to the extent that the find appropriate for the fulfilment of Schou foundation’s senior managethe general targets of the foundation. ment deems it justifiable in consideration of the other targets of the 2. To preserve and further develop PalsSchou foundation. gaard Estate with all its delights, as a beautiful and pleasant workplace for all employees. 3. To create, own and support independent companies for research and development within the areas that the foundation’s senior management may find appropriate to promote the Einar Viggo Schou, Founder of Palsgaard activities of the foundation. 22 ORGANISATION The organisation chart below shows all the entities under the control of the Schou Foundation. Entities that are not part of this report’s scope are highlighted in green. Entities in light blue are explained further in the Reporting Practice section and denoted Palsgaard A/S++ (see page 66). SCHOU FOUNDATION CEO: Birger Brix. BOARD CHAIRMAN: Rasmus Christiansen. BOARD MEMBERS: Jette Baagøe, Ole G. Mouritsen LOTTRUP FARM LOTTRUP FORESTRY PALSGAARD ESTATE A/S HELLEBJERG MILL FARM JUELSMINDE Building maintenance, agriGOLF COURSE culture, forestry and park CAPIDEA MEZINVEST MSP NEXUS A/S PALGAARD HELLENORDINDUSTRISCANCapital Fund LTD. HOLDING Research A/S BJERG A/S TYSKLAND UDVIKLING FLAVOUR Forestry, A/S and Sales, proIndustry Property Industry A/S Latvia Forestry, development duction with investment company investment Industry Lithuania subsidiaries investment and joint TOTAL ventures WIND A/S PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 23 01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBLE SOURCING THE RAW MATERIALS CHALLENGE A significant proportion of the raw materials used in our gral component of our quality assurance system, helping to products, such as palm oil and palm oil derivatives, are initially ensure that the raw materials we use meet our standards for cultivated in nations where environmental activities and emquality, legality, reliability of supply and sustainability. ployee conditions may be at odds with Palsgaard’s own CSR ambitions and governing principles. Our supplier code of conduct, which is based on the UN Global Compact as well as our corporate culture and ethics, Raw materials are often sourced from distant locations, such defines the requirements we set for suppliers and collaboraas India and Pakistan. Palm oil is primarily purchased from tion partners in terms of business ethics, human rights and Malaysia or Indonesia. employment rights. As a relatively small participant in the global market for raw Depending on the results of risk assessment, we require new materials, our ability to set and monitor specific CSR requiresuppliers to sign a specific declaration that includes a proments in the value chain is limited. Additionally, influencing vision identifying Palsgaard as a signatory to the UN Global suppliers more than one business or production link away is Compact. By signing the agreement, suppliers warrant that difficult and resource-intensive. But this doesn’t prevent us they will conduct business pursuant to the UN Global Comfrom setting ambitious goals. We ensure that our attitudes in pact’s 10 principles. this area are clearly expressed, using every opportunity to influence our suppliers in the right direction. Management evaluations of our suppliers are carried out three times per year. In 2014, evaluation in relevant CSR areas SUPPLIER EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT became part of the total QMS (Quality Management System) For several years, supplier management has been an inteevaluation. MANAGING RESPONSIBLE SOURCING CSR-SIS High Risk Assessment SCOC-S Documentation Assessment CSR-SIS Medium Risk SCOC-S Key: Low Risk SCOC-O CSR-SIS: CSR Supplier Information Sheet SCOC-S: Supplier Code of Conduct – Signature SCOC-O: Supplier Code of Conduct – Orientation 24 Each evaluation includes a point system based on a questionOur Responsible Sourcing programme is managed by naire around CSR aspects to determine the supplier’s relationheadquarters, which sources 97% of all raw materials used ship to the principles of the UN Global Compact. in Palsgaard’s production facilities. Supplier evaluation shows that a certified environmental reporting system in the supply We have determined routines for responsible supply manchain is not a focus area for most. We will consider how to agement and continued to advance this project during 2014. influence our suppliers toward focusing more on energy and In addition to the evaluation questionnaires, the project also environmental issues. includes guidelines for possible further auditing with the supplier. SEDEX MEMBERSHIP Palsgaard has been a member of Sedex (Supplier Ethical Whether Palsgaard will collaborate with a specific supplier Data Exchange) since 2008. The Sedex database provides is based on an overall evaluation that includes specificainformation about the ethical conduct of suppliers, and of tions, food safety and CSR. A risk profile is created based Palsgaard itself, as employers. This information, which applies on country of origin, production and location of harvest for to Palsgaard A/S in Denmark and our Dutch and Mexican the supplier, and a specific plan is made where necessary to subsidiaries, is available to other Sedex members. The former attempt to guide the supplier via dialogue to a higher level of two entities have completed a SMETA 4-Pillar Audit (Sedex responsibility. In 2014, 56% of key suppliers (based on the top Members Ethical Trade Audit), carried out by Bureau Veritas 80% of spend, currently comprising 64 suppliers) had been Certification. assessed by our Responsible Sourcing process and 44% were in process. Terminated Follow-up Audit Documentation Approved PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 25 02 ENERGY & FOCUS AREA We contribute to sustaining and replenishing our natural environment in the way we select raw materials, consume energy, dispose of waste and conduct logistics. 26 ENVIRONMENT PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 27 By 2015, we are 100% H I G H LI G HTS aiming for of indoor heating at 100% RSPO segregated Palsgaard Denmark comes from straw-fired burners production in Denmark Chemical waste was reduced by 100% CO2-neutrality will be 49% achieved in 2015 at our during 2014 Danish manufacturing plant FOCUS AREA CHALLENGES 02 ENERGY & • Our production processes are energy-intensive • It can be difficult to achieve widespread ENVIRONMENT adoption of sustainable palm oil in the industry • We produce moderate amounts of waste derivative products including water KEY TARGET: WE WILL BECOME 100% CO2-NEUTRAL • We transport relatively bulky goods over long distances • As a global company we need to AT ALL FACILITIES BY 2020 travel internationally • We currently use light fuel oil at our Malaysian plant • Local circumstances can make sustainability ambitions difficult to fulfil 28 100% of our waste water 30% of combustible waste in Malaysia is cleaned above and beyond the required in Denmark is recycled as products or raw materials. The rest is 85% of our electricity in standard used to generate Mexico can be generenergy ated by roof-mounted solar panels PRINCIPLES 2014 ACTIONS FUTURE WE EMPHASIZE ENERGY AND EMISSIONS • Become CO2-neutral at all plants by • Reducing energy consumption and • The new Malaysian plant is closer to 2020 emissions the source of key raw materials • Change from light fuel oil to green • Reducing waste water and waste alternatives in Malaysia products WASTE • Convert most vaccum pumps to • Minimising raw material and product • Began changing a number of vaccum recycled water transport requirements pumps to use recycled instead of • Introduce LED lighting at more of our fresh water facilities WE ALIGN/COMPLY WITH • Experienced a minor increase in • Reduce waste water to 1 litre per kg • The 10 principles of the UN Global derivative products due to insourcing of finished product in 2020 Compact of intermediate goods production • Reduce combustible waste per kg of • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil finished goods without exceeding the (RSPO) RAW MATERIALS total 2009 level • Internationally and locally applicable • A slight increase has been recorded • Reduce total incidental derivative legislation to 1.08 kg of raw materials used for products from 107.9 kg of raw mate• Denmark’s ‘Green Accounts’ guidelines every kg of finished product rials per 100 kg of finished goods in • Achieved RSPO SG certification for 2010 to 104 kg in 2020 the Danish plant • RSPO certification of our Malaysian production plant in 2015 PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 29 02 ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT REDUCING EMISSIONS THROUGH KNOW-HOW Refining cooking oil requires complex, multi-stage and energy-intensive processing, including heating of oils to remove flavour-disrupting substances. A four-year Nexus project began applying our knowledge of the properties of cooking oils and their refinement to develop a new method involving a simpler and gentle process. So far, results of the four-year project promise financial, nutritional and environmental benefits, slashing energy consumption by up to 80%, more efficiently utilising raw materials, and reducing trans fatty acids in the final product. HERE COMES THE SUN In Mexico, up to 85% of the electricity required for our manufacturing plant can be generated by photovoltaic solar panels. Palsgaard Mexico has invested in environmental activities for a number of years, reducing electricity and water consumption, ensuring proper handling of gas emissions and optimising disposal of water and solid waste. These initatives extend to our personnel, training them in ecological issues so they bring know-how to their communities to create and strengthen a culture of caring for the environment. 30 ENERGY CONSUMPTION & EMISSIONS Palsgaard has prepared ‘Green electrical consumption at Palsgaard’s Accounts’ in line with Danish legisfacilities in Denmark is now CO2-neutral, lation since 1996, primarily involving and we expect to continue to purchase the environmental issues included in electricity from sustainable energy sourcour environmental approvals and the es, continuing the agreement for 2015. requirements of green accounts. We have a long tradition of optimising our We are continually working to replace production processes so that financial traditional energy sources with greener performance, quality and environment alternatives around the world. In 2014, go hand in hand. In 2005, for example, Palsgaard in Denmark elected to take we built one of the largest privately another step toward CO2-neutrality: owned straw-burning plants in Dengreen energy via the purchase of natumarks, enabling the replacement of ral biogas certificates. This investment light fuel oil for heating with straw from enables the replacement of traditional our own fields as a renewable energy natural gas with non-fossil, natural biogas. source. In 2009, we further converted the primary energy source from light fuel oil to natural gas on all kettles, both steam and heat-oil. “All electrical consumption PRIORITY NO. 1: at Palsgaard’s facilities in CO2-NEUTRALITY BY 2020 Palsgaard’s target for all production Denmark is CO2-neutral” entities is to achieve CO2-neutrality by 2020 through projects and initiatives reIn biogas production, methane from garded as appropriate by the company the waste products of food processing and its stakeholders. To achieve this, we and agricultural industries, for example, focus on reducing our energy consumpis converted to gas and distributed tion to 1.05 kWh per kg of finished through the existing natural gas supply product. Remaining CO2 emissions will network. Biogas is a CO2-neutral form be neutralised by other means. of energy. A list of energy optimisation initiatives Palsgaard has not registered any planned for 2014 has been successgrievances in relation to environmental fully implemented. For example: tank impacts in the reporting period. isolation, the purchase of new, energy-efficient boilers and the conversion CLOSER TO THE CUSTOMER of more lighting to LED technology. To serve customers globally, we have Further production and energy-efficient located application facilities in Denprocesses have been implemented in mark, Singapore, Mexico and China, several factory divisions. and we are in the planning phases for further facilities in Dubai and the USA. In 2011, we signed an agreement with This helps to reduce the need for interEnergy Denmark to purchase electricity national travel. from Danish wind farms. As a result, all PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 31 02 ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT WASTE & WATER PRODUCTION WASTE ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS, plant was completed. The resulting Our production waste is very limited. In WATER AND WASTEWATER water-saving initiatives will continue to 2012, we developed a system for the Process waste water mainly comes from be implemented in 2015. internal recording and labelling of all the cleaning of containers and pipes, types of derivative products, effectively and contains remnants of vegetable oil, COMBUSTIBLE, sorting products and optimising our fat, protein, phosphorus and nitrogen. RECYCLABLE WASTE ability to re-use them. Much of our Our own pre-treatment plant removes Since 2010, we have actively worked waste is used for feed, while the rethe majority of these remnants before towards recycling as much waste as mainder is converted to biogas. We also release into the municipal water treatpossible. It is better to sort and recycontinuously work to increase our raw ment plant. cle waste rather than incinerating it, material utilisation rate, which is already borne by improved utilisation of waste significantly above 90%. In 2014, we We are working to reduce waste water resources through new sorting technolstated a goal to use only 1.04 kg of raw via cooling water recycling systems, ogies for received waste and increased materials to produce 1 kg of finished optimised cleaning procedures, the prices on recycled paper and plastic. product by 2015. Due to increased production of larger batches, reducIn most cases, this also contributes to a production volumes and the start-up tion of water usage in vacuum pumps, reduction in CO2 emissions. of our Malaysian facility, this has been automatic closure valves and more. In postponed to 2020. The quantity of 2014, Palsgaard produced 1.64 litres Palsgaard in Denmark has a central derivative products can be seen in the of waste water per kg finished product waste-sorting area, which sorts waste data summary on page 67. – in part increased by the large number according to its source. Approximately of test production runs involved in the 30% of Palsgaard’s combustible waste PACKAGING introduction of our Malaysian plant. Our is recycled as products or raw materials. At less than 1.5% of the overall weight goal is to reach 1 litre per kg of finished The rest is used for generating energy. of our products, out-bound packaging product by 2020. In Malaysia, 100% of volumes are small. All in-bound packagour waste water is cleaned to ‘A’ level, CHEMICAL WASTE ing is sorted for recycling. Specialised above and beyond the locally required Chemical waste at Palsgaard originates external companies handle the majority ‘B’ standard. in small quantities from our control and of our in-bound packaging for recycling quality laboratories’ use of analytical purposes, while transport pallets are In 2013, a project to identify the more chemicals. All such waste is collected, sold for re-use. water-intensive processes at the Danish classified and sent to environmental Figure 3: Figure 4: CO2 EMISSIONS PER KG OF WASTE WATER EMISSION PER KG FINISHED PRODUCT (KG) OF FINISHED PRODUCT (LITRE) 0.50 2.60 0.45 2.40 0.40 2.20 0.35 2.00 0.30 1.80 0.25 1.60 0.20 1.40 0.15 1.20 0.10 1.00 0.05 0.80 0.00 0.60 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Target Target 32 companies to ensure it is handled in an LOCAL INITIATIVES • An annual seminar is held for Mexiefficient and safe manner, for the benefit Palsgaard has implemented many susco-based employees on environmenof humans as well as the environment. tainability initiatives at our international tal awareness, designed to benefit The laboratories conduct studies to arrive locations. For example: employees, their families, neighbours at exchange chemical waste-generating and the local community. techniques that apply modern spectro• In 2012, a rooftop solar panel facility • Palsgaard Netherlands’ environmenscopic methods, yielding no or only very was installed at Palsgaard Mexico, tal management system ensures that small quantities of chemical waste. able to produce up to 85% of the energy consumption, water usage, factory’s electricity. In 2014, we promaterials utilisation, waste recycling GOODS TRANSPORT duced 65% in this way. and noise reduction are evaluated Palsgaard’s ability to influence transport • In 2013, Palsgaard Mexico was certiand prioritised each year. aspects are limited, and we currently fied to ISO/FSSC 22000, achieving a have no strategic CSR targets in this high food safety level and becoming area. awarded the highest possible level within the ”Industria Limpia Clean Industry” certification by Grupo Bimbo. Figure 5: Figure 6: RAW MATERIAL PER 100 KG ENERGY USAGE PER KG OF OF FINISHED PRODUCT (KG) FINISHED PRODUCT (KWH) 113.0 1.800 112.0 1.700 111.0 1.600 110.0 1.500 109.0 1.400 108.0 1.300 107.0 1.200 106.0 1.100 105.0 1.000 104.0 0.900 103.0 0.800 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Target Target PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 33 02 ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT OUR PRODUCTION PROCESSES Palsgaard’s production processes comprise emulsifier proPalsgaard Denmark’s most important production processes duction, of which certain products are sold as finished prodare illustrated in the chart in figure 7. Material and resource ucts and others are processed further before they are sold. streams have been calculated per kg of finished product. Figure 7: ENERGY 1.38 kWh per kg Heating Vacuum Quality control FINISHED PRODUCTS Pressure 1.00 kg RAW MATERIALS Cooling Vegetable oils Glycerol Starches Quality control Stabilizers EMULSIFIER PRODUCTION Monoglycerides DERIVATIVE PRODUCTS Esters of monoglycerides 0.10 kg per kg Quality control Ammonium phosphatides (AMP) of finished product Polyglycerol esters, etc. SUBSIDIARY MATERIALS Packaging Water Cleaning agents Quality control EMISSIONS/WASTE Lubricants Semi-manufactured goods 0.17 kg CO2 per kg Heating Quality 1.64 l of waste water and Vacuum control 0.01 kg combustible waste per kg Pressure of finished product Cooling PRODUCTION OF Quality control Whipping emulsifiers Integrated emulsifiers/stabilizers Pelleted emulsifiers Powdered emulsifiers, etc. 34 PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 35 A HIGH-TECH REGIONAL continued growth, and to reduce SUSTAINABILITY PROFILE INVESTMENT our CO2 footprint in transporting raw While Palsgaard Malaysia applies up-toLocated at Nusa Jaya, Johor, in the materials and finished goods to large date standards in terms of production southern part of Malaysia, our latest Asian customers. The highly automated technology, energy consumption and plant was officially opened on 20 Aufactory covers approximately 7,300m2, environmental safeguards, current levgust 2013. The USD 36 million facility comprising a high-tech manufacturing els necessarily reflect what it is possible produces emulsifiers and a variety of plant and R&D facility, as well as a labto achieve in terms of sustainability in emulsifier and stabilizer blends, and oratory, warehouse and administration the region. has a capacity of 20,000 metric tons center. In 2014, it formed a workplace per annum. Its location was specifically for 21 staff, 16 of whom have a BacheDespite these limitations, for example: chosen to ensure proximity to key raw lor of Science. material sources, primarily palm oil and • The plant is certified to ISO/FSSC its derivatives, to sustain Palsgaard’s 22000 food safety standards 36 INVESTING IN ASIA • Products are manufactured in accorKEY IMPACTS introduce RSPO certification of the plant dance with the principles of the Hazard AND OPPORTUNITIES and inclusion in the Sedex database. Analysis and Critical Control Points Currently, the new plant uses light fuel And, while it can be a challenge to im(HACCP) oil as an energy source, leading to relaplement working routines that accurate• The factory works with integrated tively high CO2 emissions, and local enly reflected optimised routines from our energy saving functionalities ergy regulations restrict our options for Danish headquarters, programmes are • Waste water is cleaned to A level using green energy sources. Attempts in place to address such issues. (above and beyond local B level are being made, however, to reduce requirements) CO2 emissions, exploring possibilities • Staff benefits include sickness and for using alternative energy sources accident insurance extended to emsuch as bio-based fuels from oil palm ployees and their families, plus free plantations, biogas and solar boilers. canteen and laundry arrangements Simultaneously, efforts are underway to PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 37 02 ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL By the end of 2014, 8% of our total sourced palm oil and palm oil-based ingredients were purchased in accordance with a certified sourcing standard (RSPO). We are working toward an ambitious target of 100% sustainable palm oil by the end of 2015. Palm oil is an important raw material for Palsgaard products on our application of the standard and the requisite eTrace – particularly our emulsifiers. In 2014, around 90% of the fincommitment. Further details are available at http://www.rspo. ished products at our Danish plant included palm oil or palm org/members/209/Palsgaard-AS oil-based ingredients sourced mainly from Southeast Asia. HELPING TO PROMOTE RESPONSIBILITY Palm oil is the world’s most popular, highest-yielding and most Increasing stakeholder interest in Palsgaard products that use traded vegetable oil. And as living standards increase, so too RSPO-certified palm oil ingredients has allowed us to guide does the demand for pre-packaged foods containing palm oilthem towards participating in an RSPO SCCS-certified supply based ingredients, such as bread, cakes, yoghurt, ice cream chain. We pass on materials that explain the RSPO, its certifiand spreads. This means that palm oil is likely to play an incation standards, supplier requirements and how Palsgaard creasingly key role in feeding the planet’s growing population. meets its own obligations. WHY SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL MATTERS We also extend information on responsible production to our There are many concerns about the adverse social and envisubsidiaries, agents and distributors through an expanded ronmental effects of palm oil production – such as the clearintranet and at seminars. So far, increasing demand from ing of important forest areas and habitats for endangered the supply chain has widened our suppliers’ assortment of animals, and poor working conditions on oil palm plantations. RSPO-certified raw materials and allowed us to extend our Against this background, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm RSPO-certified product programme to include a wider circle Oil (RSPO) was founded in 2004 to promote the production of customers in the RSPO-certified supply chain. and use of sustainable palm oil. RSPO brings social and environmental NGOs together with parties from all sectors of the At Palsgaard, it is our aim to be at the forefront of our induspalm oil industry (see www.rspo.org). try regarding sustainable palm oil. We will continue to move toward certified palm oil ingredients, and encourage suppliers The RSPO promotes a certification system under which and other stakeholders to do the same. growers can have their palm oil certified as sustainable if they meet social and environmental criteria. Producers of palm 2015 AND ONWARDS oil-based products can have their supply chains certified in During 2015, our goal is to put the necessary systems in accordance with one of three models: Identity Preserved (IP), place to allow us to exclusively rely on RSPO-certified palm oil Segregation (SG), or Mass Balance (MB). Of these, IP is the raw materials for our products. Also in 2015, we will start work most intensive. Additionally, a Book and Claim supply chain towards having our newest plant in Malaysia RSPO-certified model provides tradable Green Palm certificates for RSsince, like our Danish plant, it manufactures products that PO-certified palm oil to the palm oil supply base. contain palm oil. We are also continuing to make our supply chain as responsible as possible, one step of which is to Palsgaard joined the RSPO in 2008. In 2012, our Danish plant situate plants closer to raw material sources. achieved the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Standard (SCCS) for MB, and in 2014, for SG. We are audited annually 38 THE FOUR RSPO SUPPLY MODELS Palm oil can be processed or traded through one of four supply chain models: 1. IDENTITY PRESERVED (IP): All palm ingredients to the end user are uniquely traceable to each individual mill and its supply base. 2. SEGREGATION (SG): All of the palm oil is from RSPOcertified sources. It is kept separate from conventional palm ingredients throughout the supply chain. 3. MASS BALANCE (MB): Administrative monitoring of the trade of RSPO together with conventional palm oil in production. Data on certified palm oil and derivatives based on palm oil and the traded amount of MB products for incoming consignments can be transferred to outgoing consignments. 4. BOOK AND CLAIM (BC): Trading of ‘Green Palm Certificates’ for RSPO-certified palm oil via a global website. There is no need for certification. RSPO CERTIFICATION FOR GROWERS PROMOTES: • Commitment to transparency. • Environmental responsibility and conservation of natural resources and biodiversity. • Compliance with applicable laws and regulations. • Responsible consideration of employees, and of individuals and communities affected by growers and mills. • Commitment to long-term economic and financial viability. • Responsible development of new plantings. • Use of appropriate best practices by growers and millers. • Commitment to continuous improvement in key areas of activities. Licence no.: RSPO-1106336 PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 39 03 PRODUCTS FOCUS AREA 40 We meet our responsibility toward the company, our customers and society to develop high-quality products that are effective, safe, and cost-efficient, and to market these products in a responsible manner. PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 41 WHAT DO WE MAKE? 60% H I G H LI G HTS Primarily based on vegetable raw materials of the normal applied and other natural components, Palsgaard’s lecithin dosage in emulsifiers and stabilizers are developed chocolate can be mainly for use in foods such as bakery products, saved using Palsgaard® dairy products, chocolate, ice cream, margarine AMP 4455 products, mayonnaise and dressings. The main purpose of our products is to give processed food the required consistency, and to ensure stability and shelf life while helping to reduce, for example, calorie content. FOCUS AREA CHALLENGES 03 PRODUCTS OUR IMPACT/RISKS • Our products require significant quantities of palm oil • Most of our products comprise one or more additives (though with an internationally recognised classification reference) • Constant effort is required to maintain the highest standards of food safety OUR CHALLENGES/ OPPORTUNITIES • Helping to make many foods healthier • Supporting leaner label trends • Improving raw materials utilisation in production • Reducing food wastage in production and in households • Providing emulsifiers free of allergens and with non-GMO-based ingredients • Converting our production to use 100% sustainable palm oil and palm oil-based ingredients 42 Our products help to achieve a stable 50% All of our emulsifiers are 100% chocolate with up to fat reduction can 20% fewer calories and be achieved in puff pastry margarines without affecting vegetable-based without requiring functional properties more energy PRINCIPLES 2014 ACTIONS FUTURE WE EMPHASISE: • Certified all Danish production • In 2015, use only RSPO SG palm • All oils used in our products originate processes to RSPO Segregated oil and palm oil-based ingredients from vegetable, non-GMO sources (SG) standard for production of our emulsifiers in • The purity of our products as a key • Introduced Palsgaard® AMP 4455 Denmark competitive differentiator – a sunflower-based emulsifier that • Work to obtain RSPO MB and/or SG • Ensuring excellent food safety enables low-fat, low-calorie chocolate certification in Malaysia procedures • Launched gluten-free cake mix in the • Continued dialogue with our custom• Halal and Kosher suitability USA ers about RSPO SG production and • Supporting the industry within sustain• Completed majority of ISO/FSSC 22000 the value sustainable raw materials able raw materials and processes certification at Palsgaard Malaysia bring to food products • Set up work group to implement • Promote the use of sustainable emulWE ALIGN/COMPLY WITH: RSPO SG production in Denmark sifiers for polymers in food packaging • International and national legislation applications including EU Regulation 852/2004 • ISO 9001 • ISO/FSSC 22000 (Denmark, Mexico, the Netherlands, Malaysia) • Kosher/Halal certification of plants, raw materials and finished products PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 43 03 PRODUCTS INVENTING THE FUTURE OF FOOD – AND MORE Nexus is an independent company engaged with research and development work for Palsgaard. Nexus consists of several laboratories and functions, serving Palsgaard with innovation, quality control, and physical and chemical analysis services. Its efforts help to develop and improve emulsifiers, and make the benefits of vegetable-based emulsifiers more widely applicable. Typically the end goal is to create alternative and less resource-intensive processes in terms of raw materials, energy, capacity or other aspects. Nexus organises all larger projects in groups comprising experts from across the company. Each project is managed and documented through our quality assurance system. This ensures efficient, targeted and sustainable development where all issues are considered – from customer needs and requirements for resource utilisation to potential environmental impacts. 44 SAFER FOODS Food safety is critical to Palsgaard’s • We have set more stringent standards many stakeholders. To date, we have by certifying Palsgaard according to never had to recall products for food FSSC 22000, which includes the techsafety reasons. In fact, during the nical specification ISO/TS 22002-1. years of reporting, we have had only one non-conformance event due to • We conduct annual ISO/HACCP/ a gap beside a closed gate. In 2014, FSSC courses in food safety for new no incidents of non-compliance with employees. regulations or voluntary codes were registered. We systematically analyse and manage food safety at all stages of the supply chain. A permanent cross-company “HACCP is a management system group is tasked with ensuring efficient communication routes via our Food in which food safety is addressed Safety Team and working groups. This ensures that changes and new requirethrough the analysis and conments from authorities and customers are continuously aligned and managed. trol of biological, chemical, and ISO/FSSC 22000 certification of Palsphysical hazards from raw magaard’s management system for food safety includes an extended procedure terial production, procurement for systematically assessing a range of questions on food safety connected to and handling, to manufacturing, new raw materials. This ensures that we proactively evaluate risks and document distribution and consumption of the safety of future products. Our production facilities in Denmark, Mexico, the finished product.” the Netherlands and Malaysia are all ISO/FSSC 22000-certified. • We manage food safety via our HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) system in compliance with the requirements of EU Regulation 852/2004. • We are certified to ISO/FSSC 22000, which contains requirements for the management system, methods and controls. • Since 1996, our quality management system has been certified according to ISO 9001. PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 45 03 PRODUCTS HEALTHIER FOODS We continuously seek to adapt our energy-intensive. Our products help product range to match the latest knowlto achieve a workable and appealing edge about the impact of food products chocolate with up to 20% lower fat on consumer health and well-being. content. Our food ingredients play a positive role in this context, helping, for example, in • Additionally, when fewer saturated the fight against obesity. This requires fats are used, chocolate confecmaking improvements to the nutritional tionery becomes more difficult to profile of food, while avoiding undesirproduce, lengthening the production able ingredients in our products. process and increasing energy consumption. Our products help counter A BETTER BALANCE these effects. Since the 1990s, it has been known that trans fatty acids (or ‘trans fats’) may • The coconut oil or partially hardened negatively effect health. Recognising palm kernel oil often used as a fat this, we work to develop emulsifiers source in ice cream is high in saturatwith reduced trans fatty acid content, ed fat. We have developed emulsifier/ but without compromising their useful stabilizer blends that help shape the structure of ice cream so it still has the right mouth feel, melting proper“Most of our emulsifiers ties and storage stability even though a fat with a lower level of saturated fat have a content of trans is used. fatty acid of less than 1%” FEWER ADDITIVES Most of our food ingredients comprise functionality in food products. Most of one or more additives with an internaour emulsifiers have a content of trans tionally recognised E-number or other fatty acid of less than 1%, but more classification reference. Many consumimportantly, they can contribute to ers are, however, sceptical towards food producing foods with reduced levels of additives. Palsgaard has developed trans fatty acids – yet with unchanged stabilizers whose properties enable sensory and shelf life quality in the final only one or two E-numbers to deliver the food product. consistency, shelf life and resistance to temperature fluctuations that several • Conventional puff pastry margarine ingredients would normally be required has a fat content of up to 80%. Our to achieve. products can reduce the fat content of margarine up to 50% without affecting its functional properties. • In chocolate, we focus on reducing fat. Fat reduction, however, causes problems during processing, increasing the chocolate’s viscosity and making production difficult and 46 PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 47 03 PRODUCTS 48 REDUCING RESPONSIBLE SALES AND MARKETING FOOD WASTE Palsgaard’s primary market contact is handled by our own sales team and by a number of external sales agents. Combined, they cover more than 100 countries on all continents. This personal contact is supplemented by brochures, technical arA PUBLIC PRIORITY ticles and marketing material, which can be downloaded from Studies show that 30 to 50% of food our website or via our “myPalsgaard” extranet. At seminars, all is wasted throughout the production material is delivered electronically rather than printed. Printed chain and in the hands of consumers, materials such as brochures are made available for customer burdening the environment, society and visits and trade shows. All material printed in Denmark (approx business viability. The 2010 Transform95% of the total production) is environmentally certified with ing Food Waste into a Resource conthe Nordic Swan Mark. Printing is documented to be either ference at the EU Parliament drafted a CO2-neutral or carbon-compensated according to ClimateCalc, commitment to reducing food waste by and the paper is produced in compliance with the standards of at least 50% by 2025 as a UN developthe FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council). A small number of our ment goal. brochures are printed in China, where we also set requirements in terms of environmental production. Our emulsifiers and stabilizers support this agenda by increasing shelf life and It has always been one of our principles to provide fully objective maintaining food product freshness. information about our products. Our marketing material includes, for example, the results of product testing, often by Together with other Danish companies, independent parties. Palsgaard has contributed to an innovation project for some 800 students from the Business Academy in Aarhus, Denmark, and other business-oriented educational establishments in Europe. GOING BEYOND FOOD Palsgaard was tasked with creating a problem formulation for a sustainability Palsgaard’s know-how is also used outside the food industry. project for a group of students, and we For example: chose the topic of ‘Reduction of Food Waste’. The winning solution involved • Our vegetable-based emulsifiers can replace petrochemical our customers and resulted in a range products in traditional technical/chemical applications that of ideas to increase the effectiveness of require emulsions or suspensions. For example, our products reducing food waste in food production. are used in personal care products, replacing undesirable chemicals with natural plant-based ingredients. • Palsgaard now offers the polymer and plastics industry emulsifiers based on vegetable oils such as RSPO-certified palm oil, and approved for anti-static and anti-fogging applications in food packaging. • In 2012, Palsgaard began a four-year project (Superior Bio Based Coating Systems) to develop wood protection coating and paints that can protect outdoor woodwork with the lowest possible impact on the environment. Supported by the Danish National Advanced Technology Foundation, Palsgaard’s task in this interdisciplinary work is to develop emulsifiers based on vegetable oils. PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 49 04 EMPLOYEE FOCUS AREA 50 We work to create an inclusive workplace that S is rewarding, safe, healthy and motivating for our employees, and in balance with the wider context of their lives. PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 51 10 years 3 per H I G H LI G HTS average employment million is our targeted time in the company maximum frequency of work accidents with sick leave by 2020 FOCUS AREA CHALLENGES 04 EMPLOYEES • We work in a global organisation with diverse cultures • Legislation and local regulations vary from country to country • It can be difficult to maintain close, frequent contact – and thereby a deeper understanding of employee well-being in all our subsidiaries • Night shifts may pose a health risk to A central purpose of the Schou employees • At our manufacturing plants, most foundation is to “Preserve and working accidents involve scalding by hot water or oil further develop Palsgaard Estate with all its delights, as a beautiful and pleasant workplace for all employees.” 52 387 employees at the 8.7% staff turnover rate 83 points were measured out of a posend of 2014 in 2014 sible 100 in the most recent job satisfaction survey at our subsidiaries, indicating “very high job satisfaction” PRINCIPLES 2014 ACTIONS FUTURE WE EMPHASISE: HEALTH & SAFETY HEALTH & SAFETY • Being an attractive, safe and stimulating • Initiated nudging projects • Reduce the frequency of work acciworkplace • Completed a project to increase dents with sick leave to maximally 3 • Improving workplace conditions traffic safety at our Danish plant accidents per million working hours • Aligning working conditions around • Audit of Russian workplaces conby 2020 the world, as far possible, with those ducted by employee commission • Focus on safety culture, near-miss in Denmark incidents and preventative actions • Accommodating both productive and WELL-BEING • Expand current office exercise proless productive phases in a working • Conducted a four-pillar SMETA Sedex grammes lifetime audit at our Danish facility • Increasing employee skills • Employee turnover was 8.7% in 2014 WELL-BEING • Employees’ rights to join collective • Create a gender diversity policy bargaining or other labour organisaPERSONAL DEVELOPMENT • Conduct an employee satisfaction tions without disclosure • Increased IT support for employee survey during 2015 development interviews • Achieve at least 75 points in the 2015 WE ALIGN/COMPLY WITH: • Assisted local authorities in helping EEI Index employee survey • International, EU and national legislation 19 people further their education • Conduct 3-yearly workplace evaluations • UN Global Compact • Operated an on-the-job fitness proand first-aid training • European Employee Index® (EEI) gramme (customer service department) survey process PERSONAL AND • International Labour Organisation (ILO) SKILLS DEVELOPMENT • Sedex, including SMETA 4-pillar audits • Expand employee development interviews PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 53 04 EMPLOYEES 54 EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY A central aim of Palsgaard’s owner, the focus strongly on safe behaviours and Schou Foundation, is to ensure an attracpreventative actions. Work instructions tive place of work for all our employees. and rules will be evaluated and clarified, And as a foundation-owned company, and an intranet project will address we are driven by a desire for long-term communication around safe behaviours. development rather than short-term opIn 2014, a new IT system for registering timisation. We’ve made these principles near-miss incidents was developed and operational through our values: loyalty, implemented at Palsgaard in Denmark responsibility and commitment. during November. The system will assist to identify risky behaviours as part of THE OSH ORGANISATION our accident prevention strategy. Further, Palsgaard’s OSH (Occupational Safety our safety culture will be improved via and Health) organisation comprises skills development. In 2015, a new workworking environment committees at place evaluation system will also be Palsgaard A/S and Nexus A/S. introduced to give workplace representatives greater influence on action plans. “We continually strive to Other OSH activities include: • In 2014, to increase safety in connecreduce the number of tion with internal traffic in company areas, all production employees have work-related accidents” been issued with jackets with fluorescent materials and reflectors to replace their previous black working jackets. At Palsgaard A/S, we have set up seven • A ten-minute daily exercise programme working environment groups. Our OSH using elastic bands, balls and exercises organisation handles working environment has been introduced on a trial basis for issues related to day-to-day operations, a small group of the administration staff as well as workplace risk assessments, with stationary jobs. This has proved to industrial accidents and near-misses. have a positive effect on the reduction of tension in the shoulders and neck. It In 2014, we witnessed a regrettable has also had a positive effect in social increase in total work-related accidents capacity. with absences. This increase applies • The OSH organisation will work even to the Danish facility alone, where 9 harder to improve working routines and incidents occurred, primarily involving further develop our safety culture in scalding and minor injuries. Work2015, prioritising preventative actions in place safety is important to us and we everyday work. continue to strive to reduce the num• We have introduced on-premises physber of accidents. In 2015, therefore, iotherapy in Denmark. the work environment organisation will Figure 8: REGISTERED SICK LEAVE AT PALSGAARD A/S++* YEAR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Days absent with sick leave (%) 3.49 3.42 3.12 2.54 2.74 2.38 *See Reporting Practice section PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 55 04 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING WELL-BEING AND RETENTION we tie our employees and businesses The 2013 survey showed a small reducOur relationship with Palsgaard’s abroad closer to Denmark. tion in the combined work satisfaction employees rests on the premise that a across the entire company by 2 points working life should be able to accom• At Palsgaard Malaysia, we offer to 75 points. The result is, however, still modate both strong and weak phases. attractive conditions, such as pension very positive, as a level of 70-79 points plans, sickness and accident insurindicates high work satisfaction in the • Palsgaard endeavours to retain or reance for employees and their families. EEI category. In Denmark, we achieved locate employees who are no longer • In Russia and Poland, we have set up 71 points in work satisfaction and have set able to meet the requirements of their health insurance and company life a target of 75 points for the 2015 survey. original job. and accident insurance schemes for • We arrange systematic absence employees. For our subsidiaries, the survey result interviews in the event of long-term • When a particularly dangerous influwas 83 points, indicating very high job illness, discussing any measures enza epidemic erupted in Mexico, we satisfaction. that we may be able to implement carried out a vaccination programme to reduce the employee’s period of for all employees and their families. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT absence, initiate gradual return, or CONVERSATIONS adapt the job to changed circumSATISFACTION SURVEY We carry out annual development stances. Every other year, we carry out an conversations with all employees, • Palsgaard’s HR manager provides employee satisfaction survey at all our evaluating expectations and possible confidential job-related advice, and locations – with the next survey due in areas of improvement. Agreements are works to support vulnerable employees. 2015. Since 2006, we have worked with made regarding personal/professional the internationally recognised analysis development for the following year. SETTING THE STANDARD company Ennova (dk.ennova.com) to The conversations also provide room We seek to improve the lives of our conduct the survey, thus ensuring that for dialogue on soft values, such as employees in a global perspective, the results can be compared with other how the individual employee is faring where possible extending the same or European businesses via the European or if there are areas that the specific similar employment conditions, such Employee Index® (EEI). And we have manager should be aware of. Business as company-based health and pension continuously implemented initiatives strategy, basic values and skills can schemes, to all locations. Through this, based on the findings where required. also be discussed. EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION Figure 9: Palsgaard’s very low staff turnover rate in 2014 of 8.7% in EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (%) Denmark, where some two-thirds of employees are located, is continued evidence of high loyalty (see figure 9), despite incr25 easing from 3.1% in 2013. The increased turnover partly reflects 20 the new employees joining with the startup of our Malaysian facility, and the expanded scope of data to include subsidiaries. 15 10 Palsgaard regularly celebrates employee anniversaries, the 5 longest of which has been an impressive 65 years of employment at the company. In 2014, one employee celebrated 40 0 years with the company and 22 celebrated 10 years. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 56 COMMUNICATION AND employees in Denmark since 1941. The Palsgaard was nominated for the CSR KNOWLEDGE-SHARING profit-sharing element is established People Prize by the VirksomhedsIn 2013, a cross-organisational developvia a special body called the Palsgaard forum for Socialt Ansvar (Business ment project for managers and specialFoundation’s Pension Savings AssoForum for Social Responsibility) CSR ists concluded with a training course ciation. The employee contributes 2.5 Awards in 2014. for all other employees at Palsgaard to 5% of their salary, and Palsgaard Denmark. The coursework concerned: pays an equivalent amount multiplied The prize is given in recognition of communication, knowledge-sharing by a contribution factor depending on concrete initiatives that demonstrate and cooperation. A personality profile the previous year’s financial results. In social responsibility is anchored in (DiSC), which assists employees to gain recent years, this factor has ranged both everyday operations and the insight into their own and colleagues’ from 0.9 to 1.8. visions of management. behaviour patterns, was completed for all who requested it. In 2014, we tested a skills-based pay system in Denmark. The results will PENSION SCHEME drive decisions around how best to WITH PROFIT SHARING motivate and reward all employees in Palsgaard has offered a unique penthe future. sion scheme with profit sharing for all Figure 10: PADK++* RESULT EMPLOYEE SURVEY 2013 EEI other industry INTERPRETATION 80 100 point 100 > Very high job satisfaction 90 70 79 point > High job satisfaction Evaluation 80 60 69 point > Medium job satisfaction 70 50 59 point 60 > Low job satisfaction 50 Under 50 point Daily work My tasks and the My safety Employment Social aspects > Very low job satisfaction content of my work in employment happiness *See Reporting Practice section PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 57 COMMUNITY CONNECTIONS IN DENMARK Palsgaard’s headquarters are located • Work with the local authorities to help Fogo, focusing on development of infrawithin the small Danish community of people further their education/career, structure and education, and entrepreJuelsminde, which is a town of around and support with flexible work hours neurial support for higher employment 4,000 inhabitants. or placements. and an improved standard of living. In 2014, our local activities included: • Supported Juelsminde Golf Club with BEYOND In Benin: local education on hygiene, and the construction of water storage an energy reduction project. • Supported Team Rynkeby 2015 (a DENMARK and toilet facilities at a local nursery to improve water quality and reduce charity cycling group for child cancer MEXICO waterborne illnesses. Purchase of a victims). • Installed solar energy cells for hot boat for school students to cross a river • Donated funds for a HeartStart Dewater heating in employee homes. to get to school, even in the monsoon fibrillator at a local community center. • Participated in the replanting of 330 season. Donations have also sponsored • Participation in a two-year project to hectares of forest. a trainee in Benin, and supported a address global challenges – Partner• Life Quality programme for all technical school for young people with ship Arena with the Red Cross. employees and their families, and a scholarships, tools and bicycles for • Contribution to production of enfocus on employee training, job safety student transport. tertainment program “Fællessang and health. på Charlie” (Community Singing on SOUTH AFRICA Charlie), at Juelsminde Harbour. THE PHILIPPINES Donation to a local home for children • Donation in support of the Danish • Scholarship program for food techfrom 6 to 16 years. Cancer Society. nology students. MEXICO Previous CSR reports have described: SOUTH AFRICA Donation of recycled plastic barrels for • Donation of Juelsminde Church and • Support for B-BBEE (Broad-Based water storage. land for a parking space. Black Economic Empowerment) • Donation of 16.5 hectares of land to which helps the black population THE PHILIPPINES Hellebjerg Sports and Youth College. achieve a higher socio-economic level. Support of local areas in urgent need • Donation of land for a road to Palsgaard. of help such as donations to help Red • Participation as a landowner to Cross provide aid in typhoon-affected complete a 22 km coastal path from areas of the Philippines. Juelsminde to Horsens. CHARITABLE • Palsgaard employees that are voluntary fire fighters are available for emergenDONATIONS RUSSIA Company and Russia-based employee cies during daylight hours. donations to the “Children Foundation”, • Support for the local theatre group DENMARK which runs an orphanage in the Ural “Palsgaard Sommerspil” and loan of An ongoing program to reduce food waste area, applied to the purchase of toys. outdoor staging on the Palsgaard estate. allows employees to purchase surplus • Supported the establishment of a food from the lunch buffet. Proceeds go harbour museum in Juelsminde to to BØRNEfonden (Children’s Foundation) support its roots in fishery, shipping to support youth education. and sailing. • Public access to the Palsgaard WEST AFRICA Manor library. Annual donation to BØRNEfonden for • Established a golf course in sustainable development projects in Juelsminde. Cape Verde, Benin and the archipelago 58 PA LS G A A R D C S R R E P ORT 2 0 1 4 CONNECTING WITH TOMORROW’S EXPERTS Broadening the pool of talent from which future food ingredients specialists might be recruited, Palsgaard’s R&D company, Nexus, hosts work placements for international food engineering students, and our laboratories collaborate with them on independent development projects. Students get to expand their food emulsifier-related physics and chemistry knowledge and experience different work environments and cultures. GLOBAL KNOWLEDGE-SHARING Palsgaard also collaborates with educational institutions and knowledge centers throughout the world, participating in formal and informal knowledge exchanges. We host study trips, company visits and similar events to stimulate interest in the natural sciences and food chemistry, physics and food technologies. LENDING A HELPING HAND During 2014, Palsgaard assisted 19 people to further their education or keep their jobs at the company under special circumstances. This number includes students from Denmark and abroad carrying out their practical work, students and others in job rotation schemes, and people in flexible jobs. We work closely with educational institutions, local authorities and job placement services to help people to get further in their working life. 59 COMMUNITY CONNECTIONS H I G H LI G HTS We’re helping people with Down’s syndrome by applying our expertise LIFTING THE QUALITY OF In Mexico, Palsgaard has been working a long-term project PROMISING RESULTS to create a new product that promises a better life for many Testing has shown promising results. Clinical, cognitive, thousands of Trisomy 21, or ‘Down’s syndrome’ children and bio-medicinal, ethnological and physiological studies were adults. carried out in collaboration with the University of Mexico, the University of San Luis Potosi, Iberoamerican University, In 2010, we partnered with Down’s syndrome organisation COPOCY, CONACYT and parents of children with Down’s CTDUCA in a project to improve metabolic function for these syndrome. people and, consequently, their cognitive and learning abilities. As the core of the project, our Mexico research team Findings conclude that regular usage of the food suppledeveloped a dairy replacement product based on whey ment improves cognitive, psychological and social abilities in protein. This food supplement supports nutritional intervenchildren, and enhances psychological and social well-being. tion and enhances the absorption and digestion of important The supplement also seems to help stimulate mobility and components necessary for the production and activation of movement, reduce fear-related behavior, and improve sleep brain neurotransmitters. patterns. 60 Research has shown that those affected LIFE by Down’s syndrome are often intolerant to certain foods containing essential nutrients. Testing also suggests that the product can improve the quality of life for people with autism and ADHD, and influence other conditions with similar characteristics, such as diabetes, gluten allergies and high blood pressure. FUTURE PROSPECTS The food supplement is produced by Palsgaard and will be distributed in the Mexican and American markets as a special nutrition product. Patent applications have been filed in Mexico and a number of other countries. PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 61 CSR REPORTING KEY STAKEHOLDERS Palsgaard’s sustainability efforts and reporting focus on the concern to Palsgaard and its stakeholders. First, we defined a following key stakeholders: set of priority issues through analysis in 2011. Since then, we have completed several rounds of refinement. The next round • Customers of refinements is due in 2015. • Owners • Management As part of the process, we: • Employees • Reviewed and refined our existing set of issues to reflect • Competitors new information found in the GRI G4 Reporting Guidelines and the supplementary GRI Food Processing Sector DiscloMATERIALITY ANALYSIS sures framework. As with previous years, Palsgaard has conducted an updated • Analysed inputs from customers, investors, non-governmateriality analysis to identify our priority issues in advance of mental organisations, regulators, and research and rating developing this report (see figure 11). organisations to prioritise the importance of each issue to these stakeholders. We use a core set of priority issues to guide our corporate re• Surveyed Palsgaard managers and employees to undersponsibility strategy. These issues reflect the topics of highest stand the internal importance of each issue. Figure 11: MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Safe own production Transparency Sustainable Significance for Palsgaard’s stakeholders Tax raw Safer supplier materials production Partnerships Responsible sourcing Business Post-production Resource ethics scarcity Reputation and Employment and communication environment Product Health promotion labelling and Health, safety and information workplace Food waste Inclusion Industry network Sustainable Employee Waste ingredients conditions Local disposal communities Cooperation with Job creation educational institutions Equality Special and products Cooperation diversity with authorities Significance for Palsgaard’s business 62 • Solicited executive feedback to confirm the alignment of analysis results with strategic initiatives and corporate goals. Specific improvements identified from the process (and implemented in this year’s report) included: • Better description of the sustainability context, risks, priorities and stakeholder engagement. • More detailed employee data. • More data on sustainable procurement/supplier management. • Better coverage of the way we manage human rights. • More comprehensive information on anti-corruption and anti-competitive behaviour. • Description of grievance mechanisms. Figure 12: PALSGAARD A/S SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES Throughout this report, the short-hand term “PADK” refers to Palsgaard in Denmark and Nexus A/S. Other terms used to refer to specific subsidiaries in the report are indicated in parentheses below: SUBSIDIARIES DUBAI GERMANY Palsgaard DWC-LLC Palsgaard Verkaufsgesellschaft mbH & BRAZIL Co. KG Palsgaard Brasil Comércio Ltda. MEXICO (“PAMX”) Palsgaard Industri de Mexico S. de R:L:. USA FRANCE de C.V. Palsgaard USA Inc. Palsgaard France SAS POLAND NETHERLANDS (“PANL”) Palsgaard Polska Sp. z.o.o. JOINT VENTURES Palsgaard Netherlands B.V. RUSSIA GERMANY CHINA (“PACN”) 000 “Palsgaard R” Kampffmeyer Food Innovation GmbH Palsgaard China Additive Ltd. SINGAPORE MALAYSIA (“PAMY”) Palsgaard Asia Pacific Ptd Ltd Palsgaard Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. SOUTH AFRICA Palsgaard South Africa Pty Ltd PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 63 INDEPENDENT REVIEW STATEMENT TO MANAGEMENT AND BROADER STAKEHOLDERS tations, or individual case stories disclosed in the Report. OF PALSGAARD A/S Consequently, we draw no conclusion on these statements. We have reviewed the Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 (‘the report’) to provide limited assurance on the text and data METHODOLOGY therein. The report covers Palsgaard’s global activities from Considering the risk of material error, we planned and per1 January to 31 December 2014. Management of Palsgaard formed our work so as to obtain all information and explaA/S is responsible for collecting, analysing, aggregating and nations necessary to support our conclusion. We used the presenting the information in the report. Our responsibility is Reporting Practice described in the report together with GRI to express a conclusion based on our engagement with Manreporting criteria as an appropriate basis for our engagement. agement and in accordance with the agreed scope of work. Our procedures included the following: • Reviewing Palsgaard’s processes for determining material SCOPE OF WORK issues to be included in the report and challenging the We have conducted our work in accordance with the Intermaterial text statements in the report. national Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, • Reviewing the processes, tools, systems and controls for Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of gathering, consolidating and aggregating data at group Historical Financial Information and additional requirements level and performing analytical review procedures and under Danish audit regulation. Our task was to obtain limited obtaining additional explanations of data performance from assurance that the group level data and text in the report are both the group functions and from selected country sites. presented in accordance with the reporting practice de• Interviewing management staff responsible for data and scribed and the information reported by countries and group text in the report. functions. Compared to a reasonable assurance engagement, • Inspecting internal and external documentation to verify the our work has been limited primarily to inquiries of group extent to which it supports the information included in the report. personnel as well as analytical procedures to ascertain the • Evaluating the overall presentation of the reporting, includquality of underlying processes for data collection, analysis ing consistency of information. and consolidation. • Reviewing the report for adherence to the GRI principles for defining report content and ensuring report quality and the Our scope of work also included a review of the report G4 disclosure requirements. against the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 (In AccorCONCLUSION dance – Core). Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the 2014 Corporate Responsibility We performed our on-site review at the Palsgaard A/S Head Report, in all material respects, has not been prepared in Office in Denmark in April 2015. We have not performed accordance with the stated reporting criteria. However, site visits or interviewed external stakeholders. We have not environmental data collection and aggregation procedures performed any assurance procedures on baseline data, any need improvement to ensure greater quality and reliability. economic or financial data (including GRI Indicator G4-EC1) We confirm that the report complies with the GRI’s G4 ‘In or forward-looking statements, such as targets and expecAccordance – Core’ level. 64 PA LS G A A R D C S R R E P ORT 2 0 1 4 OBSERVATIONS several accounting principles, which enable greater compaMateriality and sustainability context rability. Due to ongoing difficulties in generating sufficiently The company continues to demonstrate its active approach to reliable data on SO2 and NOX, Palsgaard no longer reports on managing material sustainability risks. Palsgaard has updated these emissions. its materiality analysis, using the GRI G4 Guidelines and Sector Disclosure, and validated the results with different stakeOPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT holders. The report content reflects the company’s ongoing We have made a number of observations and recommendamonitoring of its material issues within a wider sustainability tions to Management of Palsgaard, which include improving context as well as growing stakeholder expectations and inforinternal data collection and control procedures to ensure mation needs. Palsgaard has also updated its CSR strategy, stronger accuracy and reliability. policies and targets to ensure a continued alignment with developments in the business. Copenhagen, 18 May 2015 Completeness and timeliness This is Palsgaard’s fifth annual CSR report, providing a timely update to stakeholders of the company’s CSR performance. Within the reporting boundary and scope defined by the report, we have not found any significant omissions of important information. Clarity and balance The report provides a straightforward and balanced presentation of the Palsgaard’s activities, highlighting challenges and dilemmas arising in the business. Stakeholder inclusiveness and responsiveness Palsgaard has undertaken a thorough analysis of its stakeDeloitte holders to better understand their interests and relationship Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab with the company. Palsgaard stands out as a company that respects and responds to various stakeholders, and it undertakes a number of activities to ensure this, as demonstrated in this report. Accuracy and reliability Palsgaard is strengthening its internal data collection and control procedures, particularly for environmental data, to enLars Kronow Helena Barton sure greater quality and reliability. Palsgaard has also clarified State Authorised Public Accountant Lead Reviewer 65 REPORTING PRACTICE The data basis for this report includes the entities indicated in the summary. All data, except for employee and tax data, only includes production units. We are continuously improving our data collecting system. Our environmental reporting does not cover agricultural and forestry activities. Our reporting period runs from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. The targets listed in figure 1 on page 6 have been calculated using 2009 as a basis year. INDICATOR DATA INDICATOR METHOD DESCRIPTION REPORTING BASIS ENTITIES Raw material consumption M, C Annual production volumes are based mainly on company purchasing statistics, PADK production reports and counts. Finished products M, C The statement is based mainly on product usage statistics and volumes of derivPalsgaard A/S ative products and waste. The volume of finished products is therefore a direct calculation. Energy consumption, electricity M, E Electricity consumption has been determined on the basis of statement from Palsgaard A/S electricity provider. In PAMX, electricity consumption from solar panels has been estimated. Energy consumption, fossil M Natural gas and oil consumption are measured. Palsgaard A/S Energy savings C The result of energy-saving initiatives has been calculated on the basis of energy Palsgaard A/S consumption compared with volume of finished products. Emissions C Emissions are calculated based on energy consumption and available emission Palsgaard A/S factors. Scope 1: Emission factors from Klimakompasset (www.klimakompasset.dk) Scope 2: Emission factors from supplier in Denmark and Defra (www.defra.gov.uk/ publications/2012/05/30/pb13773-2012-ghg-conversion) Emissions from personal and transport vehicles are not included. We no longer report SO2 and NOX due to challenges in obtaining sufficiently reliable data. Water usage M, E Water usage has been calculated based on own meters or estimations. Palsgaard A/S Waste water M, E Waste water volumes have been calculated on the basis of meter readings on the Palsgaard A/S waste water system or estimations Derivative products C The calculation of derivative products is based mainly on sales statistics, producPADK tion reports and counts. Waste (combustible) M Waste volumes have been measured on the basis of invoices from waste removal PADK companies. Chemical waste M Chemical waste volumes have been measured on the basis of weight slips received PADK from waste removal companies. Incidents of Non-compliance M Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes. Palsgaard A/S ++ Industrial accidents M Industrial accidents have been measured on the basis of accident records for all Palsgaard A/S ++ employees entailing more than 1 day of absence. Accident frequency C Accident frequency has been calculated per 1 million working hours. Number of Palsgaard A/S ++ working hours is a calculated figure of working hours. Employee turnover C Employee turnover has been calculated on the basis of headcount of employees PADK ++ at the beginning of the year, based on Palsgaard's payroll system. Students are not included and comprise 2% in 2014. Average seniority and average age has been calculated on the basis of the employees at the end of the year 31.12.2014, based on Palsgaard's payroll system. Employee satisfaction M, C Employee satisfaction is based on Palsgaard’s employee satisfaction survey, which PADK ++ is carried out every other year and includes all employees. The main indicator of work satisfaction is applied as a general target and is compared with EEI (European Employee Index). Tax C The effective tax rate is calculated by the company's external accountant based on PADK ++ the results of the group and the accounts and tax declarations. M=Measured Palsgaard A/S= Palsgaard entities in Denmark, Netherlands, Mexico, Malaysia, C=Calculated China and Nexus A/S E=Estimated Palsgaard A/S ++ = Palsgaard A/S + Schou Foundation + Palsgaard Estate A/S PADK = Palsgaard in Denmark and Nexus A/S PADK ++ = PADK + Schou Foundation + Palsgaard Estate A/S + 13 subsidiaries 66 DATA SUMMARY INDICATOR UNIT 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ENERGY Energy consumption, total (gross) kWh per kg finished product 1.26 1.19 1.16 1.17 1.11 1.38 3 Energy consumption, electricity (gross) mWh 10,946 11,215 10,910 11,337 11,539 14,401 3 Energy consumption, fossil (gross) mWh 31,905 32,845 31,476 33,068 33,929 43,925 3 EMISSIONS CO2-emissions (gross) tonnes 8,800 CO2-emissions (net) tonnes 13,438 12,029 6,554 6,856 7,021 5,236 CO2-emissions (net) kg per kg finished product 0.4 0.32 0.18 0.18 0.17 0.17 NOX and SO2 4 WATER Water consumption m3 110,646 136,289 131,520 154,897 167,311 173,983 Waste water litre per kg finished product 1.47 1.22 1.42 1.53 1.39 1.64 Waste water m3 49,820 45,393 52,267 58,126 56,857 69,173 DERIVATIVE PRODUCTS AND WASTE Derivative products ³ kg per kg finished product 0.08 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.1 Waste (Combustible) kg per kg finished product 0.012 0.012 0.011 0.011 0.009 0.01 Waste (Combustible) tonnes 339 360 339 341 322 330 Chemical waste kg 13,460 8,385 9,819 17,929 17,979 9,125 COMPLIANCE OF AUTHORITY REQUIREMENTS Number of incidents of non-compliance number 0 0 0 1 0 0 WORKING ENVIRONMENT Accidents, total number 7 9 3 5 4 9 Accidents, Denmark number 7 8 3 5 4 9 Accidents, the Netherlands number 0 1 0 0 0 0 Accidents, China number ¹ 0 0 0 0 0 Accidents, Malaysia 0 Accidents, Mexico number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Accident frequency, Denmark number per million working hours 20 22 8 14 11 16 2 EMPLOYEE CONDITIONS Employee turnover turnover rate, % 11.8 4.4 4.8 5.3 3.1 8.7 TAX Effective tax rate % 21.2 16.6 32.8 29.2 31.4 29.9 RAW MATERIALS Raw material consumption 107.6 107.9 107.19 106.49 107.37 108.39 RSPO-certified palm oil % ¹ ¹ ¹ ¹ ¹ 8 (kg per 100 kg finished product) ¹ Data not available 2 From 2014 all production entities are included in the “Accident frequency” number 3 The calculation method has been changed so that all figures reflect actual amounts without energy-saving reductions 4 From 2014 we no longer report on SO2 and NOX due to the difficulty of obtaining sufficiently reliable data PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 67 GRI CONTENT INDEX – DISCLOSURES The GRI table is based on GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.0. See the Reporting Practice section for an explanation of the terms used. GRI REFERENCE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER PAGE NO. UNGC ACTIVE CROSS-REFERENCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO Statement 7 High-level Commitment and Strategy G4-2 Key impacts and risks 14, 15 High-level Commitment and Strategy ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of organisation See Business Overview section. 8 Organisational Profile and Operational Context G4-4 Primary brands, products, See Business Overview section. 8 Organisational Profile and Operational Context services G4-5 Location of HQ See Business Overview section. 8 Organisational Profile and Operational Context G4-6 Countries of operation See Business Overview section. 8 Organisational Profile and Operational Context G4-7 Ownership and legal form See Business Overview and Schou Founda8, 22 Organisational Profile and Operational Context tion sections. G4-8 Markets served See Business Overview and Products 8, 42 Organisational Profile and Operational Context sections. G4-9 Scale of organisation See Business Overview section. 8 Organisational Profile and Operational Context G4-10 Employees breakdown See Business Overview section. 8 Organisational Profile and Operational Context; principle 6 G4-11 % employees covered by colPrinciples of employees. lective bargaining agreement G4-12 Description of supply chain See Creating Shared Value section. 14 G4-13 Significant changes to There were none in 2014. Organisational Profile and Operational Context organisation G4-14 Precautionary approach The company implements a core principle of 10 'above and beyond', typically moving ahead of legislation to introduce e.g. product traceability mechanisms or sustainable raw material supply (e.g. RSPO Mass Balance and Segregated). G4-15 External principles endorsed Throughout the report. Principle 1 G4-16 Memberships See Sustainability Approach section. 10 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities and boundaries See About this Report section. 5 Organisational Profile and Operational Context G4-18 Defining report content See About this Report, Materiality sections. 5, 62 G4-19 List of material aspects See About this Report, Materiality sections. 5, 62 G4-20 Aspect boundary inside See Reporting Practice section. 66 organisation G4-21 Aspect boundary outside See Reporting Practice section. 66 organisation G4-22 Restatements See Reporting Practice section and others. 66 et al. G4-23 Significant changes to report See About this Report section. 66 boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholders engaged See CSR Reporting section. 63 G4-25 Selection of stakeholders See CSR Reporting section. 63 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder See CSR Reporting section. 63 engagement G4-27 Issues raised and respondCustomers are asking for raw materials COP Report Profile ed to sustainability, fat reduction. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period See About this Report section. 66 COP Report Profile G4-29 Date of previous report See About this Report section. 66 68 GRI CONTENT INDEX – DISCLOSURES, Continued GRI REFERENCE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER PAGE NO. UNGC ACTIVE CROSS-REFERENCE G4-30 Reporting cycle See About this Report section. 66 G4-31 Report contact CSR coordinator Lisa Drejer Mortensen, ldm@palsgaard.dk G4-32 GRI Content Index Yes. G4-33 External assurance See Extended Assurance section. 65 External assurance of COP GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure and See Structure & Responsibilities section. 20 Highest Governance Body (HGB) G4-35 Delegating authority See Structure & Responsibilities section. 20 G4-36 Responsibility for Economic, See Structure & Responsibilities section. 20 Environmental and Social (EES) topics G4-37 HGB consultation on EES See Structure & Responsibilities section. 20 topics G4-38 Composition of governance See Structure & Responsibilities section. 20 bodies G4-39 Relationship between Chair See Schou Foundation and Corporate Gov20, 22 and CEO ernance sections G4-40 Nomination and selection of See Corporate Governance section. 20 governance body G4-41 Conflicts of interest Limitations are noted in employment contracts G4-42 HGB's role in setting purSee Structure & Responsibilities section. 20 pose, value and strategy G4-43 HGB's knowledge of EES See Structure & Responsibilities section. 20 topics G4-44 Performance evaluation of External CSR assurer and external CSR HGB on EES topics associations in Denmark. G4-45 HGB's role in identifying EES See Structure & Responsibilities section. 21 risks G4-46 HGB's review of manageIn accordance with ISO-documented ment of EES risks procedure. G4-47 Frequency of EES risk 3 times a year. reviews G4-48 Highest approval of sustainSee Corporate Governance section. 21 ability report G4-49 Raising critical concerns See Corporate Governance section. 20 with HGB G4-50 Critical concerns raised and No specific critical issues were raised in addressed 2014. G4-51 Remuneration policies See Employees section. 57 G4-52 Process for determining See Employees section. 57 remuneration G4-53 Stakeholder views on remuGathered from employee evaluation conver56, 57 neration sations. G4-54 Ratio of highest and median Not disclosed for competitive reasons. compensation G4-55 % increase for highest and Not disclosed for competitive reasons. median compensation ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, codes See Creating Shared Value section. 12, 13 Principle 10 PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 69 GRI CONTENT INDEX – INDICATORS MATERIAL INDICATOR DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE EXTERSEE UNGC ASPECT OR ANSWER NAL PAGE PRINCIPLE ASSURANCE GOVERNANCE Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Business overview Yes 9 performance distributed G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastrucCommercial Investment in high technology factory Yes 36 ture investments and services supported in Malaysia. In MY and MX: Creating 59 jobs and contributing to local infrastructure and economic development. Continuous investment in energy reduction and production optimisation at our production plants. G4-FP1 % of purchased volume from suppliers See Responsible Sourcing section. Yes 25 compliant with company's sourcing policy G4-FP2 % of purchased volume which is verified 8% of total sourced palm oil and palm oil-based Yes 38 as being in accordance with credible, ingredients is purchased as RSPO-certified, internationally recognised responsible mainly from South-East Asia. All suppliers of palm production standards, broken down by oil are members of RSPO. Our Quality managestandard ment systems register the country of origin for all ingredients. ENVIRONMENTAL Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Commercially sensitive information. Yes NA Principles 7,8 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organiSee Data Summary section. This figure does not Yes 29, 67 Principles sation include the electricity produced by solar panels 7,8 in Mexico. 1 small LPG-fueled forklift truck is excluded because it contributes insignificantly total energy consumption . G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organEnergy consumption is not measured outside No 15, 46 Principle 8 isation Palsgaard but some of our products can reduce the energy required to manufacture customers' products. G4-EN5 Energy intensity See Data summary. We define energy intensity as Yes 67 Principle 8 kWh per kg finished product. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption By optimising production processes and changing Yes 31 Principles from natural gas to natural bio gas as main energy 8,9 source G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of Examples of products where energy requirements No 30, 46 Principles products and services are reduced. 8,9 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Not provided – currently under review. Principles 7,8 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by No significant impacts on water sources. Waste Yes 32 Principle 8 withdrawal water water reduction/recycling is our focus area. G4-EN10 % and total volume of water recycled See description of plant in PAMY. Description of Yes 32, 36, Principle 8 and re-used installation of recycling water pumps in PADK, 67 which we estimate will reduce waste water by 25%. Also refer to Data Summary. Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, manOne of the purposes of The Schou Foundation is Yes 22, 36 Principle 8 aged in, or adjacent to, protected areas to preserve and develop our natural surroundings. and areas of high biodiversity value PAMY is located close to oil palm plantations. outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Conservation of areas of natural beauty is part of Yes 22, 39 Principle 8 the Schou Foundation's purposes and we support local habitat protection through RSPO membership. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions See Data Summary section. Yes 67 Principles (scope 1) 7,8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emisSee Data Summary section. Yes 67 Principles sions (scope 2) 7,8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions We do not currently measure scope 3 (only GHG Yes 67 Principles (scope 3) Protocol 1 and 2). 7,8 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity We measure CO2 emissions intensity as kg CO2 Yes 67 Principle 8 emissions per kg finished product. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions See Data Summary section. Yes 67 Principles 8,9 70 GRI CONTENT INDEX – INDICATORS, Continued #1 MATERIAL INDICATOR DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE EXTERSEE UNGC ASPECT OR ANSWER NAL PAGE PRINCIPLE ASSURANCE G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substancWe do not produce, import or export ozone-depletYes 8 Principles es (ODS) ing substances. 7,8 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air See Data Summary section. Yes 67 Principles emissions 7,8 Effluents & G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and See Waste & Water section. Yes 32 Principle 8 waste destination G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disSee Data Summary section. Yes 67 Principle 8 posal method G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant No significant spills in 2014. Yes 67 Principle 8 spills G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exportNot applicable. No NA Principle 8 ed, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and % of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and We comply or perform beyond legal requirements No NA Principle 8 biodiversity value of water bodies and for water discharge. related habitats significantly affected by the organization's discharges of water and runoff Products & G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environExamples of products able to reduce energy 15, 46 Principles services mental impacts of products and services consumption are provided. 7, 8,9 G4-EN28 % of products sold and their packaging Omitted: We do not currently measure the perYes NA Principle 8 materials that are reclaimed by category centage of reclaimed products and packaging materials. Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and No fines or significant non-monetary sanctions due Yes NA Principle 8 total number of non-monetary sanctions to non-compliance in 2014. for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Transport is not within our GHG scope (1 and 2). Yes 24 Principle 8 transporting products and other goods Several of our raw materials are only available from and materials for the organisation's distant sources. operations, and transporting members of the workforce Supplier G4-EN32 % of new suppliers that were screened See Responsible Sourcing section. Yes 25 Principles environmental using environmental criteria 7,8 assessment G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Results of supplier evaluation are so far undeterYes 25 Principle 8 environmental impacts in the supply mined. The ongoing process has not yet resulted chain and actions taken in any termination of relationships. Environmental G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environNo grievances have been registered in 2014. Yes 31 Principle 8 grievance mental impacts filed, addressed and mechanism resolved through formal grievance mechanisms LABOUR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee See Employee Well-being section. 56 Principle 6 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employSee Employee Well-being section. Yes 56 ees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after 100% for both genders. All employees who have Yes NA Principle 6 parental leave, by gender returned to work after parental leave were still employed 12 months after their return. Labour/ G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operWe comply with any applicable national regulations Yes 53 Principle 3 management ational changes including whether these and collective agreements. relations are specified in collective agreements G4-FP3 % of working time lost due to industrial disNone of our facilities experienced strikes or lockYes NA putes, strikes and or lock-outs by country outs in 2014. Occupational G4-LA5 % of total workforce represented in formal 100% of our workforce is represented in formal Yes NA health & joint management/worker health & safety joint management/worker health& safety commitsafety committees that help monitor & advise on tees. occupational health & safety programmes PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 71 GRI CONTENT INDEX – INDICATORS, Continued #2 MATERIAL INDICATOR DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE EXTERSEE UNGC ASPECT OR ANSWER NAL PAGE PRINCIPLE ASSURANCE G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occuIn 2014, there were 9 accidents (2 female and 7 Yes 55 pational diseases, lost days, and absenmale), all in Denmark. We monitor absenteeism in teeism, and total number of work-related Denmark and aim to expand our monitoring to all fatalities by region and by gender production sites in 2015. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk Not applicable. No NA of diseases related to their occupation G4-LA8 Health & safety topics covered in formal Our Health and Safety organisation addresses a Yes NA agreements with trade unions range of topics including the health and safety committee, training and education, the right to refuse unsafe work, etc. Training & G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Training data collection is being strengthened. Yes NA Principle 6 education employee by gender and by employee category G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and Described in Employee Development ConversaYes 56 life-long learning that support the contions (MUS). HR is always available to support tinued employability of employees and employees. In involuntary employment termination assist them in managing career endings cases, we offer further support with job-finding. G4-LA11 % of employees receiving regular perforAnnual development conversations (MUS). Yes 56 Principle 6 mance and career development reviews by gender and by employee category Diversity & G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and See Business Overview section. Yes 8 Principle 6 equal opporbreakdown of employees per employtunity ee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Equal remuG4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary & remuneration of We monitor remuneration levels among our proYes NA Principle 6 neration for women to men by employee category, by duction staff in Denmark. In 2014, the remuneration women & men significant locations of operation ratio for males and females was 100/102. Supplier G4-LA14 % of new suppliers that were screened See Responsible Sourcing section. Yes 24 assessment using labour practices criteria for labour practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative See Responsible Sourcing section. Yes 24 impacts for labour practices in the supply chain and actions taken Labour G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour No grievances on labour practices in 2014. Yes 24 practices practices filed, addressed and resolved grievance through formal grievance mechanisms mechanism HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-HR1 Total number and % of significant We are commited to UNGC and its principles No NA Principle 2 investment agreements and contracts are part of our Code of Conduct. We encourage that include human rights clauses or that UNGC compliance among suppliers. Local risks underwent human rights screening are considered but human rights are not a formal part of our due diligence. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on We do not currently provide training in human No NA Principle 1 human rights policies or procedures rights. We encourage a culture of respecting concerning aspects of human rights that employees and individual human rights. are relevant to operations, including the % of employees trained Non-discrimiG4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discriminaNo incidents in 2014. Yes NA Principle 6 nation tion and corrective actions taken Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in Employees have free choice of association and No NA Principle 3 association which the right to exercise freedom of several trade unions are represented in the workand collective association and collective bargaining force. bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Child labour G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as We do not consider child labour in our organisation Yes NA Principle 5 having significant risk for incidents of child as a risk. We recognise and monitor the risk of labor, and measures taken to contribute to child labour in our supply chain. the effective abolition of child labor Forced labour G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as We do not consider forced labour in our organiYes 24 Principle 4 having significant risk for incidents of sation as a risk. We recognise the risk of forced forced or compulsory labor, and mealabour in our supply chain and it is part of supplier sures to contribute to the elimination of monitoring. all forms of forced or compulsory labor 72 GRI CONTENT INDEX – INDICATORS, Continued #3 MATERIAL INDICATOR DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE EXTERSEE UNGC ASPECT OR ANSWER NAL PAGE PRINCIPLE ASSURANCE Security G4-HR7 % of security personnel trained in the orWe do not currently train security personnel in No NA Principle 1 practices ganisation’s human rights policies or prohuman rights as they are externally employed. cedures that are relevant to operations Indigenous G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations No incidents in 2014. No NA Principle 1 rights involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operAs a member of Sedex we have published ethical No NA Principle 1 ations that have been subject to human data in the database from PADK, PANL and PAMX. rights reviews or impact assessments There may be increased risk at our subsidiaries in e.g. Malaysia, Mexico, or Russia, but we strive to manage this risk. Supplier G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were See Responsible Sourcing section. Yes 25 Principle 2 human rights screened using human rights criteria assessment G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative See Responsible Sourcing section. Yes 24 Principle 2 human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Human rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human No incidents in 2014. Yes NA Principle 1 grievance rights impacts filed, addressed, and mechanisms resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIETY Local comG4-SO1 Percentage of operations with impleWe do not currently measure operations with local Yes 58 Principle 1 munities mented local community engagement, community engagement. See Community Connecimpact assessments, and development tions section. programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and We do not consider any operations to have a negaNo 22 Principle 1 potential negative impacts on local tive impact on local communities. communities Anti-corrupG4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Corporate Governance Yes 20 Principle 10 tion operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corCorporate Governance Yes 20 Principle 10 ruption policies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and No incidents in 2014. Yes 20 Principle 10 actions taken Public policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by It is our policy not to contribute to political interests. No NA country and recipient/beneficiary Anti-competiG4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anNo legal actions in 2014. Yes NA tive behaviour ti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and No fines or significant non-monetary sanctions due Yes NA total number of non-monetary sanctions to non-compliance in 2014. We received a visit by for non-compliance with laws and Danish work environment authorities due to the regulations increased number of work-related accidents. None of the visits resulted in notices. Supplier G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were See Responsible Sourcing section. Yes 25 assessment screened using criteria for impacts on for labour society practices G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative See Creating Shared Value section. Yes 14 impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Grievance G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on No grievances in 2014. Yes NA mechanisms society filed, addressed, and resolved for impacts through formal grievance mechanisms on society PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and More than 50% of Palsgaard products are deNo 46 health & service categories for which health signed to assist nutritional and safety aspects of safety and safety impacts are assessed for food production. improvement For further details of the GRI standard and terms used in the table, please refer to www.globalreporting.org PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 73 GRI CONTENT INDEX – INDICATORS, Continued #4 MATERIAL INDICATOR DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE EXTERSEE UNGC ASPECT OR ANSWER NAL PAGE PRINCIPLE ASSURANCE G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-comNo incidents in 2014. Yes NA pliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-FP5 Percentage of production volume manuProduction sites in NL, MX, MY, DK are all certified Yes NA factured in sites certified to international to the food safety standards ISO/FSSC 22000 food safety standards (almost 100% of total production). There are no requirements for China but regulatory developments are monitored. G4-FP6 % of total sales volume of consumer Our products are not aimed at end consumers but Yes NA products by product category that are the majority help food processing companies to lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodilower the fat content of their products. um and added sugars G4-FP7 % of total sales volume of consumer Not applicable to our production. No NA products by product category that contain increased nutritious ingredients like fibre, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals, or functional food additives Product G4-PR3 Type of product and service inforOur labels contain the information required by law Yes NA & service mation required by the organization's and any additional information required by our labelling procedures for product and service customers. information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-comNo incidents in 2014. pliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Commercially sensitive information. No 42 satisfaction Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Palm oil-based products are discussed in the Yes 39 communicamedia and our stakeholders are interested in our tions position. Our goal is to use only RSPO-certified palm oil by 2015. We aim to achieve 100% SG-certified products by 2015 at our Danish plant, ahead of our previously stated target. We assist our customers with requirements for RSPO certification and support RSPO learning for customers. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-comNo incidents in 2014 No NA pliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for No incidents in 2014 No NA non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services For further details of the GRI standard and terms used in the table, please refer to www.globalreporting.org 74 PA LSGA A R D C SR R EPORT 2014 75 Palsgaard is a registered trademark of Palsgaard A/S. Layout: Palsgaard May 2015. Print: Standbygaard Grafisk A/S, June 2015. © Palsgaard A/S, May 2015. All rights reserved. This printed material is carbon-compensated according to ClimateCalc. Offsets were purchased from: South Pole Carbon. Cert. no CC-000033/DK. IC ECOL AB RD NO EL This brochure complies with the environmental requirements of Licence number the Nordic Swan Mark. 5041 0751 5041 0751 Printed matter The paper used for this brochure complies with FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) standards for ethical and responsible forestry and wood products. Palsgaard A/S DK-7130 Juelsminde Denmark Tel: +45 76 82 76 82 Fax +45 76 82 76 83 TELL US WHAT YOU THINK! direct@palsgaard.dk Send your feedback on this CSR report to csr@palsgaard.dk www.palsgaard.com
