GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2014 IDEALEC S.A.S Rue Claude Chappe 25300 PONTARLIER +33(0)3-81-46-99-00 +33(0)3-81-46-99-58 Contents Introduction Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Introduction I am pleased to confirm that IDEALEC reaffirms its support of the ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact for 2015. It is fundamental to us to respect all of ours business partners and employees. One of our main objectives is the constant satisfaction of our customers: the way to get this aim is a daily innovation and continuous improvement of our teams, and a strengthening of our directs contacts with professional interlocutors, either customers or suppliers. Our 2014 COP is based on our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. In an openness and responsibility policies, we will publish these results through our website. Yours sincerely, Fabrice VITAL DURAND HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Idealec ‘s goal is to engage its employees and all business partners to respect and join the Global Compact principles relative to human rights protection. We published on our website a code of conduct as well as our Sustainable Development Charter to make our engagement clear to all of our partners. The IDEALEC’s entities policies and practices in the matter of labour, governance, environmental protection are assessed by an external audit company. In 2015, IDEALEC Electronics Shanghai (IES), our Chinese entity, will deploy the CSR policy & Code of Ethics to their key suppliers. Our vision and values Our sustainable charter CHARTE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DURABLE Le développement durable est une valeur essentielle pour Idéalec. C’est pour cette raison qu’en 2012, Idéalec adhère au Pacte Mondial des Nations Unies qui invite les entreprises à adopter, soutenir et appliquer un ensemble de valeurs fondamentales dans les domaines des droits de l’hommes, des normes de travail, de l’environnement et de lutte contre la corruption. Les objectifs d’Idéalec sont plus particulièrement les suivants : Respecter la personne humaine et les libertés de chacun, le droit du travail, notamment en développant, valorisant et reconnaissant les compétences des salariés, en éliminant la discrimination en matière d’emploi, Limiter et valoriser les déchets, Utiliser des produits et matériaux les moins dangereux pour l’homme et pour l’environnement. Idéalec confirme ainsi les valeurs qui sont les siennes, et demande à l’ensemble des salariés d’y contribuer, et engage ses fournisseurs à y adhérer. Pour de plus amples informations, se référer aux 10 principes du Pacte Mondial sur www.unglobalcompact.org LABOUR Our company handbook and policies states the right for collective bargaining. Our handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and responsibilities. Furthermore, we have put a strong emphasis on safety at work, individual protection equipment and safe practices. As a socially aware company, our aim is to preserve in the best way our jobs on all our sites. To reach this objective, IDEALEC emphasizes versatility of the resources, while preserve the men-women parity (52% / 48% in 2014 as in 2013). We improved the ergonomics of some work stations and reorganized the layout of the workshop to improve the production flows, and then reduce the number of useless movements. IDEALEC has created an Employee Charter which encompasses the requirements and principles of the Global Compact Initiative. This charter has been communicated to some of our employees. An employees and union representatives meet with the management every month to review the company situation and negotiate improvements in working relationship. Representatives are at disposal of any employee to receive any claim or idea. All employees benefit from health insurance wildly supported by IDEALEC. In January 2014, IES implemented a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy & Code of Ethics for all their employees. IES wants to raise the safety awareness within their employees and improve working conditions. The aim for 2015 is to improve working conditions and safety through automation. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES IDEALEC has a limited impact on environment (assembly of components). Nevertheless, we are confronted with the absolute necessity to manage this resource, and need to be aware of the impact of its consumption on the environment. Then, in 2013, we have reduced our electricity consumption and have increased to 50% the share of Electricity produced from renewable energies. In 2014, we have maintained our electricity consumption despite a raise in our output. Products regulation is monitored by dedicated employees and IDEALEC engages itself and its suppliers to respect all the regulation included REACH and ROHS requirements. IDEALEC ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION EVOLUTION Furthermore, IDEALEC employees are daily appealed to work to reduce any kind of wastes. Then in 2014, we reduced our paper consumption in a 50% in comparison with 2013. Our aim for the 2015 period is to reduce the wastes in polluting products and dangerous materials, as well as further reduce our energy consumption. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES IDEALEC is in compliance with all relevant laws including anti-corruption laws. IDEALEC pushes its suppliers to act against the corruption in the Supplier charter. In 2013 we have communicated and explained to our business partners our ethic charter.
