Working on your future Sustainability report 2014 Table of Contents Group 3 Economic aspects 28 Introduction by the Chairman and the CEO . . . . . . . . . . 6 Promoting the digital society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Our changing world . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Climate change and raw material shortage 10 Network 31 Changing consumer expectations 10 Contributions to the Belgian treasury 32 Shifts in the global economy 10 Flemish media landscape 32 Health and an ageing society 11 Investing in talent 33 New ways of working and doing business 11 Investing in ideas 33 The opportunities and dangers of technology 11 Innovation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 The Telenet Way . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Play and Play More 34 Operational excellence 12 Yelo Play app 34 Right customer connection 12 Wi-Free 34 Inspiring entertainment 12 The possibilities of the future 35 Our sustainability policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Supporting innovation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 3 pillars of LEAP 13 Social subsidy 36 Telenet is one of the top sustainable Social contributions 36 brands in Belgium 14 Telenet Idealabs 36 Materiality matrix: focusing on the most important questions 15 Environmental aspects 38 Targets and results 16 Sustainability policy 18 CO2 reduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 Energy 41 Extra-financial results Reduction in waste 44 obtained by Telenet in 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 CO2 offset . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 Stakeholder engagement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Stakeholder engagement policy 20 Overview of communication channels 22 Key stakeholders at group level: description and engagement 24 Social Aspects 49 Telecom Aspects 75 Privacy & Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 Protection of minors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 Security and personal data 50 Parental Control over Internet and television 76 Product security 51 Cooperation with Child Focus 76 Children’s rights and the business community 76 Our employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 Safer Internet Day 77 Attracting and retaining talent 52 Work/life balance 54 Freedom of speech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 Sustainable personnel policy 56 Radiation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 Optimum customer service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 User-friendly products and services 62 How we report 81 Transparent pricing policy 62 Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 Reliable products and services 63 Supply chain policy 66 Commitment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 Signing of the Vendor Disclosure Form 66 Key figures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 Suppliers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 GRI 4 Core . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83 Ecovadis for risk management 67 Identification via Kraljic 68 Principles for defining report content . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Supplier results 68 Significant changes & restatements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Working groups 69 Contact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85 Codes of conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71 Financial information 85 Telenet Code of Conduct 71 CSR information 85 United Nations Global Compact 71 Code of conduct for data centers 72 Performance summary 101 Voluntary Industry Agreement 72 Methodology 104 Vendor Disclosure Form 72 Anti-corruption Policy 72 GRI 4 Core table 106 Corporate Governance Charter 73 UN Global Compact COP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113 Ethical advertising code 73 Anti-piracy 73 Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 1 4 5 6 10 Company profile Mission & Introduction by Our changing values the Chairman world and the CEO 2 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group 12 13 19 20 The Telenet Way Sustainable Extra-financial Stakeholder business results in 2014 engagement Group Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 3 Company profile Telenet is the leading cable service provider in As a growth company, Telenet is very much aware of Belgium and specializes in the supply of broadband its increasing responsibility in the community. It has Internet, fixed and mobile telephony services and succeeded in substantially reducing its ecological cable television to customers throughout Flanders footprint through a number of initiatives. Telenet and Brussels over an HFC (hybrid fiber-coax) netalso demonstrates a high degree of social commitwork. Using this powerful network, Telenet delivers ment, which is reflected not only in its socially aware high-quality entertainment and other services to product range, but also in our support for start-ups its customers. Telenet also provides professional through Telenet Idealabs. communication services to businesses in Belgium Telenet is based in Mechelen, with contact centers and Luxembourg. in Herentals, St-Trond and Alost, and regional sites As a telecommunications company, Telenet attaches across Flanders for the provision of technical great importance to innovation and development, support. such as the constant optimization of current appliLiberty Global is the main shareholder of Telenet. cations, continuous expansion of the technological At the end of 2014, Liberty Global owned 56.6% of possibilities, and broadening of our product and Telenet shares. service offering. We invest extensively in both our network and the Flemish entertainment industry By the end of 2014, Telenet’s workforce consisted of in order to continuously encourage innovation and 2,247 employees, who together generated a turnover creativity. A persuasive marketing approach, creative of € 1.7 billion. Telenet is listed on Euronext Brussels product mix and efficient customer service combine and included in the Bel 20 index. to ensure that Telenet is always able to appeal to new target groups. Our values Accountability Leadership 4 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group Senior Leadership Team, left to right: Veenod Kurup (CIO), Inge Smidts (Sr VP Residential Marketing), Birgit Conix (CFO), John Porter (CEO), Ann Caluwaerts (Sr VP Corporate Affairs & Communications), Dieter Nieuwdorp (Sr VP Strategy & Corporate Development), Claudia Poels (Sr VP HR), Patrick Vincent (CCO), Micha Berger (CTO), Luc Machtelinckx (EVP General Counsel) and Martine Tempels (Sr VP Telenet for Business). Mission Telenet transformed ‘TECHNOLOGY’ into ‘GENEROSITY’. If you are supported by exceptional services, you can let yourself go completely in what you want to do. Infinite possibilities help you focus on opportunities. Our purpose is to help and inspire our customers to make the most of life and business in the digital Families discover a completely new style of entertainworld, and to do so wholeheartedly. ment where they can watch what they really want to see, anytime, anywhere. Businesses are also discovTelenet is a story of turning new things into reality. We ering new opportunities as Telenet helps them to fully brought superfast broadband to Flanders, we made embrace the digital world. phone calls via cable cheaper and we made digital TV the standard. Telenet introduced its customers to a At Telenet, we believe that each day offers a world world of new possibilities. Technologies which were full of new opportunities. Opportunities to make the in their infancy only yesterday are now accepted as most of life and do what we wish wholeheartedly and standard. Customers don’t have to think about them; share it with others. they just want to get on with things. Passion Customer Cooperation centricity Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 5 Introduction by the Chairman and the CEO Dear shareholders, Our superfast broadband connections for both customers and private individuals and companies help to grow the digital economy, and our accessible digital TV platpartners, form brings content from both Flanders and every 2014 was an exciting year for our company – a year in corner of the world to every screen in every home. which we made solid operational and financial gains, We also take into account those for whom the digital readied the company for the future and created the world is not so accessible we have social tariffs groundwork for healthy and prosperous growth for all for all our products, and offer structural support to stakeholders, both in 2015 and beyond. social projects that help to bridge the digital divide. We also continue to support and promote important We are aware of the important role that Telenet has in initiatives such as the UN Global Compact. We are a society. We feel very strongly about sustainability in all member of the advisory board of the Belgian Network its aspects. of the UN Global Compact, and since 2011 we have We make positive contributions to society, the econadhered to the Compact’s 10 principles. omy and the environment through our products and Our aim is to offer our customers the best and most services, employment, community involvement and reliable technology so they can enjoy optimum digital responsible resource use. Telenet has worked hard to content both at home and on the road, which we be a responsible and sustainable business for years. achieve by offering them innovative fixed and mobile We can demonstrate this in many ways, including our products based on our core customer values: simthird year in a row as ‘best in class’ in the Dow Jones plicity, transparency, customer loyalty and the conSustainability Indices for our sector. We have also stant improvement of the customer’s experience. launched the ‘Telenet Idealabs’ program to support promising digital start-ups and to stimulate innovaThis experience extends beyond the living room. tion in Flanders. Long-term sustainability thinking has Thanks to our unique position in the market, we an important role to play in creating business value strive to offer superfast data access to our cusand enables long-term profitable growth. tomers at any location. Our customers have free 6 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group access to more than 1.2 million Wi-Fi homespots 476. This means that the available bandwidth per and over 2,000 public hotspots in Belgium. In early household is tripled. However, the demand for faster October 2014, we announced the rollout of EAP broadband connections and higher data volumes functionality for our Wi-Fi routers, allowing customers continues to rise. to automatically and seamlessly connect to our Wi-Fi That is why Telenet is investing a total of 500 million network. We believe that the rollout of this new techeuros over the next five years to extend the cable nology will allow our customers to save on money network in Flanders into a Giga network – a first for and to make better use of the full potential of ‘Wi-Fi Europe. In concrete terms, this means that Telenet offloading’ (allowing a part of the mobile data traffic will expand the Internet highway from 600 Megahertz to run through our Wi-Fi network). (MHz) to 1 Gigahertz (GHz), a growth that means All of these innovative services are only possible that not only the ever-increasing Internet traffic will thanks to our basic foundation: the network. We continue to run smoothly, but also that in the future continue to invest in our hybrid glass fiber and more, faster and better digital applications will be coaxial cable network. Telenet has in recent years available to all Telenet customers across the region. undertaken several concrete actions to ensure that This will be the most far-reaching change ever to the sufficient bandwidth is available. In 2009, the bandnetwork in the history of Telenet. The network offers width of our network was increased from 450 MHz to extraordinary potential for the increase in Internet 600 MHz. In 2010, the cable standard EuroDocsis 3.0 data and will in due course be able to handle broadwas launched. This enabled us to quadruple maxiband speeds of at least 1 gigabit per second, putting mum speed of our Internet products from 30 Mbps Flanders firmly at the top of regions with the best to 120 Mbps. We have brought our glass fiber optical digital infrastructure in Europe. This large-scale netnetwork to more customers’ homes. By the close of work investment, which is part of the wider De Grote 2014, an average of 490 houses were connected to Netwerf project, Telenet is preparing for the constant each fiber optic junction, compared to 1,400 houses increase in data traffic and is anticipating the future in 2010, and by 2015, the average will further fall to digital needs of private users, the business world, the Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 7 public service, education, the health and safety sector and also other social sectors. Furthermore, some 350 jobs will be created in Flanders during the course of the project. We increasingly emphasize entertainment. It is no longer about the product itself, but the enjoyment that the customer derives from it. In this respect, we must take into account an accelerating globalization in the media world. The combination of digital television with Play offers the customer an all-in solution for the best of TV. Through Play, Telenet is the only operator in Belgium to bundle content from local stations, an extensive collection of international films and series and the best television functionalities, such as Terugkijk TV, all together into a simple and smart product. Local content is particularly important for differentiating us. With STAP, we invest 7.5 million in Flemish series and movies annually. We will work with our media partners to make sure the Flemish, local media landscape maintains its unique position, valued by the viewers. In June 2014, Telenet announced that it intended to acquire a 50% stake in De Vijver Media, a plan that was approved by the European Commission in early 2015. This allows Telenet to push for a new broadcasting model and, together with the VIER and VIJF channels, also play a role in developing the Flemish broadcasting industry. The increasing convergence between fixed and mobile services and the confluence of the Internet and traditional television mean that a further step must be taken so that the customer can make the best possible use of the new opportunities. Telenet believes that, together with VIER and VIJF, it can create an even richer TV experience for the consumer. We attach just as much importance to sustainability internally as externally. We strive to offer our employees every possible opportunity – they are, after all, EBITDA rose by 7% to € 900 million. We invested our greatest asset. We recruited 281 new staff in 2014, approximately 22.7% of our operating income. We which brought our workforce to almost 2,250. More remain determined to maintain strong growth in our than half of our vacancies are filled internally and we activities throughout 2015 and in the future. Our work hard to see that we keep stimulating the talent customer-oriented positioning will allow us to offer we have through various talent programs and training innovative and competitive products, which will lay courses. We aim to keep building on both customer the basis for future growth. and employee satisfaction in coming years. Customers who subscribe to only one product are Together we realized the objectives set for 2014, in increasingly making the transfer to our economical spite of the macroeconomic circumstances and the bundles and sign up to our mobile offering as well. fierce competition. Our operating income increased Our proven long-term strategy around ‘multiple play’ by 4% to just over € 1.7 billion, and our adjusted is convincing more and more customers to purchase 8 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group line using their smartphone, our extensive Wi-Free network and the launch of 4G without any additional cost to our mobile customers, we offer one of the best mobile products in the market. We will also continue to focus on providing entertainment, including via Play and Play More and our Yelo Play platform. We will make the best local and international content available to our customers, and in this way we will provide an answer to the new trends emerging in how our customers watch television. We are also enthusiastic about growth opportunities in the business market. Our business services are mainly aimed at the segments and services where we expect to achieve greater market share, despite intense competition. With this in mind, Telenet for Business intends to keep building on the investments of the past years, and approach the market with an integrated range of leading services and solutions in the areas of connectivity, security and hosting, with a strong focus on our coax products. We aim to maintain excellent customer service provision and customer confidence in 2015, so we will keep enhancing our processes and platforms, while always putting our customers first. Bert De Graeve Chairman more and more services. By the close of 2014, almost John Porter 51% of our customer relations subscribed to our triManaging Director ple-play bundles. The average income per customer relation rose year on year by 5% in 2014 to € 49.8, excluding income from mobile telephony. Consumers value our simple, transparent and competitive mobile tariff plans, which enables us to sell on mobile services to our considerable customer base. In March 2014, we improved our mobile telephony range with the introduction of the ‘Supersize your King’ option. With extras like the Triiing app, which allows customers to call to the rates of their fixed Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 9 Our changing world Big changes are effecting our society and, thereby, our stakeholders and resources sparingly and look for more our business. Being a responsible company means being aware of the sustainable alternatives. Digital applications are seen as an opportunity to decarbonize developments in the world around us and responding to the opportunithe economy, by video conferencing, for ties and concerns they bring to our stakeholders. We detect a number of example. specific developments that impact society and, as a result, the way we do business. Changing consumer expectations In our digital world, consumer demand for speed and data has risen considerably. In particular, digital natives (generations which Telenet addresses its stakeholders’ congrew up with access to the Internet and cerns by focusing our impact on material mobile phones) have different expectaissues: a selection of topics our stakeholdtions. They have grown up with elements ers have indicated as most important. We such as social media and user-generated will describe these issues and our approach content. Consumers now expect a flawless, extensively throughout this report. user-friendly, and transparent experience with maximum freedom. At the same time, they are becoming more aware of Climate change and their Internet profiles and the use of perraw material shortage sonal data. To preserve the planet and the world in which we live and do business, it is absoShifts in the global lutely essential for us to reduce our impact economy on the climate. There is a growing competition and realization of the link between raw The worldwide financial crisis has had materials like oil, food, and water. Energy far-reaching effects on the business and mineral prices are unstable due to community and the welfare of society in shortage, geopolitical risks, transport costs, general. There are vast gulfs in income and and the nationalization of resources. The infrastructure, both globally and locally. depletion of natural resources such as In many cases, it is those who are socially water and fossil fuels is forcing compadeprived who have been hit the hardest. nies and people in general to treat such We cannot saddle the government with the 10 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group full responsibility for tackling this problem. New ways of working and The opportunities and A second element is the shift of economic power from West to East and from North to doing business dangers of technology South. There is a growing demand for, and increasingly more emphasis in national polNew ways of working have emerged. ICT has penetrated society, both in icy on local products and services, partially Companies are taking account of the entire business and amongst consumers. in order to save costs. value chain of their corporate activities. E-government, e-health, e-school, e-bankThey are finding it increasingly hard to pay ing, and cloud services are becoming more for compensatory measures such as clean and more mainstream. There is a growing Health and an ageing air, water, or biodiversity. There is a growing corporate and personal dependence on emphasis on ethical operational mantechnology. Consumers are also asking society agement, governance, and transparency. service providers to tackle problems in New forms of innovation are also emergthe fields of privacy and safety. Data fraud The population continues to expand and ing, including socially driven operational and theft, as well as digital terrorism, are age at the same time. Life expectancy management such as crowdfunding. The new dangers against which protection is figures continue to rise: we all hope for a new ways of working and the dynamic labor required. The risks and opportunities of Big long and healthy life. The current pressure market have also brought about a change in Data need to be recorded clearly. We also on our health system requires a more relations between employer and employee. need to be aware of our behavior online and innovative and proactive approach towards A healthy and safe working environment accept responsibility for protecting those our health management in daily life and should be absolutely indispensable. who are vulnerable in the digital world, such the treatment of illnesses whenever that Attracting and keeping talented people is as children. is needed. vital to corporate continuity. Employees want a meaningful and satisfying job. Furthermore, striking a healthy balance between work and private life is good for both employers and employees. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 11 The Telenet Way Our current business strategy – The Telenet two-fold focus: to offer a great customer our products and services. We always want Way – was rolled out at the end of 2013, experience, supported by a superior netto avoid a status quo situation: Telenet is a and has been designed to achieve our work. We base this on three core values. challenger. We uphold the values of excelobjective for Telenet, namely ‘to help lent alignment and communication, both and inspire our customers to make inside and outside the company. the most of life and business in Operational the digital world, and to do so excellence wholeheartedly’. Right customer We wish to achieve We strive for constant connection this objective by PURPOSE improvements in means of a our purpose is both our operaWe want to ‘click’ with our customers. Our to help and inspire our customers tions and in products have to fit them perfectly. Every customer must have the right product and to make the most of life and business pricing plan. To be able to offer this great in a digital world, and to do so customer experience, we need a futurewholeheartedly proof network. Inspiring entertainment STRATEGY Our aim is to offer our customers relaxato offer a great customer experience, tion with a great sports, kids and entertainsupported by a superior network ment offering. This offering has to be both intuitive and entirely tailored to our customers. Our aim is that our entertainment offering should appeal to everyone and that STRATEGIC PRIORITIES they should know that Telenet guarantees an evening of carefree enjoyment of the Right best digital products and services. Operational Inspiring excellence Customer entertainment connection REPRESENTED BY Systems and Organisational Employees Finance processes structure 12 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group Our sustainability policy 3 pillars of LEAP The ‘Linking Environment and Profit’ program (LEAP) makes the sustainability policy an integral part of Telenet’s long term strategy and overarching business vision. The Telenet LEAP program is our response to the challenges the company, the communities and the world faces. The most durable businesses understand that how they do business is as important as what they do. Telenet is committed to being a responsible business with high ethical, social and environmental standards. Connect: The creation of digital Care: Reflecting Telenet’s Cascade: Integration of opportunities responsibility towards sustainability in daily life of our stakeholders stakeholders Ever since it was founded in 1996, Telenet has played an important role in connecting Flanders and placing technological develTelenet cares about the community in As part of its corporate responsibility opments and innovations within reach of which it operates and wants to address the approach, Telenet wants to make an our customers. We encourage education social needs of all its stakeholder groups, effective contribution to the integration of and training so that people can get as much including employees, customers and sustainability in the daily lives of its main as possible out of IT and develop the skills others. By focusing our approach on the stakeholders. An example is the continuous required of them in the 21st century. We material issues as selected by our stakeimprovement of the energy-efficiency of moreover invest in creativity, innovation holders, we reflect on their concerns in the our set-top boxes in order to decrease our and entrepreneurship through concepts way that is expected of us and we aim to customer’s energy use at home. such as our ‘start-up accelerator’ Telenet exceed those expectations. Idealabs. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 13 Telenet is one of the top sustainable brands in Belgium CARE / Caring for our stakeholders Energy consumption by customers Supply chain Work-life balance Cutting waste Privacy & security Attracting and retaining talent T Protecting children T Radiation T Freedom of speech CONNECT / Creating digital opportunities € Access to IT CASCADE / Integrating sustainability into everyday life through our products Reliable products and services Transparent pricing policy User-friendly products and services € Innovation G4 Environmental Aspects G4 Social Aspects € G4 Economic Aspects T Telecom Aspects Telenet is one of the top of 2015, we have also formulated two • Over 50 senior Telenet managers specific targets based on the RepTrak® attended training sessions in 2013 and sustainable brands in model, which measures the corporate 2014 that were especially devoted to Belgium reputation of Telenet: sustainable innovation and ‘business design thinking’. Since 2012, we have further specified –– Raising Telenet’s RepTrak Workplace our ambitions into a strategic vision with score by 25% over the score in 2009, By executing the LEAP program and its respect to sustainability. We have used the because we pay staff a fair wage, are accompanying action plans, we aim to ‘GLOBE-US’ framework to do this, which concerned about our staff and offer be one of the top sustainable brands in offers an intelligible approach for integrating them equal opportunities. Belgium by 2017. People, Planet and Profit in the business –– Raising Telenet’s RepTrak Workplace model. We have applied GLOBE-US in score by 35% over the score in 2009, two areas: because we accept responsibility • Formulating new targets for the LEAP for the environment, support good sustainability strategy causes and have a positive influence upon society. Sustainability training Aside from our goal of becoming a for senior managers climate-neutral company by the end 14 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group Selecting the 20 Determining the most relevant topTalking with stake(potential) impact ics in the telecomholders to gauge of the 20 most New materiality munication and their interest in the important questmatrix media industry 20 most important sions on Telenet’s questions operating success Materiality matrix: line with the most current interests on the advocates of standards (such as GRI and part of our stakeholders, we updated it SASB) led to a long list of over 100 topics. focusing on the most in 2015. We then selected from these topics and important questions grouped them together until we arrived at We started off by assessing the relevant the 20 most important questions. In practice, our strategy is realized by workpoints for attention in terms of the econing through the LEAP program on the most omy, society and the environment in the Our biggest stakeholder groups (private and relevant issues (‘material issues’) that have telecommunications industry. An analysis corporate customers, staff, investors and been selected together with our stakeof internal and external documents, trend shareholders, media and industry associaholders. Telenet drew up its first materiality reports and reports by colleagues and tions) were consulted in order to determine matrix in 2012, and in order to bring it into competitors, sector associations and how important they considered each of the 20 questions. A total of 1,405 corporate and private cusPrivacy & tomers, employees and other stakeholders HIGH data security indicated which subjects should, in their view, be given priority. Further, the (potenFair, responsible tial) impact of each question on the oper& transparent Best-in-class quality business conduct ating success of Telenet was determined by products and services senior management. The result of this process of inclusion was a Importance to stakeholders Pricing & billing new materiality matrix, a practical instrutransparency Open internet Customer ment that clearly indicates which questions experience are the most important to our stakeholders Customer’s energy Being an innovative consumption and leading company and to Telenet as a company. Responsible Offering Because this publication is looking back to employer customer2014, we report on Telenet’s previous colElectronic waste Reducing centric products and equipment environmental lection of material issues, as shown in the Attracting, retaining and table below. As of 2015, we will be reporting recycling impact developing talent on our sustainability activities based on the Supply chain management new materiality matrix. Customer health & safety Safe use of internet by children Role in society Promoting skills for the 21st century society LOW Media landscape Employee engagement LOW Influence on business success HIGH Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 15 Targets and results For each of the 14 material issues determined for Telenet in 2012, key performance indicators or KPIs were drawn up. They detail the questions and ensure that our efforts in these areas are measurable. MATERIAL ISSUE KPIS RESULT DETAILED RESULT (2013) TARGET User-friendly products & services • Measurement of brand values  • At the end of 2014, our residential customers’ To be defined. perception score of ease and simplicity of product use stood at 66, a decrease of 10% compared to the score at the end of 2013. Privacy & security • Number of employees trained on anti-corruption  • In 2014, no further staff received anti-corrupTo be defined. tion training. Innovation • Measurement of brand values (residential  • At the end of 2014, our residential customers’ To be defined. perception score of Telenet as an innovative customers) company stood at 58, a decrease of 9% compared to the score at the end of 2013. • Measurement of brand values (business customers)  • At the end of 2014, our business customers’ perception score of Telenet as an innovative To be defined. company stood at 67, an increase of 4% compared to the score at the end of 2013. Pricing & billing transparency • % satisfied customers after call on invoice issue  • The percentage of satisfied customers after call on invoice issue stood at 81% in 2014, an In 2015 Telenet will start measuring the Customer increase of 8% compared to the score at the Effort Score. The target for end of 2013. this indicator is 10%. • # calls per invoice  • In 2014, Telenet received 36 calls per 1,000 invoices. This is a decrease of 11% In 2015 Telenet’s target is to stay at 36 calls per compared to 2013. 1,000 invoices. Reliable service/ network • Network availability / Service level  • In 2014, we improved our network availability by 58% compared to base year 2010. The 2015’s target for average general service level is a service level in 2014 was 99.98%. maximum of 10 minutes unavailability per month. Customers’ energy efficiency • Set-top box energy efficiency  • The average energy use of the total amount of set-top boxes in our customers’ homes To be defined. decreased by 14.4% in 2014 compared to 2013. Work-Life balance • Number of employees eligible for teleworking  • By the end of 2014, 714 out of 1,600 employees (excluding field technical and customer We expect that all 1,600 employees having care staff) have signed a telework contract signed the contract addenaddendum, an increase of 35% compared to dum by the end of 2015. the end of 2013. 16 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group MATERIAL ISSUE KPIS RESULT DETAILED RESULT (2013) TARGET Access to IT/Protection of children • Investment in activities to bridge the digital gap  • In 2014, Telenet invested € 108,000 to bridge To be defined the digital gap. Talent attraction & retention • Employee engagement score  • By mid-2014, Telenet’s employee engagement score stood at 80.8%, an increase of In 2015, Telenet will implement a new measurement 0.2% compared to the score at the end of method. A new target is being 2013. developed. Freedom of speech • #Voluntary take-downs  • In 2014, Telenet took down 40 phishing websites after they were reported by customers To be defined. and the authorities. In 2013, this figure stood at 0. • # Involuntary take-downs  • The number of involuntary take-downs rose from 82 in 2013 to 487 in 2014 (-28%). To be defined In these cases, the government ordered Telenet to block (mainly gambling) websites. Supply Chain • % suppliers assessed  • In 2013 and 2014, 78 of Liberty Global’s and Telenet’s suppliers were assessed using To be defined. EcoVadis E-waste • Quantity of e-waste in tons  • As in 2013, there was no hazardous waste sent to landfill or incinerated in 2014. The To be defined. amount of recycled hazardous waste in 2014 stood at 530 tons. Electromagnetic • To be specified To be defined. radiation Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 17 Decision-making process Senior Board of Leadership Reputation Directors Team (SLT) Board CSR Manager 10 members, Top 11 managers Board consisting of SLT Manages daily activities 3 of which are and board members and provides reports independent directors Sustainability progress as fixed agenda item Assesses and directs Design, implementation improvements to and checking the Meets fortnightly Telenet’s corporate sustainability program reputation, including as a permanent sustainability aspects item on the agenda Meets every Meets at least two months once per quarter Sustainability policy Reputation Board in order to monitor the Telenet was also voted ‘industry group corporate reputation of Telenet. Where relleader’ in the worldwide media industry for evant, specific action plans are created, and the third time in a row. aspects of sustainability play an important In addition to our continuous inclusion in Internal organization role in this respect. the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Telenet Management of Telenet’s sustainability has also been included in the FTSE4 Good The LEAP program targets were previpolicy was assessed in 2013 by an Internal Index since 2013. ously incorporated in a charter, which was Audit Team from Deloitte. endorsed by the group’s entire Senior Telenet considers these significant benchLeadership Team. The individual SLT memmarks for integrating sustainability. bers are responsible for the material issues External monitoring of our policy that fall within their own fields of expertise. Given the increasing impact and imporThe fact that Telenet was included in tance of corporate social responsibility both the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe and sustainability in terms of Telenet’s Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability operations, the Board of Directors decided World Index for the fourth time in a row in in 2013 that the creation, implementation September 2014 again demonstrates that and monitoring of Telenet’s sustainability our sustainability policy is bearing fruit. Dow program (the LEAP program’) would be disJones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) detercussed and approved by the entire board. mine which companies in each sector are As of 2015, representatives of the Board of leading the way with respect to economic, Directors and the SLT meet as part of the social and environmental achievements. 18 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group Extra-financial results obtained by Telenet in 2014 BENCHMARK GLOBAL RESULT COMMENT BEST SCORES LOWEST IMPROVEMENT Dow Jones Sustainability Global leader of the Media Best overall score indus• Codes of conduct • Corporate governance Index industry group; total sustainatry-wide and best in class • Risk and crisis • Environmental reporting bility score 84/100 for economic and social management dimensions • Operational eco-efficiency • Development of human capital • Working conditions and human rights CDP Category B, Disclosure Score Included in CDP Benelux N/A N/A 93/100 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index RepTrak RepTrak Pulse score 2014: 67.1 Best reputation in Belgian • Performance • Governance telecom sector • Innovation • Workplace • Products • Citizenship Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 19 Stakeholder engagement Telenet aims to deepen the relationship concern in an organization. Stakeholders Power: is the stakeholder able to influence with its stakeholders and to integrate social can affect or be affected by Telenet’s the organization? and environmental issues or concerns into actions, objectives and policies. Legitimacy: does the stakeholder have all our actions. The standardized practice A simple yet effective exercise to determine authority towards the organization? of dialog with our stakeholders allows us to who the stakeholders are is to make a list of mitigate risks, identify new business opporUrgency: does the stakeholder need a critiall the names of individuals, organizations, tunities and improve financial results. cal and time-sensitive respond? interest groups, institutions, authorities, who are concerned in any way with the By giving a yes/no answer to all three Stakeholder engagement department, hold an influential position, questions, the stakeholder can be assigned may be affected by the department’s to one of seven categories. Appropriate policy actions or policies or are located in the engagement methods should be in place region that your department is covering. for the stakeholder groups depending on At Telenet, every department is responsible Departments are advised to do this exertheir level of power, legitimacy and urgency. for identifying and engaging with its departcise as a group or team to make sure no The crucial stakeholders form the most ment related stakeholders (which they are stakeholder is left out. important stakeholder group, since this intrinsically linked to, are affected by, or group possesses power as well as urgency could have an effect on). We hereby explain and legitimacy, and therefore plays a crucial a few directives for stakeholder engagePrioritizing stakeholders role for any organization or project. Special ment on department level. It is aimed at attention must be paid in determining how every department dealing with internal to engage with the crucial stakeholder. Nonand external target groups and provides When all stakeholders are identified, it stakeholders (those without any power, guidelines for identifying and prioritizing is relevant to assign a level of priority to legitimacy or urgency) require no further stakeholders. stakeholder groups in order to determine engagement. the engagement strategy. Mitchell, Agle and Wood’s Stakeholder Salience mode is a Identifying stakeholders useful tool to prioritize stakeholders. The model ranks stakeholders based on three variables: Who are Telenet’s stakeholders? In general, a stakeholder is defined as a person, group or organization that has an interest or 20 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group Example: Materiality and Salience Model: Stakeholder Classification Stakeholder Engagement The application of the Stakeholder Salience model can be illustrated by the stakeholder prioritizing exercise which was held by Telenet prior to the materiality research 1 4 2 1. Dormant 2. Discretionary in early 2015. By applying the Stakeholder Power Legitimacy 3. Demanding Salience model’s definition questions, the 4. Dominant stakeholder groups were assigned to a 7 5. Dangerous category based on priority. Their opinions were included in a weighted average (with 5 6 6. Dependant the highest weight for the most important 7. Definitive stakeholder group) to determine the final 8 8. Non-stakeholder importance of the material issues and their 3 relative position in the materiality matrix. Urgency Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 21 Overview of communication channels Telenet actively initiates dialog with various groups of stakeholders over a broad range of channels as a way to promote participative and integrated decision-making. We understand how the involvement of stakeholders supports our long-term success by enhancing transparency, sharing knowledge and generating innovative solutions enabling us to perform our everyday task to offer leading and innovative products with a strong customer focus. STAKEHOLDER GROUP GENERAL ENGAGEMENT METHODS SPECIFIC TOOLS Employees Communication within the company is done by: • Zoom engagement survey; • The intranet; • Health and safety survey: three-yearly measurement of • Regular updates by e-mail; health and safety indicators based on I-ISW list. • Interviews; • Whistleblower arrangement • Regular meetings, which include a quarterly update for middle • Talks with the trade union managers, an annual “All Employee Meeting”, etc.; • Training and development programs; • Team meetings, 1-on-1 meetings; • Surveys; • Infographics and click frames in the office building. We probe for improvements via the “My Idea” suggestion platform and an internal social network, “The Yellow Thread”. Customers Telenet has contact with customers, both residential and com• Customer Loyalty Score mercial via various initiatives such as focus groups, interviews, • RepTrak survey: quarterly measurement of corporate visits, mailings and of course also via the daily contacts in sales reputation points and call centers. There is also customer interaction via specific Web Care teams on various online forums, chat boxes in • Telenet social media channels: Twitter, Facebook, Internet banners and the Telenet Twitter and Facebook pages. YouTube, Telenet Snap • Customer certificate: all employees are introduced to a position involving direct contact with the customer for at least half a day a year • Brandtracker: A quarterly survey about the recognition of our four brand values: “contagious”, “can do”, “smooth” and “considerate”. • The Office of the Ombudsman for telecommunications Belgium Policymakers The dialog with legislators and government refers chiefly to • Investment guide subjects that are of interest to the entire field of expertise, such as • Parliamentary hearings regulations and investment policy. • Platforms including Cable Europe, Cable Belgium, ISPA, Agoria, VBO, IBBT, Beltug, ADM. Shareholders The company communicates with its shareholders at the • Sector screenings and shareholder benchmarks: e.g. shareholders meeting, but also through the annual report, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4 Good corporate and investor website, the quarterly reporting, confer• Annual investor surveys: e.g. Thomson Extel and BVFA/ ence calls, investment meetings and via the investor relations ABAF department. 22 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group STAKEHOLDER GROUP GENERAL ENGAGEMENT METHODS SPECIFIC TOOLS Suppliers Telenet actively involves the suppliers in the pursuit of sustainable • Risk analysis entrepreneurship. The outlines of the sustainable vendor policy • EcoVadis Corporate Responsibility ratings have been drawn up with majority shareholder Liberty Global. • Vendor scorecards After every contract the Vendor Disclosure Form is taken into account, as well as the 10 principles of the United Nations Global • Communication through workshops, vendor portal and Compact and environment, health and safety clauses. Certain exchanges requirements in the field of corporate responsibility have been • Assessment of the management systems and audits integrated into specifications and requests for purchase (FRPs). on site For instance, we map what guidelines the equipment, raw materials etc. meet, the specifications about energy consumption, packaging, waste and recycling and whether any dangerous chemical substances are included in the production. With regard to the vendor evaluation, corporate responsibility is both a selection criterion and an element in the vendor risk analysis. Sector organizations To facilitate the contacts, Telenet is a member of a number of • Platforms such as ISPA, Cable Belgium, Cable Europe specific industry associations, which act from different perand the Platform Telecom Operators and Service spectives as the voice for the sector in its entirety, or for specific Providers. subdivisions. Telenet actively participates in the consultation with sector counterparts via these platforms. NGOs Telenet has partnerships with various NGOs such as BOS+. Via the • Measurement by independent organizations such as Telenet Foundation we work with NGOs which endeavor to close Carbon Disclosure Project and United Nations Global the digital gap. Compact. Consumer organizations Telenet communicates proactively with consumer organizations • Consumer platforms and specialized forums such as such as Test Aankoop about new developments, and keeps them TalkToo, TIK and Userbase. up-to-date via press releases. Telenet also stays in touch with the consumer via specialized consumer websites such as TalkToo. Through these sites we receive a considerable number of notifications about Telenet every month. Telenet offers a suitable solution for as many as possible.. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 23 Key stakeholders at group level: description and engagement Our key stakeholders at group level are our employees, shareholders, community groups, governments and regulators, unions and our major suppliers. We tailor our engagement processes to suit each different stakeholder group. A summary of our stakeholders and our process of engagement is provided below. Raw materials Packaging Distribution In store Use & Disposal & processing & transport telenet.be / Telenet Center / Technician Suppliers the social, environmental and ethical risks such as the construction of our head office of its suppliers. in Mechelen. Telenet actively tries to involve its suppliers In action Sponsoring local initiatives whereby Telenet in the quest for sustainable enterprise. It strengthens its connections with the local is our ambition to implement improveTelenet takes part in several working groups community. ments through the entire value chain, from on the theme of supply chain improvethe recovery of raw materials through the ment. One such working party is E-TASC In action assembly of modems and set-top boxes (Electronics – Tool for Accountable Supply Telenet has since 2007 been the main to the hardware at the customer’s home. Chains). E-TASC was launched in 2007 as a sponsor of KV Mechelen, the Belgian The key objectives set out in the sustainsustainable solution for businesses to effiProLeague football club which is based able supplier policy were developed in ciently implement a joint approach to the next to our office. We also sponsor Racing conjunction with the main shareholder problem of evaluating and managing supply Mechelen, another local football club. Liberty Global. chain risks and find what it is that ensures However, Telenet not only supports proimprovement in performance. fessional sport. We are one of the partners Commitments of the first Johan Cruijff Court in Belgium, Our purchasing decisions also take into which opened in Mechelen during the sumaccount ethical, ecological and social Local community mer of 2013. This multifunctional artificial considerations. They relate not only to grass pitch was specially developed as a optimum price, quality and availability, but As a locally oriented company, Telenet is place where children and young people can also to the ecological and social aspects of strongly involved in the local community. play and practice sport in an enjoyable and the source of products and services. We make every effort to be good citizens in safe way. The safety and environmental specificaMechelen, the home of our headquarters, Since 2012, Telenet has offered wireless tions are specified whenever a contract is but also in the local communities of our Internet via our hotspots at the most drawn up. contact centers in Herentals, St-Trond and important tourist sites in Mechelen. Alost, and our regional sites in Flanders. Telenet also employs a code of conduct which has to be signed together with each Commitments supplier contract. Extensive consultation with neighborhood From 2013, Telenet will start to use the committees about major works that have Ecovadis platform to assess and monitor an impact on their living circumstances, 24 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group Customers into a sustainable and honest relationship introduced by the EU (IFRS as approved by with its customers. the EU). At the same time, Telenet complies with the requirements of the US SarbanesWe communicate with customers in In action Oxley Act. many ways as part of our normal business, for example through our retail outlets, Telenet has completely reviewed its product range over the past two years. After the In action contact centers and customer research. Understanding the attitudes of consumers launch of KING & KONG, we also dreamed Telenet publishes a detailed overview of its towards sustainability issues is critical to up the bundles Whop & Whoppa and the financial results on a quarterly, half-yearly getting our strategy right. channel packs Rex & Rio (renamed Play and and annual basis. In 2014, Telenet continPlay More in 2014). The pricing points are ued its regular, open and intensive dialogue The Customer Loyalty Score (CLS) is the also clearly communicated on the website. with existing and potential shareholders, principal customer satisfaction benchmark Customers remain informed about the institutional and private investors, other amongst both residential and business latest trends via surrounding channels such credit providers and their intermediaries, customers. Each month we conduct suras social media, and Telenet enters into a and financial analysts who follow our shares veys and ask over 2,500 customers to tell dialogue with its customers. on a primary (sell-side) or secondary (buyus what they think of their Telenet products side) basis, via roadshows, investor days and the associated services. The end result and the Annual General Meeting. of these surveys is a monthly overall figure. Investors These measurements tell us which aspects we need to work on precisely. As of 2015, Employees customer satisfaction will no longer be As a publicly listed company, Telenet purmeasured using the CLS, but NPS – the Net sues an open and active information policy. Promoter Score – will be used instead. A governing principle of this policy is to treat Telenet wishes to attract and retain talented all stakeholders alike and inform them at the people and to develop a flexible organizaCommitments same time. tion. As an employer, Telenet aims to be an Since launching the mobile products KING energetic business partner, and promote Commitments and facilitate successful performance and & KONG, Telenet has always applied 4 values when launching and maintaining its Telenet sets great store by high-quality and personal growth in a continually changing products: simplicity, transparency, focus on transparent financial reporting. Its reports environment. We focus on courageous and loyal customers and readiness to face the are compiled in accordance with the authentic leadership, based on a motivatfuture. In this way, Telenet wishes to enter International Financial Reporting Standards ing, innovative and varied human approach. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 25 Commitments • Attractive pay and benefits: competitive 3. Transformation As a sustainable employer, Telenet pursalary and additional benefits. Facilitating organization changes to stimsues an HR policy that is based on three 2. Attracting and developing talent ulate future growth. This involves, among core values: other things: Attracting talent and promoting continual 1. Employee involvement development via constructive feedback. • The New World of Work: more freedom Creating working conditions that maximize This involves, among other things: to choose where you work to improve employee performance and satisfaction home/work balance. • Continual improvement of our levels. This involves, amongst other things, recruitment capacity: our people • More cooperation via social media. the following: as ambassadors. • Customer focus is in our DNA: Telenet • Set unequivocal objectives, with a clear • Development and implementation of employees operate on the basis of the description of the end product. talent development programs such as premise that the customer’s needs are • Encourage personal development. the Young Graduate Program. paramount ‘the customer is king’. • Internal promotion: we fill vacancies • Career development irrespective of • Leadership 2.0: a new generation of from within to enable our employage or position. leaders who are self-assured, confident, ees to progress internally and give us positive and focused on results. • Development of leadership capacities the opportunity to attract new talent with a focus on results instead of efforts. at lower levels. 26 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Group In action Policymakers the industry. For example, Telenet actively Telenet started a program in 2009 to participates in consultations with fellow convince all of our employees of the crucial industry members via platforms such as Telenet attaches great importance to its importance of customer service. This ISPA, Cable Belgium, Cable Europe and the relationships with policymakers, at all levels. Customer Service Certificate is now a perTelecom Operators and Service Providers We regularly consult this target group to manent part of our HR policy and seeks to Platform. achieve a sustainable exchange of ideas make constantly improving customer serand knowledge. Telenet does not make With a view to stimulating open dialogue vice the consistent theme running through use of external lobbyists. Telenet does not with policymakers, Telenet has produced a our day-to-day business operations. In support any political parties, in accordance guide about investment, innovation, growth, practical terms, all of our employees spend with Belgian law. No money was spent on competition, employment, social commitat least half a day every year familiarizpolitical contributions. ment and media pluralism. With this guide, ing themselves with a business role that Telenet calls on policymakers to conduct requires direct contact with the customer, Commitments a strong and visionary, but also balanced such as an employee in the contact center, The dialogue with the regulators and the (tele)communications policy that stimushop assistant or installation inspector. authorities mainly concerns topics that are lates innovation and investment. 1,539 employees gained their Customer important for the entire professional field, Service Certificate in 2014. such as regulations and investment policy. The Annual General Employee Meeting Telenet maps out the main issues on the (AEM) is an essential leadership tool to basis of the debate with its stakeholders. clarify strategy, provide feedback and This is prioritized based on the strategy and define expectations for behavior and busiimportance for the stakeholders. ness performance. The annual employee appraisal and coaching meeting is intended In action to support the personal and professional To facilitate contacts, Telenet is a member development of every employee, and of a number of specific professional organcontributes to a relationship of trust by proizations which function as a mouthpiece viding a structure for open dialogue. Telenet for the industry in general from various also conducts specific employee surveys. perspectives, or for specific sectors of Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 27 Economic aspects 30 31 34 36 Promoting the Investments Innovation Closing the digital digital society divide 28 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Economic aspects Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 29 Promoting the digital society The digital world offers substantial growth opportunities for society, by stimulating business, innovation and employment. Digital television and superfast broadband have brought huge economic benefits for society. A McKinsey study estimates that the We play our role by investing in our Giga Internet economy has contributed to a network through ‘De Grote Netwerf’ and in growth of 21% in the GDP of the G8 counthe Flemish media landscape, which results tries during 2005-2010, and advantages in the creation of innovative technologies such as doubling broadband speeds are and products. This also means we create some of the biggest drivers of this growth. more jobs among our subcontractors. The average download speed of Telenet’s The European Commission’s Digital Agenda broadband subscribers increased in 2014 for Europe recognizes that super-fast to 83 Mbps. broadband brings great economic benefits to society, and aims to stimulate the However, we recognize that not everyone European digital economy by setting chalhas access to the digital world. To make the lenging goals to increase European GDP by digital society accessible to everybody, we 5% and create 3.8 million new jobs by 2020. work together with strategic partners such as the government, social organizations and other industry players. This chapter will make the economic impact of Telenet clear. 30 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Economic aspects Investments Overview Contributions to investments the Belgian treasury Network Tax levied at The first step toward an inclusive digital source society is to provide access to high-quality, network rental of set-top boxes for digital television 0.3 Corporation tax on the affordable services for as many people as investments results possible. 13% 25% 87.6 In 2014, Telenet invested € 387.2 million, 4% more than in 2013, or 23% of its revenue, to 45% Difference between 217.9 41.6 Payroll tax payable and upgrade its network and to make sure its 17% deductible VAT systems are future proof. 54.7 maintenance of the Social security The lion’s share of our investments was customer network and other 1.1 installations maintenance spent on the expansion and improvement Business taxes of our network. The remaining share went, among other expenditures, to repairs and replacement of network equipment, the in millions of euros acquisition of sports broadcasting rights and investments in IT systems. This way the company ensures that its At the close of August we presented ‘De 1.8 million other components such as splitcustomers always have access to highly Grote Netwerf, our upgrade program for ters and taps will be replaced or modified. competitive products and services. the next-generation network intended to They are located beside streets, on poles boost the digital economy in Flanders. Over or on facades. Flanders is the first region Because of EuroDocsis 3.0 technology, the next five years, we expect to spend in in Europe where a 1 GHz network of such a Telenet can now cover nearly 100% of its the region of € 500 million on increasing size is being launched, putting it firmly on service area with speeds of up to 100 Mbps. our network’s capacity from the present top of the list of European regions with the 100% of Telenet’s Internet subscribers are 600 MHz to 1 GHz, allowing for lightning best digital infrastructure. Furthermore, now surfing at speeds of at least 30 Mbps. fast broadband speeds of up to 1 Gbps. some 350 jobs will be created in Flanders This means that Telenet has already The regions that experience the most data during the course of the project. achieved the targets of the 2020 Digital traffic, and which thus need expansion the Agenda. Telenet customers are able to CableLabs is working flat-out on the develmost, will be first up. In order to expand the surf at particularly high speeds compared opment of the next version, DOCSIS 3.1. This network, 150,000 boosters will be installed to other countries. The average speed of will make it possible to achieve even faster across Flanders in a fixed network, while Telenet Internet in 2014 was 83 Mbps. speeds. Another advantage is that the Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 31 specification will be more efficient, which marketing and distribution should safeand transferring them in full to both Flemish means that the capacity in the same specguard the position of Flemish content in the and foreign broadcasters and rights mantrum will increase by approximately 25%. new television eco system. agement companies. Furthermore, since 1 January 2013, Telenet has been supportAs a local player in the Flemish media ing Flemish content creation via STAP, an Contributions to the ecosystem, Telenet has already been investment program through which we will working for a number of years on a strong Belgian treasury audiovisual landscape in Flanders as a contribute a total of € 30 million to Flemish television productions and films over the counterweight to the evermore powerful We make a direct economic contribution next 4 years. We hope that this will give the foreign players. Telenet supports local through our payments to employees, supFlemish television industry a sound financial broadcasting initiatives such as Studio 100, pliers, investors and governments. boost and provide producers and broadMent TV, Acht, (L)Acht, Njam and LibelleTV. casters with every opportunity to conTelenet’s total contribution to the Belgian Telenet also has contracts with all the tinue producing high-quality films, series, treasury is € 402.9 million or 75.7% of the major broadcasters, such as VRT, RTBf and animations and first-rate documentaries in operating profit achieved by Telenet Group MEDIALAAN. In 2014 Telenet once again the future. Holding. The operating profit is the differacquire broadcast rights to all the top tier ence between the sales on the one hand Belgian football matches. Through Yelo Play, Ten fiction projects were also granted and the cost of goods (cost of services Play and Play More, Telenet ensures that the financial backing in 2014 through the STAP provided) and the selling costs (selling, viewing experience is constantly improving investment program. Once again, a broad general and administrative expenses on the for its customers. mix was selected that included both new other hand). The total contribution is a year and established talent in different genres, Thanks to its 50% stake in De Vijver Media, on year increase of 7% when compared to ranging from firm favorite Bowling Balls to which was approved by the European last year. horror adventure Welp and the musical Commission in early 2015, Telenet can comedy Brabançonne. push for a new broadcasting model and, together with the broadcasters VIER and In September 2014, Telenet announced Flemish media landscape VIJF, can also play a role in developing that it would produce its own television the Flemish broadcasting industry. The series, together with deMENSEN producIn addition to the network investments, increasing convergence between fixed and tion company. The series will be financed Telenet also cooperates with Flemish mobile services and the confluence of the through the STAP investment program. players (authors, producers, broadcastInternet and traditional television mean that Chaussée d’Amour is set to be an exciting ers and distributors) in order to lay down a further step must be taken so that the Flemish drama series, directed by Nathalie a stable long-term vision with respect to customer can make the best possible use Basteyns and consisting of 10 episodes, all audiovisual policy. Discussions between of the new opportunities. Telenet believes of which will be simultaneously available the various players highlighted that a joint that, together with VIER and VIJF, it can to Play and Play More customers in the solution needs to be developed to counter create an even richer TV experience for the course of 2016. This is a double first for the the threat from foreign initiatives and new consumer. Low Lands both the fact that an operator (international) operators in the audiovisual is providing such substantial backing to a landscape. Forward-looking government Telenet contributes to the development of series and the fact that all the episodes of policies, supplemented by private sector Flemish content by collecting copyrights the series will be simultaneously available. resources and a focus on international 32 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Economic aspects In this sense Telenet is anticipating the Telenet-BBC Public Speaking customer services and products. All ideas changing viewing habits and expectations of Awards are studied in detail and the most useful the modern television viewer. ones are put into practice. 2014 was a successful year for ‘My Idea’, with 1,193 active Telenet also supports the Telenet-BBC employees. No less than 1,417 proposals Investing in talent Public Speaking Award every year, a compewere submitted in 2014, compared to 900 tition for 16to 20-year-old students from in 2012, of which 15% have in the meantime Belgium, where students are given speaking been implemented or are in the starting assignments in English. Encouraging English blocks. Over half the proposals are submitOur people language teaching at all levels is important ted by employees in our contact centers. in a world where language and communicaIdeas are launched around a variety of As a large and dynamic group, Telenet has tion skills are the key to success. topics, ranging from administrative aspects, always had a wide range of vacancies, with including bills or My Telenet, product 281 new employees starting at Telenet in 2014, raising the total workforce to 2,247. Investing in ideas improvements such as adjustments to the voice mail menu, to ideas for entirely new We work hard on encouraging the talent we innovative products and services. Since 2012, the ‘My Idea’ platform has have recruited via various talent programs offered employees the opportunity to and training courses. make proposals for improvements to our Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 33 Innovation Our network investments have the result international series, exclusively and before whereby the customer’s wireless home that Telenet can always offer its customers they appear anywhere else on Belgian Telenet modem emits public Wi-Fi signals. the best and most innovative services, and television. Play More has all the functionaliCustomers can decide for themselves new products were also launched in 2014 ties of Play, plus additional themed stations whether or not to switch off the signal. The while existing products were improved. It is and a larger and newer catalogue of films homespot network had over 1.2 million locaimportant for Telenet that its customers are and series. tions at the end of 2014. In addition, Telenet always aware of these technological develcustomers can also browse the Internet opments. We are more than just a network wirelessly through some 350,000 VOO system that is connected to the customer’s Yelo Play app homespots in Wallonia. home. The technology we supply offers a Thanks to the Yelo application launched in The increasing presence of hotspots and huge number of possibilities. Telenet accu2010, viewers have discovered the benefits integration of smartphones and tablets are rately measures how innovative customers of watching TV on other screens. At the significantly boosting the use of hotspots. find our company. launch of Play and Play More at the end of More than 360,000 unique users logged in 2014, this app also got a major update. The to the Telenet hotspot network in 2014. Play and Play More new ‘Yelo Play’ guides you better than ever Over the next few years, Telenet will through the extensive range on offer on continue to invest considerable sums in In December 2014, Telenet renamed its Rex television. A smart search function displays expanding its Wi-Free network so as to and Rio broadcasting packages to Play and results in linear television, Terugkijk TV, ensure that customers can have the best Play More. Through Play, Telenet is the only recordings and TV-theek. The easy swipe connectivity and the latest digital apps operator in Belgium to bundle content from function allows you to send films and prowhen on the road, all the time and everylocal stations, an extensive collection of grams to the big screen at a flick of a finger. where. The company was the first operator international films and series and the best By the close of 2014, around 26% of digital in Belgium to implement EAP, a new techtelevision functionalities, such as Terugkijk subscribers used the app. nology where customers only have to log in TV, all together into a simple and smart once on mobile devices, after which they product. Customers can use Terugkijk TV automatically connect to homespots and to rewatch shows that are up to 7 days Wi-Free hotspots. Telenet is also investigating the old without having to record them. Those concept of ‘city Wi-Fi’ together with a numtuning in to a program that has already Telenet invested in a wireless strategy as ber of cities, which will see the commercial started can also watch it from the start. Play, early as 2003 with the takeover of Sinfilo centers fully covered using Wi-Fi. This will together with a digital television subscripand its 120 hotspots. Over the years, mean innumerable digital opportunities for tion, offers customers an all-in solution for Telenet has considerably expanded this both citizens and tourists. Mechelen and the best of TV. They have unlimited access Wi-Fi network, which has had the brand Kortrijk will start the ball rolling in 2015. to linear TV, Terugkijk TV, recordings and name Wi-Free since 2011. At the moment, a wide selection of films and series. Play there are more than 2,000 public Telenet More is for families who want to watch Hotspots. The hotspot network has been the very latest blockbusters and the best supplemented with homespots since 2012, 34 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Economic aspects The possibilities of the opportunity to make their energy 50. This ageing of the population means consumption greener and more economithat innovative solutions must be found to the future cal. Smart grids are an essential part of our enable senior citizens to live independently future green economy. as long as possible. As a supplier of connecIT may in the future lead to considerable tivity, Telenet can act as a link between the social changes relating to health, energy and Another social theme concerns safety, various players, which include doctors, hossafety. Telenet also continually evaluates not only data-related safety, but also the pitals, patients, the government, etc. Using how its knowledge can be applied to maxiimprovement in the general perception simple applications, the elderly will be able mum effect in these fields, always together of safety at home and out and about. to gauge their blood pressure, heart rate or with partners. There is considerable demand for a simple weight and transmit these results automatiapproach to safety improvements via When it comes to energy, Telenet is also cally to their doctor or care authority. Video networks. In practical terms this means, for involved in the Flemish Linear platform, calls also have significant added value in example, cooperating with security cominitiated by Voka and KU Leuven (Leuven this context and could offer a solution for panies to monitor a specific environment University), which aims to test the smart problems associated with isolation. using cameras. Another concrete example grid. Smart grids, which optimize the use of is the increase in ‘panic buttons’ for senior green energy generated by customers at citizens, which transmit pre-programmed home, are based on a two-way traffic sysdata to any number of preset emergency tem Smart meters, an essential component numbers at the push of a button. of smart grids, communicate the customer’s energy use to the central computer of Finally, the health aspect is one of the key the power station via the Telenet broadsocial priorities for the future. By 2020, half band network. This system gives customers the Belgian population will be older than Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 35 Supporting innovation In an inclusive digital society everyone and to achieve a better balance between services ready to conquer the market. The should have the opportunity to access the work and private life. young go-getters can count on a network new telecom resources resulting from the of 80 mentors and experts, while each of Telenet is innovating and investing in creativity and technological development them receives 25,000 euros in support Doccle, a start-up which is building a facilitated by Telenet. We are well aware that in the accelerator program. After the platform with which users can exchange, the digital world is not accessible to everyaccelerator phase, the 10 start-ups pitch settle and archive documents from various one yet, just like the innovative products their business concept and present their suppliers in a uniform and recognizable way. and services that we want to put on the Minimum Viable Product. An independent market. This is why Telenet also applies a jury selects 5 of them on the basis of their social tariff to all its products. Telenet Idealabs pitches, who then follow a growth program – GrowthLabs – for a 4-month period, Innovation is and remains of prime imporeach with a maximum of 50,000 euros in Social subsidy tance to Telenet, which is why we joined backing, paid by the Telenet Idealabs Fund. hands in May 2014 with the start-up comThis program is designed to lift the start-ups Telenet applies a social subsidy to all its to the next level of entrepreneurship. Once munity and accelerator Idealabs, which will products. In fact, Telenet is the only operathe Accelerator & GrowthLabs program henceforth be known as Telenet Idealabs. tor to apply a social subsidy to a combinahas concluded, the start-ups are ready to Through Telenet Idealabs, Telenet is making tion of Internet and telephony. further develop their projects on their own. a major investment in young Flemish digital entrepreneurial talent and is thus encourTelenet Idealabs will give them further support through pitch days, where they will be Social contributions aging local innovation. Furthermore, Telenet able to present their projects to investors. also supports iMind’s iStart program. Over An example of a product with a social the next two years, Telenet will invest a total The following 5 start-ups are presently in impact is the Telenet Incentive Plan (TIP), of 1 million euros in innovative plans from the Telenet Idealabs growth program: which offers employers the chance to pay young and local entrepreneurs, placing Flanders even more firmly on the map when 1. Campr: this online platform introduces a part of the telecoms account of their a new way of travelling, whether luxury employees. In 2014, the income of TIP it comes to innovation. camping or in a back garden: glamping, increased by more than 60% compared Each year, the Telenet Idealabs program urban camping or adventure camping. with the start year 2010. gives young entrepreneurs and start-ups www.gocampr.com The main contribution that Telenet makes the chance to develop their innovative idea into a marketable product or service. During 2. Dot: a mobile app that allows the user to to society lies in its IT services. Other assign an identity to a place. This allows ‘Telenet for Business’ products that make the start-up selection phase in the summer of 2014, over 400 young innovators took you to discover new places that are of a social contribution are cloud computing, interest to you. www.dotisfun.com hosting and security packages. Telenet and a shot, with 10 start-ups finally selected its partners are well-placed to contribute to and taking a 4-month accelerator program. 3. Intuo: an interactive platform for offering such services, which allow customTelenet Idealabs helps the entrepreneurs companies that want to train their staff ers to switch over to the New World of Work to develop their ideas into products and and customers. It allows companies to 36 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Economic aspects provide the right courses at the right in social life. My Zone is currently present have been working on. CoderDojo turns time, taking into account the skills level of in a total of 12 hospitals, distributed all over education and programming into a fun, each individual. www.intuo.io Flanders and Brussels. sociable and excellent learning experience. 4. On Air: a mobile app for videos made Telenet also offers support to various Dojos are created voluntarily and run by by different people and bundled into projects such as ‘Alle Gezinnen Online’ (‘All mentors with sufficient IT expertise and a single story. Travelling with friends, Households Online’), a collaboration with the drive needed for coaching youngsters. attending a festival – there’s a story in Digipolis, the city of Ghent, OCMW Ghent, CoderDojo places much emphasis on open everything. www.getonair.co Oikonde and Leerpunt, where 50-100 source and free software, and the movedisadvantaged households receive a free ment consists of a rapidly growing network 5. Pith.li: the magic marker for the Internet. computer and Internet for 18 months. After of members and volunteers from around Pith.li lets you highlight articles on the a comprehensive evaluation of the project, the world. Internet. Plith.li doesn’t save links, but the intention is to roll out this project to gives you the essence. www.pith.li There’s only one rule in CoderDojo: ‘Above other Flemish cities as well in the coming all: be cool!’ years. OCMW Mechelen recently started a similar project ‘Ik ben mee met de pc’ (‘I’m Telenet actively encourages and supports Cooperation with Telenet with the PC’), for 30 disadvantaged houseits employees’ contribution to social holds from Mechelen. projects, such as the Give a Smile proTelenet seeks structural solutions to gram that allows Telenet staff to use their Telenet also supports CoderDojo Belgium. support the operation of social projects, teambuilding skills for a good cause. Telenet CoderDojo is a global non-profit movement together with various departments within has joined up with the Mechelen non-profit that arranges free gatherings for youngsters Telenet. association Time4Society, which specialbetween the ages of 7 and 18 to learn codises in customised socially oriented team Telenet for Business thus provides an ing as part of a club. CoderDojo conducts events, to further this goal. Internet connection, laptops and tablets via tours of technology companies, invites the MyZone project to children in hospitals guest speakers to talk about their careers with long-term illnesses. Young people who and organizes events called dojos. It is at stay in hospital for long periods of time these dojos that boys and girls learn to prooften feel isolated from the outside world. gram, create websites, develop apps and Via the Internet, they can still stay in contact games and many other things. They meet with their families and friends and take part likeminded people and exhibit what they Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 37 Environmental aspects 38 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Environmental aspects 40 41 47 Introduction CO2 reduction CO2 offset Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 39 Introduction We include our responsibility for energy consumption and emissions in our value chain. We are now growing our business but emitting less carbon dioxide, and thus energy, to do it. Since 2007, our CO2 emissions of greenhouse gasses have dropped by 60% and we are well underway to our target of 66% in 2015. By offsetting the remaining CO2 emissions, it is our ambition to be carbon neutral in 2015. 40 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Environmental aspects CO2 reduction Energy Electricity consumption and We are making every effort to improve the energy efficiency efficiency of our consumption year on year. Our aim is to allow Telenet to grow and at For this, we have expressly invested in monthe same time reduce our environmental itoring systems. This makes it clear where Telenet has been using 100% green new investments are required for efficient impact. We reduced our emissions by electricity in its own premises since midmore than 60% in 2014 compared to the and effective energy saving, for example 2008, Hostbasket since 1 January 2010, by controlling the cooling or heating of 2007 base year. This means that we are Belcompany since September 2010 and well on course to our target of 66% and by buildings. The energy efficiency is moreoInterkabel since 2012. In addition, Telenet ver effectively measured and expressed offsetting the remaining CO2 emissions, has made significant efforts to use renewbe climate-neutral by the end of 2015. To in Power Usage Efficiency (PUE). These able energy sources itself and to promote measurements make it possible to see the achieve this aim, we are first and foremost them among its stakeholders. Solar panels continuing to focus on measures that will energy consumption instantly. This offers had already been installed at Telenet’s head the means of optimizing the systems and reduce our own CO2 emissions further. We office in Mechelen. will do this among other things by focusprocesses and making them more efficient. ing on means of efficient energy use in In the course of 2013, Telenet has extended The total energy usage of our decoders and every respect. In order to bridge the gap the scope of its CO2 reporting from its modems at the homes of our customers between our current CO2 performance own premises to its own premises and is also decreasing every year. In 2014 the and the ambitious aim of making Telenet rented buildings, such as Telenet sales total usage of these devices was 331 million entirely climate-neutral, we are planting new points. Specifically, we are taking account kWh, a decrease of 10% compared to the forests in Flanders and Ecuador by way of of the electricity consumption of 48 previous year. compensation. additional locations, consisting mainly of grey electricity, and the gas consumption The main contribution that Telenet makes of 26 extra premises. Therefore, we have to an energy-efficient world, while growrecalculated the results of 2013 to include Energy efficiency of the network ing the company’s revenues, lies in its IT the new scope. services. The role of broadband networks in Investments in the network and a program the drive towards a low-carbon economy is Not all these additional premises use green of replacing old equipment by newer, more included in the roadmap of the EU commiselectricity. For 2014, 3.8% of electricity was efficient appliances are continually providsion for the development of a competitive derived from grey power. In the coming ing savings. The measurement of the PUE low-carbon economy by 2050. Telenet years, this will be converted as much as (Power Usage Efficiency) of 53 technical and its partners are in a good position to possible into green energy, in consultation stations in real time with effect from 2012, contribute to the range of cloud solutions with the owners of the rented premises. with the opportunity to calculate daily or and cooperation services that make it Telenet’s electricity consumption is monthly averages for each type of building possible for customers to switch to the New increasing every year, especially as a result or for them all, ensures that we immediately World of Work and directly reduce their CO2 of the increasing demand for data prosee the energy consumption and can optiemissions. cessing and provision of digital services. mize the systems and processes. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 41 Energy efficiency of data Climate and Indicator Result for 2014 compared to 2013 environment: our centers objectives & results Electricity consumption in Energy savings at the Set-top boxes: customer base 18% more Our data centers account for the second the value chain customer energy efficient, with 4% fewer set-top box largest part of our total electricity concustomers sumption. We have succeeded by means Modems: customer base 4% less energy of a whole series of actions in improving efficient, with 3% more modems at the the PUE of our data centers and reducing customers energy, such as the introduction of LED Energy savings at suppliers Environmental aspects taken into technology, alternating pulse power for the account in purchasing decisions air conditioning cabinets and turbochargers for the cooling groups, replacement of old Vehicle fleet Energy efficiency 1.0% more energy-efficient cooling equipment with free-cooling air Green electricity CO2 reduction 6% reduction in CO2 emission conditioners… The greatest gain in effiof company cars ciency is probably increasing the use of the CO2 emissions Percentage green electricity 96.2% use of green electricity server cluster: the more it is filled, the more Telenet Group efficiently everything is used. Recycling and reuse Reduction of CO2 emission N/A – no decrease due to Telenet subscribes to the European code in tons expansion of scope of conduct for data centers issued by the Eco rating Number of recycled 140,000 reused set-top boxes European Commission to improve the modems and set-top boxes 110,000 reused modems energy efficiency of data centers, by adherEco rating Voluntary industry Voluntary agreement between industry ing to a number of best practices. agreement and European Union to accelerate the use of more efficient set-top boxes Energy efficiency, a general overview Telenet’s overall energy efficiency (consumption versus turnover) has improved by more than 34.2% compared to 2007. A complete overview can be found at the end of this report. 42 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Environmental aspects Mobility and transport Railease formula from the NMBS. It is also General overview possible to opt for a smaller leased car with lower CO2 emissions and to receive a payThe maximum CO2 values were again Telenet classifies its CO2 footprint under ment for the unused budget. Lastly, Telenet reduced in the car policy for 2014 comthree main categories in accordance with employees can also waive a company car pared to 2013. The average CO2 for all the World Business Council for Sustainable entirely in exchange for a payment. passenger cars in 2014 was 112 g/km. This is Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: 6% better than the previous year (119 g/km). Under the heading Train-bike@Work, • Category 1 or direct energy sources such The average CO2 emissions of cars newly Telenet makes bicycles rented from the as fuels (gas, diesel, heating oil, etc.). deployed in 2014 was 109 g/km. That is 2% sheltered workshop ‘t Atelier available to better than in the previous year (111 g/km). train commuters, In addition, Telenet is • Category 2 or indirect energy sources investigating the possibility for employees such as electricity. About 32% of the new employees recruited to buy e-bikes under specially favorable in 2014, does not work at the headquarters • Category 3 or other energy sources, in conditions. Employees themselves are in Mechelen, but on a site closer to home. particular subcontractors’ traffic and also taking all kinds of initiatives to reduce Through this local recruitment commuting business and home-work travel. their car use. Thus the Finance department distance, and CO2 emissions decreases. has for some years been able to cut its car Telenet is part of the Liberty Global group A number of mobility alternatives for comtrips to work by 10%. Staff can now also get and in view of further alignment with group pany cars were also developed, which are a free bus pass and use one of the 10 new reporting on CO2, we have applied since available since 1 January 2013. Employees bicycles to cycle to the city center during 2013 the Defra conversion factors set to can combine their company car with a their lunch break. CO2 reporting. More precisely, this means train subscription or their leased car with a that as of 2013, Telenet has used the Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 43 national conversion factors for electricactually involves mutual agreements within charge the batteries of an electric car, for ity consumption and has updated the the industry and the European Union. All instance, rather than returning it to the grid. conversion factors for commuting. With set-top boxes currently supplied by Telenet Telenet is cooperating with network the extension of category 3, the total CO2 comply with this voluntary agreement. administrator Eandis on a pilot project in emissions in 2014 amounted to 10,025 tons. Improvements in technology are constantly the Mechelen area. 3,000 households have This marks an increase over 2013, but when being sought in association with the partalready been equipped with smart meters. compared to the 2007 base year, total ners to make the next generation of set-top CO2 net emissions of greenhouse gasses boxes even more efficient. Smart grid decreased by 60% in 2014. Modems The smart grid, the smart energy network, If we calculate the CO2 efficiency, where goes one step further than the smart The average energy efficiency per modem the emissions are related to the generated meters. Telenet is participating in the fell in 2014 by 0.7%. We are endeavoring to revenue, it turns out that Telenet achieved Flemish Linear platform with initiator Voka install the latest cable-free Telenet Internet an improvement of 1% in 2014 compared to to test the smart grid. The smart grid is modem (Home Gate Way 3.0) with “3-in-1” 2013. Telenet’s CO2 efficiency has already needed to enable renewable but variable (Internet, Telephone, and Wi-Fi) for as improved by over 34% since 2007. energy sources to be hooked up to the many of our clients as possible. This type of grid on a large scale and for new advances modem is gradually replacing the previous such as the electric car, to be efficiently generation of Internet modems. The latest Actual customer campaigns used. The Linear program tests the new model of this cable-free Internet modem possibilities. Apart from Telenet, Voka, consumes 24% less energy than the averand the Flemish government, the Catholic Set-top boxes age modem. However, since just under half University in Leuven (KU Leuven) also of the “3-in-1” modems are still of the type Telenet invests in various initiatives with participates in the program. In the Smart which consume more energy, we have seen a view to reducing the energy consumpE Project, Telenet is focusing on the smart a slight drop in the energy efficiency total tion at our customers’ homes. All set-top data flows that are needed for the system’s for this year. boxes with a hard disk automatically power introduction, and which are made possible themselves off when left on stand-by for Smart meters by the finely meshed high-performance a certain amount of time. What is more, communications network. Energy consumption in Flanders is still a special function was rolled out for new increasing, although some of this energy set-top boxes, so the customer can switch to the ‘smart energy setting’, as a result of is generated locally. Solar panels, wind Reduction in waste energy, and heat pumps produce renewawhich their set-top box will consume less ble energy, some of which can be ‘returned’ Every year, Telenet tries to reduce the quanthan 1W on standby. These most recent to the grid by small household producers. tity of waste it generates as far as possible. set-top boxes are now also 20 times more Three million buildings in Flanders will be In this respect we make efforts in recycling efficient than the first generation of these equipped with a smart electricity meter materials, processing waste properly, and devices that were marketed by Telenet. between 2014 and 2018. This smart meter restricting paper waste. An increasing number of homes have the always shows the cost of the energy availnew and more energy efficient set-top box. able and the price paid for self-produced The number of digital television customers energy, enabling users to make informed increased in 2014 by 6%. On average, the choices about how much energy they Reuse of materials set-top boxes consumed 20% less energy consume and when. If the network has than in 2013. sufficient power and the revenue from Set-top boxes and modems In 2010, a voluntary agreement came into self-produced energy at that moment is A high number of set-top boxes and effect to speed up the adoption of more relatively low, it is always more advisable modems are reused and refurbished an energy-efficient set-top boxes, which to consume the self-produced power, to 44 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Environmental aspects approved processing company recycles the limiting waste from old modems and setSmart packaging remaining pieces. top boxes, Telenet also wants to drive down Since January 2013, the most recent model the amount of the other waste fractions. of the HD Digicorder has been given a faceAll returned modems and set-top boxes go By default, waste flows such as batteries, lift. The cardboard box is smaller, more effito the Imsir sheltered workshop in Boom, electrical panels, fire extinguishers, chillers, cient and, most of all, more environmentally where the processing of the equipment transformers, cabling, cooling liquids, diesel friendly. This has helped us to annually save employs 40 enthusiastic staff. and lubricating oil are recycled professionno less than 285 tons of paper and cardComputers ally. To this end, Telenet works in partnerboard every year in packaging waste, and ship with various collecting organizations, 600 tons of CO2. Moreover, a clever handle Old computers are given a second lease which either perform the recycling in-house ensures that our customers can easily take of life. As part of its partnership with PC or outsource it to a third party. the box with them, without a plastic bag. Solidarity, the Belgian part of the NGO Close The Gap, Telenet donated 856 high-quality When all our set-top boxes feature this The waste is either: used desktop computers, laptops, tablets new packaging, this will lead to a saving of a) permanently removed (dumped), or € 3 million per year. Telenet was rewarded and smartphones to this social institution in 2014. b) recycled, or with second place in the ‘Greener Packaging Awards’ in December 2013 for this effort. Mobile phones and smartphones c) permanently removed with energy recovery (e.g. by incineration). Lastly, Telenet developed a packaging preIn 2014, 1.14% of customers who bought vention plan, where we recorded the waste a new mobile phone returned their old ‘Waste that is not dumped’ means the streams and described how we wanted to phone to a Telenet Mobile sales point, combination of the last two. For its waste reduce these. The plan was finalized in 2014 against 2.34% in 2013. The phones go to the disposal and processing, Telenet works and is approved by IVCIE. specialized processing company Ecowave, with two major parties, specifically SIMS which sells on a part as second-hand sets Recycling Solutions and SITA. Telenet is also Paper: more and more digital and recycles the rest. working intensively on improved recording Telenet has already been developing of the waste flows. numerous initiatives to limit paper conOld mobile phones can, for example, also be taken to a waste recycling center. For the In 2014, there were no significant spills. sumption for many years now. Telenet has proper processing and disposal of all waste been 100% FSC since 2010. We also make For the proper processing and disposal of vigorous efforts to involve stakeholders, that is created at the customer, Telenet is all waste that is created at the customer, such as customers and suppliers, in the affiliated to various organizations approved Telenet is affiliated to various organizations rationalization of paper consumption. by the authorities. approved by the authorities. With every purchase of a Telenet product, a contribuSecure printing or badge printing ensures tion goes to Recupel and Bebat. Thus there that employees do more double-sided Correct waste processing is automatic payment for proper processprinting and print less overall. This project ing of batteries and the collection and started in 2007. The effects have been fully recycling of discarded electrical devices, transparent since 2012 and will now remain Overview and customers can therefore, for example, more or less stable. The result of this is Two waste flows are significant for Telenet: that printing has been cut by almost a half take their old appliances to the container Telenet’s own waste flows, and the waste since 2007. park without any problem. For the other flow that is generated by customers. waste flows, which are the packaging and The suppliers’ accounts department Telenet pays a contribution for the proper printed-paper advertising, Telenet pays an already saves a lot of paper every year by processing of a number of waste fractions, annual contribution to FostPlus, Val-i-Pac processing 52,000 invoices digitally. An but now wants to take the next step in the and the vzw Interventiefonds oud papier ambitious and fully in-house designed reduction of waste flows. In addition to (non-profit old paper intervention fund). Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 45 automation project has been running for be distributed manually. In addition, there two years in order to receive the remaining is also a CO2 saving, given that the vouch20% paper invoices in digital form. There ers no longer have to be delivered by van were 80% e-invoices in 2014, while at the to Telenet. end of 2012 this was still 43%. Our aim is to Paper invoices to residential and business make supplier administration 87% digital by customers have already decreased by a the end of 2015. An additional advantage third. By the end of 2014, 40.5% of bills were of this digitization is that the team can work being sent electronically. Telenet is innovatfrom home. ing and investing in Doccle, a start-up which We also have the ambition to digitize 100% is building a platform with which users can of our network plans by 2020, an investexchange, settle and archive documents ment of approximately € 5 million. Printing from various suppliers in a uniform and out plans at this time takes up 100,000 m2 recognizable way. This will allow us to help of paper every year, or 15 football fields. consumers find their way to and experience Our ambition fits in with the Flemish digitization for themselves. We hope to government plans for a platform where all reach 48% ‘digital customers’ by the end utilities and contractors can exchange their of 2015. Furthermore, Telenet also entered network plans digitally. We are also working into a cooperation with the organization on the digitization of planning requests by WeForest to encourage customers to move contractors. Instead of printing plans and to electronic invoicing. Telenet plants a sending them in the post, we can offer our tree for every customer who transfers to digital plans directly on a portal site. This ‘e-billing’. This campaign has resulted in no has the advantage for contractors that they less than 100,000 trees being planted in will have access to the plans immediately. Senegal. This has reduced the number of printouts to one quarter of the total number of requested plans. In 2014, 72% of employees opted for an electronic wage slip. Moreover, in 2013, paper lunch vouchers were replaced with electronic lunch vouchers where the credit is loaded automatically every time. This has several advantages: thus not only is 528 kg of paper saved every year, but there is also a time saving of approx. 2,200 working hours because the vouchers no longer have to 46 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Environmental aspects CO2 offset In order to bridge the remaining gap between our current CO2 performance and our ambitious objective, Telenet will start to plant new forests by way of compensation. After all, trees take CO2 from the atmosphere, which helps combat climate change. In Flanders, Telenet planted a forest of no less than 5 hectares in Moerbeke Waas in support of the Bos+ (Forest plus) One Million Trees campaign. In addition, we are supporting a reforestation project in Ecuador. The project area on both sides of the river Rio Mira wants to restore the forest there, a large part of which had been cleared since the middle of the previous century. What is more, the project offers numerous benefits for the local population. On the one hand, the new forest encourages the revival of local flora and fauna, and on the other it provides wood, shade, clean air and all sorts of food. Residents get opportunities for local employment. We cooperate in this regard with the Flemish wildlife organizations Bos+ and Bos+tropen (tropics), and with local NGOs. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 47 48 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects Social Aspects 50 52 62 66 71 Privacy & Security Our Employees Optimum Suppliers Code of customer service conduct Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 49 Privacy & Security Security and employ to develop our Information Security responsible within the organization should Management System (ISMS). Furthermore, be au fait with relevant stipulations pertainpersonal data our security policies, requirements and ing to private and public bribery, particularly management standards are fully compliant in view of the serious consequences associBeing a communication and entertainment with the ISO27002 standard. ated with violations. provider, Telenet has access to a large amount of customer data, which it manAll permanent Telenet employees are These training and awareness campaigns ages with the utmost care and attention. In instructed about the importance of are complemented by the necessary the course of 2014, Telenet published its data confidentiality during a mandatory hardware and software protection. All ‘customer data policy’ on its website. This introduction day. Belgian and European laptops and field terminals are equipped document provides an overview of the data legislation pertaining to the collation and as standard with hard disk encryption softthat is processed by Telenet, as well as the processing of personal data is also covered ware. The software automatically encrypts objectives of the processing and the rights in great detail. Participants are also prothe entire contents of the hard disk to of the customer. At the end of 2014 the vided with sources of further information, prevent data from being stolen in the event ‘Privacy Council’ was established, in which templates and training material. Regular of loss of theft of the equipment. Moreover, all departments are represented and where updates are organized and include warnings applications and systems are equipped privacy issues and priorities are discussed. on recent risks such as (spear) phishing as with the necessary security measures well as safety tips. to prevent external parties from gaining The “Cyber Security Roadmap” outlines access to confidential information such as security related priority projects that A formal ‘security and privacy risk assesscustomer data. support general security objectives. The ment’ precedes the launch of each new implementation of this roadmap ensures project. To maintain consistency risks are Telenet did not receive complaints from that any potential risks and/or threats assoinitially assessed by those responsible external parties relating to personal privacy ciated with the wrongful or improper use via a standard questionnaire and then infringements in 2014. In the past year, the of information and/or data are managed validated by the Cyber Security departcompany received 3 requests for further in a responsible manner. The roadmap is ment. Appropriate safety requirements are information from the Belgian Privacy reviewed annually in line with the stratedefined on the basis of risk assessments. Protection Commission concerning the gic recommendations submitted by the handling of (personal) customer data. Moreover, a large scale information Security Council, in which relevant departPossible incidents were reported to the session on bribery and corruption is ments of the organization are represented. authorized body, pursuant to the applicable organized annually. Attendance is manThese activities are based on the “planregulations, Together with other operators, datory for approximately 200 executives. do-check-act” principle stipulated in the Telenet also consulted with the Privacy Telenet considers it important that those ISO27001 security standard, which we Protection Commission on a number of 50 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects industry-wide issues, such as the use of standard text and logos from well-known the electronic identity card for identifying companies. Telenet regularly alerts both its customers, the use of traffic and location customers and its workforce to the dangers data, etc. associated with these types of e-mails. The Telenet Security Pack enables customProduct security ers to install an advanced firewall to protect their computer from viruses and spyware. Privacy and security are permanent issues It is also possible to block certain sites on in the telecoms and media sector as each an individual user basis and to define how new technology brings with it a risk of seculong children should be allowed to surf rity breaches. Telenet continually focuses every day. on this issue by keeping its products’ softWhenever a customer contacts Telenet ware and hardware up to date at all times. with a privacy-sensitive query, his/her Although some of these updates are visible identity is always checked using a specific to the customer, others are frequently procedure. implemented without causing disruption to the customer. Furthermore, to protect customer data Telenet always forwards mobile phone SIM Telenet does incorporate a number of cards and pin codes under separate cover. security settings that customers can manThese monitoring procedures were specifiage themselves. For instance, the set-top cally communicated to all employees once box has a built-in safety mechanism to again during the past year. ensure that some content on the digital TV platform can only be viewed or ordered via a password. The mailbox is also equipped as standard with a spam filter to keep out undesirable messages. Having said that, spammers are becoming more and more inventive when trying to access personal data. In order to make their e-mails look more authentic, spammers often use Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 51 Our employees Attracting and bigger picture. The site is now a platform increasingly popular over the past four containing stories from our own staff. The years. In 2014, 56% of all vacancies were retaining talent growing importance and more active use filled internally, definitely a record! of LinkedIn also fits in this framework. We As an employer Telenet aims to be an want to broadcast the Telenet story more energetic business partner, and promote proactively through various channels and and facilitate successful performance and Talent development programs particularly through our own people. personal growth in a continually changing environment. We focus on authentic leadSince November 2014, Telenet has also We are making every effort to motivate our ership based on a motivating, innovative switched to a new process and internal tool talent via various programs and training and varied human approach. for managing all vacancies. As part of the options and regularly develop and update broader Liberty Global project, the endour training plans and measurement to-end process of ‘new employee applimethods. Recruitment cation’ to ‘selection and offer for the right Individual career development paths are applicant’ will be fully managed in Telenet’s linked to the competency model that was Successfactors. Aside from improved As a major dynamic group Telenet always updated in 2014. consistency and efficiency for both the has vacancies at every company level. applicant and the recruiter, this change also In preparation for the mid-year interview, Telenet aims to attract people from many means greater transparency and coopall Telenet managers attended a workshop different backgrounds in order to create eration between the recruiters and the dealing with this. The focus here is clearly a versatile, multi-skilled team made up of managers seeking new staff. on self-management on the part of the the most talented professionals. Telenet employee, on taking control of their own is confident that a multifaceted workforce To fill vacancies, Telenet not only employs development and in particular on looking contributes to a creative thinking process traditional recruitment channels when at the bigger picture rather than traditional that will ultimately help the company sourcing new talent, but also resorts to education (the 70-20-10 model). provide an even better service to its alternative sources such as social media customers. Telenet’s growth is nourished (LinkedIn, Facebook) or one-day recruitTelenet also has a standard training proby a healthy mix of youthful enthusiasm, ment events, during which the entire selecgram that comprises an extensive range of experience and skill. Different persuasions tion procedure is completed in a single day. internal and external training opportunities, and opinions also boost the development The Telenet “Refer a friend” program also which are offered to our employees in of new ideas and products. Greater creaencourages existing employees to recomconjunction with Cevora and other external tivity is the outcome of a mix of views and mend potential new colleagues. training partners. The range is extended at perceptions from different backgrounds regular intervals with sessions, for example, In addition to external recruitment, the and cultures. The company was designated on mindfulness, people management skills, internal rotation system also represents ‘Top Employer’ for the third year in a row. In convincing presentations to senior mana significant tool when filling vacancies. 2014, the old jobsite was turned into a new agement and business writing skills. We also This internal mobility system has become career site, with the emphasis being on the employ alternative teaching methods such 52 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects as drama-based training, role play, interviIn Sales & Customer Operations, much Employee satisfaction surveys sion and individual coaching sessions. emphasis was placed in 2014 on the coaching and managing of advisors in order to General training is complemented by a Telenet regularly conducts two types enable them to engage perfectly with cusnumber of specific other training programs. of employee satisfaction surveys. The tomers. This means that much importance “Employee Compass” has been used every The Young Grad program is a 2 year training was placed on the connection with the six months since 2011. Our questionnaire program for young professionals. A total customer and how to listen with sincerity to gauges the general wellbeing of Telenet of 16 candidates were selected, evenly his or her questions and needs, allowing the employees. The 2014 results showed that distributed across all Telenet departments, advisors to answer correctly and provide no less than 95% of employees are proud for the 2014 launch. During this 2 year the right solution. This approach is likewise to be working for Telenet and 91% perperiod participants continue to perform found in the coaching of the advisors. Aside ceive a satisfactory level of trust between their duties in a specific department but from figures and results, a great deal of colleagues. are offered a number of training sessions qualitative coaching is also provided. During each month, always relating to key Telenet coaching sessions the team coach puts The second type of survey is a “Coaching competencies. himself in the world of the advisor so as to Compass”. This six monthly survey has be able to give the latter tailored support been conducted since 2009 and focuses The ‘employee to manager’ program was on job satisfaction levels amongst employand so that they can give their very best. introduced at Telenet in 2014 in order to ees and their immediate superiors’ This manner of coaching, controlling and assist newly promoted managers in IT and coaching skills. The survey is consequently managing within this structure environment Engineering. Using a variety of learning modused by managerial personnel as a basis for is undertaken in a specific way. There are ules, their own behavioral style, their role as the development of their coaching skills. also many potential candidates for the a manager, skills building, change manageResults demonstrate that three in four team coach role in the contact centers, and ment and its impact upon the team and Telenet employees have a positive view we have created a Teamcoach course for many other issues were examined in-depth. of their jobs. 77% of respondents indicate them, allowing them to acquire theoretical An important aspect of this was the strong that they receive satisfactory recognition and practical experience over a six month action-learning approach, which saw great from their superior. The results for the five period. At the end of this time, after having strides forward for both individuals and the clusters of questions (managing employpassed an assessment, they commence as group as a whole, led by an external trainer. ees, developing employees, skills coaching, junior managers in the contact centers. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 53 recognition and customer focus) have Telenet is active in making both managers standardized for all entities within Liberty improved tremendously since that time. and staff aware of and training them with Global. The Performance Management regard to psychosocial aspects. Further, a cycle consists of 3 major sections – creating As part of the broader Liberty Global pronumber of initiatives from previous surveys targets, the six-monthly progress interview ject, it was decided that as of January 2015, have been structurally retained, such as and the assessment at the end of the year. we would switch to the Zoom engagement the mindfulness course and the Telefit The PEARL platform (Success Factors) was survey. It will eventually replace Telenet’s program.. implemented for all entities for the purpose Coaching and Employee Compass, and its of supporting this process. This new platmethodological construction will allow for form allows us to load a number of Telenet comparisons with external benchmarks. Mid-year interview and final and/or departmental targets from a central Every three years, Telenet also conducts location and to highlight certain areas of assessment an extensive welfare survey amongst its focus in our strategy or culture. Another employees, using the S-ISW list and measinnovation is the self-evaluation performed uring a number of welfare indicators such as In order to monitor day-to-day perforby all staff, giving managers sufficient input stress, motivation, inappropriate behavior mance two significant assessments are so that they can perform assessments. and absenteeism. Risk factors, including job undertaken each year for all employees. related pressure, recognized challenges, Time is set aside, halfway through the year, risks at team and organizational level and for a moment of reflection. This “midWork/life balance risks resulting from the wider socioecoyear interview” is a development meeting nomic context are also charted. centered on the personal development plan and an open discussion on potential In 2014, the well-being survey was cominternal mobility intentions. Teleworking pleted by 75% of employees. Compared to 2011, the situation in most main areas The final assessment, on the other hand, looks in more detail at the realization The benefits of the “New World of Work” has remained the same. The results of the can be summed up by three key elewelfare survey were used to define prioriof individual objectives throughout the year. The bonus system linked to this final ments, i.e. “people”, “profit” and “planet”. ties, for example with respect to motivation Employees (people) are able to better and stress, using a priority matrix. Specific assessment is affected, not only by the results of personal objectives, but also by organize their work, which leads to a better steps were undertaken on the basis of the work/life balance. The organization (profit) set priorities to further improve the welfare Telenet’s collective performance, including the customer loyalty score. This parameter benefits because well motivated and of employees, both at a departmental level committed employees guarantee better and in terms of the bigger Telenet picture. accounts for at least 15% of the executive bonus structure, another means for Telenet operating results. Finally, the environment When it comes to the sub-departmental (planet) benefits from a reduction in comactivities we are working together with to highlight the importance of customer satisfaction. muter traffic. the ‘welfare champions’ – staff that assist management in creating and following up Since 2014, the entire Performance Telenet aims to create a sustainable policy on welfare campaigns. Management process has been with respect to the New World of Work. 54 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects Following the completion of a pilot scheme, which can be taken for a duration of 1 year generating long e-mail chains. Some comTeleworking was introduced across the throughout an overall career, can relate to a munications are faster and more efficient organization in a more structured fashion total suspension of, or reduction in, duties. when organized via private or public groups. in September 2013. Preconditions and The arrangement stipulates that if an As a company, our staff deserve the same agreements relating to teleworking were laid employee, who complies with the relevant level of openness as our customers. We down in a CLA in conjunction with our trade legal requirements, applies for time credit encourage open communication and union partners. the employer cannot refuse provided that anchor it in our processes, such as our less than 5% of the population is enjoying Almost 2,350 people, including consultants, performance management process. We time credit at that time. The law also stipuwere able to telework in 2014. Workstations also provide feedback channels such as lates that the employee must be reinstated at the Telenet headquarters in Mechelen our Welfare Survey conducted every three in the same position upon their return to are designated “flex desks”, i.e. they can years and the annual ZOOM survey that work. Five people took advantage of this be used by everyone. In 2014, these flex actively enquires of Telenet staff where opportunity in 2013. desks had an occupancy rate of 85%, an there is room for improvement. improvement of 11% compared to 2011. The Telenet staff also have an uncensored ambition is to cut occupancy further for the Communication with and voice on the internal social network, De renovation project of the offices, whereby between employees Gele Draad (The Yellow Thread). When we we will be focusing on activity-based launched De Gele Draad we first hosted working. workshops dealing with external social The New World of Work enables employees Some communications with employees media, as we also want staff to be able to to organize their tasks to suit their own and are routed via the Intranet, regular e-mail voice their opinions on those sites. their colleagues’ requirements. For examupdates or training and development programs, but a few years ago Telenet Open communication and transparple, they can choose their work location in introduced various new communication ency are a given when it comes to living conjunction with their colleagues and supetools as a result of teleworking. Employees and experiencing our values. At Telenet rior. This responsibility and flexibility lead can use various means of communication we expect that you speak out when you to a better work/life balance. Telenet has via the Lync application on their computers, have something to say, which falls under introduced a guideline of 1 teleworking day whereby a single click will provide access to Accountability. This also holds – in fact, it is per week, to ensure that employees keep in a chat box, audio and video conferencing especially pertinent – when you go against touch with their colleagues and with what’s or the option to share their screen with the flow. This is what we call Leadership. happening in the organization. colleagues. At Telenet we are passionate about our The “Yellow Thread” internal social network, business and so it is in our nature to proacSabbatical which was launched in October 2012, is now tively state our opinions. Our entire manner also well-established. Telenet encourages of cooperation is geared towards this, as its employees to exchange ideas via this can be seen in the many interdepartmenA sabbatical or career break is part of the platform rather than organizing meetings or tal work groups, our flat organizational legal time credit arrangement. Time credit, Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 55 structure and our informal approach to based on the goal Belgium has set itself as tries to increase diversity in its manageworking together. part of the execution of the Europe-2020 ment teams, for example, by promoting strategy to achieve a 50% participation rate the recruitment and internal progress of In other words, we give everyone space to for older employees between 55 and 65 more women. This way the company aims provide their input and we encourage our by 2020. to accrue the necessary talent within its people to be team players. own environment in order to have access It is through working together – and coopto a wide-ranging and varied pool of eration is another one of our values – that Outplacement future experts and management profiles. we create openness, and vice versa. The Moreover, employees and management openness that is present in Telenet only teams will thus better reflect the diversity Outplacement is an overall package of exists because there is a high level of parin our customer base. People have specific support services and advice provided on ticipation. The fact that our staff are invited preferences. Technical functions tend to behalf of the employer to the employee to and urged to think with us and participate in attract more men, whereas marketing and enable the latter to find a job with another turn stimulates that openness. We can only call center positions attract more women. employer or take up a self-employed continue to innovate and succeed time Employee surveys have shown that people occupation within the shortest possible and again in delivering better solutions by consider this an additional benefit for time. Outplacement is a legal requirement. adopting an open attitude. And it can only further development within Telenet, rather Employers must offer outplacement benefit our customers and our staff. than an area of concern. services once employees have reached the age of 45. Usually this is done via Cevora, Over the past 3 years the number of female Sustainable personnel which companies subject to PC 218 are employees has fluctuated around 35%. At entitled to use. The employer decides top management level (Senior Leadership policy whether an employee who has been made Team or SLT) the percentage of women has redundant should use outplacement via increased by 66% over the past five years, Cevora or whether they should be offered from 27% in 2010 to 45% in 2014. Employment opportunity plan more specialized outplacement services (e.g. for higher level profiles). for older employees Fair remuneration Telenet has developed an employment Diversity and equal Telenet employees are fairly remunerated, opportunity plan based on one or more company-specific measures to raise the opportunities in accordance with current market levels, employment rate amongst employees over for their results and added value. The the age of 45. Telenet promotes equal opportunity and basic package for all employees consists diversity, and has a system in place to of a gross salary, topped up with addiCompanies with more than 20 employees monitor equal opportunities. The Sr VP tional benefits such as luncheon and eco must provide an employment opportunity Human Resources is in charge of monitorvouchers, hospital and group insurance and plan for older employees. This measure is ing non-discriminatory issues. Telenet also subsidized telecom facilities. Employees 56 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects also receive a special bonus, which is linked new technologies (Works Council Act, art. equipment, training, instructions, periodic to Telenet’s customer satisfaction score. 15). Publication and distribution of works inspections, etc. It appoints delegates for Furthermore, every employee at Telenet council reports to all employees is a legal the annual safety inspections, for meetings receives a bonus linked to their individual requirement. concerning serious risks associated with assessment score. In 2014, at least 15% of imminent damage, serious occupational The CPPW (Committee for Prevention and the executive bonus was linked to Telenet’s accidents or incidents, and for addressing Protection at Work) is also a consultation financial results. The same benefits are officials. body, which represents all employees. It is provided to full-time employees as to parta joint committee consisting of representatime employees. tives from both employers and employees, the company physician and the internal Welfare at work health & safety and environment departConsultation with social ment, which handles the secretarial tasks as The management of Telenet considers partners well. The CPPW has an input in policies perwelfare and prevention key objectives of taining to the welfare of employees at work, the organization. This goal fits in with, and is Telenet organizes monthly consultations the global prevention plan and the annual part of, the company’s general policy aimed with health & safety committees and the action plan (Royal Decree CPPW 3/5/1999). at building up and maintaining a strong works council (WC) as well as frequent This general authority covers safety at work, image both internally and vis-à-vis clients ad hoc consultation meetings. The works health supervision, ergonomics, hygiene, and other third parties. The management is council is an enterprise-level consultation workplace enhancement, the psychoof the opinion that this requires dedicated body, which represents all employees. It is social aspects of work including bullying, input from everyone: a joint committee consisting of an equal violence and sexual harassment, as well as • to protect one’s own safety and that of number of representatives from both the (living) environment. The CPPW takes colleagues and third parties; employers and employees. The works decisions pertaining to the appointment or council has a say in the company’s social, removal from office of the company physi• to safeguard one’s own health and economic and financial policies. This gencian, health & safety advisors and counselwelfare, and that of colleagues eral authority covers many areas, including lors. The CPPW mainly has an advisory role and third parties; personnel policy, organization of work, the with respect to new and changing tech• to promote an environmentally friendly company’s financial position and econologies, operating processes, workplace working environment. nomic status, conditions of employment, layout, tools and equipment, protective Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 57 Safety, welfare and the environment are its causes, as well as courses on communiprotection at work. The various key figures an integral part of the responsibility at all cation techniques, assertiveness, conflict relating to sick leave and industrial accilevels of the hierarchic line and are also the management, mindfulness, problem-solvdents, psychosocial aspects and ergonomconcern of the company’s own, tempoing, relational intelligence, addressing a ics, are discussed during CPPW meetings. rary and agency employees. The Manager group with enthusiasm, mind-mapping & 58 industrial accidents involving temporary Compensation & Benefits also oversees radiant thinking, rapidly processing and incapacity were recorded in 2014, 18 that welfare and environment. He is supported remembering information and numerous required medical care and 20 accidents on in this task by the Internal Department of other topics. Where necessary, employees the way to or from work. No fatal accidents Prevention and Protection at Work, backed were referred for counselling and coaching or accidents involving confirmed permaup by external environmental coordinators through an employee assistance program nent incapacity were recorded. and the prevention officers-occupational for other forms of personal coaching. The physicians of the external prevention HSE received environmental training, were service. informed on recent amendments to legislaProtection from tion concerning psychosocial risks at work, For installers and technicians who also psychosocial risks at work fire safety and health supervision. work outside, several courses are provided, (internal procedure) including basic safety for newly hired techThe Telenet Global Prevention Plan idennicians that deals with risk activities they tifies goals with respect to well-being and Rules concerning psychosocial risks at work face, such as electricity, building site warnenvironmental targets for five years using were reviewed and broadened in 2014. ings, risk analyses, working at a height, back auditing, risk analyses, safety inspections, Telenet makes every effort to create a care and basic safety. For the appointed handling of complaints, reports and the pleasant and secure working environment first responders at Telenet, there is a First results of the health supervision. This way, in which employees feel contented and safe Aid and Intervention training. Regular open Telenet complies with the laws pertaining and are able to perform to the best of their PC ergonomics trainings are organized for to the welfare of employees at work. The ability. As part of its welfare policy, Telenet all employees. objectives are updated and laid down in had introduced a procedure concerning annual action plans. In 2014, the most unacceptable behavior at work, in accordFor residential contact centers, sessions important initiatives focused on: following ance with Belgian legislation. As a result of were held that dealt with ‘effectively dealing up on the welfare survey and devising prothe changed rules for psychosocial risks with difficult customers’ and ‘dealing with jects related to a sustainable health policy. at work, the complaints procedure will be aggression’ for shop staff. A range of teams The modification of internal procedures replaced by an internal procedure. This proused Insights to work on team effectiverelated to psychosocial aspects at work was cedure focuses on inappropriate behavior ness. Various managers took courses another important point for attention. such as bullying, discrimination, violence dealing with absenteeism interviews, while there were also workshops for the ‘welfare Results are reported annually to the and sexual harassment. The new procedure champions’ that dealt with communicaHealth and Safety Inspection Authority, will be a part of the company rules and will tion and following up on the three year which is part of the Federal Public Service also apply to permanent third parties. welfare survey. There were also individual Employment, Labor and Public Dialogue, training courses for dealing with stress and and to the committees for prevention and 58 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects If an employee cannot solve the problem and where an extensive investigation of the independently or together with their supesituation is consequently required. This rior or another relevant person, then they approach also provides, where necessary, can appeal to counsellors of the IDPPW or for precautionary measures to prevent the prevention advisor who deals with psyor limit physical or psychological damage chosocial issues of the external prevention and escalations. In 2014, all intermediary service. The informal approach with the action was informal in nature. There were 17 counsellor or prevention advisor involves incidents requiring intermediary action and an initial meeting, advice, mediation or, if involving support and/or advice, 5 intervennecessary, intervention by people in authortions and 2 mediations. The new legislation ity within the organization. The formal has helped employees to seek support for follow-up on social risks can only be done psychosocial risks at work more easily. They directly through the psychosocial aspects have much more scope in approaching prevention officer. The formal procedure the counsellor or psychosocial aspects is more serious and is recommended for prevention officer, and it is not just limited complex situations or serious incidents to unacceptable behavior but also to issues where the informal approach is not suffisuch as stress, burnout, depression, concient for solving the problem, or where it is flicts, and so on. necessary to define collective measures Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 59 TOPIC OBJECTIVE ACHIEVEMENTS Psychosocial aspects Follow-up of 3-yearly welfare survey TelefitPLUS (exercise and lifestyle) program, introduction authentic leadership of work training etc. formulated Procurement policy Better integration of safety and environmental Formulated safety and environmental requirements for product purchasing. requirements into purchasing policy Provided recommendations on specific sets of specifications such as those for subcontractors involved in installation, repair and network installation. Environmental policy Waste management optimization Tool boxes, additional briefings and signage on correct sorting of various materials ok. Further follow-up of environmental licenses Better agreements with processing companies and reporting system ok. Further follow-up of environmental declaration Introduction VLAREMA (continuous process) environmental licenses technical processes buildings in Flanders completed. Improvement environmental declaration concerning printed advertising ok. Develop environmental processes for products, Operation greatly improved, processes still require unequivocal descriptions. market, transport, utilize, inspect and maintain, remove, process installations and machines. Develop environmental processes re mandatory Consultation of various stakeholders about return and processing mobile acceptance of electrical and electronic equipphones (Telenet Mobile) already running via Telenet (via Supply Chain). Is now ok ment (other than dealers, centers, shops – last for Telenet, but still needs to be refined for acquisition with Telenet Mobile. ones already in 2012). Dynamic risk Systematic approach to risk analyses. Risk analysis system development for small contracting projects ok. management Function risk analysis reviews (also included in 2014 action plan). Office ergonomics Improve ergonomic posture in contact centers. Train and deploy ergonomics ambassadors in various contact centers with a Safety Monitor safety during works involving third parties, view to increasing awareness (also included in 2014 action plan). including during temporary or S&Q tool in place for work involving third parties in the event of temporary or mobile construction sites (Build, Fiber, KAWs, Installations). Various incidents highlighted to promote awareness concerning high risk situations (also refer to discussions during monthly CPBWs). HR Further refine function risk analyses in consultaFunction risk analyses and workplace sheets online on HRforYou tion with relevant 60 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 61 Optimum customer service User-friendly products product and service information and labelby customers and how we can ensure our ling were recorded in 2014. range is tailored them to our customers’ and services wishes and requirements with maximum effect. We have moreover seen that over Newsletters, testimonials, test 80% of the questions asked on this platStraightforward product line-up form are solved by other customers – a labs, etc. result that we are very happy with, and we will continue to work for in the future. Telenet adheres to four pillars “simplicity”, Telenet aims to give its customers access “transparency” “focus on customer loyalty” to the best possible digital experience via and “ready for the future” – when it comes various channels. Channel 444 (TV) and Transparent pricing to its product range. the Telenet YouTube channel provide video clips with additional information. policy A limited range of only 2 or 3 products Customers can also subscribe via My makes it easier for the customer to comTelenet to various commercial newsletpare the various products and quickly make an informed choice. ters to keep up to date with the Telenet Fixed costs product range. Inspiring testimonials on the SNAP platform that provide customers Prices and, where applicable, other costs with information concerning product use Unequivocal product are detailed on our website, in promotion or the entertainment range on offer can be campaigns and in advertising with maxiinformation accessed via the Telenet, Telenet Entertaint mum transparency. Since the launch of and Sporting Telenet Facebook pages, or Whop and Whoppa, the website always All Telenet products are accompanied by via Twitter and LinkedIn. This enables us to shows the total product price, including a leaflet stipulating the general conditions enter into dialogue with our customers and monthly charges such as set-top box rental and an installation guide. Some products, keep them up to date with what’s happenand cable subscription cost. Customers e.g. power cables, also include specific CE ing at Telenet. can choose between renting the HD markings and/or a technical leaflet. Telenet To assess new digital products and to Digicorder or buying a set-top box. At the also provides all mandatory information encourage conversation between cusstart of 2014, the cable price, which has on product waste disposal, as well as tomers, we recently created the Telenet been subject to historic variations, was harenergy consumption data and SAR values Community Forum. This is a platform where monized throughout Flanders. Customers for mobile phones. All our products and customers can ask questions, share their can cancel the Play and Play More packages services comply with the international experiences and provide suggestions for free of charge on a monthly basis. ISO27007 safety standard. improving new and existing products. As far No instances of non-observance of regas Telenet is concerned, this is the ideal tool ulations and voluntary codes concerning to gauge how developments are received 62 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects Overview product information YES NO The sourcing of components of the product or service x Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact x Safe use of the product of service x Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts x One-off charges Transparent communications plans. We also transferred as many customers as possible with fixed services to Whop and Whoppa. One-off charges, e.g. costs associated Customers like to be told in advance when with activation, installation or hardware Telenet implements changes to its prodexchanges/upgrades to the latest type, are communicated with maximum transparucts or services. In the event of changes that might have a major impact, customers Reliable products and ency. Moreover, in some cases customers are sent an information e-mail or receive services can avoid them by using the “self-install” the necessary information included with option. The website clearly displays all their bill. potential one-off charges. Customer Loyalty Score No specific contract duration Reliable products and services go hand Transparent invoicing in hand with high customer satisfaction The new telecom legislation took effect levels. The Customer Loyalty Score (CLS) Transparent invoicing, clearly showing on 1 October 2012. The main stipulation of is the principal customer satisfaction all necessary details, contributes to the this act states that the contract duration benchmark amongst both residential and company’s reliability score. Telenet aims to for all telecom services must not exceed business customers. Each month we survey make both the invoice itself and the way in six months. Telenet no longer imposes a approximately 2,500 customers to ask for which the customer can access it as easy as notice period for subscriptions to product their views on their Telenet products and possible. Customers opting for electronic bundles, Internet, landlines, mobiles or associated services such as installation, invoices automatically receive an e-mail television. Only Sporting Telenet, a pay TV accessibility and the quality of the conwhen a new bill is posted in “My Telenet”. package, is still subject to a legal contract tact center, invoicing and other customer Invoices are stored for up to 14 months. duration of 6 months. Customers, who have communications. The survey results are taken out a mobile phone subscription converted into a monthly global figure. The As of February 2014 European companies with handset, only have to pay the residual surveys also tell us which aspects we need must bring their direct debit system in line value of the handset if they cancel their to focus on. For example, they tell us what with SEPA, a European measure that aims subscription. is the best approach to product launches to harmonize European payment systems via, amongst others, European bank New tariff plans all around or service changes. Telenet highlights the account numbers. This means that cussignificance of customer satisfaction by Telenet is proactive in calling customers if including the Customer Loyalty Score, a tomers can now arrange direct debits with it is in their interest, or complements their monthly objective customer satisfaction Telenet rather than the bank. Customers product use better, to switch to another benchmark, up to a level of at least 15% in were notified of the new measure in product formula. Nearly all mobile Telenet the executive bonus system. good time. customers use the KING or KONG tariff We have noticed that connectivity at home Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 63 Overview CLS score have been given the option to be called service and collect feedback about our 2012 2013 2014 back at a time that suits them. products and services. Telenet clocked up 80.6 80.2 80.5 330,481 mentions this year, 11% more than In view of the fact that customers are the previous year. Every 2 minutes, someoften already au fait with our products and one somewhere was twittering, blogging, services anyway, Telenet makes certain etc. about Telenet. The price increase in that all helpdesk employees have the right plays an increasingly important part with December was the hottest topic of the year. expertise and can offer customers concise respect to optimum customer experience. We learnt from this that we have to commuand consistent advice, to ensure that they We are facing a challenge in that we need nicate more clearly about such matters. receive an optimum response from their to ensure that our customers have a basic first contact. In 2014, we achieved a “First knowledge in order to optimize the use of Time Right” percentage of 74.3%. Wi-Fi and are able to benefit everywhere Focus on customer satisfaction: from a reliable connection. Accessible via Internet, e-mail and by post Amazing Customer Experience Since 2012, most of our technical cusProgram tomer support was Internet-based. Our Check up online customer service provides access to specific staged plans with additional In early 2014, Telenet launched its Amazing information to help customers in their Customer Experience or ACE program, the Since September 2014, Telenet has been next step in its transition to a Telenet expeattempts to solve a problem themselves proactively calling on Internet customers in rience where the customer is the central initially. In 2013 this site registered no less order to check on their in-house installation. point of focus. than 1.5 million hits per month, almost 50% The technicians ensure the customers more than in 2012. The Mobile Configurator, In this program the customer experience have the best possible Internet conneca page where customers have access to a is continually monitored, analyzed and tion and explain all the services included, manual for their specific type of mobile, was reported, allowing us to keep our finger on allowing customers to always make full use especially popular and clocked up 1 million the pulse and enabling us to identify and of their Telenet products. We had already hits in just one year. correct problem areas in that experience. visited over 20,000 customers by the end of March 2015, and by the summer over Customers can also manage their products This continual focus on improvement from 700 customers a day will receive a visit from and services via ‘My Telenet’, where they the perspective of the customer is molded Telenet. have access to an overview of general setinto projects and in the past year Telenet tings such as password and contact data, has demonstrated that customer care is and all their product options. This platform not just a hollow phrase. Through initiawill also generate electronic invoices. This tives such as Telenet Check-up, where we Accessibility visit our customers at home to optimize site clocked up more than 17 million hits in one year, an increase of 21%. their installation for the perfect product The Customer Loyalty Score also comexperience and also check whether they prises traditional accessibility related Almost 64.7% of customers who contacted are using the full potential of their prodfigures. Most of these contacts are Telenet via e-mail (or by post) were dealt ucts, we aim to ensure that our customassociated with requests for information, with within two days, and 93.5% within ers are getting value for money. They are administrative and technical queries as well five days. also provided with effective solutions for as commercial and customer loyalty related extending Wi-Fi reach in their homes, while Accessibility via social media contacts. their digital setups are examined and, if Telenet also supports customers via social necessary, improved and if the customers Accessible by telephone media (Twitter, Facebook, the Telenet blog, do not yet use our apps we install them and Telephone response times always play a forums, etc.). A 9-man team is available show them how to get even more pleasure major role in the perception of customer on weekdays from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., in the from our products. We also continue to satisfaction. 78.9% of calls were answered weekend from 9.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. Our serwork on ever more user friendly products within two minutes in 2014. We continue to vice is also in operation on public holidays and services, while the quest for ways to make every effort to reach our target of 85% (excluding Christmas and New Year’s Day). improve our support is likewise a daily task. within 120 seconds. Since 2012 customers We consider social media an important In this way Telenet has entered into a clear who have to wait longer than 150 seconds tool through which we can offer customer commitment at all levels of the company 64 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects – we continue to examine ourselves from a claims procedure is suspended for a critical perspective through the eyes of the period of 4 months until the case has customer and aim to earn our customers been finalized. anew each and every day. Through this • The Ombudsman responds to the program, Telenet is dedicating itself entirely customer once the investigation has to an Amazing Customer Experience. been completed. • This will be followed by an amicaComplaints via the Ombudsman ble settlement provided that the customer agrees. Telenet received 25% fewer com• If the customer wants to submit a plaints in 2014 than in 2013 via the counter argument the Ombudsman Telecommunications Ombudsman. This will re-investigate the case if necessary decrease is the result of continual cusand respond again. tomer service improvements and a specific Telenet received 1 complaint per 6,118 serfocus on customer service via social media vices rendered in 2014. In 2013 it was still such as Facebook and Twitter. 1 complaint per 6,731 services rendered. The complaints procedure runs as follows: The Telecommunications Ombudsman offers telecom users an extrajudicial dis• The Ombudsman accepts complaints pute settlement procedure and is, therefrom customers who have initially confore, recognized as an ADR (Alternative tacted Telenet but then want to lodge a Dispute Resolution) authority by the further appeal. European Commission. • As soon as Telenet receives a complaint from the Ombudsman, the Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 65 Suppliers Supply chain policy The safety and environmental specifica• environmental standards pertaining tions are documented whenever a contract to the supplier’s activities, prodOur purchasing decisions also take into is drawn up. This includes a record of which ucts and services; account ethical, ecological and social guidelines the equipment, raw materials, • basic human rights (including forced considerations. They relate not only to etc. comply with, specifications on energy and child labor: International Labor optimum price, quality and availability, but consumption, packaging, waste and Organization agreements); also to the ecological and social aspects of recycling and whether or not production is the origin of products and services. After associated with hazardous chemicals. • working conditions (e.g. working hours, all, the ecological impact of the products redundancy procedure); and services we obtain from our suppliers is similar to that of our own products and Signing of the Vendor • health and safety at work; services. Telenet actively tries to involve Disclosure Form • business ethics (including corruption). its suppliers in the quest for sustainable Suppliers also declare to adhere to Liberty enterprise. The key objectives set out in the Suppliers must also complete a Vendor Global’s Responsible Procurement and sustainable supplier policy were developed Disclosure Form to ensure that our group Supply Chain Principles when signing a in conjunction with the main shareholder and partners engage in ethical trade praccontract with Telenet. This framework Liberty Global. tices in accordance with our policy and for managing social and environmental principles. The Vendor Disclosure Form Each quotation refers to this supply chain risk in the supply chain, is also applicable comprises a Code of Conduct and Antipolicy as standard and tenderers are to Telenet. The principles are designed Corruption Policy. In concrete terms the expected to provide the necessary inforto extend Liberty Global’s responsible document stipulates that there is no conmation with respect to, amongst others, the business values to its suppliers and relate flict of interest between the seller / supplier following aspects: specifically to the impact of the products representatives and people that might be and services the company purchases. • social aspects in their own workplace; associated with Telenet, and that the Seller The principles encompass international shall ensure that all supplier representatives • compliance with legislation and regulalabor standards, including the International are familiar, and will comply, with the princitions pertaining to child labor; Labor Organization Core Conventions and ples laid down in the Code of Conduct and UN Convention on human rights, bribery • quest for transport optimization; Anti-Corruption Policy. and corruption, health and safety and the • green aspects of the supplier’s opera100% of Telenet’s suppliers have thus conenvironment. In 2012 Telenet also brought tional management. firmed that they will comply with the Telenet its procurement into line with that of its Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption majority shareholder Liberty Global. The When selecting suppliers, we consider the Policy. The Code of Conduct covers the use of shared suppliers promotes synergy above-mentioned aspects of considerfollowing issues: in both technology and finance. Telenet and able importance, on a par with the price Liberty Global share suppliers, for example, and quality of the goods or services to be for set-top boxes. This has allowed Telenet supplied. to make significant savings in 2012. 66 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects Telenet leveranciersbeleid: • eist van zijn leveranciers en onderaannemers om te voldoen aan de fundamentele gebieden van de ILO-conventie over verbod op kinderarbeid, dwangarbeid, discriminatie en vrijheid van vereniging • dekt andere arbeidsnormen inclusief gezondheid en veiligheid, arbeidstijden, lonen • is publiek beschikbaar • is geïntegreerd in haar inkoopproces Onderhouden van het beleid: Ecovadis for risk Telenet: management • communiceert zijn beleid naar zijn leveranciers wereldwijd alle leverancierscontracten bevatten een clausule met betrekking tot Met When it comes to risk and opportunity arbeidsnormen management in the supply chain Telenet • controleert de leveranciers voor de naleving van zijn beleid also focuses on, for example, single vendor• voert audits uit bij zijn leveranciers voor de naleving van het beleid Telenet ship, warehousing and non-availability of zal regelmatig de supply chain en op verdenking van een overtreding, zal een goods and services. formele audit worden uitgevoerd As of 2013 Telenet uses Ecovadis’ SP • heeft procedures voor de behandeling van niet-naleving Telenet zal Solution for the assessment and monileveranciers helpen om corrigerende maatregelen te nemen in geval van toring of the social, ecological and ethical niet-naleving risks of its suppliers. Ecovadis is a dynamic scorecard that rates the CSR performance of suppliers on the basis of 21 indicators grouped into 4 CSR themes (Environment, The system enables Telenet to benchTelenet carries out annual general risk Social, Ethics and Suppliers) rated from 1 mark and compare supplier performance assessments across the entire strategic to 100, using questionnaires, document scores. It also helps to formulate action supplier base, including (but not limited audits, public information and a 360° watch plans for suppliers, as a starting point for to) bribery. If a risk is considered high, a on suppliers through stakeholder informaeffective dialogue on measures suppliers risk containment plan will be ready for tion from NGOs, the media, etc. resulting in can implement in order to improve its CSR implementation. an assessment of suppliers’ environmental score. The Vice-President Supply Chain & Due diligence before the establishment performance and social practices. Procurement is responsible at operational of joint ventures is implemented by both level for the management of the implemen• Environmental risks Ecovadis as well as the ongoing financial tation of ESG goals. The executive responsiscreening of all Telenet suppliers by Dunn & • Production process and product effects bility for supply chain management lies with Bradstreet. (i.e. use of the product, “end of life” and the Chief Financial Officer. customer health and safety) Appropriate systems for the selection and We regularly check our supply chain and, if payment of suppliers have been imple• Social risks we suspect an infringement, we carry out mented and are part of the sales flow. a formal audit. In the event of non-compli• Employee health and safety, working ance Telenet will continue to work with the Telenet is also involved in a number of conditions and human rights. supplier in question and help him impleinitiatives with contractors and suppliers • Ethical risks ment the necessary corrective measures. concerning training and capacity building. If no agreement can be reached on an We offer specific training for both customer • Corruption, anti-competitive practices acceptable recovery plan Telenet may have focused sales personnel and strategic supand truthful marketing issues. to terminate the business relationship. pliers, with special diplomas for those who are successful. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 67 Kraljic-matrix • development of a quality assurance manual with Telenet’s Leverage items Strategic items Impact on profits warehouse partner; • joint approach to improvement of the logistics procedure in conjunction with Telenet shops; • annual ‘contractor day’ gathering together with a prize for the Non-critical items Bottleneck items best contractor; • extensive ‘customer friendly approach’ and technical training for new technicians in installation companies; • annual call center prize for call center Procurement risk employee with the best results; • bonus/malus clause in contracts with critical suppliers. Telenet measures supplier performance using KPIs such as In 2013, Liberty Global assessed 78 of its Identification via Kraljic largest suppliers, equating to 50% of its • the percentage of purchases made from overall capital expenditure, using EcoVadis In order to be able to effectively manage preferred suppliers, SP Solutions tool including major suppliour supply chain, we have formalized a ers for Telenet. 77% of Telenet’s suppliers • fuel consumption of process to identify critical suppliers using installation vans and invited to the assessment responded. Out the Kraljic matrix to classify the 4 main catof the scored suppliers, 57% received a egories: leverage items (15% of suppliers), • the percentage of supplier contracts confirmed CSR engagement score, meanstrategic items (5%), bottleneck items (5%) with contractual stipulations concerning ing they have a structured and proactive and non-critical items (75%). the environment, social aspects and CSR approach in place and are low-risk good management (ESG). suppliers in terms of ESG performance. The remaining 43% received a partial CSR Supplier results These three aspects are combined in our ongoing cooperation with IMSIR, a sheltered engagement score, meaning their approach is ad hoc rather than structured and that workshop and social initiative that generTelenet also maintains that skills developthey pose a medium risk in terms of ESG ates a reduction in waste, employment and ment and performance encouragement performance. Further analysis of the cost savings. In 2013 the consistent re-use can improve the results of, and relationship supplier risk will be conducted and, where of set top boxes led to a 400 ton reduction with, critical suppliers. Typical examples necessary, Telenet will a set up a corrective in waste, employment for 50 people and include: action plan with the particular supplier. purchasing cost savings of € 15.5 million. None of Telenet’s assessed suppliers were • development of a supplier manual for scored in the high risk-category. each new supplier; 68 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects Example EcoVadis Scorecard Working groups Telenet participates in several working parties focused on supply chain improvement. One such working party is E-TASC (Electronics – Tool for Accountable Supply Chains). E-TASC was launched in 2007 as a sustainable solution to help businesses implement an effective shared approach to the assessment and management of supply chain risks, bring about performance improvements. We are also focusing on the further development of the CSR potential in supply chains. Telenet participates in the development of training modules and other learning resources for ICT companies and their suppliers in order to create greater awareness of social and ecological issues and to help implement change management programs. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 69 In December 2011 Telenet and Imsir were Maintaining the policy: Telenet: awarded the public’s prize at the Supply • communicates its policy to its suppliChain Awards. The sector also proclaimed ers globally all of Telenet’s supplier Telenet the 2012 ambassador of shelcontracts contain a clause covering tered workshop employment. And in labor standards; November 2013 Telenet won the public’s prize for the best project of the past ten • audits suppliers for compliance with its years at the 10th supply chain awards policy – Telenet will regularly screen the ceremony. supply chain and, if a transgression is suspected, perform a formal audit; Telenet supply chain policy: • visits/audits its suppliers for compli• requires its suppliers and sub-contracance with its policy Telenet regularly tors to meet the core ILO convention checks its supply chain and on susareas of prohibition of child labor, forced picion of an infraction, a formal audit labor, discrimination and freedom will be conducted; of association; • has procedures for addressing • covers other labor standards including non-compliance – Telenet will help suphealth and safety, working hours, wages; pliers to take corrective action in case of • is publicly available; non-compliance. • is an integral part of its procurement process. 70 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects Codes of conduct Being a major enterprise, Telenet wants to • fair competition and anti-corruption; Telenet is currently updating its Code of continually maintain and increase the level Conduct. The new code, which already • information confidentiality and of confidence shown by stakeholders and incorporates many principles enshrined right to privacy; society at large. In order to achieve this in Belgian legislation, will be systematically Telenet has implemented various proce• correct accounting and accuintroduced across the organization. dures and codes. rate communication; Compliance is monitored in different ways, Telenet undertakes to execute its activ• conflicts of interest, insider information for example, using Entity Level Controls ities with honesty, integrity and respect. and business integrity; (ELC) and IT General Controls (ITGC). Corporate governance has a direct Their implementation is guaranteed and • protection of health and safety and impact on the way in which the company recorded via a web-based tool. They are the environment; is managed and on the relationship with also rigorously tested each year by Liberty stakeholders. Telenet is convinced that the • whistle-blower policy. Global, our parent company, and our audihighest corporate governance standards tors (KPMG). The Code of Conduct was signed by the are necessary in order to guarantee the Telenet executive committee and top manintegrity and performance of its activities. It has, therefore, devised a number of policies agement, and by employees in positions United Nations Global of trust. In addition to this general code to support corporate governance in each of conduct Telenet also imposes specific Compact business aspect. codes of conduct relating to anti-corrupTelenet’s Code of Conduct comprises a In April 2011 Telenet, represented by its tion & bribery, issues relating to competition number of business policy principles and CEO, signed up to a commitment to uphold law and privacy matters that apply to the is intended to act as a guideline for the the ten principles of the United Nations entire workforce. Employees are kept up implementation of various judicial and legal Global Compact which relate, amongst to date with these codes of conduct via requirements and professional practices other things, to human rights, labor condiregular training sessions. that apply to the activities executed on tions, the environment, anti-corruption and No infringements were reported in 2008, enjoying a general consensus. The princibehalf of the company. 2009 and 2010. One formal complaint was ples are based on the following: Telenet also implements a number of corsubmitted in 2011 in the ‘whistle-blower polporate policies. • the Universal Declaration icy’ category, but KPMG officially evaluated of Human Rights it as a complaint outside the whistle-blower policy. No infringements were reported • the International Labor Organization’s Telenet Code of Conduct in 2012, 2013 and 2014, making 2014 the Declaration on Fundamental Principles seventh consecutive year without and Rights at Work Telenet’s Code of Conduct relates to the infringements. Employees can ask to following: • the Rio Declaration on Environment and remain anonymous. Complaints received • equal opportunities and a working enviby phone or via the website are managed • Development ronment free from intimidation; by the Corporate Compliance Officer and chairman of the Audit Committee. • the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 71 Telenet has agreed to implement the Global Voluntary Industry Anti-corruption Policy Compact principles to act as a guideline throughout its strategy, corporate culture Agreement Telenet’s anti-corruption policy ensures and day to day operations, and to endeavor that business interests are, and will remain, to initiate partnership projects in order to The Voluntary Industry Agreement aims to contribute to the realization of the EU compliant with relevant international stipudevelop the United Nations’ wide-ranging lations and Belgian legislation pertaining to goals, in particular the UN Millennium Goals. energy efficiency action plan, more specifically the Ecodesign Directive, by lessening bribery and anti-corruption. These rules are Where relevant, the principles of the OECD explained on the basis of typical examples guidelines for multinationals have been the potential environmental impact of complex set top boxes (CSTBs), i.e. set top and practical guidelines. The anti-corrupincorporated in our ethical code and suption policy has been approved by the Board plier contracts. boxes with conditional access. of Directors and Audit Committee and is in Telenet wants to make its commitment Service providers, equipment manufacturline with the anti-corruption policy of our quite clear to stakeholders and the public ers, software providers, conditional access main shareholder, Liberty Global. The policy at large. providers and component manufacturers, is communicated in detail to all employwho represent the majority of the set top ees (e.g. via team meetings), contractors, In the introduction to the 2014 sustainability box industry, have endorsed this voluntary suppliers (via the Vendor Disclosure Form) report the CEO and Chairman of the Board agreement. and agents. comment as follows: ‘We continue to support and promote important initiatives such In November 2012 the EU Commission The policy comprises the following as the UN Global Compact. We are a memunderwrote the Voluntary Agreement on elements: ber of the advisory council of the Belgian set top box energy consumption. • prohibition to offer or receive bribes – Network of the UN Global Compact, and as As a co-signatory of the Voluntary the company is a co-signatory of UN of 2011 Telenet endorses the ten principles Agreement, Telenet takes its principles into Global Compact; of the UN Global Compact.’ account for all products, technical and purchasing processes, even for potential future • compliance with legislation Telenet is well aware that in order to parand regulations; ticipate in the Global Compact it is vital to product definitions and RFPs. submit annual Communication on Progress • restriction on giving and receiving (COP) reports, more specifically on efforts business gifts; made by the company to implement the Vendor Disclosure Form • transparency with respect to politten principles. ical donations – employees are not The primary purpose of the Vendor Telenet favors a transparent approach and Disclosure Form is to demonstrate to authorized to make political contribuis consequently committed to reporting relevant stakeholders that all reasonable tions for the benefit of or on behalf of progress concerning these principles measures have been taken by Telenet to Telenet, or with Telenet funds, without every year. ensure that our group and its partners prior approval from the appropriate conduct business in an ethical manner, in Corporate Compliance Officer; No accordance with our policies and principles. funds were used for political contriCode of conduct for data butions in 2013. The Vendor Disclosure Form certifies that centers there is no conflict of interest between the • commitment at management level, i.e. supplier / representatives of the supplier the Code of Conduct was signed by the Telenet data centers are responsible for a and people associated with Telenet, and Board of Directors. large share of the company’s overall energy that the supplier shall ensure that all consumption. Telenet wants to significantly his representatives are familiar, and will reduce its energy consumption and has, comply, with the principles of the Telenet therefore, underwritten the European Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Code of Conduct for data center energy Policy. All suppliers must sign this Vendor efficiency. The data center in Mechelen has Disclosure Form. now achieved the status of ‘participant’ in this code of conduct. 72 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Social Aspects Corporate Governance Telenet is a member of UBA, the Union Anti-piracy of Belgian Advertisers (www.ubabelgium. Charter be), which is a member of JEP. UBA is an Our majority shareholder, Liberty Global independent institute that formulates International, is a member of AAPA, the The Corporate Governance Charter comguidelines, for instance with respect to prises a summary of the rules and principles Audio-visual Anti-Piracy Alliance and advertising, for the benefit of its members. successor of AEPOC. Its members are pertaining to the organization’s corporate governance. It is subject to, and does not Telenet also formulated its own ethical prominent players in the European digital prejudice, the Articles of Association and code for advertising and promotional activitelevision and telecommunications sector. relevant stipulations in Belgian law such ties in the past year: More specifically, AAPA combines and as the Company Code. Any summaries represents operators in four major sectors, “Telenet advertising must depict its prodi.e. TV channels, suppliers of secure access or descriptions in this Charter of legal and ucts and services truthfully and accurately, statutory stipulations, company structures technology for set top boxes, transmission with due respect for relevant legislation infrastructure suppliers and hardware or contractual relationships are included and marketing rules and regulations. By purely for information purposes and shall manufacturers. AAPA maintains a dialogue implementing its four core values ‘catchwith EU institutions in order to promote not be considered legal or fiscal advice ing, attentive, agreeable and enterprising’ relating to the interpretation or enforceabileffective legislation. Telenet is exceeding the legally required ity of such stipulations or relationships. honesty and accuracy advertising pracIn 2011 Telenet, in conjunction with other The comprehensive text of the Corporate tices. These values are a vital ingredient Belgian Internet operators, signed a protoGovernance Charter can be found on the to maintain our reputation amongst col with the Belgian Gaming Commission to Telenet Investor Relations website. stakeholders. All statements in adverts block access to illegal gambling sites at the and other declarations to customers and request of the Belgian courts. potential customers must be truthful and The program broadcasting contracts with Ethical advertising code reasonable. More importantly, they must major studios and broadcasters include be corroborated prior to publication or extensive piracy prevention clauses. The high ethical standards Telenet has dissemination. This applies to all advertising Telenet strictly complies with these instrucadopted also apply to its advertising and messages in all media. The same applies tions and distributes set-top boxes that publicity. The company wants to comply to oral presentations and even informal comply with piracy regulations. Contracts with all relevant legal instructions, reguladiscussions during which objective, factual with customers (general terms and contions and codes. or quantifiable remarks are made about our ditions) also comprise piracy prevention products or services. Finally, suppliers such clauses and include penalties to be applied Telenet acts in accordance with the rules as research or (digital) marketing agencies in the event of infringements. of JEP, the Jury for Ethical Practice in must observe privacy and data protection Advertising (www.jep.be). JEP, a self-discipliIn 2004, Telenet drew up and signed a guidelines when collating, using and/or nary body in the Belgian advertising sector, cooperation agreement with IFPI Belgium storing customer data.” monitors the accuracy and truthfulness (the International Federation of the of advertising messages vis-à-vis the In addition to the general regulations and Phonographic Industry) to remove illegal public. Its decisions are based on legislaguidelines, present codes of conduct and content from Internet news groups. tion and self-disciplinary codes, including green purchasing policy, Telenet applies the the Code of the International Chamber following rules to all marketing activities: of Commerce. JEP decisions are seen as • limit the use of paper and opt for digirecommendations. tal alternatives; Telenet takes this advice into account • all printing to be done on FSC paper; whenever possible. The advice is published on the JEP website. If the advice is not taken • choose suppliers with a green and suson board JEP can submit a recommentainable approach; dation for suspension to the media. In the • avoid blister packaging course of 2014, JEP reported 5 alleged whenever possible; infringements of these ethical advertising practices to Telenet, which amended • optimize the sustainability of gadgets its advertising on the basis of the JEP and POS materials used for sponsoring recommendations. purposes, including packaging, transport and recycling. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 73 76 78 79 Protection of Freedom of Radiation minors speech 74 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Telecom Aspects Telecom Aspects Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 75 Protection of minors Parental Control over to customers being burdened with an Together with scientists, civil servants and unwanted, expensive subscription. When it other telecoms/IT operators, Telenet is also Internet and television comes to this type of text services, Telenet a member of the guidance committee for complies with GOF guidelines. If a supplier the BESIC III project – Belgian Safer Internet Specific measures are necessary to exceeds these guidelines, Telenet will take Center. The center, which is supervised increase the protection of children and action immediately. There are several tools by Child Focus, combines three relevant young people in particular. Telenet also available such as the mobile application tenets, i.e. emergency number, support line applies the highest standards with respect usage app that one of the parents can and awareness promoting channel. The to customer protection for all other Internet install on their smartphone. With this app guidance committee supports the center users. Spam and virus filters are built into they can control the consumption of all with advice, for example, on the developthe network as standard and customers Telenet mobile subscriptions in the family. ment of a parental tool to combat cyber have access to a special software package bullying. for strict online Parental Control. It is in fact the government that decides which webCooperation with sites are (not) acceptable. Telenet helps Child Focus Children’s rights and the the authorities to uphold relevant legislation by ensuring that queries of a judicial nature business community Telenet has signed the ‘E-Safety Charter’ of are handled on the basis of a fixed proceChild Focus along with all its Belgian industry Telenet supports and actively pursues the dure, within legal parameters and solely by partners. The Charter aims to promote ‘Children’s Rights and Business Principles’. personnel with appropriate qualifications/ awareness and introduce more control authority. Telenet has also built a Parental These corporate guidelines were formuoptions to increase Internet safety. Telenet Control system into the set-top box for its lated by UNICEF, UN Global Compact and also supports Click Safe, a Child Focus helptelevision product, whereby the head of Save the Children. The objective is to give line, which promotes safe Internet use for the household can secure certain channels the corporate world an insight into measchildren and young people. Anyone with a with a PIN code. ures they could implement in the area of question relating to the online safety of chilworking conditions, the market and the The telephone-based services supplied dren and young people, can find answers community taking into account children’s by Telenet can have an undesirable via this helpline, which is accessible via the rights. Our products and services are downside. Premium text services can lead Child Focus prevention website. 76 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Telecom Aspects geared to the 10 guidelines pertaining to in the annual Safer Internet campaign. With Children’s Rights and Business Principles. support from the main shareholder LGI, Telenet is a partner of the Children’s Rights Telenet is a Gold Partner of Safer Internet and Business Principles Forum Belgium. Day. Two practice-based booklets were released to mark this day. ‘Spelend leren: In February 2013, the Annual General Online zijn’ (‘Learning at play: Being online’), Meeting of Global Compact Network for example, is aimed at 4to 8-year-olds, Belgium approved the creation of a comand ‘e-Safety Kit’ at 6to 12-year-olds. mission to promote Children’s Rights and These brochures, which are distributed via Business Principles for 2014-2016. The schools, teach children in a playful manBoard of Directors will appoint a commisner about safety on the Internet. In 2013, sion chairman and will supervise the activEuropean Schoolnet, together with LGI, ities and the budget of the commission. introduced an educational film entitled ‘The The VP Corporate Office & Sustainability Digital Universe of your Children’. This interof Telenet has a seat on this Board of active video provides tips for parents on Directors. how children can surf the Internet safely. At the end of the film clip, there is an opportuSafer Internet Day nity to download PDFs concerning privacy, online gaming, online friends etc. A new Telenet continually monitors EU campaigns manual for 13to 16-year-olds, The Web We for a safer Internet and actively participates Want, was launched in 2013. Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 77 Freedom of speech As one of the leading Belgian Internet Gaming Commission in which Telenet, in to prevent and combat abuse of children providers, Telenet respects the freedom of cooperation with the Federal and Regional via chat applications and websites. expression on the Internet, and in parComputer Crime Unit(s) takes action In general, we can state that Telenet does ticular of its Internet customers. However, against websites with harmful content such not intervene in the rights of free speech, freedom of expression is not absolute and as illegal gambling. Furthermore, upon claim unless the company is required to do so by is bordered by Belgian and international of the judiciary, Telenet has to block sites on an entitled authority. legislation and jurisprudence. which copyright infringements are committed (e.g. The Pirate Bay) or pornographic In that context, Telenet is actively working material is distributed. with a number of government agencies authorized to limit the freedom of expresIn addition, Telenet is a leading member of sion or freedom of enterprise. Telenet ISPA and follows their code of conduct in closed, together with other Belgian Internet which, among other things, amenities are providers, a protocol with the Belgian included for cooperation with Child Focus 78 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Telecom Aspects Radiation As of 1 March 2014, traders are forbidden to optic signals for glass fiber connections. of viWTA – Society and Technology. You will to sell mobile phones which have been The cupboards where this apparatus is find a selection of other useful publications developed especially for children under the located are also in the vicinity of the mast. on the corporate website: age of 7. This prohibition concerns mobile And so, there is a danger of these workers • The radiation from my mobile phone phones in the form of a toy (such as a cudbeing exposed to non-ionized radiation. The in questions and answers – Publication dly bear) which are designed for toddlers toolbox and the procedure give an insight by the mobile operators KPN/Base, and young children under the age of seven. into the dangers and the possible prevenProximus and Mobistar Mobile phone adverts aimed at that age tive measures. The stress is on the LMRA group are also prohibited. Telenet does not (Last Minute Risk Analysis) by the technician • Mobile phones and health: standards, sell such smart phones and does not make on the spot. He or she must assess the scientific facts and tips for safe use – any adverts for them. possible risks and, on that basis, take the Publication of the Federal Public Service necessary action. We have also purchased for Public Health From 1 March 2014, for all mobile teleradiation meters for these technicians. phone sales, apart from giving the technical • Electromagnetic fields and health: your specifications of the appliance, traders are In June 2013, Telenet published an inforguide in the electromagnetic landscape also obliged to state the specific absorption mation brochure about Wi-Fi and mobile – Publication of the Federal Public rate (SAR) of the mobile phone or smart phone radiation. In recent years, more and Service for Public Health phone. To that end, the appliances will more people have expressed concern • Ook getest op mensen (Also be given a rating which varies between A about the effects of increased radiation on tested on people) – A consumer (low radiation) and E (appliances with the our health. Is it harmful? Can we become program on the VRT highest specific absorption rate). This gives sick as a result of it and how can we protect consumers the opportunity to take account ourselves against it? This brochure conof this rating when they purchase a product. siders these and other concerns in depth. Telenet always displays the specific absorpAfter a general introduction to precisely tion rate of its handsets in its sales points. what radiation is, the brochure deals with the most common questions on radiation For implementation & maintenance techniin general and mobile phone and Wi-Fi cians who work on installations near mobile radiation in particular. phone infrastructure, there is a set procedure and toolbox. This service department The information in the brochure is based is responsible for the maintenance and on the study ‘Exposure to non-ionizing installation of apparatus which converts the radiation at home’, written by Professors electrical signals of mobile phone masts from the University of Ghent at the request Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 79 82 82 82 83 Scope Commitment Explanation of GRI 4 Core the key figures 80 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | How we report How we report 84 84 85 Principles for Significant Contact defining report changes & content restatements Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 81 Scope This sustainability report covers the a sustainability report. When the report practices and performance results of non-financial parameters and indicators mentions Telenet, we, us, the enterprise, the the Telenet group for the year 2014 are of all echelons of the Telenet organization company, the group, or the business, this reported in two complementary for the whole calendar year 2014 (1-1-2014 means Telenet Group Holding NV, including documents: to 31-12-2014).This report follows on the its operating companies, and within the • Telenet Annual Financial Report 2014 Telenet 2013 annual report, published context of the Belgian market engagement. in March 2014. Every year, Telenet pub• Telenet Sustainability Report 2014 Data and information on the non-financial lishes an update of its CSR activities in Commitment With this document, Telenet wishes to give This report emphasizes the strengths and non-financial information to be verified a truthful account of the economic, social weaknesses of each of the defined material where possible. Selected HR-data have and ethical activities and environmental aspects and offers us the chance of, among been checked by KPMG to guarantee the performance results that are most relevant other things, improving our processes and accuracy and credibility. Telenet is working to the company and its stakeholders. This performance results via the Telenet Way. on extending the external assurance to annual report provides information on Because all the departments concerned include more social and environmental the objectives we are working towards, are taking the results of this analysis to data points. This report was checked and the most significant recent achievements heart, we can make a significant contribuapproved by Birgit Conix, CFO of Telenet. and the new initiatives being developed tion to further progress in the Group ratings The governance of Telenet’s sustainability to attain Telenet’s sustainability goals. in 2014. program was audited by the Internal Audit Telenet pursues a sustainability manageWe believe the non-financial information Team Deloitte, for the last time in 2013. ment in compliance with general accepted to be as important as the financial inforprinciples of inclusiveness, materiality and mation. For this reason, we arrange for the responsiveness. Key figures Reported social and economic key figures A note to the reader of this report in this report relate to the Telenet headTelenet is a part of the Liberty group and, for the purpose of further coordinating quarters and regional contact centers in group reports, as of 2014, the Telenet report will be fully aligned with that of Herentals, St-Trond and Alost. the chief shareholder, Liberty Global. This means that various definitions and measuring points have been adjusted. The figures concerning environmental and social results in this report have been restated for the last three years (2011, 2012, 2013). Should you have any queries regarding these restatements, please contact Rob.Goyens@staff.telenet.be. 82 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | How we report GRI 4 Core The non-financial parameters and indicawhich means that the report focuses on the per Aspect. If the information was availators reported in this document are arranged general standard disclosures and provides ble, several indicators are included in the according to the Global Reporting Initiative the necessary information to plot sixteen reporting. (GRI) guidelines. This report is in accordmaterial issues on the G4 material Aspects ance with GRI G4 Guidelines at core level, and to report on at least 1 of the indicators Relevant topics Category Aspect G4 Boundery Boundery outside organization within organization Innovation Economic Indirect economic impacts + Self EC7 + self Telenet NV only relevant within organization created created Indicator Work life balance Labor Self created Telenet NV only relevant within organization Employment LA1-2 Telenet NV only relevant within organization Talent attraction Labor Training & education LA9-11 Telenet NV only relevant within organization User friendly products & Product responsability Product & service labeling PR3-5 Telenet NV only relevant within organization services Pricing & billing Product responsability Product & service labeling EC7 Telenet NV only relevant within organization Reliable Network Economic Indirect economic impacts, PR5 Telenet NV only relevant within organization Infrastructure investments Privacy & security Product responsibility Product & service labeling, PR8 Telenet NV only relevant within organization results of customer satisfaction Protection of children Product responsibility Customer privacy PA7 Telenet NV only relevant within organization Freedom of speech Sector supplement:providing Access to content PA7 Telenet NV only relevant within organization access Radiation Sector supplement:providing Health & safety IO3 Telenet NV customers, policy makers, access employeesployeesdewerkers Energy efficiency with Sector supplement: internal Products & services EN3-7, Telenet NV customers customers operations EN15-19 Waste reduction environment Effluents & waste EN23,24 Telenet NV only relevant within organization Suppliers Supplier environmental EN32-33 Telenet NV suppliers assessment environment Supplier assessment for labor LA14-15 Telenet NV suppliers practices labor Supplier HR assessment HR10-11 Telenet NV suppliers Human rights Supplier assessment for impact SO9-10 Telenet NV suppliers on society Access to ICT society Indirect impacts. Infrastructure EC7 Telenet NV customers, policy makers investments Economic Self created (LBG) LBG Telenet NV customers, policy makers Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 83 Principles for defining report content Telenet has taken various elements into at its performance results within a wider local and regional, as well as global levels. account when deciding on the content of sustainability framework by defining the five Telenet does this with a focus on the matethis report. Telenet has identified its main main trends which telecom companies are rial aspects provided by its stakeholders. stakeholders and has recorded all the main facing at this time. Telenet wishes to make it expectations for each of these stakeholders clear, partly with this report, how the comand described how Telenet is going to fulfil pany is going to stimulate economic, social these. Furthermore, the company is looking and environmental developments on the Significant changes & restatements Telenet is a part of the Liberty Global plc shareholder, Liberty Global. This means this report have been restated for the last and, for the purpose of further coordinating that various definitions and measuring three years (2011, 2012, 2013). group reports, as of 2014, the Telenet report points have been adjusted. The figures conwill be fully aligned with that of its chief cerning environmental and social results in 84 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | How we report Contact Financial information CSR information Rob Goyens Ineke Rampart +32 15 333 054 +32 15 366 262 rob.goyens@staff.telenet.be Ineke.rampart@staff.telenet.be Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 85 100 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Performance summary Performance summary Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 101 Environmental performance Metric 2011 2012 2013 2014 Energy consumption Non-renewable fuel LPG kWh 0 0 0 1,978 Diesel kWh 20,119,725 20,507,485 20,156,793 19,410,317 Petrol kWh 0 0 60,840 320,977 Natural gas kWh 3,495,926 5,730,652 4,268,305 3,774,485 Burning oil kWh 0 21,985 0 0 Gas oil kWh 0 369,349 396,518 167,228 Fuel oil kWh 0 0 0 0 Jet fuel kWh 0 0 0 0 Total kWh 23,615,651 26,629,472 24,882,456 23,674,986 Electricity, heating and cooling Electricity kWh 70,829,058 86,265,195 90,024,444 92,677,700 Heating and cooling kWh 0 0 0 0 Total kWh 70,829,058 86,265,195 90,024,444 92,677,700 Electricity sold kWh 0 0 0 0 Total energy consumption1 kWh 94,444,709 112,894,667 114,906,900 116,352,686 Energy intensity Energy intensity kWh of electricity per tera302 267 206 144 byte of data usage Electricity generated from onsite renewables Kwh 25,000 31,536 31,227 28,882 GHG Emissions Scope 1 emissions3 Tons CO2e 6,103 7,168 6,862 6,385 Scope 2 emissions4 Tons CO2e 21,214 18,803 19,766 18,165 Scope 3 emissions5 Tons CO2e 848 402 497 2,960 Total gross GHG emissions Tons CO2e 28,165 26,373 27,124 27,510 Total net GHG emissions Tons CO2e 25,893 7,570 8,130 10,025 Emissions intensity (scope 1 and 2) Tons CO2e per terabyte of 0.12 0.08 0.06 0.04 data usage Emissions from business travel Tons CO2e 763 385 467 356 Waste by type and disposal method Reuse Metric tons 0 0 0 0 Recycling Metric tons 318 112 456 679 Incineration Metric tons 119 192 178 182 Landfill Metric tons 138 0 0 0 Composting Metric tons NA 19 18 13 Total Metric tons 576 323 652 874 Percentage of recycled waste % 55 31 69 77 Water withdrawal by source Municipal water supplies m3 11,000 13,222 13,600 15,293 Other m3 NA 0 929 1,045 Total m3 11,000 13,222 14,529 16,338 Initiatives Emissions reductions Tons CO2e NA NA 243 109 Energy saved through efficiencies kWh NA NA 1,080,627 555,000 Costs savings from environmental initiatives € NA NA 162,297 137,221 Revenue generated from environmental initiatives € NA NA NA 0 (1) Sum of total energy consumption from non-renewable fuel and electricity, heating and cooling, minus electricity sold (2) For our intensity metrics, we report our electricity consumption and also our net emissions, per terabyte of data consumed (3) Scope 1 (Direct): Direct emissions come from sources that are owned or controlled by company, including: emissions from static combustion (e.g. fuel used in generators for heating/power); emissions from mobile combustion (e.g. fuel used in our vehicles); and emissions from any coolants and propellants used (e.g. in air conditioning units and fire suppression systems). (4) Scope 2 (Indirect): Emissions from purchased electricity, heat and steam. (5) Scope 3 (Indirect): Includes emissions from business air and land travel; water and waste; emissions arising from the impact of recycling customer premise equipment; and travel by our third party service and installation vehicles. In 2014, for the first time, emissions from the travel by our third party service and installation vehicles has been included as part of our scope 3 emissions. 102 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Performance summary Social performance Metric 2011 2012 2013 2014 Community investment € NA 421,997 1,103,406 642,890 Total workforce and breakdown by employee category Employees Headcount, year end 2,020 2,133 2,189 2,247 Outsourced employees Headcount, year end NA NA 1,815 1,766 Employees by contract type Permanent contracts Headcount, year end NA 2,130 2,187 2,245 Temporary contracts Headcount, year end NA 3 2 2 Employees by contract type Full time Headcount, year end NA 1,787 1,821 1,868 Part time Headcount, year end NA 346 368 379 Average age General In years NA NA 38 38 Men In years NA NA 39.5 39 Women In years NA NA 35.5 35 Employees by age group Under 30 years old Headcount, year end NA NA 499 483 30-50 years old Headcount, year end NA NA 1,449 1,516 over 50 years old Headcount, year end NA NA 241 248 Employees by age group Engineering/technical profiles % of total staff NA NA 27 26 Sales & Customer Care % of total staff NA NA 37 36 Marketing & Product Management % of total staff NA NA 5 5 Telenet Business % of total staff NA NA 14 15 IT % of total staff NA NA 8 8 Staff & administration % of total staff NA NA 9 10 Women in management Women in management positions % of total management team 29 29 30 25 New employee hires and employee turnover New employee hires by age group and gender Under 30 years old Headcount NA NA 177 155 30-50 years old Headcount NA NA 100 117 over 50 years old Headcount NA NA 6 9 Total Headcount 375 266 283 281 New hires – male Headcount 222 151 162 153 New hires – female Headcount 153 115 121 128 Rate of new hires Rate (%) 19 12 13 13 Employee turnover by age group Under 30 years old Number of leavers NA NA 94 104 30-50 years old Number of leavers NA NA 96 89 over 50 years old Number of leavers NA NA 11 30 Total Headcount 223 183 201 223 Employee training Average training hours Hours per FTE 24.4 43.2 39.9 31.6 Average training investment € per FTE 497 567 554 522 Occupational health and safety Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 Employee performance reviews Employees reviewed % 100 100 93 93 Social performance Metric 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employee performance reviews by gender and employee category Male Female Male Female Senior management % NA NA 100 80 100 100 Managers/ Supervisors % NA NA 93 100 94 100 Non-management % NA 100 94 90 92 91 V Key figures and percentages shown only relate to (employees of) Telenet NV Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 103 Telenet’s reporting methodology equipment; and travel by our third party service and installation vehicles. In 2014, for the first time, emissions from the travel All environmental and social data covers the period January 1st to by our third party service and installation vehicles have been December 31st, unless stated otherwise. included as part of our Scope 3 emissions. Gases included: CO2, N2O, CH4 (where available). Our scope 3 data excludes Telenets’s reported environmental data follows the World emissions arising from operation of customer set-top boxes and Resources Institute and World Business Council on Sustainable modems at the customers’ premises. Development’s GHG Protocol Corporate Standard as of December 31, 2014, using the operational control approach. Our scope 1 and 3 emissions are calculated by using the UK Net emissions Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) emission factors (2014). Our scope 2 emissions are calculated by using In line with good practice, we disclose both gross and net GHG the DEFRA emission factors (2014). Our footprint has been restated emissions, which illustrates the impacts of our procurement and for 2011 and 2012 to account for material changes to the 2013 conproduction of alternative energy. Gross emissions are calculated version factors provided by DEFRA for company reporting purposes. using national grid average conversion factors for all electricity We have also amended prior year data as a result of previously used consumption and this does not account for emissions reduction estimates and other changes that have been identified. activities, such as purchasing carbon offsets or consuming elec• Scope 1 (Direct): emissions come from sources that are comtricity derived from renewable energy sources. Net emissions are pany owned or controlled, including: emissions from static comcalculated using a conversion factor of zero for all electricity conbustion (e.g. fuel used in generators for heating/power); mobile sumed from onsite renewable energy generation and from certified combustion (e.g. vehicle fuel from company owned or leased green energy contracts.For more information, please see our full fleet); and coolants and propellants used (e.g. in air conditioning ‘Environmental Reporting Criteria’ at http://www.libertyglobal.com/ units and fire suppression systems). Gases included: CO2, N2O, cr/cr-report-2014. CH4, hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), and perfluorocarbons (PFCs). • Scope 2 (Indirect): emissions from purchased electricity, heat and steam. Gases included: CO2 (for the UK CH4 and N2O gases are also included). • Scope 3 (Indirect): includes: emissions from business air and land travel (i.e. flights taken by employees and car travel from private vehicles); water and waste (i.e. the emissions arising from water usage and waste generated from operations); emissions arising from the impact of recycling customer premises 104 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | Performance summary Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 105 GRI 4 Core table 106 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | GRI 4 Core table Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 107 CATEGORY ASPECT INDICATOR DESCRIPTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL Page REPORT Strategy & G4 1 company statement Letter of the CEO and 6-9 analysis chairman Organizational G4 3 Report the name of the organization Company Profile 4 profile G4 4 Report the primary brands, products, and services Company Profile 4 G4 5 Report the location of the organization’s Company Profile 4 headquarters G4 6 number of countries where the organization operCompany Profile 4 ates, and names of countries G4 7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Company Profile 4 G4 8 Report the markets served Company Profile 4 G4 9 Report the scale of the organization Company Profile 4 G4 10 total number of employees, … Social performance 103 summary G4 11 Report the percentage of total employees covered 100% for the 4th year in a row by collective bargaining agreements. G4 12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. stakeholder management / 24, supply chain 66-70 G4 13 Report any significant changes during the reporting How we report > 84 period restatements G4 14 Report whether and how the precautionCode of Conduct, section 71 ary approach or principle is addressed by the United Nations Global organization Compact G4 15 List externally developed economic, environmental code of conduct 71-73 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives G4 16 memberships of associations Code of conduct / 23, General Stakeholder engagement > 71-73 disclosures Sector organizations Identified G4 17 List all entities included in the organization’s consoliHow we report 82-83 Material Aspects dated financial statements or equivalent documents. and bounderies G4 18 Explain the process for defining the report content How we report 82-84 and the Aspect Boundaries G4 19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process How we report 83 for defining report content. G4 20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect How we report 83 Boundary within the organization G4 21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect How we report 83 Boundary outside the organization, G4 22 Report the effect of any restatements of information We have calculated the GHG provided in previous reports emissions of our operations according to the WBCSD GHG protocol methodology. Our footprint has been restated for 2011 and 2012 to account for material changes to the conversion factors provided by Defra for company reporting purposes G4 23 Report significant changes from previous reporting How we report 84 periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder G4 24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the stakeholders 20-27 engagement organization G4 25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 20-27 stakeholders with whom to engage 108 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | GRI 4 Core table CATEGORY ASPECT INDICATOR DESCRIPTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL Page REPORT G4 26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder stakeholders 20-27 engagement G4 27 Report key topics and concerns that have been stakeholders / material 15 raised through stakeholder engagement issues Report Profile G4 28 Reporting period How we report 82 G4 29 Date of most recent previous report How we report 82 G4 30 Reporting cycle How we report 82 G4 31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the How we report 85 General report or its contents disclosures G4 32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization How we report 83 has chosen G4 33 organization’s policy and current practice with regard How we report 82 to seeking external assurance for the report. Governance G4 34 Report the governance structure of the organization, corporate 24-48 governance Ethics G4 56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standcorporate 24-48 ards and norms of behavior governance Disclosure on Management Approach Disclosure on Management Approach Economic 30 37 Indirect economic impacts Investments/Innovation Disclosure on Management Approach Environment Energy CO2-reduction,/ 41-42 CO2-compensation Emissions CO2-reduction,/ 41-44 CO2-compensation waste CO2-reduction,/ 44-46 CO2-compensation supplier environmental assessment suppliers 66-70 Disclosure on Management Approach labour Employment our employees 52-60 training & education our employees 52-53 supplier assessment for labour pratices suppliers 66-70 Disclosure on Management Approach Human Rights supplier Human rights assessment suppliers 66-70 Disclosure on Management Approach Society supplier assessment for impacts on society suppliers 66-70 Disclosure on Management Approach Product Responsability product & service labeling user friendly products & 62-65 services customer privacy privacy and security 50-51 Disclosure on Management Approach Telecom addendum access to content Cooperation with Telenet 37 health & safety Our employees, radiation 57/79 Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 109 CATEGORY ASPECT INDICATOR DESCRIPTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL REPORT OMISSIONS REPORT [section, page] [section, page] Specific Standard Disclosures Economic G4 EC1 Direct economic value generCompany profile: Operating costs, 15 performance ated and distributed Revenues, 4 Employee wages and Payments to government, benefits, 15, 114 31-32 Payments to providers of Social Performance: capital, 18 Economic Community investments, 103 Indirect G4 EC7 Development and impact of Introduction by the economic infrastructure investments and Chairman and the CEO, impacts services supported 6-9 Energy G4 EN3 Energy consumption within the Environmental organization Performance: Consumption data, 102 Environment How we report: Standards, methodologies & assumptions, conversation rates, 82-84 G4 EN4 Energy consumption outside the CO2-reduction > organization Electricity consumption and energy efficiency, 41 G4 EN5 Energy intensity ratio Environmental performance: Energy efficiency, 102 G4 EN6 Reduction of energy CO2 reduction: general consumption overview, 43 G4 EN7 Reductions in energy requireCO2 reduction: general Resulting emissions of ments of products and services overview, 43 products is not reported. To be reported as soon as possible emissions G4 EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas Environmental Emissions Scope 1 Performance: Emission data, 102 How we report: Standards, methodologies & assumptions, conversation rates, 82-84 G4 EN16 Direct Greenhouse Gas Environmental Emissions Scope 2 Performance: Emission data, 102 How we report: Standards, methodologies & assumptions, conversation rates, 82-84 G4 EN17 Direct Greenhouse Gas Environmental Emissions Scope 3 Performance: Emission data, 102 How we report: Standards, methodologies & assumptions, conversation rates, 82-84 G4 EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions CO2 reduction: general Intensity overview, 43 G4 EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Our objectives: Climate & Emissions Environment, 42 Waste G4 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Environmental disposal method Performance: waste, 102 110 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | GRI 4 Core table CATEGORY ASPECT INDICATOR DESCRIPTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL REPORT OMISSIONS REPORT [section, page] [section, page] G4 EN24 Total number and volume of Environmental significant spills Performance: waste, 102 Supplier enviG4 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that Suppliers, 66-70 ronmental were screened using environassessment mental criteria G4 EN33 Significant actual and potential Suppliers, 66-70 negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Employment G4 LA1 Total number and rates of new Social Performance, 103 Due to our limited geoemployee hires and employee graphic scope, Telenet Social: labor turnover by age group, gender does not differentiate practices & and region between regions, theredecent work fore employee data is not reported per region, but at company level. G4 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time Our employees, 56 employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, Training & G4 LA9 Average hours of training per Social Performance, 103 education year per employee by gender, and by employee category G4 LA10 Programs for skills management Our employees, 52-53 and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4 LA11 Percentage of employees receivSocial Performance, 103 ing regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Supplier G4 LA14 Percentage of new suppliers Suppliers, 66-70 assessment that were screened using labor for labor practices criteria practices G4 LA15 Significant actual and potenSuppliers, 66-70 tial negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Supplier HR G4 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers Suppliers, 66-70 assessment that were screened using human rights criteria Social: HR G4 HR11 Significant actual and potential Suppliers, 66-70 negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken supplier G4 SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that Suppliers, 66-70 assessment were screened using criteria for for impact on impacts on society Social: society society G4 SO10 Significant actual and potential Suppliers, 66-70 negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 111 CATEGORY ASPECT INDICATOR DESCRIPTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL REPORT OMISSIONS REPORT [section, page] [section, page] Product G4 PR3 Type of product and service User friendly products & & service information required by the services, 63 labeling organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling G4 PR4 Total number of incidents of User friendly products & non-compliance with regulations services, 63 and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of Social: outcomes product G4 PR5 Results of surveys measuring User friendly products & Telenet is making the responsacustomer satisfaction services, 63-64 transition towards Net bility Promoter score as the new standard for measuring customer satisfaction. As of FY2015, we will report according to our new standard. Customer G4 PR8 Total number of substantiated Privacy & security, 50 privacy complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Health & IO3 Practices to ensure health and Wellbeing at work, 56-57 Telecom safety safety of field personnel Radiation, 79 specific Indicators: Internal IO6 Policies and practices with Radiation, 79 operations respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets Access to PA7 Polices and practices to manage Protection of children / Telecom content human rights issues relating to freedom of speech, 78 specific access and use of telecommuniIndicators: cations products and services. providing access 112 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | GRI 4 Core table UN Global Compact COP AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION Page G4 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 66-70 Human rights G4 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and 66-70 actions taken G4 10 Total number of employees etc. 103 G4 11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (100% for the 4th year in a row) Labour G4 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 103 G4 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 103 reviews, by gender and by employee category G4 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 102, 82-84 G4 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 41 G4 EN5 Energy intensity ratio 102 G4 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 43 G4 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 43 G4 EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 102, 82-84 G4 EN16 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2 102, 82-84 Environment G4 EN17 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 102, 82-84 G4 EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity 43 G4 EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 42 G4 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 102 G4 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 102 G4 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 66-70 G4 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 66-70 Anti G4 56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 24-48 corruption Telenet | Sustainability report 2014 | 113 www.concerto.be Corporate Communications T. 015 33 30 00 www.telenet.be Responsible editor Telenet, Rob Goyens Liersesteenweg 4, 2800 Mechelen
