Sprint Integrated Communications General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 2014 To: 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) In the society we are living in corporate social responsibility is pre-requisite. This applies to all of us as individuals, as well as to all Enterprises and Organisms. Corporate social responsibility is the main reason for the sustainable growth of enterprises. Only the companies that show respect towards its employees, the society, the environment and the overall market are able to systematically grow. Our vision from the moment that we undertook the administration of this Company, was to operate under the “laws” of corporate social responsibility, creating long-lasting and powerful relationships with our social Partners i.e. our Customers, our Employees, our Collaborators, our Shareholders, the Local Societies and the Society in general. We chose to implement corporate social responsibility in our corporate strategy for three main reasons: 1. In order to honor our Employees and our Collaborators for their “Social Behavior and Attitude”. Without their commitment, we couldn’t claim that we are a socially responsible company. 2. In order to honor our Customers. Without their essential collaboration and the sharing of common values, we would not have created so effective relations. 3. In order to pass a very powerful message to all Companies, no matter how small or big they are, that Corporate Social Responsibility should be a basic element of their Strategy. Corporate Social Responsibility does not constitute privilege of big Enterprises but obligation for all. We have chosen to include CSR as a main part of our Strategy as well as a fundamental axis of our sustainable growth. Many will say that what we do is few and small concerning bigger Companies, but we believe that social responsibility is not measured as quantity, but as a behavior. This is a behavior that we are committed to continue as long as we exist. Konstantinos Lambrinopoulos CEO Sprint Integrated Communications Human Rights Principles Our company supports and respects the protection of human rights and makes sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our commitment is shown on our written company policy as well as on our induction manual (appendix 1 p.13). We have also signed the “Code of Deontology” concerning advertising agencies (appendix 2), as well as the “Chart of Rights and Obligations of Enterprises” (appendix 3). We have participated various times in the Junior Achievement Greece (appendix 6) for the Career orientation of High School students regarding the employment in an advertizing agency and we have been certified in 2014 by the Investors in People (appendix 7). At last but not least we are members of “Global Compact”, of “The Hellenic Network of Corporate Social Responsibility” and the “European Business Ethics Network” from which we have been certified for the fourth time in a row with the “Golden Bee award” (appendix 8), which has as a prerequisite the protection of human rights. We also have an “open door policy”(appendix 1 p.58). Measurement of outcomes We measure the outcome of our policies through annual employees’ surveys (appendix 4 p.). Our demographics of management and employees by diversity factors such as gender and age is shown here (appendix 4 p.). In 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 we had external audits by EBEN (European Business Ethics Network) concerning our business ethics in general, as well as our human rights principles, from the ELOT 1435 representatives and the EFQM auditors in fields concerning human rights. Environmental Principles Our company supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges by undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. We annually measure our environmental footprint and impact of our company in terms of water usage, of power usage and of paper/recycling & battery recycling usage (appendix 5 p.34, 35, 37). Our written company policy on environmental issues is available on the internet in our corporate site, on which we present our corporate social responsibility report (http://www.sprint-adv.gr/eke.pdf). Soon we will upload our newest corporate social responsibility report, which is in the production process. We also have specific requirements when choosing suppliers concerning environmental principles, listed in our company guide. (ELOT 1435 appendix 12) Implementation We raise the awareness of our employees on environmental protection by reminders (cards) with messages concerning water and energy consumption, as well as with gifts/presents that have an environmental impact (appendix 5 p.34, 35, 37). Measurement of outcomes We constantly monitor and evaluate our environmental performance. The water and energy consumption can be easily seen from the monthly receipts, while the paper sent for recycling is counted every three months from the specialized company with which we collaborate. This way we can evaluate the specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period (appendix 5 p.33). Conclusion In a few words our company has decided to focus its activities to the 4 following sectors: Its people  By maintaining the number of employees  With constant development, assessment & reward  With educational programs & post graduate grants  With participation in conferences  With dissemination of knowledge systems  With out of hospital insurance plans The environment  By saving energy  By recycling paper, ink, batteries  By adopting stray dogs  With presents conveying environmental messages  By raising awareness to all participants Society  By sponsoring planning and promotion services regarding the activities of the Greek Advertising and Communication Society and the Greek Marketing Institute  By participating in Greek and international organizations both as a company and individually with every member of its management team.  By participating in the Junior Achievement Greece for the Career orientation of High School students The market  With quality based policy  With constant dialogue with the market through specific organizations and agencies related to our business activity  With transparency  With the principles of ethical competition that govern us We have also been certified from the “QualityNet Foundation” for our Corporate Social Responsibility Report in 2013.
