OP GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 Intelligently reforming, customer-owned OP Contents GRI Performance Indicators 3 GRI Reporting Principles 15 GRI Content Index 20 OP Financial Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Besides the GRI-G4 Guidelines, consideration was also taken of the GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS). OP Financial Group’s corporate social responsibility reporting also comprises the information required by the United Nations Global Compact, with regard to the promotion of principles related to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption activities. OP Financial Group’s GRI reporting contains all information and indicators, identified by a materiality assessment as significant to stakeholders and the Group’s business operations. Standard disclosures are included in the following sections: the OP Year 2014 report, this GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data Annex, Report by the Executive Board and Financial Statements of OP Financial Group, and OP Financial Group’s Corporate Governance Statement 2014. The GRI content index, prepared in accordance with the GRI FSSS, indicates where, in OP Financial Group’s annual report, the disclosures referred to in the GRI Guidelines can be found. The GRI Content Index can be found at the end of the report. 2 GRI Performance Indicators GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 3 GRI Performance Indicators GRI performance indicators 2012 2013 2014 GRI performance indicators 2012 2013 2014 G4-EC3 Coverage of defined benefit pension plan in excess of G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular obligations (EUR mill.)¹ -6 -4 -420 performance and career development reviews 87% 88% *** G4-10 Number of company staff 13,290** 12,856 12,356 G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees by gender Permanently employed 12,468** 12,078 11,705 Male 27%** 27% 27% Employed for fixed term 822** 778 651 Female 73%** 73% 73% G4-10 Number of company staff G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees by age group Full-time 12,176** 11,898 11,423 Under 30 years 16%** 15%** 13% Part-time 1,114** 958 933 30–39 years 25%** 27%** 27% G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective 40–49 years 23%** 21%** 21% bargaining agreements 92%** 87% 87% Over 49 years 36%** 37%** 39% G4-54 Difference between highest and median annual earnings (only in Finland) * 22 21 G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees by employee category G4-55 Change in highest and median annual earnings Management 4%** 4%** 5% (only in Finland) * 0.9% -0.7% Supervisors 10%** 10%** 10% G4-LA1 New employee hires * 1,445** 1,402 Experts 30%** 28%** 28% G4-LA1 Terminated work relationships * 2,720** 1,907 Employees 56%** 58%** 57% G4-LA1 Terminated permanent work relationships * 1,643** 964 G4-LA12 Average age of staff 43.1** 43.5 43.8 G4-LA1 Turnover of permanent employees3 6.1** 10.1%** 8.1% EN3 Energy consumption (GJ)² 205,900 179,483 166,044 G4-LA3 Return to work rate after parental leave (only in Finland) * 97% 95% EN15 and 16 Greenhouse gas emissions (tons) 41,519 42,924 45,523 G4-LA3 Retention rate after parental leave (only in Finland) * 94% 95% ¹ OP Financial Group’s Financial Statement, Note 40, Other assets G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that ² Excl. business transfers. help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs * 88% 87% 3 Comprising premises used by the central cooperative consolidated and data centers in Helsinki. G4-LA6 Percentage of sick days of regular working hours (only in Finland) 3.6% 3.6% 3.5% * These indicators have not been reported before 2013, so no comparison data is available. G4-LA9 Percentage of training expenses of the payroll bill ** Excluding OPKK real estate agencies. (only in Finland) 2.5% 2.0% 2.0% *** Not measured in 2014. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 4 GRI Performance Indicators Management approaches to corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility at OP Financial Group is based on operations. The Operational Risk and Compliance function also OP’s products and services may involve economic, social and encooperative values, solid capital adequacy and capable risk manoversees risks and compliance related to CSR, and it bears overall vironmental impacts. Major new products, services and operating agement. Strategic CSR management is the responsibility of the responsibility for providing advice on ethical principles. The function models or significant changes to existing ones are, when necessary, Executive Board of OP Cooperative, which determines the policies operates independently of the business areas. assessed by OP Cooperative’s Executive Board, which ultimately on ethical matters. On the OP Cooperative Executive Board, CSR decides on whether they should be adopted. The Executive Board comes under the Chief Communications Officer’s remit. The CSR aspects identified as material for OP are presented in the is informed of significant realised risks as a part of monthly risk remateriality assessment and the GRI Content Index. OP’s operations, views. Risk maps, updated annually, are used to identify the critical At OP, corporate social responsibility management takes place products, services and business relations involve many significant risks affecting operations, including environmental, social and govas part of ordinary operational management. The purpose of economic, social and environmental impacts. OP as a whole has ernance (ESG) risks. These maps are used to conduct an analysis OP ­Financial Group’s CSR Programme is to direct and coordinate major direct and indirect economic impacts on both the Finnish on the basis of which the executive management are informed of actions related to CSR and to collect results on the main areas of society as a whole and on local economies. critical phenomena. In 2014 the Executive Board was informed of CSR at the group level. CSR performance is monitored, for examreputation-related risk effects within the scope of CSR. The effecple, through KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). With regard to social responsibility, some of the major impacts are tiveness of the risk and capital adequacy management efforts of OP related to personnel and working conditions, because OP Financial and its entities is evaluated in an annually updated ICAAP report. OP Financial Group’s business management practices mostly cover Group is a major employer. The Group’s human resource manIn addition, internal audits are conducted each year to examine the actions related to CSR management. One of the advantages of this agement practices cover all the CSR aspects identified as matestate of internal controls and capital adequacy. integrated approach is that CSR issues are linked to existing manrial. Impacts related to personnel and working conditions are led agement processes. The management approaches to corporate through strategic HR policies and OP Financial Group’s personnel The main environmental impacts caused by OP arise from energy social responsibility at OP Financial Group comprise the following policy. The Group’s practical management tools include OP Financial consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. In its own operations, elements: Group’s principles of good management, the remuneration system OP develops the management of significant CSR aspects by adoptand policy, a common equal opportunities framework plan, and ing Green Office systems and LEED requirements. With responsible • OP Financial Group’s Corporate Governance Principles competence development models. products and services, OP can influence environmental impacts arising outside of the scope of its own operations, which are often • OP Financial Group’s CSR Policies OP’s own operations do not involve major direct human rights significantly larger than those caused directly by the Group. risks or impacts. Indirectly, however such impacts may arise from • UN Global Compact principles the supply chain or from the operations of investees and financed The environmental impacts of companies that supply OP with parties. In accordance with its commitment to the Global Compact, goods and services may also be significant, and therefore envi• Code of Business Ethics OP seeks to prevent human rights violations and support the elimronmental requirements set for suppliers play an important role ination of child labour and forced labour throughout its business in CSR management. OP Financial Group’s procurement functions • OP Financial Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Programme operations and supply chain. With regard to OP Financial Group, use Group-level framework agreements wherever applicable. the most important social impacts are related to active fighting of These agreements require that suppliers comply with OP Financial The main management approaches are defined in OP Financial financial crime and abuse, including corruption, and the removal of Group’s Code of Business Ethics and the Global Compact, as well as Group’s Corporate Governance Principles. Good banking and insuranti-competitive behaviour. The main CSR impact of OP’s products all applicable laws and regulations. The supplier management risk ance practices guide us to comply with applicable laws, standards and services is related to the confidentiality of customer data and survey includes an assessment of the supplier’s CSR risks, on the and regulations and to adhere to the principles of honest and fair to data security. Product and service information and marketing basis of which an action plan for reducing and managing said risks practices may also comprise significant social impacts. is made where necessary. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 5 GRI Performance Indicators OP is committed to responsible marketing and advertising. The Anyone wishing to discuss the application of the Code of Business tion of Finnish Financial Services, Finnish Business & Society (FiBS) Group complies with marketing legislation and the self-regulation Ethics, or noticing practices that violate the Code of Business Ethics, and the Corporate Social Responsibility and Co-operative Affairs guidelines of international organisations, including those of the can discuss it with their line manager, with HR or with CompliWorking Group of the European Association of Co-operative Banks International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). OP also abides by the ance. Confidential messages can also be sent on the matter to the (EACB). marketing guidelines of the Consumer Agency and the FinanGroup’s Chief Audit Executive. Situations of actual or suspected cial Supervisory Authority. In marketing, OP aims to provide all conflicts of interest should be reported to both line manager and OP has actively followed the development of guidelines intended for information on products and services that may be of importance to the Operational Risk and Compliance function or only to the latter, the financial sector as part of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational customers when making decisions. Marketing directed at children in which case the matter is handled with anonymity for the person Enterprises. The OECD guidelines comprise voluntary CSR princiand young people is highly restricted. OP takes account of this making the report. If continuous or significant violations of the Code ples and standards, as well as instructions for applying legislation group’s general inexperience and limited legal capacity. of Business Ethics are observed, the Group Supervisory Board to international business operations. reprimands the Board of Directors of the relevant group entity. Code of Business Ethics As in previous years, in 2014 OP responded to the CDP survey, International commitments which gathers information from large corporations on their actions The principles of corporate social responsibility at OP are summato combat climate change and reduce greenhouse gases. The CDP rised in a Code of Business Ethics. The code provides an ethical In addition to laws and regulations, OP undertakes to comply with aims to draw the attention of companies to their environmental foundation for everyone working at OP Financial Group, whatever international commitments that guide operations. At the end of responsibility. In 2014, OP’s disclosure score in the survey was their role, position or location. These principles, which apply to 2011, OP signed the Global Compact, which binds the Group to ten 85/100, which was above the average. the whole Group and its administration, are firmly based on our United Nations principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the mission and values and form an important part of the responsibility environment and anti-corruption. The Global Compact principles GRI aspects in the financial sector of our operations. The Code of Business Ethics is available on the have been integrated into OP’s new supplier contracts and online OP website. training has been launched for personnel on business ethics and The GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement specifies and CSR, observing the Global Compact principles. More information provides guidance on special issues related to the CSR reporting To ensure the adoption of the code throughout the Group, an on the Global Compact principles and their application at OP is of banks and insurance companies, including a responsible product online course has been launched in seven languages to make provided at the end of this report. and service portfolio and responsible investment and ownership. sure that almost every single OP employee is able to take it in his With regard to the product and service portfolio, responsibility or her mother tongue. By the beginning of 2015, 88 per cent of OP Fund Management Company and Pohjola Asset Management refers to the reporting organisation’s activities and initiatives aimed Group employees had completed the online course and commitwere among Finland’s first asset management companies to sign at developing and marketing products and services that meet ted to following the code. Continuous training is provided in order the UN Principles for Responsible Investment in 2009. Since then, responsibility criteria. to enhance employees’ expertise, giving a wide range of training the Group has developed responsible investment practices with opportunities in various areas of banking, insurance and asset even greater determination, and participated in wider development management, including insider regulations, ethics, data security efforts in the sector. Both companies are founding members of and legislation. Finland’s Sustainable Investment Forum (FINSIF). OP also belongs to the Corporate Social Responsibility working group of the FederaGRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 6 GRI Performance Indicators Auditing Active ownership OP Fund Management Company may engage with them to address the situation. If this does not produce the desired effect, the ComCoverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation Percentage and number of companies held in mittee for Responsible Investment may decide to divest. In 2014, of environmental and social policies and risk assessment the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting the Committee made one such decision. procedures (FS9) organization has interacted on environmental or OP Financial Group develops its CSR audit methods as part of social issue (FS10) and Voting policies (FS12) Percentage of assets subject to positive and its overall management approaches. Because CSR is integrated Active ownership is an integral part of responsible investment. negative environmental or social screening (FS 11) into daily operations, the fulfilment of environmental and social OP Fund Management Company, which forms part of the Group’s responsibility policies and related risks are assessed within ordinary asset management business, exercises the voting rights of the muPositive screening business processes. Compliance with CSR requirements is evaluattual funds managed by it, in accordance with the ownership policy OP Financial Group encourages its investees and partners to opered for instance when assessing credit risk, approving new products, approved by the company’s Board of Directors. The Group does ate responsibly and in line with international standards. As a rule, business models and systems, and monitoring business ethics. In its best to discuss grievances directly with the companies prior to the most attractive potential investments for any fund are issuers accordance with our procurement guidelines, we require our conAGMs, so that it will be possible to support the Board’s proposal if whose operations are irreproachable in terms of international tractual partners to comply with our CSR principles. CSR risks and it comes to voting. OP Fund Management Company implements its ethical standards. compliance are assessed as a part of supplier risk assessment. ownership policy by actively participating in the general meetings of Finnish companies, in particular. In 2014, OP Fund Management Positive screening is particularly highlighted in the OP Climate and All direct, active equity and corporate bond investments made by Company was represented in 43 AGMs or Extraordinary General OP Clean Water funds. The OP Climate Fund includes companies OP Fund Management Company and Pohjola Asset Management Meetings. Moreover, a representative of OP Fund Management that will be in a good position when societies and businesses adapt are reviewed biannually by an external party. The purpose of this Company was appointed to the nomination committee of one their energy solutions and use of materials towards lower-carbon review is to ensure that the investment portfolios do not include company in 2014. alternatives. OP Clean Water, on the other hand, invests in comcompanies involved in confirmed violations of international standpanies operating sustainably in the water sector, for example the ards, such as the UN Global Compact. If confirmed violations are One of the most important ways for OP to obtain information development of water-saving technologies, prevention of pollution discovered in the investment portfolio, the Group seeks to influand assess the responsibility of companies are meetings with the and construction of reliable water infrastructures. At the end of ence the company in question to rectify its conduct. An alternative companies’ executives. At year-end 2014, the OP funds whose 2014, the assets under management in these funds totalled EUR response to such violations is to sell the assets. When making new portfolios are managed by Pohjola Asset Management contained 183.9 million or 2.7 per cent of the total AuM of OP Fund Manageinvestments, the portfolio manager will also examine the company shares from 60 Finnish listed companies. Pohjola Asset Management Company’s equity funds. for violations of international standards. ment discussed environmental and social responsibility issues with 22 per cent of these during the year. Negative screening OP Financial Group will not make active direct investments in Pohjola Asset Management and OP Fund Management Company companies producing anti-personnel mines or cluster weapons as also have different ways of influencing companies. If their investbanned by the Ottawa (1997) and Oslo (2012) Treaties. Companies ments include companies with violations of international standards that violate international standards may also be removed from or other operations which are not responsible or in line with the the lists of potential investment targets if they do not change their investor’s long-term interests, Pohjola Asset Management and operations despite attempts to influence them. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 7 GRI Performance Indicators In 2013, OP Fund Management and Pohjola Asset Management Regulations aiming to combat climate change may raise the cost of Environmental responsibility initiated collaboration with the Swedish company GES Investment energy consumption for both OP and its industrial customers, for Service for the purposes of negative screening. GES Investment whom energy prices can be a crucial element in terms of profitabilCarbon footprint, greenhouse emissions intensity and Service produces continuous analysis of the fulfilment of internaity and solvency. It also increases pressure on OP to make energy reduction measures (G4-EN6, EN15–19) tional standards by investment targets, for use by investors. Addisavings in its own operations. The operations of OP Financial Group have both direct and indirect tionally, GES Investment Service screens OP Group’s investments environmental impacts. OP Financial Group aims to reduce the twice a year in case of violations. This screening applies to all direct Extreme weather phenomena as operational risks are included in environmental impacts of its operations with regard to energy, equity and corporate bond investments managed by Pohjola Asset OP’s own continuity planning. Concerns related to climate change waste and materials, and to systematically develop its environmenManagement, which at year-end 2014 totalled EUR 14.6 billion may also pose reputational risks if any conflicts with climate change tal management practices. Additionally, OP is an indirect opinion in value, i.e. 35.5 per cent of all assets managed by Pohjola Asset prevention efforts should be identified in the operations of OP, its leader in encouraging customers to take environmental impacts Management. The investments of insurance and pension corporapartners or customers. into account when making financing, insurance and investment tions belonging to OP Financial Group are screened for violations decisions, and in recommending the use of e-services and elecof international standards as part of the responsible investment On the other hand, the general improvement in environmental tronic documents. In 2014 for instance, insurance policy docuprocess of Pohjola Asset Management. awareness generates new business opportunities, for example in ments were actively replaced with electronic versions and 234,000 the form of investment products that emphasise environmental recustomers adopted electronic insurance mail (2013: approximately Economic responsibility sponsibility, and diverse property insurance products. Our non-life 200,000). As a result of digitalisation, the abbreviation and cutting insurance business continuously monitors the development of risks the amount of printed materials, the Group reduced the amount of Economic responsibility encompasses both the economic sustainposed by climate change from the viewpoint of our existing and insurance mail sent to customers by 7.6 million pages from 2013. ability of operations and taking account of the wider economic future insurance products. Our aim is to cover all insurable risks as impacts on society and the company’s stakeholders. In the financial extensively as possible, also in constantly changing circumstances. In 2014, the OP Cooperative changed its company car policy by sector, economic responsibility is of key importance, since responlowering the CO2 emission limit from 170 to 150. At the beginsibility for customers and the role of companies as capital and inCoverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan ning of 2014, the average CO2 emissions of company cars was surance providers are emphasised during difficult economic times. obligations (G4-EC3) 146 g/km, and roughly 100 cars were replaced with more environMore information on the most essential GRI indicators for economic At OP Financial Group, retirement benefits are determined in mentally friendly models, which reduced average CO2 emissions to responsibility is available in the OP Year 2014 report. accordance with pension legislation and the Group’s own pension 137 grams per kilometre. Since our company cars drive approxiplans. Statutory pension cover for OP Financial Group companies’ mately 18,000 km on average each year, these measures reduced Other economic impacts employees is arranged through pension insurance taken out with emissions by an estimated 16.2 tonnes of CO2 . OP Bank Group Pension Fund or insurance companies. A few Risks and opportunities due to climate change (G4-EC2) companies within OP Financial Group have provided supplementary The measures carried out in connection with the LEED certification As a financial sector operator, OP and its products and services pension cover for their employees through OP Bank Group Pension of Vääksyntie 2 and the A building of the Vallila block were realised have a relatively minor impact on climate change. Nevertheless, Fund or an insurance company. Further information is presented in in 2014. In addition, preparations were made for the certification of environmental risks, including climate risks, can have direct impacts OP Financial Group’s Financial Statements, note 40 Provisions and Vääksyntie 4 and the H building, slated for implementation in 2015. on OP’s operations, as well as indirect impacts through effects on other liabilities. The energy efficiency of the Lapinmäentie property was improved customers and stakeholders. by measures such as enhancing the use of space and further optimisation of the operating times of systems. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 8 GRI Performance Indicators Workforce by contract type, % The use of video conferencing equipment spread quickly at OP in Other greenhouse emissions caused by indirect energy 2014. One-to-one instant messaging was by far the most common consumption (G4-EN17) Permanent tool, but slightly more than 100,000 voice or video meetings Of the scope 3 emissions listed in the GHG protocol, OP ­Financial between three or more people were also held, which amounts Group accounts for the emissions caused by business travel, 5 Fixed-term to double the number of such meetings in 2013. The reduction mailing, paper use, waste management and the energy consumpof travel for meetings significantly improves work efficiency and tion of external data centres. The business travel of OP Financial reduces transport emissions. Group personnel is governed by a travel policy. In 2014, business travel caused 2,408 tonnes of CO2 emissions (2013: 3,378 tonnes). OP Financial Group’s carbon footprint (Scopes 1+2+3) in 2014 The Group has made investments in video and online conferencing 95 totalled approximately 45,523 tonnes carbon dioxide, i.e. 3.7 tonnes technology to reduce business travel. Its travel guidelines state that per person. Of the total amount, 81 per cent was caused by the trains or buses must be favoured in travel within Finland. In 2014, electricity and heat consumption of offices, six per cent by vehicles, mailing by OP Financial Group caused 788 tonnes of CO2 emissions, three per cent by other business travel, and three per cent by paper paper use 1,478 tonnes, waste management 598 tonnes, and data use. The margin of error is 8.5 per cent (2013: 11.5%). The recentre energy consumption 1,376 tonnes. duction in the margin of error is due to more comprehensive base data and more accurate emission factors. The Group’s objective is Social responsibility to reduce its carbon footprint each year. The direct greenhouse gas emissions from OP’s own operations (Scopes 1+2) totalled 38,914 Labour practices and decent work CO2e-tonnes or 3.1 tonnes per person. Workforce by employment type, % Personnel structure (G4-10, G4-LA1, G4-LA12) Energy consumption (G4-EN3), Energy intensity (G4-EN5) The number of personnel employed by OP Financial Group fell by The total energy consumption of OP Financial Group central 500 in 2014. At year-end, the Group employed 12,356 persons Full-time cooperative consolidated functions in Helsinki equalled 166,044 GJ (2013: 12,856). Of these, 95 (94) per cent were permanently em8 Part-time (179,483 in 2013). The energy intensity, or total energy conployed and five (6) per cent were fixed-term employees. Of Group sumption per employee, of these premises amounted to 64.5 GJ. employees, 11,915 were based in Finland, 192 in Estonia, 122 in Omasairaala is included in the calculations as of 2014. The change Latvia, 125 in Lithuania and two in Russia. in electricity consumption was also due to the OP Financial Group’s Vallila 2015 property development project, in which old premises in The management system and organisational structure of the centhe Vallila block have been renovated or demolished to create new, tral cooperative consolidated were updated in 2014. Six statutory 92 more efficient buildings. The use of district cooling has reduced negotiations were carried out during the year in the central coopthe electricity consumption of the Vallila block. Testing of back-up erative consolidated in order to reorganise operations and improve generators in the Lapinmäentie and Vallila properties consumed efficiency. Statutory negotiations were also carried out in 14 of the approximately 1,400 litres of fuel. Group’s cooperative banks in order to adjust operations to the low interest rate level, increased regulation of the financial sector and changes in customer behaviour. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 9 GRI Performance Indicators Workforce by gender, % The statutory negotiations carried out in 2014 resulted in a reducRemuneration tion of 179 employees in the OP Financial Group. The employment Men of 117 of these employees was terminated through voluntary Incentive schemes (G4-52) arrangements and 62 employees were dismissed. Business transRemuneration and rewards at OP Financial Group follow the Women 27 fers also resulted in the transfer of 19 employees to the employGroup’s remuneration principles. These principles are posted on ment of another company. Excluding the effect of the business the Group’s intranet and are therefore available to all personnel. transfers, the annual turnover of permanent employees equalled Remuneration systems based on the principles are in place to 8.1 per cent (10.1). support the fulfilment of the Group’s strategy, taking into account the special nature of its areas of operation. OP Financial Group 73 OP wants to provide equal working opportunities for all employees. ­emphasises the need for fairness and transparency in remunerIn 2014, 73 (73) per cent of the workforce were female and 27 ation. Employees and employee representatives are engaged in (27) per cent were male. At the end of 2014, the average age of active cooperation in the development of remuneration practices. OP employees was 43.8 years (43.5) with an average employment period of 14.5 years. The average age of retirement from OP was OP Cooperative’s HR Management (Remuneration and perfor61.7 (61.7) years in 2014. mance management) prepares Group-level recommendations regarding remuneration, as well as policies, alignments, principles Labour/management relations (G4-LA4, G4-11) and systems which are binding on the central cooperative, for deOP Financial Group performs all statutory negotiations in complicision-making purposes. New remuneration systems and changes ance with the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings and other to existing systems, principles or alignments are handled by the Workforce by age group, % local legislation governing such procedures. OP Financial Group remuneration or HR committee in question and presented for decihas arranged cooperation with employees through a cooperation sion-making to the appropriate board of directors and/or supergroup that convenes on a quarterly basis. The group discusses visory board. OP Cooperative’s HR Management is responsible for Under 30 yrs OP Financial Group’s finances and performance, along with other the implementation of decisions concerning the central cooperative, 13 30–39 yrs current matters concerning the entire Group. All Group companies as well as Group-level recommendations, and the development of have arranged their own cooperation procedures in accordance policies and systems. 40–49 yrs 39 with legislation. 27 Over 49 yrs The use of external consultants in developing the remuneration In Finland, 90 (90) per cent of OP Financial Group personnel are system is strictly limited and does not apply to decision-making covered by universally binding collective labour agreements. No – only to preparatory stages. The use of consultants for prepa21 binding collective agreements exist in the sector in the Baltic ration is specified when presenting remuneration systems for region. decision-making. The remuneration principles for management and administrative staff and the benefits paid in 2014 are described in the document OP Financial Group Corporate Governance Statement 2014. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 10 GRI Performance Indicators Workforce by personnel group, % How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken and the collective agreement for the medical services ­industry into account (G4-53) at O ­ masairaala. As a large-scale financial sector employer, Salaried employees OP Financial Group’s remuneration principles and policies are disOP ­Financial Group plays a major role in developing the industry. 5 cussed by the Supervisory Board of OP Cooperative and, depending The collective agreements for the finance and insurance industries 10 Experts on the issue, by the OP Financial Group’s Remuneration Committee, were updated based on negotiations that ended on 25 October Supervisors and the Supervisory Board, or another relevant Board, as well as the 2013. Both negotiations led to an agreement to initiate a review team leaders 28 57 appropriate Remuneration or HR Committee, examining the appliof a potential finance sector labour market project. This project is Management cation of the systems and evaluating their suitability. called Wellbeing for the Financial Sector. For systems applying to the whole Group, the decisions are made The purpose of the Wellbeing for the Financial Sector project is to by the Supervisory Board or OP Financial Group’s Remuneration enhance wellbeing by ensuring that the financial sector simultaneCommittee. A Supervisory Board member who has no employment ously generates profits for its owners, is competitive on the market or executive contract with an OP Financial Group company can act and safeguards the wellbeing of its employees. The starting point as a member of the OP Financial Group’s Remuneration Commitof the project is the shared intent of the employers and employees tee. Within the member banks, remuneration-related decisions in the financial sector to learn to understand the major change are ultimately made by the Board of Directors, which consists of factors affecting this sector. These include digitalisation, changes in owner-members. customer behaviour and the impact of these. The project aims at increasing occupational wellbeing among financial sector personnel Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided while improving productivity and competitiveness in the sector. The Workforce by personnel group and gender, % to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations project is chaired by a representative of OP Financial Group. of operation (G4-LA2) The fringe benefits of the OP Cooperative are the same for all 100 personnel, regardless of their employment contract, meaning that Education 25 59 55 87 73 80 temporary and/or part-time personnel are offered the same bene­ fits as full-time and/or permanent personnel. The member banks Competence development (G4-LA10) 75 60 decide independently on the benefits they offer, while following the Competence development is one of the strategic areas of focus for benefit model provided by the OP Cooperative where applicable. OP Financial Group, and personnel are given good opportunities for 40 41 45 training and development. Future competence needs are explored 20 27 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements during annual planning. Competence management is supported 0 13 with trade unions (G4-LA8) through development plans drawn up during performance reviews. OP Financial Group is a unionised employer. The Group companies OP Financial Group provides extensive training to personnel in Management Supervisors Experts Salaried All apply three collective labour agreements: the collective agreevarious tasks in order to support the implementation of the Group’s and team employees leaders ment for the finance industry in banking operations, the collective strategy and to facilitate the development of competence, also by Men agreement for the insurance industry in insurance operations, encouraging job rotation. Women GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 11 GRI Performance Indicators Governing bodies by gender, % Other development techniques, such as mentoring and coaching, Area (EEA) member state, Switzerland or San Marino. The National are also used in competence development, and attention is paid to Discrimination Tribunal of Finland ruled that legislation or other Men target-oriented on-the-job learning. official instructions did not prevent the custo­mer’s passport from being accepted as proof of identity and ­imposed a conditional fine Women Employees are encouraged to make use of the diverse competence of EUR 5,000 on OP Financial Group. The Group is likely to appeal 36 development methods available in the Group. Employee perforagainst the decision of the Tribunal, since it is in conflict with an mance reviews also play an important role in training and education. earlier decision regarding the same matter. 64 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men In 2014, the National Discrimination Tribunal of Finland rejected an by employee category, by significant locations of operation appeal made by a customer in the end of 2013, in which the cus(G4-LA13) tomer suspected discrimination and demanded access to written Equal treatment is a key principle in OP Financial Group’s hudecisions regarding negative credit decisions. man resources management and salary policy, which is based on encouragement and fairness. Gender plays no role in the determiSociety nation of salaries. At OP Financial Group, salaries are based on the complexity of the task, competence and performance. RemuneraLocal communities tion is based on performance reviews that take targets and results into consideration. Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type (FS13) Governing bodies by age group, % The equality of remuneration is reviewed on an annual basis, using OP has Finland’s largest network of banking and non-life insurance the pay survey described in the Act on equality between women services. This network seeks to ensure that customers have equal and men. The results of the survey and any corrective measures opportunities to carry out transactions. Our cooperative banks Under 30 yrs required by the results are discussed with Group management and and their offices across Finland enable effective interaction with 2 11 30–39 yrs personnel representatives. customers and the local community. The Group’s member banks had 456 branches at the end of 2014, as well as some 1,590 Otto 40–49 yrs Human rights ATMs (shared between Finland’s banks) around the country. 22 Over 49 yrs Non-discrimination The number of branches decreased by 29 during the year. As a rule the close-outs concerned branches located either close to an65 Total number of incidents of discrimination and other branch of in a sparsely populated area. The number of ATMs corrective actions taken (G4-HR3) remained unchanged. Approximately 100 machines where replaced One new allegation of discrimination was made against OP ­Financial with the TalletusOtto ATMs which also enable cash deposits. DeciGroup in 2014. The matter involved the granting of online banking sions to close down ATMs are mostly based on usage statistics, but codes to a customer who was not a citizen of a European Economic in order to guarantee the coverage of the network, no machines GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 12 GRI Performance Indicators are closed down which are located over 20 kilometres away from Anti-corruption The guideline for Handling Conflicts of Interest in OP Financial the next ATM, regardless of their usage. Group is intended to prevent cases of corruption. All of the Group’s Total number and percentage of operations assessed member organisations are responsible for applying the guidelines Initiatives to improve access to financial services for for risks related to corruption and the significant risks internally. Each and every executive and employee within the disadvantaged people (FS14) identified (G4-SO3) institutions must know the guidelines. Every manager is in charge We provide comprehensive services in Finnish and Swedish, but The entities within OP Financial Group apply a guideline entitled of supervising compliance with the guidelines, with the managing among corporate customers as well as in growth centres and the Procedures for Managing Operational Risk. The central cooperative director and board of each organisation having ultimate responsi­ Helsinki Metropolitan Area in particular, there is a great demand formulates a risk analysis plan indicating which entities are to be bility. The guidelines concerning conflicts of interests must be for services in English. For our English-speaking customers, we analysed. If necessary, the entities to be analysed can be agreed handled by each organisation and its employees on a regular basis, provide electronic services (op.fi, OP-mobile and Pivo) for doing with the Group’s member organisations. In 2014, OP Financial and whenever a new person receives job orientation. their daily transactions for banking and insurance. With respect to Group included nearly 300 entities for analysis. other services, we develop our service capabilities in English in line Product responsibility with customer needs. Some OP-Kiinteistökeskus real estate agency These entities update their operational risk analyses annually based branches also offer service in Russian. In the Baltic countries, our on the procedural guidelines. The risk analyses are based on the Type of product and service information required by branches serve customers in local languages, while our electronic entities’ self-evaluations concerning operational risks and their the organization’s procedures for product and service services are available in English. management. In line with the analysis process, each entity identifies information and labelling, and percentage of significant and evaluates the most important risks affecting its operations. products and service categories subject to such The text version of op.fi website (pda.op.fi) is used by people with To assist in identification, the Group has a shared risk library which information requirements (G4-PR3) vision impairments, enabling the use of disability aids such as a lists diverse risks subdivided into seven risk categories. The Internal OP Financial Group complies with legislation which requires that speech synthesizer. Furthermore, OP provides online banking code Abuse category includes the risk Giving and Receiving Bribes. customers be informed of certain terms, properties or risks related lists in Braille, enabling the use of the eService by people with to a product or service. This notification obligation applies to all impaired vision. Bribery was recognised as a material operational risk only in the three business areas of the Group: banking, non-life insurance and Pohjola Group’s banking operations within the St. Petersburg deleasset management. The real estate agency Helsinki OP-Kiinteistökeskus and the gation of the International Partnerships organisation. Finnish Association of People with Physical Disabilities (FPD) have Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of agreed on cooperation whereby barrier-free and accessible Easy Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and beneficiary (FS16) Access homes for people with disabilities will be sold and bought procedures (G4-SO4) OP focuses on promoting financial literacy, the management through Helsinki OP-Kiinteistökeskus. Easy access to the home is The Code of Business Ethics document ratified by the Supervisory of one’s daily life and finances and knowledge of banking and important – this means not only wide barrier-free passages but Board of OP Cooperative specifies that employees shall avoid any insurance matters in Finland. OP has conducted surveys on Finns’ also, for example special lighting and signs. Within the home, it is situation that may put them or OP Financial Group under suspicion financial literacy during several consecutive years, including 2014. important that those using wheelchairs or wheeled walking aids of bribery. A compulsory online course for all employees of the The survey found that an increasing number of Finns regularly have access to storage space, sockets, window and door handles Group was implemented to ensure familiarisation with the Code at use mobile applications that make it easier to monitor personal and kitchen appliances, for instance. all levels. finances. At their best, they will create a new type of ­customer GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 13 GRI Performance Indicators e­ xperience, highlighting user-friendliness and adaptability to and financial literacy, particularly to young people and senior citichanging needs. This also helps users to learn and supports the zens. Cooperation with educational institutions forms an important management of personal finances. By the end of 2014, the OP Pivo aspect of the work to maintain financial literacy. This cooperation mobile wallet application was downloaded over 300,000 times. takes the form of theses, student visits, work experience places and recruitment fairs. With respect to financial literacy, OP paid particular attention to young people in 2014. Only every other young person feels that Customer magazines play a significant role in promoting financial they can manage their personal finances, and only 25% say that literacy. OP-Pohjola magazine is Finland’s third most read maga­ news about financial and economic issues is clear and understandzine (KMT, autumn 2013/spring 2014) and its aim is to speak able. Young people also feel, in more cases than the older generabout banking and insurance matters to its more than 1.3 million ation, that they should improve skills related to personal financial readers. OP publishes the Chydenius magazine, whose mission is to planning. provoke social discussion and present the views of prominent opinion leaders. OP Financial Group also has other customer magazines Fifteen OP member banks from all over Finland participated in the for specific target groups. The Group aims to increase interaction Finnish banking sector’s joint Taloustaito project aimed at prowith customers and facilitate communication on financial issues. moting young people’s financial skills. This project was part of an The Group also communicates on financial issues through its initiative launched by President of the Republic in 2013 to prevent own website and social media, such as Facebook, Twitter and the social exclusion of children and young people. Approximately 1,200 taloudessa.fi blog. adolescents participated in financial counselling provided by special youth work groups. The purpose of this was to improve their basic Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches financial skills and to attend to their personal finances, such as of customer privacy and losses of customer data (G4-PR8) paying their bills in due time. The groups also discussed the cost of Two breaches of customer privacy were discovered in 2014. As daily life and possible ways to save money. a result of human error, a customer of one OP branch received another customer’s documents in addition to their own. In the Banks have arranged events related to various financial topics second incident, a software error caused a service provider to send and market themes for their retail and corporate customers. letters regarding the termination of insurance policies directly to OP ­Banking in collaboration with local cooperative banks held customers instead of OP banks, their intended recipients. The cases investor strategy events, which attracted nearly 12,000 customcaused no financial damages. ers from various parts of Finland in 2014. Besides giving market reviews, these events focused on the impacts of the changed geopolitical situation on the financial market as well as the reasons behind the low market rates. In addition, the member banks have organised small-scale local events related to teaching financial skills GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 14 GRI Performance Indicators GRI Reporting Principles GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 15 GRI Reporting Principles GRI reporting principles (G4-18) emphasis of CSR efforts and the key content of the CSR report ideology, human rights, cooperation with stakeholders, fair design were determined. The Executive Board has checked and approved and sale of products, interaction with local communities, participaThis report is OP Financial Group’s fourth Corporate Social Responthe outcomes of the materiality assessment. tion in community development, and employment. sibility Report prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. Reporting at OP fulfils the most extensive Materiality assessment The results of the stakeholder survey are presented in the adjacent recommendations (“comprehensive”) of the GRI Guidelines and the In autumn 2014, OP acquired up-to-date information on its materiality matrix whose vertical axis represents materiality for Financial Services Sector Supplement. stakeholders’ expectations regarding responsibility by renewing its stakeholders while the horizontal axis represents present or potenmateriality assessment. The previous materiality assessment was tial impact on OP’s business. The materiality for stakeholders has The Group’s GRI report also meets the reporting obligations related from 2013. The survey consisted of telephone interviews carried been assessed as a whole; the matrix does not reflect the weight of to the UN Global Compact and the promotion of human rights, out in October 2014, which covered seven selected stakeholder individual stakeholder groups. Themes rated as material have been labour, environmental and anti-corruption policies in OP’s business. representatives, and an online survey answered by 739 p ­ eople, utilised in determining the report content and they are discussed to including representatives of retail and corporate customers, the extent relevant for this report on the basis of their weight and OP Financial Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report inmembers of Group cooperative banks’ governing bodies, personnel, materiality. cludes the data for 2014, in accordance with the Group’s structure suppliers of goods and services and other external stakeholders, as and financial reporting principles. The section on GRI corporate well as 51 OP executives. Responsibility Data presents the GRI G4 data corresponding to the material aspects identified in the materiality assessments. In order to identify responsibility aspects, potentially material topics The ­Executive Board has approved the content of this report and were collected from GRI Guidelines and OP’s previous corporate assumes liability for it. responsibility report as well as those of other financial companies. The topics for the online survey were selected from this list on the Definition of materiality basis of the telephone interviews. For GRI reporting, the location OP determines the content of its CSR report based on the reportof the impact of material topics (inside/outside the company) was ing principles in the GRI G4 Guidelines. In identifying the material defined by OP. aspects of CSR, the most significant economic, social and environmental impacts of OP’s operations, products, services and busiBased on the stakeholders’ responses, the main CSR aspects at OP ness relations were taken into account. Other aspects that were are customer privacy, economic performance and the bank’s staconsidered were ones which may affect stakeholders’ decisions or bility, the prevention of financial crime, the availability of financial choices. In order to rate the priority of its CSR aspects, OP updated services, and the management of CSR-related risks. Other CSR its stakeholder survey on materiality in October 2014. Additionally, aspects rated as material were the development of e-services in the significance of the aspects was internally evaluated in relation banking and insurance, occupational health and safety of employto OP’s strategy and business functions. Based on this evaluation, ees, HR training and development, ethical business operations, imthe aspects were put in order of priority and the main areas of pacts on society, staff diversity and equal opportunities, cooperative GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 16 GRI Reporting Principles Materiality analysis 5 1. Financial results, stability 2. Protection of customer privacy 3. Prevention of financial crime 4. Ethical business 2 5. CSR risk management 1 6. Availability of financial services 6 3 7. Development of electronic banking and insurance services 5 8. Employee health and safety 9 8 7 9. Training and development of personnel 4 10. Impacts on society 14 10 11. Diversity of personnel, equal opportunities 16 15 13 11 12. Cooperative approach 17 19 18 12 13. Cooperation with stakeholders Materiality, stakeholders 20 14. Human rights 22 15. Fair product design and sales 16. Interaction with local communities and contribution to 21 their development 25 24 17. Employment 23 26 18. Interaction with customers and other stakeholders on CSR risks and opportunities 19. Supply chain management 20. Complaints in the supply chain related to CSR issues and their management 21. Fines and sanctions related to CSR issues 22. Promotion of financial literacy 23. Products generating social and environmental benefits 24. Waste treatment and recycling 2.5 5 25. Support to local communities Materiality, business 26. Energy consumption and related emissions GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 17 GRI Reporting Principles Identified material aspects (G4-19) Numerical data is presented for the reporting period and comparaG4-LA1. New and terminated employment contracts are reported The following GRI-aspects were identified as material tive data for at least two previous financial years. For indicators for for the entire OP Financial Group. The figures do not include for OP’s reporting: which no comparative data is available from previous financial years, internal personnel mobility (when employees change jobs within only the data for the reporting period is presented in the report. the Group). The turnover of permanent personnel does not include • Economic: Economic performance and Indirect economic impacts. transfers of business. GRI indicators specific to the financial sector (FS) • Environmental: Energy and Emissions. G4-LA3. The return to work and retention rates after parental In relation to the GRI indicators specific to the financial sector, the leave figures apply to Finland and do not include OP-Kiinteistö­ • Labour practices and decent work: Employment, Labour/ information is based on figures provided by business units, the keskus branches. management relations, Occupational health and safety, Training accuracy of which has been internally assured. and education, Diversity and equal opportunity, and Equal G4-LA5. The percentage of the total workforce represented in remuneration for women and men. Financial reporting formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety • Human rights: Non-discrimination. Data on economic responsibility are based on the audited figures programmes are reported for the entire OP Financial Group. of the consolidated IFRS financial statements of OP Financial • Society: Local communities, Anti-corruption, Public policy, Group for 2014. G4-LA6. The proportion of sickness absences out of r­ egular Anti-competitive behaviour, Compliance. person-years applies to Finland and does not include Social reporting OP-Kiinteistö­keskus branches. • Product responsibility: Product and service labelling, Marketing communications, Customer privacy and Compliance. Personnel data were gathered from OP Financial Group’s SAP G4-LA8. The health and safety themes included in the agreements Personnel system, OP property management centres, and from the signed with trade unions are reported for Finland and do not • Financial service specific: Auditing and Active ownership. Seesam insurance company in the Baltic states. Unless otherwise include OP-Kiinteistökeskus branches. stated, the figures apply to the whole OP Financial Group. Entities included (G4-20, G4-21) G4-LA9. The training costs in relation to total salary apply to OP Financial Group’s sustainability reporting is mainly performed G4-10. The number of employees is reported for the entire Finland and do not include OP-Kiinteistökeskus branches. within the same boundaries as the Group’s financial reporting. The OP ­Financial Group, broken down by employment type, employGRI indicators are calculated and presented in accordance with fiment contract, age and country. G4-LA11. The percentage of employees subject to regular perfornancial accounting principles. The boundary applied to environmenmance and career development reviews is reported for the entire tal responsibility data is different, as this data is based on inforG4-11. The percentage of total employees covered by collective OP Financial Group. The personnel survey that constitutes the basis mation from OP Financial Group’s facilities management services. bargaining agreements is reported for the entire OP Financial for this indicator was not carried out in 2014. Detailed energy consumption data is available on the premises of Group. the central cooperative consolidated, while the member banks’ data G4-LA12. The breakdown of employees per employee c­ ategory is based on a representative sample. Any deviations or limitations in G4-54. The ratio between the highest and average salaries applies according to gender and age group is reported for the entire the boundary are reported in connection with the relevant data. to Finland and does not include OP-Kiinteistökeskus branches. OP Financial Group. G4-55. The changes in the highest and average salaries apply to Finland and do not include OP-Kiinteistökeskus branches. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 18 GRI Reporting Principles The following are included in administration broken down by age Some minor emission sources and sources that entail significant and gender: members of the Representative Assemblies and uncertainty were excluded, such as the energy consumption of Supervisory Board of the member cooperative banks, chairman holi­day and entertainment properties, the indirect emissions and deputy chairman of the Supervisory Board, members of the caused by overseas functions (waste management, paper use, Board of Directors, chairman and vice chairman of the Board of mailing and travel), commuting, and business travel by ship, train, Directors, and deputy members of the Board of Directors of the bus or local public transport. member cooperative banks. In comparison to previous years, the calculation basis was extended Environmental reporting to cover overseas functions and service centres, and Omasairaala was included as a new function. The calculations now encompass OP’s carbon footprint was calculated in accordance with the Greenall business operations managed by OP Financial Group. Compared house Gas Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute to the carbon footprint of 2013, the reliability of calculations was and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The improved by broadening the sample of energy consumption data following emission sources were taken into account, in line with the acquired from cooperative banks and other Group companies. division of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Primary data is now available from units controlling 47% of Group real estate in terms of surface area. • Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 – compulsory): fuel consumption of emergency power systems and vehicles owned Energy consumption is reported for the properties of OP Financial and leased by the Group. Group central cooperative consolidated functions (the Vallila block, Elimäenkatu, Lapinmäentie, Hiomotie) and Omasairaala. • Greenhouse gas emissions caused by the consumption of purchased electricity and heat (Scope 2 – compulsory): electricity The carbon footprint calculation covers all Group functions. The and heat consumption of office premises used by the central carbon footprints of properties from which no primary data was cooperative consolidated, the Group’s foreign functions and available were calculated on the basis of the average consumption member banks. of the most closely corresponding premises, with the missing data scaled in relation to surface area or personnel number. • Other indirect emissions (Scope 3 – inclusion is voluntary): the energy consumption of service providers’ data centres, waste Due to the above-mentioned changes in the calculation methods, management, mailing, paper use, business travel by airplane or updated emission factors and broader sample, the 2014 carbon private vehicle, and hotel accommodation. footprint of OP Financial Group is not entirely comparable with that of previous years. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 19 GRI Reporting Principles GRI Content Index GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 20 gri content index GRI content index Externally assured Not externally assured External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO’s statement OP Year 2014: Review by the President, Group Executive Chairman G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities OP Year 2014: Strategy and business Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization Financial statement, Note 1: General G4-4 Primary brands, products and services OP Year 2014: Strategy and business, Customers G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Financial statement, Note 1: General G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries Financial statement, Note 55 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Financial statement, Note 55 G4-8 Market areas OP Year 2014: Strategy and business G4-9 Scale of the organization OP Year 2014: OP's key indicators G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, employment type, GRI Data, p. 9–10 region and gender G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements GRI Data, p. 4 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain OP Year 2014: We care for our customers and our operating environment G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, Financial statement, Report by the Executive structure, ownership, or its supply chain Board: Changes in OP Financial Group´s structure G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the Financial statement, Note 2: OP Financial Group's Risk organization and Capital Adequacy Management Principles G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, GRI Data, p. 6 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations GRI Data, p. 6 GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 21 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements Financial Statements, Note 55 G4-18 Process for defining the report content GRI Data, p. 16 G4-19 Material aspects GRI Data, p. 18 G4-20 List of entities or groups of entities within the organization for which GRI Data, p 18 the aspects are material G4-21 List of entities or groups of entities outside of the organization for which GRI Data, p. 18 the aspects are material G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, No restatements. and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries No restatements. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization OP Year 2014: We work in close cooperation with our customers and other stakeholders G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage OP Year 2014: We work in close cooperation with our customers and other stakeholders G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement OP Year 2014: We work in close cooperation with our customers and other stakeholders G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement OP Year 2014: We work in close cooperation with our customers and other stakeholders Report profile G4-28 Reporting period 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2014 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 27 February 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents viestinta@op.fi G4-32 GRI content Index GRI Data, p. 16 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance The report has not been assured externally. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 22 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Governance Governance structure and composition G4-34 Governance structure, including committees Corporate Governance Statement: Supervisory Board and its committees G4-35 Division of responsibilities Corporate Governance Statement: Corporate social responsibililty G4-36 Positions with responsibility Corporate Governance Statement: Corporate social responsibililty G4-37 Processes for consultation with stakeholders Corporate Governance Statement: Corporate social responsibililty, OP Year 2014: We work in close cooperation with our customers and other stakeholders G4-38 Members of the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Statement: OP Financial Group´s President, Executive Chairman, and OP Cooperative´s CEO and Executive Board G4-39 Status of the chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement: OP Financial Group´s President, Executive Chairman, and OP Cooperative´s CEO G4-40 Election of the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Statement: OP Financial Group´s President, Executive Chairman, and OP Cooperative´s CEO G4-41 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed Corporate Governance Statement: Management system Highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values, and strategy G4-42 Highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance Statement: Corporate social responsibililty Highest governance body’s competencies and performance evaluation G4-43 Highest governance body’s collective knowledge Corporate Governance Statement: Corporate social responsibililty Corporate Governance Statement: Corporate social G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance responsibililty GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 23 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Highest governance body’s role in risk management G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of risk GRI Data, p. 5–6 G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s GRI Data, p. 5–6 risk management G4-47 Frequency of risk reviews GRI Data, p. 5–6 Board’s role in CSR reporting G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s GRI Data, p. 16 sustainability report Highest governance body’s role in evaluating economic, environmental and social performance G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance Statement, GRI Data, p. 5–6 G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated GRI Data, p. 5–6 Remuneration and incentives G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives Corporate Governance Statement: Remuneration G4-52 Incentive schemes GRI Data, p. 10 G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account GRI Data, p. 11 G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid GRI Data, p. 4 individual and the median for all employees G4-55 Percentage increase in total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid GRI Data, p. 4 individual and the median for all employees Business ethics G4-56 Ethics and integrity Corporate Governance Statement: Management system; OP Year 2014: Strategy G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour GRI Data, p. 5–6 G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful GRI Data, p. 6 behaviour GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 24 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Disclosures on management approach Generic disclosures on management approach (DMA) GRI Data, p. 5–6 Aspect-specific disclosures on management approach Product and service impact FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines GRI Data, p. 5–6 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines GRI Data, p. 5–6 FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with GRI Data, p. 5–6 environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental GRI Data, p. 5–6 and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental GRI Data, p. 5–6 and social risks and opportunities Product and service labelling FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services GRI Data, p. 5–6 Operational KPIs Product and service Impact Aspect: Auditing FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental GRI Data, p. 7 and social policies and risk assessment procedures Aspect: Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which GRI Data, p. 7 the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issue FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening GRI Data, p. 8 FS12 Voting policy(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which GRI Data, p. 7 the reporting organization holds the right to vote or advises on voting GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 25 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Economic responsibility Aspect: Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed + FSSS: Value generated by the OP Year 2014: We care for our customers and our organization’s community investment programs and breakdown of community operating environment investment by theme G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities GRI Data, p. 8 due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations GRI Data, p. 4; Financial statement, Note 40 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from the government OP Financial Group did not receive any significant financial assistance from the government in 2014. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and service provided primarily OP Year 2014: We care for our customers and our Local projects, investments for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro-bono engagement operating environment in an active Finnish payment traffic system. G4-EC8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including OP Year 2014: We care for our customers and our the extent of impacts operating environment Environmental responsibility Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source GRI Data, p. 9 G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Data not collected G4-EN5 Energy intensity GRI Data, p. 9 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption GRI Data, p. 8 G4-EN7 Reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services Not reported, because the figure is not applicable to OP Financial Group’s operations. GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 26 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) GRI Data, p. 9 FSSS: Greenhouse gas emissions relating to business travel and courier services G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) GRI Data, p. 9 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) GRI Data, p. 9 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity GRI Data, p. 9 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions GRI Data, p. 8–9 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not reported, because the figure is not applicable to OP Financial Group’s operations. G4-EN21 Nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulphur oxide (SOx) and other significant air emissions Not reported, because the figure is not applicable to OP Financial Group’s operations. Social responsibility Labour practices and decent work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, GRI Data, p. 4 Data on new and terminated gender and region employment relationships was collected according to G4 specifications. The indicators are presented without a breakdown by age group, gender or region. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or GRI Data, p. 11 part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender GRI Data, p. 4 Aspect: Labour/management relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are GRI Data, p. 10 specified in collective agreements GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 27 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Aspect: Labour/management relations G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker GRI Data, p. 4 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, GRI Data, p. 4 The report presents the and total number of work-related ­fatalities, by region and by gender proportion of sick days to regular annual working time in Finland. Other G4-LA6 indicators were not collected. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation OP Financial Group’s business does not include positions with a recognised high incidence or risk of specific diseases. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions GRI Data, p. 11 Aspect: Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category GRI Data, p. 4 Proportion of training expenses to total wage sum in Finland. Actual G4-LA9 indicators were not collected. G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued GRI Data, p. 11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development GRI Data, p. 4 reviews, by gender and by employee category Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee GRI Data, p. 4, GRI Data, p. 9–12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 28 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, GRI Data, p. 12 Ratio of women’s salaries to by significant locations of operation men’s salaries was calculated according to G4 specifications for positions covered by collective agreements for the financial and insurance sectors in Finland. The information was not disclosed. Aspect: Labour practices grievance mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and resolved through No cases in 2014. formal grievance mechanisms Human rights Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken One allegation inspected in 2014. GRII Data, p. 12 Society Aspect: Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Not reported because the figure is not applicable impact assessments, and development programs to OP Financial Group’s operations. G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities Not reported because the figure is not applicable to OP Financial Group’s operations. FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type GRI Data, p. 12 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people GRI Data, p. 13 GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 29 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption GRI Data, p. 13 and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI Data, p. 13 Training on prevention of misbehaviour. Training on Code of Business Ethics. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No cases in 2014. Aspect: Public policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary OP Financial Group does not support political parties or organisation and will not participate in funding individual candidates’ campaigns. Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and No cases in 2014. monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No cases in 2014. for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product liability Aspect: Product and service labelling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures GRI Data, p. 13 for product and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No cases in 2014. concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction OP Year 2014: Customer feedback is vital for business development FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary GRI Data, p. 14 GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 30 gri content index External GRI CONTENT Location assurance Further information Aspect: Marketing communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not reported because the figure is not applicable to OP Financial Group’s operations. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No cases in 2014. concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and GRI Data, p. 14 losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations No cases in 2014. concerning the provision and use of products and services GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 31 gri content index Global Compact content index Global Compact reporting Lisätietoja Sivu Global Compact reporting Lisätietoja Sivu Human rights Location Environment Location Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Management approaches to corporate Principle 7: Businesses should support Management approaches to corporate the protection of internationally proclaimed human social responsibility p. 5–6 a precautionary approach to environmental social responsibility p. 5–6, rights challenges Environmental responsibility p. 8–9 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are Management approaches to corporate Principle 8: Businesses should undertake Management approaches to corporate not complicit in human rights abuses social responsibility p. 5–6 initiatives to promote greater environmental social responsibility p. 5–6, responsibility Environmental responsibility p. 8–9 Labour Location Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the Management approaches to corporate Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom G4-LA8, p. 11 development and diffusion of environmentally social responsibility p. 5–6, of association and the effective recognition of the friendly technologies Environmental responsibility p. 8–9 right to collective bargaining Anti-corruption Location Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the Management approaches to corporate elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory social responsibility p. 5–6 Principle 10: Businesses should work against Code of Business Ethics p. 6 labour corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective Management approaches to corporate abolition of child labour social responsibility p. 5–6 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the G4-HR3, p. 12 elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2014 32 gri content index
