CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2014 AND 2015 OUR FOCUS IN 2016 CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER STATEMENT Water is a prerequisite for human life and it is a key element in I am pleased to reaffirm this commitment from DHI, and in this creating a sustainable future for a growing world. At DHI, we second annual Communication on Progress, we describe the care about sustainability and solutions for society – now and in actions we are taking to continuously improve integration of the the future. Our quest is to solve the world’s toughest challenges Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, in water environments. With the work that we do, we can culture and daily operations. continue to make a difference. It is important to note the call-for-action from the UN’s newly Whether at sea or on land, you can find ongoing DHI projects. As adopted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) this year. a global company, we share knowledge on water across Building on the Millennium Development Goals, they form a new continents. The more we share, the larger impact we can make. sustainable development agenda. The technology and solutions Developing and integrating sustainable and environmentallyfrom DHI can support the majority of the SDGs and we will sound water management solutions for society is part of our increase our focus on supporting initiatives which can lead us DNA as well as an essential part of our mission and values. even closer towards them. We strongly support the United Nations (UN) Global Compact’s Yours sincerely, efforts in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We continuously strive to develop our global activities in order to support the Compact’s ten principles. Jacob Høst-Madsen Chief Operating Officer 2 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT We continuously strive to develop our global activities in order to support the UN Compact’s ten principles. CORPORATE SOCIAL INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) This Communication of Progress is our second annual report At DHI, we contribute to CSR through three focus areas: since we joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2013.  Improving the environment During the last year, we have further aligned our strategies and activities with the ten principles of the Global Compact and we  Responsible business practice are pleased to present our results and achievements.  Sharing knowledge and technology We utilise the UN Global Compact as a: Our global activities support the majority of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In the coming period,  framework for conducting Corporate Social we will increase our focus on supporting the SDGs through our Responsibility (CSR) initiatives within DHI Group and to global operations. ensure that our business partners support the Compact’s principles  basis for communication with the world around us – we want to convey our views on social responsibility and our work in this field  platform for dialogue with our staff, our clients and our external business partners The purpose of this report is to:  explain our progress to the UN  communicate our messages, challenges and achievements to our various stakeholders, with whom we are also in contact with in a variety of ways  communicate our work in implementing the UN Global Compact to our employees as well others who have an interest in CSR and social responsibility 3 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT Each of our Signature Projects has ushered in considerable environmental, social and economic benefits. OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2014 AND 2015 Our projects described below provide concrete examples of In Northern India, we developed a Real-Time Decision Support how we have helped solve the world’s toughest challenges in System (RTDSS) for the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) water environments. Each of these projects has ushered in – the entity in charge of managing droughts and floods in the considerable environmental, social and economic benefits in North Indian States. BBMB also has the duty to ensure that their respective areas. people living in the North Indian States have enough water to meet their irrigation needs. Our RTDSS provided BBMB with the To prevent introduction of invasive species via ballast water from latest information available on the state of the water in its the world’s fleet, the United States Coast Guard (USCG) and catchment and command area, allowing them to improve flood International Maritime Organization (IMO) are requiring ballast management, leading to minimised loss of life and property for water to be treated before discharge. DHI is approved by the those living along the rivers. USCG as an Independent Laboratory together with DNV-GL, and provides independent performance evaluation of ballast water In the western Indian state of Rajasthan, we helped to improve management systems (BWMS) for the approval process. The the water supply and distribution system through hydraulic purpose of the performance evaluation is to ensure that the modelling in 222 towns. Rajasthan is known for its natural BWMS are capable of meeting the ballast water discharge beauty and colourful history. However, 60% of the state’s land is standard in land-based and shipboard evaluations and do not desert – the main cause of its acute water deficiency. In the cause unacceptable harm to the vessel, crew, environment or context of water distribution, benchmarking is an effective tool public health. to identify critical components of the water distribution system where interventions are required. Our study and its results In Denmark, Alfa Laval tested their BWMS at our DHI Ballast provided an immediate solution to the challenges facing the Water Test facility in 2014. Both land-based and shipboard demand-loaded water distribution network in Rajasthan, helping testing was performed. During the testing of Alfa Laval BWMS, the state government in their objectives of equalising water the testing, quality assurance (QA) and quality control (QC) pressure and enabling its equitable distribution network. procedures were consistent with the USCG requirements. The performance evaluation based on the results achieved in landbased and shipboard testing proved that Alfa Laval BWMS complied with the ballast water discharge standard. No USCG Type Approvals have yet been issued, but Alfa Laval is one of the first BWMS developers applying for the USCG Type Approval Certificate. 4 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT We helped companies like Statoil – that conduct oil and gas In the Lake Victoria Basin, East Africa, we helped develop a Water explorations – ensure that noise from their work does not harm Resources Information System (WRIS) to enable stakeholders to marine mammals. Current noise risk assessment models assume access, share and evaluate available basin data. Several East that marine mammals are stationary. However, marine mammals African countries depend on Lake Victoria – the world’s second move around their environment, which means traditional risk largest freshwater body – for transportation, hydropower assessments can lead to unrealistic results. Using the Chukchi generation, food and water. Environmental changes in recent Sea as the demonstration area, we created a Dynamic Risk years have highlighted the need to coordinate various water Assessment Model for Acoustic Disturbance (DRAMAD) to resources and environmental initiatives in the basin. Our WRIS – model the movements of marine mammals before, during and being developed as part of the large-scale Lake Victoria after noise exposure. DRAMAD provides far more accurate Environmental Management Programme – enables easy and results and enables Statoil to convey environmental awareness robust data exchange for improved management and planning to the local communities in the area. with a national and regional perspective. In the Czech Republic, we helped in the sustainable In Singapore, our coral modelling research project carried out in management of Non-Revenue Water (NRW) in their overall collaboration with Singapore National Parks Board won an R&D water distribution network. Severočeské Water and Sewerage award in a national urban sustainability congress. The award was Company (SCVK a.s.) operates the largest regional water supply presented for innovation in using agent-based modelling (ABM) system and distribution network in nearly 400 settlements in the to determine ecological connectivity in the marine environment Czech Republic. However, many of the water distribution and to sustain marine biodiversity during coastal development. networks suffered from high leakage levels – to the tune of 20The ABM of coral larvae dispersal can be readily applied to 40%. In close cooperation with SCVK a.s., we developed a various areas in the management of coastal and marine method which catered to specific requirements within their environments, particularly in relation to land reclamation, NRW reduction strategy, the most important part of which was offshore construction and conservation planning. Our project the implementation of our Leakage Monitor. The monitor has findings have paved the way for new projects looking at seagrass effectively helped to manage leakages in the water distribution connectivity as well as location optimisation for marine habitat networks and maintain them at stable and economically optimal enrichments for coral reefs in Singapore. levels. 5 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT In Thailand, we protected millions of lives against devastating Minimising emissions of greenhouse gases flooding by implementing our Decision Support System (DSS) DHI has a strong focus on reducing our emissions, including for flood forecasting in the Chao Phraya River basin. During the carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases through our 2011 monsoon season, severe floods ravaged Thailand. With behaviour. During the last decade, we have worked diligently to hundreds dead and millions of dollars in economic losses, it was reduce the emissions through specific projects, for example, in one of the worst floods to hit the country in decades. The Hydro solar power and energy optimisation. In the summer of 2015, an and Agro Informatics Institute asked us to develop a flood energy audit of the activities at our Headquarters in Hørsholm, forecasting and flood management DSS to improve Thailand’s Denmark was conducted. The result led to the development of a flood management in the future. Based on real-time wide range of new opportunities to reduce our heating and information, the DSS will enable Thai authorities to make sound electricity consumption. decisions and undertake preventive measures to alleviate the Through the use of The Climate Compass, we will quantify and detrimental impacts of severe flooding. Furthermore, it will aid visualise our emissions and reduction targets. The CO2 emissions authorities in warning the public about imminent flooding, are measured in metric tonnes and the reporting is based on giving residents and businesses time to prepare and react in scope 1, 2 and selected 3 sources. times of need. 6 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT OUR FOCUS IN 2016 In 2016, we will implement an environmental policy which sets out the framework for environmental management – with objectives and measurable targets to be achieved by all DHI offices worldwide. We will also implement an environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001.In addition, we will measure our worldwide CO2 emission caused by energy consumption and work-related transport and publish our CO2 footprint calculated according to The Climate Compass. We will also establish a method to estimate the reduction in CO 2 emission if we choose video conferences over physical trips. Furthermore, we will focus on purchasing EU Ecolabel and The main emissions in our headquarters arise from the use of Nordic Ecolabel cleaning and paper products, electronic electricity and heating in office buildings as well as employee equipment, furniture as well as light sources. business flights, which accounts for more than 90% of the total emissions. The Climate Compass was formed in cooperation between the Confederation of Danish Industries and the Danish Ministry of Business and Growth. To get more information on The Climate Compass, please see The Corporate Climate Portal here: www.climatecompass.dk See all our projects here: www.dhigroup.com/references 7 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES We reaffirmed our commitment to ensuring responsible business practices throughout our organisation. OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2014 AND 2015 In 2014 and 2015, we developed a new Code of Conduct ready Furthermore, we have integrated a requirement to recognise to be launched. This new Code of Conduct will help ensure that and follow our Code of Conduct as a part of the qualification all of our employees live up to our ethical standards for the process when subcontracting. This process is ready to be environment and society on a daily basis. This includes offering launched in Q4 2015 and it will help improve the process of the best technical choices from a long-term and local-global assessing CSR impacts during the subcontractor qualification impact perspective. phase and convey our CSR policies to our subcontractors. This new Code of Conduct will be conveyed to all employees in In addition, we have extended our whistle blower policy to Q4 2015. We will also make our responsible business practices include reporting of violations of human rights and labour policy a part of our New Employee Induction and our Project principles – anonymously if the person so chooses. Manager training. This will further ensure our continued implementation of CSR best practices throughout our organisation. In 2014 and 2015, we have implemented our documented management system – the DHIBus in an additional 23 of our offices located in 17 countries. The system includes policies and procedures related to CSR. 8 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES To enhance our internal focus on CSR issues, we will launch a new Code of Conduct. OUR FOCUS IN 2016 To further strengthen our commitment to engaging in In addition, we will make it easier for all to find our existing responsible business practices, we will screen projects for corporate whistle blower portal at our web portal, enabling violation of human rights and labour principles, damage to easier access to the policy and report form. environment and corruption as a part of the risk analysis during the bidding decision process prior to entering into contracts and agreements. This will enhance our internal focus on CSR We will continue to strive to exhibit CSR best practices and issues and inform our client of our CSR principles, helping to assess labour-related risks in our operations, with health and prevent and mitigate the risks of violating human rights and safety as focus areas to be prioritised. We will evaluate the risks labour principles, damage to environment and corruption. and implement actions to ensure the health and safety of all our employees. 9 SHARING KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY Around the world, we share our knowledge of water environments. OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2014 AND 2015 ‘Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to In 2014 and 2015, we co-organised UNEP-DHI Eco challenges. change the world.’ – Nelson Mandela The UNEP-DHI Eco challenge is an online serious gaming competition for high school students in Asia to educate the youth about the importance and interconnectivity of water, as With this powerful message in mind, DHI has invested heavily in well as how it can be better managed sustainably. What started the young minds of the world, while also sharing our knowledge out as a small competition in four countries involving about 100 and technology globally in general. With several thousands students in 2013, has grown to include over 10 countries and attending our seminars and courses worldwide – more than more than 3500 students in Asia Pacific in 2015. 7,000 people in 2014 – we help increase the knowledge and skills of professionals within the field of water. This year, our not-for-profit online serious game – Aqua Republica – was a tribute to Singapore’s 50 years of DHI has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with independence. The 2015 Eco Challenge used a modified version universities and research organisations around the world to of Aqua Republica to include scenarios reflective of Singapore’s support educational activities. In DHI South Africa, we support water problems, allowing the players to embark on their own local universities with internship opportunities for their ‘Singapore’s Water Journey’. The 2015 finals were held in students, providing mentorship and capacity-building every step conjunction with World Water Forum 2015. of the way. 10 SHARING KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY We also collaborated with Singapore’s Public Utilities Board In 2015, we contributed to one of the biggest trade fairs in (PUB) to run a mini ‘Inter-generation’ competition on World Germany in the water sector, the Wasser Berlin International Water Day, where children, parents and grandparents Congress. A highlight was the presentation and practical participated in the game to improve their knowledge about application of our online game Aqua Republica. Teams of water. Together with UNEP-DHI and Water Youth Network, we international students were able to test their knowledge in the conducted a game session for young water professionals in the area of integrated water resources management in a virtual World Water Forum, where more than 50 participants enrolled competition against one another. The four players that to learn about the interconnectivity of water and land use. economised the restricted resources in the best possible ways received a prize. The students gained a valuable understanding of water systems and the integrated utilisation of such systems. In Germany, we sponsored the second German Water Our German office sponsored this activity by preparing the case Partnership (GWP) Capacity Development Day 2014 and study and supporting the event with our human resources presented our concept of capacity development in the water department, and providing hardand software as well as other sector in Jordan, one of the driest countries worldwide. Our educational material. support comprised of presentations, information material and financial contribution to the public event. 11 SHARING KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY By continuing to share our knowledge, we will help others further enhance their knowledge of water environments. Floods cause devastating disasters worldwide and can also lead One of the major water challenges in several Czech, Hungarian, to disease and contamination of water supplies. In Turkey, for Slovak and Bulgarian cities is the loss of water in water example, major flood disasters occur every year, resulting in loss distribution systems. Losses are usually between 15-60% – a of lives and damage to properties. We helped Turkish water massive waste of potable water and energy. In light of climate authorities adapt to the Water Framework Directive change and drought threats, this high percentage of potable requirements by providing input to flood risk assessment water loss indicates one of the most visible wastages of activities. We conducted training courses on flood management resources in Europe. To counter this problem, DHI has for more than 100 experts in 2014 and 2015 where more than developed a unique technology for reducing the leakage of 10% of the participants were university students– it is our aim potable water from distribution systems. The system is that they be encouraged to be actively involved in such implemented in utilities and leads to the reduction of water activities. In Thailand, we arranged a flood seminar in losses through online monitoring. collaboration with the Southern Natural Disaster Research Center at Prince of Songkla University, for executives from regional offices of government agencies in Thailand. 12 SHARING KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY OUR FOCUS IN 2016 As seen in the SDGs, ensuring sustainable management of water In 2016, we aim to continue sharing our knowledge of water is high on the world agenda. At DHI, this is also one of our environments through capacity development programs, training priorities. In 2014 and 2015, we conducted three sessions of 3courses and seminars around the world. Our collaboration with day integrated water resources management (IWRM) training universities worldwide ensures a focus on the next generation in courses in Vietnam and Myanmar. The courses focused on tools our activities, and we also target young people with our yearly to implement IWRM – enabling environment and institutional UNEP-DHI Eco Challenges. The UNEP-DHI Eco Challenges roles as well as management instruments. During the courses, enable students to learn about integrated water resources the participants had the opportunity to enhance their ability to management in a fun and engaging way by through serious undertake IWRM with a special focus on watershed and river gaming.We will be co-organising the yearly UNEP-DHI Eco basin catchment management, as well as on ecosystems and Challenges again in Asia – with the aim of increasing the climate change aspects. The courses were arranged in outreach even further. In addition to this, we will be arranging a collaboration with the UNEP-DHI Centre, which promotes IWRM number of other challenges for students in other parts of the at national, international and cross-national levels as well as world. support climate change resilience through considered water resources development, management and use. Climate change and its impact on the world is significant. It is already affecting water resources and their management in various regions. It can have severe impact on urban areas, including increased flood risk, reduced water supply and displacements from coastal cities. Urgent action is needed as emphasised in the SDGs. As such, we will continue to focus on offering training courses and raise awareness on climate change mitigation and impact reduction. We will also continue to offer freely accessible online courses and webcasts aimed at sharing knowledge and providing further insight into understanding and modelling the world of water. To us the message is clear: knowledge holds the key to unlocking the right solutions. 13 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We aim to make a positive impact in the communities where we work by contributing our knowledge and resources to initiatives and charities . Passionate DHI employees from our global offices dedicate their free time to engage in community-based activities or help people in need around the world through pro bono work, fundraising or by volunteering their knowledge and experience. For example: In the Czech Republic, more than a dozen of our employees Aphiwe Nzimande, whom DHI is sponsoring through the helped to collect waste from the River Sazava in April as part of iThemba Academy. the environmental initiative ‘Cista Sazava’. Apart from the above, DHI South Africa also donated a set of In our South African office, instead of providing corporate gifts chairs, desks, computers and electronic equipment to Zitikeni and Christmas cards to clients, our colleagues are using the Secondary School in Thembisa to help improve its training room money to sponsor the studies of Aphiwe Nzimande through the facility. iThemba Academy. They have been sponsoring Aphiwe for three years. The iThemba Academy offers fundamental early In Singapore, employees took part in a 50 km walk event education to orphaned and vulnerable children from the organised by Raleigh Society to celebrate life and to raise funds broader Valley of 1000 Hills Community in Kwa-Zulu Natal. The for hospice care. They created an online donation platform to independent school staffed by dedicated educators aims to channel additional funds to hospice care and raised a total of ensure that the potential of each child is nurtured. Many DHI SGD $2,200. staff at our South African office has graduated from the University of Kwa-Natal, and as such, this area is close to our hearts. DHI also sponsors the mathematics prize at the school as In Denmark, 10 previously used DHI laptops are on their way to we hope to encourage early engagement in the science and newly-arrived refugee families. This initiative will hopefully engineering fields. support them tremendously in their communication with loved ones at home, with the Danish authorities, and eventually in their efforts to get a job and integrate into Danish society. 14 UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Our activities support the goals to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all. DHI’s activities support the 17 newly adopted UN Sustainable There are water related issues connected with all the 17 SDGs, Development Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, protect the planet and we will actively contribute to the fulfillment of the goals and ensure prosperity for all. through our ongoing projects worldwide. 15 We have developed a company strategy, the DHI Compass, which clearly supports our CSR initiatives. AMBITIONS We have developed a company strategy, the DHI Compass, which clearly supports our CSR initiatives. We will continue to advance our progress within our three CSR focus areas: Improving the environment, responsible business practice, and sharing of knowledge and technology. Being a global company, we see a significant potential for contributing to sustainable development and social responsibility. We will fully support the 17 newly adopted UN Sustainable Development Goals. All of the goals involve water related issues which are at the core of DHI’s quest and activities. 16 DHI THE EXPERT IN WATER ENVIRONMENTS DHI are the first people you should call when you have a tough challenge to solve in a water environment – be it a river, a reservoir, an ocean, a coastline, within a city or a factory. Our knowledge of water environments is second-to-none. It represents 50 years of dedicated research and real-life experience from more than 140 countries. We strive to make this knowledge globally accessible to clients and partners by channelling it through our local teams and unique software. Our world is water. So whether you need to save water, share it fairly, improve its quality, quantify its impact or manage its flow, we can help. Our knowledge, combined with our team's expertise and the power of our technology, holds the key to unlocking the right solution. © DHI picture credit © istockphoto.com, shutterstock.com, Mikkel Bache and DHI DHI OFFICES WORLDWIDE Australia Denmark (head office) New Zealand Spain Austria France Norway Sweden Brazil Germany Peru Turkey Brunei Hungary Poland United Arab Emirates Bulgaria India Romania United Kingdom Canada Indonesia Singapore USA China Italy Slovak Republic Vietnam Czech Republic Malaysia South Africa For more information visit: www.dhigroup.com
