Statement of support from Chief Executive Officer of ESCATEC I am pleased to confirm that ESCATEC Sdn. Bhd. reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this annual communication on progress, I express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence, culture, day-to-day operations, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. ESCATEC will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public using our primary channels of communication. We recognize these principles as prime considerations and integral parts of our Company’s operations, and are committed to continuously improving these practices in all areas. Our sustainability efforts this past year have focused on improvements in the employee communication area as well as personnel career development. ESCATEC is also committed to the protection of the environment and has implemented processes to manage product legislation requirements which include REACH(Registration,Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemical), RoHS(Restriction of Hazardous Substances) and NANO materials regulations. The ESCATEC group is proud to be a part of this very worthy program and we look forward to many more years of productive involvement. Yours sincerely, _____________________ Markus Walther Chief Executive Officer ESCATEC Group 1 About ESCATEC The ESCATEC Group provides fully-integrated electronic and mechatronic design and manufacturing solutions. ESCATEC’s solutions and best-in-class service enables our customers to operate more profitably, sustainably and efficiently for greater success in their markets. Founded in 1974, ESCATEC’s history is full of innovation, making it a first choice partner for many OEMs around the world. The Swiss owned, Malaysian headquartered company perfectly blends Swiss business philosophy, attention to quality, precision and detail with the advantages of low-cost, highvolume manufacturing capabilities in its Asian factories. We encompass a wide range of industry sectors including industrial electronics and controls, medical products, high end consumer, smart metering and Micro Opto Electro Mechanical assemblies markets. ESCATEC differentiates itself from other contract manufacturers with uncompromising standards of production and business ethics. ESCATEC values its brand name and reputation and ensures that products are produced in a way that our customers can be proud to put their brand on. Designing a product right from the very start results in a more competitive product delivered on time. ESCATEC’s contract design centre can start at the very first stage of a product concept and take it efficiently through every stage of the design process to working prototypes and production all in house by a team that understands how every step links to the next one and through our expertise in industrialisation the crucial implementation of the manufacturing on time and at minimum cost. We pride ourselves in providing solutions to our customers’ challenges with our highly effective production, design and project management skills. 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 : Business should make sure we are not complicit in human rights abuses HUMAN RIGHTS: Assessment, Policy and Goals ESCATEC’s human resource policy is developed to support fundamental human and labour rights. The policy with respect to human rights includes:a) Fair Employment ESCATEC does not engage in, or support, discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, termination, or retirement based on race, national or social origin, caste, birth, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, family responsibilities, marital status, political opinions, age, or any other condition that could give rise to discrimination. Competence is the primary selection criterion for employees on all levels. In ESCATEC we recognize the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining; ESCATEC does not interfere in an employee's decision to associate, or discriminate against the employee or their representatives. ESCATEC freely discusses issues at work with employees or their representatives in order to reach solutions that are jointly acceptable. b) Grievance and Complaint ESCATEC provide proper channels for employees to voice their grievances and complaints with regards to their employment or any other matter related to ESCATEC. They can either address their complaints verbally or using the Grievance/Complaint Form with different escalation paths. c) Sexual Harassment ESCATEC is committed to preventing and eradicating sexual harassment in order to create a positive and harmonious working environment. Any form of sexual harassment in the work place is strictly prohibited. Equally, any false accusation of sexual harassment will not be tolerated. All line managers have a positive duty to implement the policy and to demonstrate leadership by example. Our goal is to provide a great place to work and we aim to eliminate any potential risks and remain free of any complaints that may impact the human rights of our employees and suppliers. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS: Accomplishments Employee Development In ESCATEC we believe every employee has an impact on ESCATEC’s success and our customers’ satisfaction. One of our strategic business objectives is “to be a learning organisation” as a way to develop our people through their daily work activities. Our employees are stimulated to increase their learning through supportive leadership, a culture of continuous improvement and clearly defined learning processes, knowledge networks and measurement of results. We have launched an employee suggestion program called “ESCATIPs” to encourage employees from all levels to contribute constructive ideas for continuous improvement in the workplace. Every employee suggestion is treated with respect. The program also promotes a culture for innovation where employees contribute and implement ideas which create a positive impact on business and./or deliver enhanced value to customers. The results so far are very encouraging, we have received 450 ESCATIPS contributed by our pool of 1400 of employees from our Swiss and Malaysian facilities since program started in 2014. ESCATEC has also initiated a quality control programme called VQQC (Visualised Quick Quality Control). In this programme we empower employees to work with cross functional teams to promptly drive resolution of daily quality and process variation issues. It offers a foundation to improve communication and team work, bring out creativity, and facilitates sharing of good practices. The programme was first initiated by ESCATEC’s Business Unit in Penang, where it has proven its effectiveness, driving a 61% drop in customer complaints in 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. This programme has since been rolled out in our Business Units in Johor Bahru, Malaysia and Switzerland. 4 VQQC session in Malaysia facilities VQQC session in Switzerland facilities Community Services The earthquake that happened on April 25 2015 has claimed more than 8,000 lives, injured more than 23,000 and left thousands homeless. Although ESCATEC is thousands of kilometres away from Nepal, ESCATEC is also affected by the incident. There are 48 employees in Malaysia (Penang and Johor) facilities are from Nepal. The Nepalese employees reported that their family houses were suffered from minor damaged to totally damage and some of them lost their family members. ESCATEC management has immediately launched a donation drive to raise fund to help ease the burden of the affected employees. Similarly the employees from our Switzerland facility also joined in the donation drive to help their colleagues in Malaysia The collection from the donation was very encouraging, we have collected total of MYR 17,000. In addition, ESCATEC also give extra on month salary to all affected employees. Employee Feedback ESCATEC provides multiple platforms for employees to voice their view points or share their concerns. a) Employee Communication Sessions The General Managers host periodic Employees Communication sessions promoting two ways communication. In addition to receiving company updates from the General Manager these sessions also serve as an open forum for employees to voice any issues, concerns or suggestions to the Management. The floor is open for all employees to pose questions which are responded to with respect at the time of the meeting. We have observed a positive cultural change where employees are more open to raise their issues compare to previous year. b) Annual Employee Satisfaction Survey ESCATEC actively seeks inputs from all its employees. The annual surveys are conducted to solicit employee feedback allowing the Management team to effectively address workforce and organisational needs. The overall employee satisfaction survey result has improved from 78% in 2013 to 87% in 2014. ESCATEC is continuously looking for more positive improvements based on these yearly surveys. 5 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation LABOUR PRINCIPLES: Assessment, Policy and Goals In ESCATEC we are strictly opposed all forms of forced and compulsory labour; all our employees are free to leave in accordance with contractual terms and local labour law. Every one of our employees has an understandable employment contract stating their terms and conditions of service and the procedures for termination of employment. In ESCATEC we adhere to minimum age provisions of national labour laws and regulations and, where the national law is insufficient, we take account of the international standards. LABOUR PRINCIPLES: Accomplishments Sustainability Supply Chain In order to ensure Sustainability in our supply chain, ESCATEC has intensified and systematised its efforts to extend support of UN Global Compact ten principles to our suppliers. We have revised our master purchase agreement to include commitment to the UN Global compact 10 principles . Our supplier audits are planned and carried out according to supplier’s performance, accessibility and criticality of parts supplied. We have added new supplier audit criteria to assess the supplier performances in the area of code of conduct in support of the UN Global Compact 10 principles. The new audit criteira was implemented in January 2015. Equal Development Opportunities ESCATEC is committed to provide equal opportunities for all employees’ career development and promotion. In 2014, ESCATEC launched a Personal Development Forum (PDF), where clear processes and owners have been established to develop talented employees for key positions. In the PDF process, the managers propose potential employees, employees are further analysed based on his/her individual performance plan( IDP) and actual performance. The result of Individual performance (IDP) analysis is discussed by the manager with the employee. A professional plan to develop the selected candidate will then be implemented and monitored within an acceptable time frame. 6 From the pool of candidates identified and developed under the PDF programme in 2014, 30% have been promoted to the identified position. The achievement includes 3 people being promoted to department manager positions. Employee Health and Safety Employee health and safety is paramount at ESCATEC. We work diligently to minimise employee’s exposure to all potential safety hazards through technical and administrative controls, personal protective equipment, and preventive maintenance. We take a proactive approach to address potential dangerous situations and implement controls to reduce their likelihood and impact. We routinely conduct activities as below: Monthly audits by certified EHS Officers.  EHS Committee review to ensure work safety and health of employees.  Annual fire drill to ensure all employees are able to response to emergency situations.  First Aid Kit is made available at all times to all employees.  Safety training programs are conducted for employees to enhance their safety awareness such as basic chemical handling & chemical spillage training, first aid training, fire fighting training, forklift training, scheduled waste handling session, safety awareness program, ERT fire drill & rescue training. 7 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES: Assessment, Policy and Goals ESCATEC is committed to ensuring that our business activities, products and services are in harmony with ISO 14001 environment rules and country specific governmental regulations. Our key objectives are:  to ensure compliance with legal and other statutory requirements such as Environmental Quality legislation, regulations and global environmental requirements to prevent environmental pollution issues.  Commitment to continuous improvement in the prevention of unnecessary depletion of natural resources, the reduction of energy consumption and the control of waste products  promotion and maintenance of the 3R of natural resources: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES: Accomplishments Management of REACH, RoHs and NANO Materials ESCATEC continues to strive to reduce our environmental impact by integrating environmentally conscious practices into our day to day operations as well as the actions of our employees. We have implemented a new procedure to manage product legislation requirements which include REACH(Registration,Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemical), RoHS(Restriction of Hazardous Substances) and NANO materials regulations. The purpose of the procedure is as follows: a) to educate our employees and suppliers to understand the requirement and its implications for human health and environment. b) to ensure ESCATEC supports its customers’ requirements by not delivering products containing hazardous materials which are banned c) to have a process to support our customers’ declaration requirements. Environment Management Program We continue to evaluate ways to conserve energy and save cost. ESCATEC Technical Council (ETC) comprises of engineering managers from all Business Units is responsible to evaluate and define corporate 8 standard equipment In 2014, the ETC defined a new standard supplier for plastics injection moulding machines changing from purely hydraulic working principles to Hybrid (electro-hydraulic). These machines provide a 30% reduction in energy consumption compared to the hydraulic equivalents. The machines also able to reduce noice level by 50%.We have purchased 10 units of the hybrid machines to be used in our facility in Johor Bahru ,Malaysia. We have achieved up to 23% reduction of electricity consumption through various improvement programs initiated by the Business Units. The key initiatives are as follows: 1. Install timers to control the Air-conditioner operating hours 2. Use lighting intensity measurement to identify potential opportunity for light saving 3. Planned plant shutdown 4. Implemented workbench standardisation and centralisation. The new workbenches are able to save space and power consumption. 5. Replaced fluorescent lighting with LED energy saving lighting As part of the continuous efforts in promoting 3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) and proper waste management in our offices, our Swiss facility has implemented collecting points for schedule waste papers and used toners. We have achieved a reduction of 17% in paper usage. The recycle bins have also been introduced in the Penang ,Malaysia facilities in January 2015. Our Johor Bahru facilities initiated a project to focus on reducing schedule waste. The scheduled waste category SW410 has been identified to work on. The SW410 waste consists of contaminated rags, plastics, paper and filters from manufacturing processes or products. The facility has successfully reduced the scheduled waste by 40% through training and implementation of various counter measures. The ISO 14001 renewal audit in 2014 was conducted with zero major findings for all Business Units. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI-CORRUPTION: Assessment, Policy and Goals Ethical conduct of business is one of ESCATEC five core values. We conduct our business with uncompromising integrity. The highest possible standards of ethical and business conduct are required and expected from all our employees. All employees are made aware of the policies which focus on:9  ethical relations with customers,  ethical relations with suppliers and,  ethical relations with governments and other public bodies and their employees. ANTI-CORRUPTION: Accomplishments All employees are trained on the code of conduct policy as part of the induction program. The policy is also published online in the Standard Operating Procedures system which is assessable by all employees. To ensure employees are constantly reminded of the policy and truly understand the policy, the employees participate in a quarterly SOP assessment where random questions related to the policy will be asked. Additionally, ESCATEC management also practises an open door policy, whereby employees have easy access to managers to report any suspicions about potential violation of our code of conduct. ESCATEC maintain a good check and balance system where there is a clear authorisation policy defining the authorisation and responsibilities to be followed. We have engaged an external company to conduct a yearly management audit and the result is reported to the board of directors. 10
