Making Progress Together Pentland Group Corporate Responsibility Review Contents 01 About us Our portfolio and global reach 02 An introduction from our Chairman 03 Our approach Our standards and corporate responsibility 04 Product sustainability Materials, design, restricted substances, shipping and surplus 05 Environment Energy and emissions, waste and recycling, water consumption and natural resources 06 Ethical trade Our standards, process and collaboration 07 Our people Engagement, talent, diversity and health and safety 08 Community Charitable giving, fundraising, volunteering and product donations 01 About us Pentland Group plc is a family-owned, global brand management company with wholesale and retail businesses in sports, outdoor and fashion. Founded in 1932 in Liverpool by Our brands include the current Chairman’s parents, Pentland started as a wholesaler of Pentland Brands shoes, and has grown into one of the largest private companies in the UK, employing 19,000 people. Pentland is a member of the Institute of Family Business, and in 2014 its consolidated global turnover was $3 billion. In 2014, Pentland Group won Top European Family Business of the Year Our retail division comprises JD Sports at the European Families in Business Fashion plc, one of the UK’s leading Awards 2014. retailers of aspirational branded sportswear, fashion wear and outdoor clothing and equipment. We hold a 58% Our portfolio share in the company. Our brand management division, JD Sports Fashion plc Pentland Brands, is made up of 13 world-class sports, outdoor and fashion brands. In 2014, Great Place to Work® Founded named Pentland Brands as the 8th best large company to work for in the UK, and 18th in the list of best large in 1932 workplaces in Europe. We also invest in other businesses in a variety of industries. 03 UN Global Compact: Ten Principles Our products are sold in 200 countries across Europe, the Americas, Asia, the Middle East, Africa and Australasia Our reach What this review covers Human Rights 01 Businesses should support and respect the protection Ethical trade, Our products are sold in 200 countries This review sets out our approach of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Page 25 across Europe, the Americas, Asia, the to being a responsible business and Middle East, Africa and Australasia. gives an overview of our corporate 02 make sure that they are not complicit in human Our people, responsibility activities in 2014. It covers rights abuses. Page 31 Pentland Group and Pentland Brands the companies and brands we wholly are headquartered in London. own. It also includes some information Pentland Brands also has UK offices in about JD Sports Fashion, in which Nottingham, Reddish, Sunderland and we hold majority ownership but do not Labour 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Ethical trade, Wakefield, as well as distribution centres exercise direct management control. and the effective recognition of the right to collective Page 25 in Blackburn, Sunderland and Wakefield. JD Sports Fashion reports separately bargaining; In mainland Europe, we have a presence on its corporate responsibility Our approach, in France and Germany, and in North activities through its own Annual 04 the elimination of all forms of forced and Page 09 America we have offices in the USA Report and Accounts. compulsory labour; and Canada. This review is our 2014 Communication 05 the effective abolition of child labour; and As one of the pioneers of footwear on Progress to the United Nations sourcing in Asia, we have a significant Global Compact (UNGC), an initiative for 06 the elimination of discrimination in respect presence in Hong Kong, plus offices in businesses committed to aligning their of employment and occupation. Australia, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, work and strategy with ten universally New Zealand, Thailand and Vietnam. accepted principles in human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. As a participant in the UNGC, Environment 07 Businesses should support a precautionary approach Environment we report every year on our progress in to environmental challenges; Page 21 each area. 08 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Product sustainability, 09 encourage the development and diffusion of Page 15 environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Our approach, forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 09 Pentland Distribution 04 05 An introduction 02 from our Chairman 2014 was a remarkable year for Our global, independent corporate Pentland. Pentland Group was responsibility team supports and nominated Top European Family advises our whole group, and we Business of the Year at the European have a long history of collaborating Families in Business Awards. with others to improve factory working conditions, reducing our impact on the Pentland Brands earned a place in environment and making our products the top 10 Great Place to Work® Best more sustainable. This is a fundamental Workplaces in the UK, and the top 20 part of how we do business. in Europe. I am proud of the way we have People are at the heart of our business committed to doing business responsibly. and they always have been. We work We hold ourselves to high standards hard to create a working environment that of ethics and corporate responsibility, inspires and nurtures, and one where including that of a signatory to the everyone feels welcome to contribute United Nations Global Compact. We are ideas on how we can do things better. delighted to renew our commitment to this initiative and its Ten Principles, which set Doing business better, and more a clear framework on how business can responsibly, is a top priority for us, help to address the world’s prevailing and and is deeply ingrained in our environmental issues. day-to-day operations. R. Stephen Rubin Chairman Pentland Group plc 07 Our approach 03 We believe in doing business responsibly, and we expect everyone who works for Pentland Group to do business the right way. Our standards In 2014, we revisited our business 02 standards and made our commitments clear on: How we work with our customers and other 01 business partners How we treat our people, and how we expect them to behave 04 How we make our 03 operations environmentally efficient How our manufacturing partners should treat the people who make We learn from our products ! each other by We require all Group companies in which we hold 50% or more of the share capital to have policies and sharing successes 05 procedures that help them meet these standards. How we do business ethically and with integrity 09 Our corporate responsibility priorities Pentland Brands’ corporate responsibility Each brand has people responsible for delivering work focuses on four areas: product sustainability, environmental efficiency, corporate responsibility programmes ethical trade, and community and charity. 01 02 03 04 Managing our corporate responsibility activities Product Environmental Ethical Community sustainability efficiency trade and charity Pentland Group Chairman Stephen Rubin takes a strong personal interest in our corporate responsibility activities. In 2003 he was appointed an Officer of the Order To reduce the To reduce the To conduct To contribute of the British Empire (OBE) for services to impact of our impact of our business honestly, positively to the business and human rights. products throughout business operations fairly and with communities in Objective their life cycles respect for people, which we operate Pentland Brands’ corporate responsibility their dignity and team is based in London, Hong Kong and their rights Shenzhen, and manages global corporate responsibility initiatives with colleagues Every year, our brands monitor and across the business. Each brand measure their corporate responsibility has people responsible for delivering performance using tools such as the corporate responsibility programmes, Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg and we learn from each other by sharing Index (see Product sustainability, page successes and information about projects 15) and the Fair Factories Clearinghouse – for example, at our biannual Corporate (see Ethical trade, page 25). We have Materials Energy use Robust ethical Charity Responsibility Forum. All Pentland Group also developed our own internal tool, the trade processes partnerships companies manage their own corporate Corporate Responsibility Scorecard, to Packaging Business travel responsibility activities, supported by the help our brands ensure their corporate Long-term Fundraising Pentland Brands corporate responsibility responsibility activities are in line with Restricted Waste and relationships activities team where necessary. good practice across the business. Focus Area substances recycling Sustainable Employee Supply chain Water use improvements to volunteering environmental working conditions footprint Product donations Product end of life 10 11 Everyone who works for Pentland has a role to play in Working with others making sure we meet our corporate responsibility objectives Collaboration is an invaluable part of In 2015, we will establish the Pentland our corporate responsibility activities. Scholarship which will enable individuals We work with industry groups, academic from the Global South to participate in institutions and non-governmental the newly created Global Public Policy organisations to make sure we are aware and Management Masters by University of best practice and tailor our corporate College London and New York University. responsibility work accordingly. Engaging our people See Product sustainability on page Details of our involvement with 15 to find out about Mitre’s partnership Everyone who works for Pentland has a All new starters receive training that organisations such as the Sustainable with Loughborough University on role to play in making sure we meet our sets out our responsibilities, shows Apparel Coalition (page 15) and Ethical sustainable design. corporate responsibility objectives. what we expect of our people and Trading Initiative (page 26) are detailed We emphasise our commitment to suppliers, and introduces our corporate throughout this review. doing business responsibly, and how responsibility priorities. World Federation of the Sporting employees can get involved, by regularly Goods Industry keeping them up to date with news Supporting academic research about our work. The World Federation of the Sporting We have long supported research and Goods Industry (WFSGI) is an debate on ethics, corporate responsibility, independent, non-profit association sustainability and human rights. Our representing the global sporting goods five-year partnership with Lancaster industry. It helps the industry work University began in 2013, supporting together to promote responsible business academic research on sustainability, practices and get more people involved ethical trade and how business can have in sport. The WFSGI advises members a positive impact in a changing global on global legal and regulatory issues environment. In 2015, we will launch the that affect the industry, such as product Pentland Centre at Lancaster as a hub for safety, corporate responsibility and academics and the business community intellectual property. to build on this work together. Pentland Group Chairman Stephen Rubin We have a long-standing relationship is Honorary President of the WFSGI, and with University College London and, in Pentland Brands’ Chairman Andy Rubin 2014, Pentland Group Chairman Stephen is a Vice President and active board Rubin chaired a debate at the university member. We are members of WFSGI on business ethics and supply chains. committees, including Vice Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee. 12 13 Product 04 sustainability We encourage our brands to keep a close watch on the environmental footprint of the whole product life cycle, and act to reduce it. Our branded products include footwear, Sustainable Apparel Coalition clothing, sports and outdoor equipment and accessories. Increasing legislation, Pentland Brands became a member of scarcer raw materials and consumer SAC in 2011, shortly after its formation. demand for more sustainable products Now representing over a third of the all have an impact on our business. So global apparel and footwear market, we encourage our brands to keep a close SAC is a trade organisation comprised watch on the environmental footprint of of brands, retailers, manufacturers, the whole product life cycle, and act to government and non-governmental reduce it. organisations and academic experts. The SAC is working to reduce the environmental and social impacts of More sustainable raw materials apparel and footwear products around the world. Our products are mostly made with We are looking leather, rubber, cotton and synthetic To work towards this goal, SAC and materials. We are looking at ways to its members have developed an source these materials more sustainably, assessment tool – the Higg Index. at ways to source for example by finding suppliers that It helps brands measure the social and use less water and fewer chemicals environmental impacts of their products, in their production processes. Where and spot ways to minimise any negative these materials appropriate, we also look at alternative materials that have a lower environmental impact than conventional materials but impacts. We started using the Higg Index in 2014 to help us set our strategic sustainability priorities. more sustainably still give us the quality and technical performance we need. To support our work in this area, we are members of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) and Leather Working Group (LWG). 14 15 We started using the Higg Index in 2014 to help us set our strategic sustainability priorities Berghaus ECO Wovens – a sustainable apparel collection Leather Working Group Packaging In 2014, the Berghaus ECO Wovens Leather footwear is a significant part of When it comes to packaging, our brands range won the Outdoor Industry our supply chain environmental footprint. follow the ‘reduce, reuse, recycle’ Award for High Ecological and We have always been committed to principle where possible. Sustainable Value. sourcing ever more sustainably wherever possible and this is why Pentland Brands That is: For the textiles used in the range, an became a member of the LWG in 2006. innovative change to the dyeing process • They aim to use the least amount of has removed several stages that have Today, the LWG is recognised globally, packaging that will adequately protect an impact on the environment. When with over 300 member companies, the product – for example, Speedo’s compared with conventional dyeing of which 40 are brands and retailers, slimmed-down watch and MP3 player processes, textile processing for the rest being leather manufacturers, packaging reduced material use by Berghaus ECO Wovens styles uses 89% suppliers and technical experts. It aims 88% and 56% respectively less water, 63% fewer chemicals and to promote sustainable practices in the 62% less CO2, and has a lower impact global leather footwear industry, and to • They design reusable packaging – such on waste water quality, thanks to a 67% assess tanneries on their environmental as Mitre’s goalkeeping glove packaging reduction in Chemical Oxygen Demand. stewardship. The best performing that doubles as protective storage tanneries are ‘medal rated’ as LWG The end products also boast improved Gold, Silver and Bronze. • They use recycled, recyclable and colour fastness and the use of more lower impact materials in their durable nylon, which combine to give Lacoste is our largest leather user. packaging – such as Berghaus’ new the garments a longer life. In addition, Around half of the tanneries in the footwear boxes, launched in 2014, the incorporation of odour control brand’s supply chain are rated as Gold, which are made from recycled, technology allows consumers to wash Silver or Bronze and in 2014, producing uncoated and unbleached cardboard, the shirts less often, reducing consumers’ its 2015 collections, Lacoste sourced and use minimal ink and no glue. environmental impact post-purchase. 56% of its leather volume from LWG A message on the box encourages medal-rated tanneries. consumers to reuse and recycle 16 17 Restricted substances Responsible management of chemicals Apparel and Footwear International We are exploring the use of 3D design and in manufacturing helps to protect RSL Management group consumers, factory workers, printing to develop footwear and sports communities living near factories and Pentland Brands has been a member of the global environment. the Apparel and Footwear International equipment more efficiently RSL Management Group since 2010. We give our brands and suppliers the AFIRM’s mission is to reduce the use guidance, information and systems and impact of harmful substances in they need to avoid the use of potentially the apparel and footwear supply chain. harmful chemicals in manufacturing. Members work together to develop tools This includes our Restricted Substances for the supply chain to more effectively Design, manufacturing End-of-life – products, List (RSL), which details the chemicals manage restricted substances to protect and shipping efficiency samples and surplus prohibited or otherwise restricted by both consumers and the environment. relevant legislation and our own restricted Our brands are looking at ways to make We look for ways to avoid sending substances policy. We update our RSL AFIRM group members meet regularly design and manufacturing processes product samples and surplus stock to regularly to reflect changes in the law and to collaborate on tackling chemicals more efficient. Several are exploring landfill. This includes our collaborations industry best practice. management challenges in the industry. Lacoste: embedding the use of 3D design and printing to with organisations such as In Kind Direct The organisation also holds a supplier sustainability into brand culture develop footwear and sports equipment and Africa Shoes, which provide us with Several of our brands have developed seminar every 24 months and, in more efficiently. For example, in 2014, a way to divert surplus products and bespoke manuals for their supply chain November 2014, more than 80 delegates In March 2014, Lacoste formed a Mitre used 3D design to develop a new unsaleable stock away from landfill partners that give specific guidance on representing our manufacturers were cross-functional sustainability team range of shinguards. This reduces the and towards good causes. See managing restricted substances in their among 650 attendees at the seminar sponsored by the brand’s Chief number of physical samples that are Community on page 37 for more specific product ranges. Brands are in Shanghai. Operating Officer. manufactured and transported, cutting about product donations. also responsible for developing testing the resources and time required for programmes that verify materials’ and After analysing existing practices, sampling, as well as reducing the use Several of our brands are also starting components’ compliance with our RSL. the team started to explore options of air freight. to investigate ways to reduce the endJD Sports: managing for reducing the environmental of-life impact of our products. In 2014, Our quarterly Restricted Substances restricted substances footprint of Lacoste’s products, We are a step removed from our Mitre started a pilot project collaborating Network brings together representatives packaging, processes and suppliers’ manufacturing processes, with academies from the Centre for from each of our brands to discuss In 2013/14, JD published its everyday practice. Ongoing ideas and so we do not have control over their Sustainable Manufacturing and Recycling current issues and hear from experts. RSL and brought in a global are continuing into 2015 to embed efficiency. However, we do have a role Technologies (SMART). The project aims laboratory partner to help manage sustainable behaviour into the to play in encouraging our manufacturing to analyse the materials used in one of its chemicals management brand’s workplace culture. partners to make their operations Mitre’s best-selling footballs, to find ways programme. All JD’s material, more efficient. to avoid them being sent to landfill. We component and product suppliers anticipate that the findings of this pilot are required to take part in We ship our products in the most efficient project will form the basis of a longer-term product compliance and testing way possible, transporting more than collaboration in 2015. programmes, with JD also carrying 89% by sea. Where we cannot avoid air out its own due diligence testing. freight, it must be signed off by senior management. See Environment on page 21 for details of the steps we take to improve our environmental efficiency. 18 19 In 2014, we reduced Environment 05 our CO2 emissions We measure and monitor the impact we make on by around 9% the environment, and look for ways to reduce it. We focus on recycling and using The JD Sports carbon natural resources responsibly whilst management programme also minimising energy consumption and waste. We introduced a revised JD’s carbon management programme is environmental policy in 2014, as part designed to reduce energy use and CO2 of our refreshed business standards emissions across all its retail operations. (see page 09). As part of the programme, JD employees JD Sports Fashion’s retail operations have received training on why energy account for the vast majority of our efficiency is important and how they can environmental footprint, and are the main monitor their stores’ energy use. JD has focus of efforts to improve efficiency. In installed smart meters at 430 sites in 2014, JD operated 885 retail stores in the UK and Republic of Ireland, with the six European countries, covering three company reporting electricity use down million square feet. 1% year-on-year in 2013/14. More stores will be receiving smart meters in 2015. Energy and greenhouse gases To reduce its energy use further, JD We report on our carbon dioxide (CO2) has invested in Building Management emissions through the UK government’s Systems in the 80 stores that use the Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC). In most energy in the UK and Republic of 2014, we reduced our CO2 emissions by Ireland, resulting in a 20% reduction in around 9% compared with the previous average energy use at those locations. reporting period, from 46,251 to 42,234 The installation of 23-watt LED bulbs as tonnes – around 88% of which is the part of all new shop fits across Europe result of JD’s operations. This result was has reduced the amount of electricity achieved despite a period of expansion, needed for lighting by 30%, compared with the total number of electricity and with 35-watt bulbs. gas meter points across the group increasing by 9% over the same period. JD has also renewed its electricity supply contracts to include the condition that all its electricity comes from renewable or more sustainable sources. 21 Pentland Brands Waste and recycling We seek ways to reduce our facilities’ In 2014, Speedo started to introduce LED Waste and recycling at JD Sports Pentland Brands environmental footprint through the use of lighting in its office in Nottingham. So more efficient technologies and by raising far it has reduced energy use in affected JD’s main UK distribution centre, We aim to generate less waste and employees’ awareness about the simple parts of the building by 60%, and Speedo Kingsway near Rochdale, continues to promote recycling across the business. steps they can take to save energy. We plans to introduce the new lights to the be a ‘zero waste to landfill’ site. Across The facilities teams at each Pentland also promote energy efficiency across rest of the building in 2015. the business, JD has expanded its Dry office and distribution centre are our global sites by participating in WWF’s Mixed Recycling (DMR) scheme to committed to ensuring that the waste we annual Earth Hour. Energy-saving features at distribution minimise the amount of waste going to generate is managed responsibly, and we centres, which together are responsible landfill. In 2013/14, JD recycled 89% of partner with waste contractors that enable Our Energy and Environment Committee for around half of our energy DMR waste, with the remainder used to us to send as little as possible to landfill. includes representatives from each of our consumption, include motion-sensitive generate energy. UK facilities. The group meets quarterly lights that dim to 10% of their normal light Overall, in 2014 we generated 432 tonnes to share best practice and collaborate level in areas that are not in use, JD’s recycling strategy also of waste at our UK facilities, with more on energy and waste efficiency projects as well as skylights at Mitre and Prostar’s includes the following: than 88% being recycled or used to across the business. distribution centre in Wakefield, which generate energy. permit enough natural light to virtually • Paper waste is collected by a specialist eliminate the use of electric lights recycling business. Our London headquarters, Glover in summer. distribution centre, and Berghaus and • Wood, metals and plastics brasher’s office in Sunderland all sent Business travel are separated at JD’s main zero waste to landfill in 2014. and commuting Water consumption distribution centre Other successful efforts to reduce waste Many of our employees’ roles require We use relatively little water at our offices JD Sports: • Photocopier and printer toners in 2014 included: travel to visit colleagues, manufacturers and distribution sites, and what we do use focus on point of sale (laser and ink) are collected and business partners worldwide, is mostly for drinking, kitchens and toilets. and recycled for charity • A collaboration between Berghaus although videoconferencing helps to Boreholes supply water to toilets and Around 35% of the bags that JD and Sunderland-based charity The reduce this. Where road travel is required, washing facilities at Speedo’s Nottingham Sports stores give out are high• Food waste is separated out Box Youth Project, which helped the our company vehicle fleet includes office, and at our London HQ mains-fed quality drawstring duffle bags, where possible and turned brand reduce the impact of a major lower emission vehicles, and to make it water dispensers help us cut down on which our customers tend to keep into compost refurbishment by sending old office easier for employees to drive to work and bottled water. and reuse several times. They furniture to a community in Africa meetings in electric cars, our UK HQ has are made from 33% recycled charging points. material and contain a special • Speedo’s 10% reduction in paper ‘oxo-biodegradable additive’, which use compared with the previous year, We promote the use of public transport means they decompose fully in a achieved simply by employees having and cycling to work, and many of our relatively short time. to confirm printing requests at the employees car share where practicable. printer itself Pentland Brands offers employees the Around 60% of the plastic bags opportunity to participate in the UK used across the rest of the JD government’s Cycle to Work scheme, Group are made of the same which saves them money on the cost material. Stores in the Republic of of a new bike and accessories, and at Ireland only give out paper bags, Speedo’s Nottingham office and our and JD stores charge for plastic London headquarters, we offer regular bags in Wales, Scotland and bicycle maintenance services. We offer Northern Ireland, in line with the law. discounted season tickets for local public transport in many locations. 22 23 Ethical 06 trade We have long been committed to sourcing products responsibly, from manufacturers that respect the rights of the people who make our products. Our ethical trade programme focuses on Our first priority in trading ethically is assessing working conditions in all our to build long-term relationships with factories and making recommendations manufacturers that adopt our standards for improvement. or whose policies reflect the same values. We are proud to have been working with Pentland Brands sources products from nearly two thirds of our manufacturers manufacturers in 19 countries, which for more than five years – and we have in turn employ nearly 100,000 people. worked with some of our partners for over Around half of our supply base is in two decades. China, with a quarter in Southeast Asia and the remainder in South Asia, Europe We engage with stakeholders – and the rest of the world. We source including other brands and not-for-profit the majority of our products direct from organisations – to better understand the manufacturers, with a minority coming complex ethical issues associated with Pentland Brands through sourcing agents and business global supply chains, and to help make partners under licence. sustainable change. sources products from manufacturers in 19 countries 25 Our standards All Pentland Brands’ manufacturers must All new factories must be evaluated and approved – as a minimum – comply with our Code of Employment Standards for Suppliers, before our brands can place any orders with them which reflects the ETI Base Code and International Labour Organization conventions, as well as with all relevant legislation. We reviewed and slightly updated our Code in 2014. Assessing compliance The Code requires manufacturers with our standards to ensure that: Pentland Brands has a series of policies Our standards apply equally to • Living wages are paid and processes to make sure we manage manufacturers that our licensees use our ethical trade programme consistently to make Pentland Brands’ products. • Working hours are not excessive across our global supply chain. This Recognising the added complexity of includes regular factory visits conducted working with third parties, we engage • Working conditions are by members of our in-house social audit with licensees to ensure they understand safe and hygienic team, or by a nominated third party our expectations and have an appropriate auditor where necessary. We regularly system in place to monitor their • Child labour is not used Our involvement in the “This past year, we’ve seen an invite an independent local interviewer manufacturers’ compliance with Ethical Trading Initiative increased focus on the workers’ to join our visits and speak directly our standards. • Employment is freely chosen rights agenda and the role of with factory employees about working Pentland is a founding member British business in upholding this. conditions. All new factories must be Since late 2013, we have been using • No discrimination is practised of the Ethical Trading Initiative Whether it be championing payment evaluated and approved before our the Fair Factories Clearinghouse (ETI), which formed in 1998. ETI of a living wage, or strengthening brands can place any orders with them. (FFC) to store and manage our factory • There is no harsh or inhumane is a leading alliance of companies, systems for addressing modern assessment data. This enables us to treatment trade unions and non-governmental slavery, ETI remains at the If audits find any areas for improvement in more efficiently manage improvement organisations that promotes respect forefront of these efforts. Strong a factory’s ethical trade performance, we programmes in our factory base, and to • Freedom  of association and the right for workers’ rights around the globe. collaboration with our company, make recommendations, agree a timed provide up-to-date factory status reports to collective bargaining are respected We are now among more than 80 trade union and NGO members is action plan and follow up to check on to our brands and Executive. corporate members that together essential to driving positive, longprogress. We encourage manufacturers • Regular employment is provided have a combined turnover of lasting change for workers. As an to include worker representatives in the £160 billion. active and engaged ETI member, improvement process, by consulting them • There is no unauthorised Pentland Brands continues to play on the changes they feel would most subcontracting Our Code of Employment Standards an important part in this change benefit the workers. for Suppliers is aligned to the ETI process.” Base Code. As an ‘Advanced’ member, we invite ETI input Wiebke Flach, and scrutiny into the continuous Head of Membership Services, development of our long-term ETI ethical trade strategy, as well as our supporting annual objectives and activity plans. We report annually to ETI on our performance. 26 27 Map of sourcing countries Collaboration between brands Ethical trade at JD Sports and specialist organisations is vital JD is committed to sell only highquality, good-value merchandise for improving workers’ lives sourced from manufacturers that comply with internationally accepted 12 standards on labour. 06 07 11 By consolidating its supply base, JD has cut the total number of manufacturing sites in its supply 05 03 09 chain by 30%, to 351. Most JD 10 13 products are manufactured in Asia 01 and Turkey, and all its suppliers 01 Cambodia 08 Sri Lanka 08 must commit to comply with JD’s 02 China 09 Taiwan Conditions of Supply, which include 04 03 India 10 Thailand a Code of Employment Standards 04 Indonesia 11 Turkey for Suppliers. 05 Pakistan 12 UK 06 Portugal 13 Vietnam JD continues to keep a close eye 07 Spain on all its suppliers’ manufacturing sites, through a mix of yearly Total number of self-assessments, factory visits workers: 96,869 and social audits by independent experts. This allows the business to gauge working conditions and to Working with others work with suppliers to keep making Factory assessments Factory assessments improvements. In 2013/14, JD’s third by type: by region: We believe that collaboration between building projects for Pentland and other party auditors carried out social brands and specialised organisations is member brands, to avoid duplication audits at 57% of factories making vital for improving workers’ lives. This is of effort and therefore reduce the need JD products. especially true of organisations based for manufacturers to manage multiple close to our manufacturers’ facilities, corrective action plans. We estimate that which understand specific regional Better Work has made a positive impact challenges and opportunities in detail. on the lives of over 18,000 workers in our Vietnam supply base. One of our key local partnerships is with the Better Work programme, an Partnership with Better Work has International Labour Organization and increased our knowledge of the types International Finance Corporation of training and working practices that initiative that aims to improve compliance improve performance, and we plan with labour standards, as well as to expand our involvement as the competitiveness, in global supply programme expands into new territories chains. In 2014, we collaborated with and more factories. We also encourage Better Work in nine factories, across our manufacturers to take part if they Vietnam, Cambodia and Indonesia. In have factories in the countries that these factories, Better Work manages Better Work covers. ethical trade assessments and capacity 28 29 Our people 07 Our business depends on the talent, creativity and dedication of our global workforce. Around 19,000 people work for Pentland Group companies. Pentland Brands people Our business depends on the talent, We are proud to have been named by creativity and dedication of our Great Place to Work® as the 8th best large global workforce. company to work for in the UK, and 18th in the list of best large workplaces in We want everyone who works for Europe. The rankings are partly based on Pentland to understand their unique value the results of an employee survey, which to the business, and the vital role they saw 84% of our workforce describing play in our success. Our aim is to attract Pentland as a great place to work. the best people, and hold on to them by giving them the chance to develop in an environment that stimulates and supports them. 31 Our people are our most valuable asset, and we care about giving them the chance to develop themselves and their careers at Pentland Engaging employees Two-way communication with our Everyone has the opportunity to ask employees, and their active involvement questions by submitting them in advance, Developing our people in everything we do, is essential to our or by raising their hand during question success. In 2014, at the Chartered time. Local leaders also deliver monthly Our people are our most valuable Institute of Personnel and Development business briefings to all our people where asset, and we care about giving them People Management Awards, Pentland everyone can ask questions. the chance to develop themselves and Brands was named Overall Winner their careers at Pentland. and won Best Employee Engagement We offer a variety of other ways our Initiative. This recognised our work on people can give us feedback on what it’s Our people development programme, connecting employees to our business like to work for Pentland, and how they Pentland Pathways, includes courses strategy, and creating a strong company think we can improve as a business and to help employees build the skills they culture centred on our people. as an employer. need to thrive. In 2014, over 3,700 Our Growing Leaders Programmes people went on our training courses (this develop our potential high-flyers by We start by welcoming all new starters They include: figure includes some who went on more creating experiences to stretch their globally with our ‘Handpicked’ booklet, than one course). Everyone learns the thinking and challenge how they work. which tells them about our brands, the • Our MyPentland portal. This features fundamentals of our business by joining In 2014, 38 recent graduates, managers values that underpin our business and a newsfeed, blogs, team sites and a Brand Building Masterclass led by and senior managers joined our Future the great benefits we offer. In the UK, personal profiles, and is the main Pentland Brands Chairman Andy Rubin, Leaders, Emerging Leaders and Strategic once our new starters have settled into way for our employees to communicate who gives a full day, interactive session Leaders programmes respectively. their roles, they join one of our quarterly with each other, and with the sharing our experience and best practice ‘Steps to Success’ induction workshops Pentland Executive from our own brands and other industries. Based on feedback from our most to hear about our history and strategy, recent employee survey, we identified learn about key areas of our business and • Regular informal Q&A sessions with Other courses are tailored to suit the a need to ensure our people managers have the chance to network with others. Pentland Brands’ Chairman and CEO, needs of each department or brand. are fully equipped to lead their teams. and with brand and department leaders For instance, people working in In 2014, we developed the Pentland We work hard to create an environment distribution and shipping can have People Management Habits to give where everyone feels comfortable asking • An annual employee survey, and specific training on our Warehouse our leaders the skills they need to help questions and expressing their views. subsequent focus groups to dig Management System. Pentland people each of our teams succeed, and help Our Executive team deliver an Annual deeper into the findings also have access, through our portal, to us achieve our company objectives. All Review and quarterly updates to every e-learning courses on ethics and integrity, managers globally will join workshops to employee globally, through a series of • A phone line giving people confidential and workplace health and safety, as well develop skills in giving feedback, having on-site presentations and webcasts. advice and support as online toolkits, webinars and links to courageous conversations, managing other resources. performance and building strong teams. 32 33 A diverse workforce makes us more Training and development innovative and creative. It helps our Each year, at an awards ceremony hosted by our Chairman, brands understand what different JD recognises the importance of consumer groups want and need, and developing people to boost performance, we recognise people who have shown exceptional performance helps us create the right products for build morale and hold on to its brightest different markets. and best – and all the knowledge, skills and a commitment to these values and experience they bring. Health, safety and wellbeing It does this by offering a wide range of training and development opportunities At our offices, health and safety risks are at its Kingsway Distribution Centre in relatively low, and accidents are rare. Rochdale, taught by a dedicated team of Employee engagement Employee benefits Recognising achievements Those that do happen are mostly due specialist trainers. to slips, trips or falls. For people whose Regional and area managers We offer a variety of benefits that help Four values underpin our culture: roles involve potentially risky activities, For retail staff, this includes: communicate regularly with store support employees’ wellbeing and workpassion, courage, creativity and always such as lifting heavy objects and working managers and staff, and employees life balance. learning. Each year, at an awards at height in our distribution centres, we • A 12-week Training Academy (run also receive regular updates from HR on ceremony hosted by our Chairman, Values Awards take extra care with health and safety. three times a year), designed to help JD’s financial performance. JD puts out These include: we recognise people who have supervisors develop management a quarterly newsletter, People 1st, for the shown exceptional performance and a To help people stay healthy and active, skills – communication, leadership, people who work in its headquarters and • Competitive parental leave commitment to these values, and the our London HQ has a gym, swimming motivation and delegation. In 2014, distribution centre. people and teams whose work has made pool and sports pitch, which are free for 57 people took part • A n on-site nursery for children under a remarkable contribution to achieving all employees to use. five years old at our London HQ our strategic priorities. Award nominations • O ne-week induction programmes Health and safety are open to everyone across the global for new managers, held regularly • F lexible working arrangements, business, and all employees can vote Working at JD Sports throughout the year. In 2014, JD’s health and safety team under our ‘smart working’ initiative for a colleague from any brand, team or 365 managers took part are responsible for keeping their location. Over 50 people were recognised The largest of our Group’s companies, people and customers safe. In 2014, • Employee product discount at the 2014 awards. JD Sports Fashion, is a separately listed • H alf-day leadership skills workshops JD expanded this team to ensure public company. for junior managers. In 2014, over implementation of the correct health • R egular visits by financial and Our brands and global services also have 600 people took part and safety procedures in its newly pensions advisors ways of celebrating great work in their Employment and equal opportunities acquired companies. The team also have teams. Lacoste’s Grand Slam Awards and The training team also designs and a say in the design of all JD’s new and • A private and confidential helpline, Berghaus’ Star Awards recognise people JD is committed to treating all of its runs bespoke training programmes for retrofitted retail stores, and they carry run by an external partner, that offers who have made a standout contribution to people and job applicants equally people who work at JD’s headquarters out safety audits during construction. counselling, advice and other support the business. and with respect. It gives full and fair and distribution centre. Over 340 people consideration to job applications from took part in a range of management All JD’s new employees go through a • A 24-hour international travel and people with disabilities, and continues to development programmes in 2014, and health and safety induction and training health advice service supporting Diversity and inclusion offer development opportunities wherever 232 had a half-day induction at the programme when they join. JD also business travellers possible to any of its employees who JD Sports head office. runs targeted safety awareness We are committed to treating all become disabled after they join the campaigns throughout the year and employees equally and with respect, business. JD also aims to offer flexible Chausport and Sprinter run their own issues a monthly newsletter to help regardless of age, disability, ethnicity, working or part-time jobs to those who training programmes, which are tailored keep awareness raised. gender, marital status, religion, social want them. to suit those particular brands. background or sexual orientation. JD’s Health and Safety Committee meets JD recruits large numbers of school four times a year, giving every employee leavers and university graduates, and the chance to raise safety concerns regularly takes part in work experience through their representative. schemes with schools and colleges. 34 35 Community 08 We are committed to supporting the good work done by organisations ranging from small, local community groups to large, international charities. Some of this support is Pentland-wide, We now have a three-tiered approach: but much of it is given by our individual brands and offices to local causes. • F  lagship charitable giving and fundraising for charities in three Pentland Group provides regular support areas that are important to us: to a number of charities that give a healthy living, community support boost to young people starting off in and the environment business, including The Prince’s Trust, Young Enterprise and TrainE-TraidE. We • L  ocal level volunteering and fundraising are also a long-standing member of the activities – giving every employee the Clinton Global Initiative, a convention of chance to give back to their community political and business leaders developing innovative solutions to the world’s most • Product donations complex challenges. We will announce our flagship charity Pentland Brands refreshed its partners in 2015. framework for charity and community support in 2014. Our brands help to raise funds for charities that are relevant to them and their consumers 37 Volunteering Fundraising Product donations In November 2014, we launched Our brands help to raise funds for In 2014, Pentland Brands celebrated Canterbury holds kit ‘Give Back Day’, our new, company-wide charities that are relevant to them and its 15th year of partnership with In design workshops for the volunteering programme which gives their consumers. In May 2014, for Kind Direct. Founded in 1996 by HRH All Schools programme every Pentland employee one paid example, Canterbury unveiled a new The Prince of Wales, In Kind Direct day per year to volunteer, as part of kit range for the Royal Air Force (RAF) redistributes surplus products donated by Students at around 100 UK their team. Spitfires Rugby 7s team. For every shirt businesses to charities, social enterprises secondary schools were given the sold from this range, Canterbury donated and non-profit organisations in the UK chance to design their own rugby Pentland Brands’ leadership team £5 to charities supported by the RAF and abroad. Stock donated by Boxfresh, Speedo SPLASH Programme, India kits in 2014, thanks to Canterbury’s launched the initiative by taking part in Rugby Union, including the Khelo Rugby Canterbury, Mitre and Prostar reached support for the All Schools its own Give Back Day, working with our coaching project for disadvantaged more than 500 charities in 2014. programme. Launched in 2012, product donation partner, In Kind Direct, children in India. All Schools is an England Rugby to organise and pack donated products Several of our brands have also donated initiative developed with the Rugby for redistribution to charity (see below for Our employees are often inspired to take footwear via Africa Shoes, a social Football Foundation to get more more about In Kind Direct). part in fundraising activities, either as enterprise that redistributes products to Speedo SPLASH state secondary schoolchildren individuals or part of their teams. entrepreneurs in Africa for resale to local Programme, India playing rugby. As official partner of Other Give Back Day people who might otherwise not be able All Schools, Canterbury made kit events in 2014: In 2014, this included hosting Macmillan to afford them. Speedo’s SPLASH Programme design workshops an integral part Coffee Mornings in aid of Macmillan brings life-saving swimming of the programme, giving pupils the • O ur marketing team’s visit to Chalkwell Cancer Support, and competing in Canterbury, Mitre, Berghaus and Speedo skills to disadvantaged urban chance to design a rugby shirt for Beach in Essex, UK, where they sporting events such as the Royal Parks partner with Sports Traider to provide and rural communities across their school team. volunteered for Surfers Against Half Marathon. sports kits to young people. Many of our Bangalore. Over 100,000 people Sewage, removing litter from the sea sites took part in an equipment collection drown accidentally every year in The interactive workshops guide shore as part of a community beach drive in November 2014. India. As a joint initiative with the the children through the whole clean programme Rashtriya Life Saving Society India development process, and they and International Inspiration, the work together to decide the final • O ur Vietnam team’s collaboration with Programme focuses on three design. Canterbury then produces local officials in Binh Phuoc province to core areas: the kit for them. deliver clothing, food and blankets to people in need SAFETY: Teaching children basic water safety/swim • A December visit by our legal team to survival techniques the Kentish Town Community Centre in London, where they coordinated a LIVELIHOODS: Introducing children Christmas lunch for a local community and youth to different career and group, including the UK charity Age livelihood opportunities in the Concern, which offers support to swimming and lifeguarding sector older people PASSION: Introducing swimming at • T he Lacoste team in Canada’s trip to a young age to build a passion for the Salvation Army Gateway to help swimming for life cook and serve Christmas dinner for people staying at the charity’s Give Back Day, Chalkwell Beach, Essex This initiative has helped over emergency shelter 4,000 children in India since its launch in 2013. Jonny Wilkinson, All Schools programme 38 39 JD Sports fundraising In 2014, JD Sports: • R  aised £500,000 for The Christie Hospital, an NHS foundation trust that is Europe’s largest cancer centre and treats 40,000 patients a year. The money was raised through staff fundraising, the BUPA Great Manchester Run and a series of charity balls. It will go towards building and developing the UK’s leading cancer treatment centre for young people • S  ponsored two schools in Coimbatore, India. This year, JD will be focusing its support on non-charity status schools, while continuing to support last year’s schools with educational toys and Christmas gifts • S  ponsored free eye tests for children in a special needs school (through its Made with care. factories), and money for glasses, if they need them • D  onated unsold stock to In Kind Direct to help send less to landfill • R  aised £117,000 for a range of charities involving young children and adults from all backgrounds, through regular fundraising events. The money will be distributed throughout this year in line with JD’s charity programme • D  onated £12,500 to cancer charities and £1,000 to ChildLine 40 No Ordinary Shoes Limited is the worldwide Licensee for footwear under licence from Ted Baker plc and No Ordinary Designer Label Limited. Airborne Footwear Limited is the UK Licensee for apparel, footwear and accessories under licence from Kickers International B.V. Pentland Chaussures Limited is the worldwide Licensee for footwear under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. BERGHAUS and are registered trade marks of Berghaus Limited. BOXFRESH and are registered trade marks of Boxfresh International Limited. BRASHER and are registered trade marks of The Brasher Boot Company Limited. CANTERBURY and are registered trade marks of Canterbury Limited. ELLESSE and are registered trade marks of Ellesse International S.p.A. KANGAROOS and are registered trade marks of Asco Group Limited. KICKERS is a registered trade mark of and used under licence from Kickers International V.C. LACOSTE and are registered trade marks and used under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. MITRE and are registered trade marks of Mitre Sports International Limited. PROSTAR is a registered trade mark of Prostar Sports Limited. RED OR DEAD is a registered trade mark of Red or Dead Limited. SPEEDO and are registered trade marks of Speedo Holdings B.V. TED BAKER is a registered trade mark of and used under licence by Ted Baker plc and No Ordinary Designer Label Limited. PENTLAND is a registered trade mark of Pentland Group plc. Pentland Group plc 8 Manchester Square London W1U 3PH For further information about CR at Pentland Group, contact: corporateresponsibility@pentland.com www.pentland.com © Pentland Group plc 2015. All rights reserved.
