UN GLOBAL COMPACT DIETSMANN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 www.dietsmann.com LEADERS IN OIL, GAS AND POWER PLANT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE INDEX STATEMENT FROM THE PRESIDENT & CEO This is Dietsmann’s third annual Communication on Progress since the Company became a signatory to the UNGC at the end of 2011. Since then we have worked continuously on the further development of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy by formulating our global approach, structuring our responsibility-oriented actions and integrating the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Dietsmann complies with the legislation of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the principles and best practices of good Corporate Governance, the ethics and anti-corruption legislation and regulations, and all applicable legislation in every country in which we operate. This compliance, as well as all the measures that have been included in Dietsmann’s overall strategy in order to ensure we achieve the highest standards of corporate responsibility and integrate the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact into our day-to-day work, play an intrinsic role in Dietsmann’s long-term vision and strategy. Together this vision and strategy form the basis of Dietsmann’s single corporate culture that includes the ethics values of integrity, respect, loyalty, efficiency and transparency. Dietsmann’s Corporate Social Responsibility approach promotes these ethics values as well as mutual respect and correct behavior. During 2014 we once again expanded our operations to include new sites and a new geographical region. The importance of clearly formulating our CSR approach and sharing this information with our stakeholders has, therefore, continued to increase. The primary channels of communication we use to keep our stakeholders up-to-date with Dietsmann’s progress with the integration of the Global Compact’s principles into its structure, culture and everyday operation are listed in Section X of this Report. Dietsmann’s employees, by the way they carry out their daily work, are themselves one of the most important channels for communicating the Company’s values and ethics to everyone with whom they come into contact. This is why, as Dietsmann’s founder, President and C.E.O., I feel a personal responsibility for upholding Dietsmann’s long term vision and strategy and am personally involved in communicating this strategy to all our employees in all the countries in which we operate. Peter R.G. Kütemann President & CEO 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Statement from the President & CEO 2 I Profile disclosure 4 Company profile 4 Commitments to Dietsmann’s main stakeholders 6 Scope of the report 7 II Sustainability management approach 8 Sustainable Development Management System 8 Sustainability Management structure 9 Dietsmann Sustainability Project 9 III Human Rights principles 10 Overall strategy 10 Implementation and outcomes 10 Ensuring not being complicit in human rights abuse 12 IV Labor Rights principles 13 Overall strategy 13 Implementation and outcomes 13 Ensuring not being complicit in labor rights abuse 15 Health & safety 15 Social dialogue and cohesion 20 Fostering talent 22 Combating discrimination 24 Valorization of diversity 25 Local Employment 28 V Environment principles 32 Overall strategy 32 Implementation and outcomes 32 Waste Management 33 Environment protection 34 Carbon footprint 34 VI Anti-corruption principle 36 Overall strategy 36 Implementation and outcomes 36 VII Dietsmann’s involvement in local communities 38 Dietsmann Support & Coordination Office Monaco 38 Sonadiets Angola 40 Dietsmann Congo The Republic of Congo 41 Dietsmann Gabon Gabon 42 NetcoDietsmann Nigeria 43 Dietsmann Libya Libya 44 Dietsmann Technologies France 44 VIII Map of Dietsmann’s involvement in local communities 48 IX Continuous progress 49 Working towards excellence 49 Corporate Social Responsibility overview table 53 X Informing stakeholders of Dietsmann’s implementation of the UNGC principles 56 External communication 56 Internal communication 57 3 INDEX I PROFILE DISCLOSURE COMPANY PROFILE n Name of the organization: Dietsmann N.V. n Dietsmann N.V., the Company’s holding company, is a privately held company with its registered office in Breda, the Netherlands. n Company size: Dietsmann has offices and operations in 16 countries. The total workforce is 5661 employees. n Certification: The Dietsmann Group Support and Coordination Office (Monaco) has been ISO 9001:2008 certificated by the LRQA International Certification organization since 1996. Dietsmann Technologies SA (France) has been ISO 9001 certificated since 1996. Dietsmann Technologies SA (Salies-du-Salat, France) is ISO 14001 certificated and, since April 2014, OSHAS 18001 certificated. Dietsmann Technologies SrL (Italy) has been ISO 9001 certificated since 1999. Dietsmann Congo has been ISO 9001 certificated since 2013. In the course of 2014 NetcoDietsmann (Nigeria) and Dietsmann Gabon also achieved ISO 9001 certification. n HSE awards received during the reporting period: In the Republic of Congo: 4,000,000 hours without LTI on Total contract in July 2014 In Gabon: 7,500,000 hours without LTI on Total GMC contract in December 2014 2,000,000 hours without LTI on Shell Gabon contract in November 2014 In Nigeria: 6,600,000 hours without LTI at OKPAI (onshore site) in December 2014 2,000,000 hours without LTI in April 2014 at AFAM (onshore site) n Significant change during the reporting period: the opening of an office in Bolivia. n Organizational structure: n Corporate Seat: Breda, the Netherlands. n International Support and Coordination Office: Monaco. n Offices and operations worldwide: France, Italy, the Republic of Congo, Gabon, Nigeria, Angola, Mozambique, Libya, Iraq, South Sudan, Kazakhstan, Russia, Bolivia and Switzerland. 4 INDEX I PROFILE DISCLOSURE Dietsmann was founded in the Netherlands by its President & CEO Peter Kütemann and is the leading independent Operation & Maintenance (O&M) specialist for the Oil, Gas, LNG and power industry with 37 years of accumulated plant and equipment expertise. Dietsmann’s core business is planning and managing the O&M of oil, gas and power plants in a way that optimizes safe operational performance, maximizes availability and minimizes costs. The planning, engineering and ongoing execution of maintenance is a complex task in which experienced professionals analyze the requirements, engineer the maintenance, plan the operations and manage continuous plant optimization. Major international and national oil and gas companies entrust Dietsmann with the O&M of their production facilities. Professional maintenance not only increases operating revenue, it also extends the productive life of the assets and, as a result, contributes towards a more sustainable use of equipment and premises. Dietsmann’s core management has always focused on delivering safe and efficient Operation & Maintenance by working closely with its clients at all levels. The Company has accumulated a wealth of experience in operating and maintaining hundreds of production installations around the world. Currently the Company maintains a database of tens of thousands of different pieces of equipment as well as spare parts for all the production facility components of multiple configurations. Dietsmann remains independent and, therefore, free of conflicts of interest with regard to construction companies or original equipment manufacturers and this important principle will not change. As well as being the largest independent provider of specialized Operation & Maintenance services, Dietsmann is also the market leader in maintenance engineering and inspection (MEI). The Company’s worldwide Operation & Maintenance activities are supported by Dietsmann Technologies a Dietsmann subsidiary that provides a wide range of electrical, instrumentation, engineering and construction services. As a substantial employer in the countries in which it operates Dietsmann takes its social responsibilities extremely seriously. The company has been active in Nigeria, Angola, the Republic of Congo and Gabon for more than 25 years and in Kazakhstan and Russia since the early 1990s. In the countries in which it operates Dietsmann strives for 100 percent local employment in its maintenance organization. In 2014 Dietsmann opened an office in Bolivia. In December 2014 Dietsmann’s quality system management processes were audited by the ISO 9001:2008 certification organization, LRQA (Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance), and the certification was renewed. 5 INDEX I PROFILE DISCLOSURE TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 6.000 4.500 3.000 1.500 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 COMMITMENTS TO DIETSMANN’S MAIN STAKEHOLDERS We strive to take our stakeholders’ expectations into account in our business decisions and overall strategy. We maintain close relationships with our clients and regularly assess their satisfaction and, to enable us to improve our performance, their further expectations. We commit to our clients that we will: n always listen to and learn from them; n t ailor our services to their specific requirements; n o ffer effective industrial Operation & Maintenance solutions; n e mploy state-of-the-art, but field-tested, technology and cutting-edge working practices; n c ontinuously improve in everything we do; n m eet or exceed their expectations under optimum cost/benefit conditions; n b e truthful in all advertising and communications. We commit to our employees that we will: n p rovide a safe and rewarding working environment; n e nsure equal opportunities; n f oster an atmosphere of teamwork and mutual respect; n m otivate, empower and foster creativity and innovation; n f acilitate and manage local and international career opportunities. We commit to society at large that we will: n s trictly apply the highest ethical standards; n r espect and care for the environment; n s trive to be a good corporate citizen. 6 INDEX I PROFILE DISCLOSURE SCOPE OF THE REPORT The reporting period for the information provided is from January to December 2014. Group data included in this report does not take into account data related to Dietsmann Technologies Russia (formerly REP Engineering) as the integration of this Russian Global Maintenance Services Company with over 1,800 employees into the Dietsmann organization is still too recent (May 2013). This Communication On Progress (COP) describes Dietsmann’s strategy and progress in respect of the implementation of the ten UNGC principles. The information is arranged in accordance with the four main topics of the principles: Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment, and Ethics. Dietsmann’s sustainability management approach and the Company’s involvement in local communities are detailed in separate sections. To facilitate monitoring of the progress of Dietsmann’s social, ethics, local content and environmental performance an overview table has been included in Section IX. The contacts for questions regarding this Report or its contents are: n T he Operations Director; n t he Group Communications Officer; n t he Group HSE Manager. 7 INDEX II SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Compliance with its human rights, labor rights, environment protection and ethics commitments is monitored by Dietsmann’s Management Board and the Company’s performance is regularly assessed by the Executive Committee (EXCO). The recently-issued Corporate Social Responsibility Policy has been published on Dietsmann’s website and forms the basis of the Company’s Sustainable Development approach. In line with the Company’s commitment to integrating the UNGC principles into its operations and business strategy, an overview table has been compiled to assess the development of the Sustainability Project (see Section IX). Dietsmann also works closely with its clients on the development of its approach to ensure it is in-line with the clients’ own objectives and expectations. For instance, during the year a meeting regarding local content was held with TOTAL during which Dietsmann’s experience in respect of nationalization processes was discussed. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM A Dietsmann Sustainable Management System is being developed with the aim of ensuring the consistent implementation of the sustainability project. The system includes: n G uidelines for the progressive development of the project in the pilot subsidiary (Dietsmann Congo) under the guidance of a designated focal person. n G uidelines for the other subsidiaries that will be involved in the following phase of the project and a “search mode” in which contacts with and in local communities are sought pro-actively. n R ules applicable at a Group level for the systematic accountability of all operating sites regarding actions developed within the sustainability project framework. A Local Content Management plan has also been issued. The aim of this document is to support Sustainable Focal Points and Country Managers with the development and monitoring of local content plans that take the local context of each country into account. It should be noted that since 2013 the sustainable development process has been included and monitored within the Group Quality Management System. During 2013 a study of Kazakhstan and Angola was carried out based on information available on international databases (World Health Organization, Amnesty International, Transparency International, Doing business, Human Rights Watch, etc.). During 2014 Kazakhstan was designated a pilot country and work on specific process objectives commenced. 8 INDEX II SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE The structure implemented in 2013 remains unchanged as it has proven to be efficient, thanks to the involvement of the Sustainability Project focal points in the development of the project and monitoring of the indicators. Sustainability Project development Sustainability project focal points Coordination / Monaco Dietsmann Kazakhstan (pilot country) Sonadiets Angola Dietsmann Congo Dietsmann Gabon Dietsmann France DIETSMANN SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT As the revised Code forms a basis for the development of the sustainable development approach and must, therefore, be clearly understood by all employees, the Sustainability Project focused on the implementation of Corporate Shared Responsibility video training. In 2014 training courses took place in Monaco, Kazakhstan and France. 84% of the employees who were scheduled to participate successfully completed the training course and related test. The consultation with subsidiaries conducted in 2013 will be repeated in 2016. By then six countries will have implemented the specified follow-up of four items listed in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table: social, local content, ethics and environment. The overview table is included and explained in Section IX (see page 54). It enables Dietsmann to assess its continuous improvement. In line with the main strategic axis of “knowledge sharing”, which was identified last year, the overview table includes CORPORATE SPIRIT a specific indicator for the Dietsmann Initiative related to communities. This indicator assesses the number of ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS PROTECTION PARTNERS training days provided to non-Dietsmann employees at the various Company training centers. SHARED KNOWLEDGE SOCIAL HEALTH AT COHESION WORK CITIZENSHIP INITIATIVES 9 INDEX III HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. UNGC Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. OVERALL STRATEGY Dietsmann actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights through updated relevant published and publically available documents. Dietsmann is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Dietsmann does not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment. The Company also encourages its business partners to respect human rights and expects them to observe its “Business Partners Policy”. Dietsmann’s human rights practices are fully in line with UNGC expectations and include an involvement in local communities that focuses on knowledge sharing. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES EMPLOYEES’ PROTECTION Dietsmann Corporate Shared Responsibility Dietsmann has always been deeply concerned about the well-being of its employees and the mutual respect which is a constituent component of its corporate culture. The Company’s core values are encapsulated in the Dietsmann Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. This reference document provides practical examples to explain the implications of these commitments in the day-to-day working environment. To ensure all employees understand the content of the Code, during 2013 a training module – Corporate Shared Responsibility – was issued. This video-based training module explains on the one hand Dietsmann’s corporate responsibility commitments and, on the other hand, how employees are required to comply with these commitments and be personally involved. The first training courses took place during 2014. In addition, an abridged version of the Business Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy has been produced in the seven languages commonly used within Dietsmann and has been distributed at each training session together with a short test that enables the employee’s understanding of the Code to be checked. Employees are required to sign and return a declaration slip confirming they have read and understood the document, which includes the UNGC principles and Dietsmann’s commitment to these principles. The abridged version of the Code is retained by each employee. The acceptance of the Code by each employee is monitored through the Employee Data Base in order to ensure a progressive increase of the awareness of all employees is achieved. 10 INDEX III HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Dietsmann Upline email To protect its employees Dietsmann is progressively implementing a Grievance Mechanism, the “Upline email”, which can be used to obtain advice regarding, or report any sensitive concern related to, Human Rights and any deviance from the Code. The responsibility for this mechanism rests with the Ethics Committee. To ensure the confidentiality and reliability of the Upline email a dedicated and customized IT tool has been developed by Dietsmann’s IT department. This tool also enables the Ethics Committee to identify and analyze recurring issues and implement appropriate preventive actions. The procedure to be followed when using the Upline email is explained in the Upstream Communication procedure. HELP HR or HSE Officer Written statement upon your request. Ethics Committee HELP! upline@dietsmann.com investigation 10 DAYS 60 DAYS CONFIDENTIALITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT FEEDBACK The Upline email is introduced and explained to employees as part of the Corporate Shared Responsibility training. During 2014 the Upline email was implemented in three countries: Monaco, Kazakhstan and France. So far no requests for information or reports of concerns have been received. Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 31 Percentage of employees trained in discrimination prevention and use of the Upline assistance and protection tool In 2014 training courses took place in Monaco, Kazakhstan and France. 84% of the employees who were scheduled to participate successfully completed the training course and related test. Staff representative Written statement 32 -HELP Number of Upline requests related to or Direct social Supervisor issues uponthe in the countries in which your request. Upline tool has been implemented No request or grievance related to Human rights has been received so far. This reflects a high level of HELP HR orofHSE employee protection and the positive effects Officer the open dialogue practice that is deeply rooted in Dietsmann culture: employees feel free to talk to their colleagues and managers. Ethics Committee HELP! upline@dietsmann.com investigation 11 CONFIDENTIALITY 10 DAYS 60 DAYS INDEX III HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ENSURING NOT BEING COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSE Business partner screening Dietsmann is committed to applying UNGC principles at all its operating sites and to striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encourage them to implement good Corporate Shared practices. Responsibility A procedure is available and provides all Training session subsidiaries with an evaluation form for on site in current and potential main suppliers or Aksai Kazakhstan sub-contractors. Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 35 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and followed-up Business partner screening is already effective in Dietsmann Congo and is in progress in Gabon. During 2014 the form was completed by our main suppliers in Kazakhstan. The assessment of local suppliers is being implemented in other countries, including Italy, and in 2014 the global percentage of screening increased from 11% to 43%. PERCENTAGE OF SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS SCREENED 100% 2013 80% 2014 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Congo Gabon Nigeria Kazakhstan France The implementation of screening in Italy and other countries is currently on-going and, therefore, not included. 12 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES UNGC Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. UNGC Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. UNGC Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. UNGC Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OVERALL STRATEGY Dietsmann respects the labor rights stated in the International Labor Organization’s Declaration as well as all relevant legislation and regulations, including the local content of the countries in which it operates. Dietsmann expects its business partners to do the same. As stated in its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, Dietsmann: n R espects freedom of association and supports collective bargaining. n D oes not tolerate forced or child labor and discrimination. n H as always been committed to maintaining the highest level of HSE standards. n V alues the personal development of its employees and focuses on dynamic career management, supports internal promotion, invests in training and strives to take employees’ expectations into account. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann’s Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy publically states its commitment to supporting labor rights, including safe and healthy working conditions, freedom of association, non-discrimination in human resources management and access to basic health care and education. Dietsmann is developing tools and processes to implement these commitments. HSE performances are strictly monitored. HR performances are also monitored in terms of individual development, equal opportunities, diversity and training. Dietsmann also works continuously to improve welfare schemes for all its employees. As a global company Dietsmann relies heavily on mutual respect and individual dignity and believes that diversity enhances shared knowledge. 13 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES COMPLIANCE WITH LABOR RIGHTS: CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT All Dietsmann’s employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly defines their terms and conditions including pay rates, working hours and overtime compensation arrangements. All contracts specify employees are free to resign after a notice period defined according to the type of contact. Dietsmann does not have any employees under 18 years old. Information about standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, and grievance and disciplinary procedures is handed to all employees when they join the Company. All expatriate employees receive a country information sheet before taking up their duties. Dietsmann’s workforce is continuously increasing, reflecting its healthy activities. Dietsmann promotes and develops talent and encourages long-lasting relations with employees. Dietsmann is proud that, despite the fluctuating level of activity consummate with the nature of its operations, more than 145 of its current employees have worked for the Group for more than 15 years and nearly 70 of these employees have, in fact, been with the Company for more than 25 years. The 2013 Annual Report included comments on their time in Dietsmann from some of these long-term employees. Several extracts are summarized below. NADIA STEENBEKE, MARTIAL MICHEL, ANGÈLE IVAZZA, JEAN-LOUIS TÉTARD, NICOLE TCHIBINDA TATY, Personal Assistant Manager, New Works Corporate Secretary Preparation Method Executive Assistant, to the CEO, Department, HSE Department, Engineer, The Republic of Congo The Netherlands The Republic of Congo Gabon Libya “DIETSMANN “DIETSMANN “TEAMWORK, “THE CAREER “I HAVE A LOT OF GAVE ME THE RECOGNIZES THE COLLABORATION, OPPORTUNITIES GOOD MEMORIES.” OPPORTUNITY TO VALUE OF PEOPLE A GOOD OFFERED TO WORK MY WAY AND OFFERS ATMOSPHERE ANYONE WHO HAS UP THE LADDER ACCESS TO CAREER BETWEEN BOUNDLESS ENERGY AND IN VARIOUS PROGRESSION.” MANAGEMENT FOR THE COMPANY.” POSITIONS.” AND STAFF.” Dietsmann’s fluctuating level of activity results in a fluctuating, but overall relatively high, outflow rate. In 2013 the outflow rate decreased slightly to 5.28% from 7.56% in 2013. It should be noted that, in all the countries in which it operates, when a contract is completed Dietsmann’s policy is to offer employees work on new contracts whenever possible. In Kazakhstan, for example, when activities in Atyrau were reduced due to Kashagan’s activities being put on stand-by, employees were offered work in Aksai where a new contract was being started. 14 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 11 New hirings of national employees 12 New hirings of expatriates 13 Outflow rate ENSURING NOT BEING COMPLICIT IN LABOR RIGHTS ABUSE BUSINESS PARTNERS SCREENING As specified in Dietsmann’s Business Partners Policy, business partners are expected to respect labor rights. Dietsmann is committed to applying UNGC principles at all its operating sites and to striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encouraging them to implement good practices. As described in Section III, a Group procedure for the selection of suppliers and subcontractors is being implemented in phases. Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 35 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and followed-up HEALTH & SAFETY HSE The eight HSE policies are Safety & Security, Health & Industrial Hygiene, Decent Working Conditions, Vehicle Driving, Substance Abuse, HIV/AIDS, Sustainable Development and Environment Protection. The essence of these policies is contained within the HSE Charter included in the Dietsmann Business Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy. The full text of each policy can also be read in the Corporate section of Dietsmann’s website www.dietsmann.com. Dietsmann issues an annual HSE risks assessment in an HRA report (Health Risks Assessment) for the main operating sites and monitors risk management progress through regular HSE audits. It should be noted that Dietsmann Technologies’ Salies-du-Salat site, which has been ISO 14001 certificated since 2007, achieved OSHAS 18001 certification in April 2014. Dietsmann ensures employees are aware of the Company’s rules and HSE procedures by giving all new employees a copy of the Safety Handbook. Every employee arriving for his/her first day of working at a site must follow a safety induction path during which the HSE Officer covers all the relevant HSE guidelines, general rules and site-specific operational rules. At the end of the induction path every employee is given a copy of the Safety Handbook, which must be signed by both the employee and the HSE Officer. The safety handbook was last revised in 2011 and is currently being reviewed. 15 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES HSE Charter & Safety Handbook HEALTH SAFETY ENVIRONMENT CHARTER IN ALL ITS ACTIVITIES, DIETSMANN’S HSE OBJECTIVES ARE CLEAR: ■ Ensure the safety of our employees and contractors ■ Zero accidents ■ Protect the environment DIETSMANN’S COMMITMENTS: ■ Ensure that HSE requirements come before all ■ Openly communicate, both internally and externally, economic considerations the results and monitoring of HSE objectives ■ Adopt a proactive approach to guarantee a safe, ■ Respect the standards and requirements of international healthy working environment for all its employees rules and the application of laws and local regulations ■ Identify the risks stemming from its activities and ■ Ensure that its human rights policy is implemented and reduce them to the lowest possible level respected ■ Ensure that each of its employees continues to have ■ Require that all employees, whatever their level in the the necessary technical knowledge regarding safety hierarchy, are made responsible for their behaviour in by professional training and on the job training the application of this policy improvement of safety at ■ Promote its employees’ initiatives in the improvement the work station of safety at the work station ■ Support a precautionary approach to sustainability and environmental challenges ■ Reduce negative impacts on the environment by using energy efficiently ■ Minimize and eliminate discharges of hazardous Peter R.G. Kütemann products for humans and the environment President & CEO LEADERS IN OIL, GAS AND POWER PLANT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE Thanks to this comprehensive HSE management system, work related injuries have remained close to the target of zero fatalities and incidents that harm or injure employees. HSE PERFORMANCE 2010 TO 2014 DIETSMANN GROUP SAFETY INDICATORS 1.5 TRIR 1.2 LTIF 0.9 0.6 0.3 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 16 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Dietsmann’s comprehensive Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) policies and procedures ensure a continuous process of combined prevention and protection measures. The HSE Management System provides a framework for all teams at operating sites. Continuous consultation with employees regarding HSE issues contributes towards the improvement of safety and security at all sites. Dietsmann complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and the HSE knowledge of every employee is improved through regular training and presentations geared to their function and activities. Dietsmann’s HSE management is also continuously improving its policies. Every employee is expected to comply with all Dietsmann’s HSE policies and to make an active contribution towards their improvement by: n T aking all necessary precautions. n R eporting any witnessed near-misses, incidents or accidents. n C ontributing towards the identification and assessment of risks. n P articipating in HSE training courses. In June 2014 a specific campaign highlighting the Dietsmann 12 Safe Maintenance Rules started. WORK SAFELY Although Dietsmann always applies the client’s rules on site, to FOR EVERYONE’S SAFETY maintain the highest HSE standards Dietsmann wanted to have its own set of rules that are directly related to its core business. The ‘Dietsmann 12 Safe Maintenance Rules’ address the essential issues related to the key risks employees face during their day-to-day operations. The ‘Dietsmann 12 Safe Maintenance Rules’ campaign is promoted in seven languages. Training sessions focusing on one rule per month have been organized and will continue until May 2015. Rules to follow foR pRofessional Hse beHavioR This campaign explains that a rule is an appropriate principle DM130250 English Dietsmann PostersA2.indd 1 07-02-14 10:14 DM130250 English Dietsmann Posters.indd 1 04-02-14 16:05 regulating the practice or procedure of a specific activity and emphasizes that following the rules is compulsory. THE 12 SAFE MAINTENANCE RULES ARE: Rule 1 Safe system of work Respecting the Permit To Work and understanding and applying the Risk Assessment preventative measures. Rule 2 Pre-job meeting The importance of the Pre-job meeting to ensure the entire team understands the task and related risks and that all necessary risk prevention measures are in place. 17 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Rule 3 Hazard isolations The importance of ensuring all isolations are in place and validated and the precautions to be applied, especially for electrical isolations with a LOTO (Lock Out Tag Out) system and mechanical isolations. Rule 4 Incident reporting Responsibilities at each level in the organization regarding reporting, from anomaly card reporting for the workforce to accident reporting to the management. Rule 5 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) The PPE specifications and the necessity of using the standard plus task-specific PPE at all times. Rule 6 Portable working tools The steps to be followed prior to using a portable tool, the importance of using the right tool for the task and safety precautions when using tools. Rule 7 Lifting operations All the precautions to be applied during lifting and what to do and not do while a lifting operation is in progress. Rule 8 Driving a motorized vehicle What authorizations are required, the rules to be observed, defensive driving courses and the alcohol policy. Rule 9 Chemical exposure Knowing all the hazards and working safely with chemicals. Rule 10 Work at height Specific precautions to be applied when preparing for and carrying out work at height including the use of scaffolding and safety harnesses. Rule 11 Confined space The authorizations and checks required before a confined space may be entered and specific precautions related to working in a confined space. Rule 12 Cleaning and storage of working area Why working areas and workshops must be kept clean and equipment must be stored tidily. 18 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES MEDICAL CHECK-UPS All employees are covered by medical insurance and throughout the year information campaigns increase employees’ awareness of specific health issues. Dietsmann Congo: In 2014 the focus was on the 12 Safe Providing mosquito Maintenance Rules. Previous health & safety nets to employees campaigns do, however, remain available in to prevent Malaria the HSE section of Dietsmann’s website. In some subsidiaries disease prevention campaigns have been extended. At Dietsmann Congo for example, the issuing of mosquito nets to employees has continued. In addition to safety and security, employees’ good health is also a major concern for Dietsmann. This is why regular medical check-ups are provided to employees; in 2014, 90% of employees benefited from a medical check-up (2013: 92%; 2012: 86%). The check-ups are carried out every one or two years depending on the local context and the individual context (the employee’s age and type of work). PERCENTAGE OF MEDICAL CHECK-UPS CARRIED OUT JAN. 2014 DEC. 2014 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Iraq France Gabon Italy Kazakhstan Libya Russia Monaco Nigeria Angola Congo Sudan Additional processes to prevent health incidents are implemented in subsidiaries such as Dietsmann Congo where senior employees can, on a voluntary basis, follow a training course on occupational health & safety (OHS) during which qualified HSE managers provide first aid instruction. An automatic defibrillator is also available in the Pointe-Noire office. 19 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 27 Percentage of employees who benefited from a medical check-up 28 Total awareness-raising campaigns on health issues 29 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) per million man-hours worked 30 Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) per million man-hours worked SOCIAL DIALOGUE AND COHESION COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND DIALOGUE WITH EMPLOYEES The Company endorses collective bargaining: employees’ representatives are active at all operating sites and are also provided with the necessary meeting facilities and appropriate time off duty to organize work sessions with the managers concerned. At all sites Dietsmann promotes an open dialogue between employees and managers. In Monaco a specific anonymous email allows employees to send any question they may have to the employees’ representatives. Dietsmann Gabon’s dialogue box system, which allows open dialogue (open topics /nominative or not) is still ongoing. So far no significant request has been received, which could mean that direct dialogue prevails. To strengthen corporate cohesion and promote a good working atmosphere, events that bring employees together are organized at Dietsmann sites as often as possible. The end of year is a regular opportunity for such an informal get-together. Some special events are organized at other times of the year as well. For example, during the Dialogue box in Gabon year the local management in Kazakhstan sponsored a concert and invited employees to attend the performance. Concert in Aksai Kazakhstan 20 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES IDENTIFYING EMPLOYEES’ EXPECTATIONS: ICMS “INTEGRATED CAREER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM” Dietsmann operates an annual review process for employees; the number of scheduled interviews is increasing each year. The process identifies the employee’s personal development needs and training requirements for his/her current job position and expected career path. In 2014 67% of the scheduled ICMS interviews were conducted. The reason why this percentage was lower than in 2013 (69%) and in 2012 (73%) was that in 2014 the target had been increased by 6.4% and, due to the political situation, the process had to be put on hold in Libya. NUMBER OF SCHEDULED ICMS INTERVIEWS 3,000 2,250 1,500 750 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 PERCENTAGE OF ICMS INTERVIEWS CARRIED OUT BY MAIN OPERATING COUNTRIES IN 2014 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% Angola Congo France Gabon Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Italy Russia The percentage in Nigeria remains quite low due to the fact that some of the scheduled interviews could not be conducted due to manpower limitations. The percentage of planned ICMS in Russia does not include former REP Engineering employees. In addition to the review process, employees’ representatives are consulted regularly in all countries and their views and expectations are taken into account. 21 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 24 Percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement 25 Percentage of scheduled annual interviews (ICMS) carried out 26 Global percentage of employees interviewed (ICMS) FOSTERING TALENT INVESTING IN TRAINING One of Dietsmann’s objectives is to provide its national and expatriate employees with career opportunities and training programs. Towards this end the Human Resources department has developed several successful tools: TACT, KMP and PARS. The management and coordination of training courses and course participation are supported by the Employee Data Base (EDB) – Dietsmann’s in-house HR management software which includes a training module. The aim of this module is to assist training managers throughout the Company by automating many tasks, such as training plan editing, training request management and training processing and reporting. The investment in training remained at a high level with 11,127 training days between January and December 2014. This is a significant increase compared with the previous year (2013: 10,096 training days). The opportunity to follow training courses appropriate to their specific job needs or projected career path is available to all employees. Training can cover technical, administration, languages or management courses and training sessions are also provided for mandatory HSE and IT topics. The focus is on transferring know-how and enhancing national employees’ skills. TOTAL TRAINING DAYS BY ENTITY 2014 Angola 40% Nigeria 8% Libye 1% Kazakhstan 1% Monaco 5% Gabon 10% France 6% Congo 29% 22 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES TACT: “Technical Assessment Campaign and Training” The aim of this training program is to align the skills of national employees with the technical and safety requirements of their positions. This tool takes into account the assessment, training, mentoring and acquired knowledge measurement. TACT is applicable to four disciplines mechanics, instrumentation, electricity and HVAC– and differentiates three levels of skill – junior technician, senior technician and foreman. The program is aimed at both national and expatriate employees. A personalized training & tutoring program is implemented based on the results of the assessment and lasts for approximately two years. The two Tact sessions conducted to date involved 511 participants. KMP: “Key Managers Path” The objective of this project management training program is to prepare the key managers Dietsmann needs for its future operational development. This program is spread over several years and divided into two parts: n A  training program focused primarily on management, finance, communication and specific group modules provided by managers. n A  n individual professional path which allows each candidate to gain the necessary competencies step by step. The candidates fulfill different positions involving an increasing level of responsibilities. To date 24 employees have participated in the KMP training program. A new session will start in 2015 and will involve 12 trainees who have yet to be selected from 29 candidates. PARS: “Pro Active Recruitment System” The PARS has been implemented since 2006 and is aimed at talented potential candidates not necessarily experienced in the oil & gas sector. The main purpose of the PARS is to hire young technicians with a minimum of five years’ experience in the industrial sector and train them to meet the Company’s projected future needs. The recruits spend one month in the maintenance engineering department in order to gain a general overview of oil and gas projects before being assigned to one of Dietsmann’s subsidiaries for on-the-job training in different positions by experienced technicians. During periods of training in France or abroad, Dietsmann covers the costs and PARS participants agree not to benefit from expatriation premiums. This recruiting process enables regular needs for technicians (mechanical, electrical, instrumentation, automation, turbines) to be met and also represents an effort by the Company to train candidates who may not necessarily be hired at the end of the training. Since its launch the PARS has attracted 38 potential employees all of whom have since been hired. This program is available to only a limited number of candidates as it involves experienced employees’ contributing by transferring their knowledge. 23 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 21 Total training days 22 Training expenses in millions of euros 23 Number of employees who have benefited from Human Resources career development tools (TACT, PARS, KMP) COMBATING DISCRIMINATION Dietsmann’s non-discrimination principle includes any explicit or implicit distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of color, gender, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, which has the effect of nullifying or spoiling equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation, including access to vocational training. Dietsmann’s recruitment criteria are based solely on skills and are not related to ethnic or religious origins, age, gender or any other form of discrimination. DIETSMANN CORPORATE SHARED RESPONSIBILITY The Corporate Shared Responsibility video training module that explains Dietsmann Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy includes a section on the discrimination issue. The aim is to ensure all employees are aware of the varied and subtle forms that discrimination can take. To check the employees have clearly understood the message the test at the end of the training includes an item on the topic. The course participants must also sign and return a declaration slip confirming they have read and understood the abridged version of the Code handled to them after having seen the video. Employees are instructed to prevent any discriminatory situation and to report any such situation that they become aware of whether it involves them or a colleague. Reporting a discriminatory situation is mandatory and must be done in accordance with the Upstream communication procedure described in Section III. UPLINE EMAIL The ongoing implementation of the Upline email grievance mechanism allows employees to request advice on labor rights matters and report any deviance from the Code including, of course, any violation of fundamental rights and non-compliant behavior. The responsibility for carrying out investigations rests with the Ethics Committee. Confidentiality is ensured and all the members of the Ethics Committee are subject to a stringent privacy commitment. Potential requests are recorded and analyzed in order to attempt to avoid the situation recurring in the future and to gain an insight into the topics concerned with a view to implementing any preventive actions deemed necessary. Since the implementation of the Upline no request related to labor rights violation has been reported. 24 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 31 Percentage of employees trained in discrimination prevention and use of the Upline assistance and protection tool 32 Number of Upline requests related to social issues in countaries in which the Upline tool has been implemented VALORIZATION OF DIVERSITY Whenever possible the Company promotes national employment. As a result the Company is continuously increasing the diversity of its employees. A total of 58 different nationalities were represented in 2012, in 2014 66 different nationalities were represented. Dietsmann is present in 16 countries and in every one of these countries recruits employees by publishing vacancies worldwide on its website. The diversity of Dietsmann’s workforce reflects its rejection of any form of discrimination. EMPLOYEE Russian 30.5% Indonesian 0.5% NATIONALITIES Pakistani 0.3% Serbian 0.4% DECEMBER Romanian 2.3% South African 1.1% 2014 Nigerian 8.7% Tunisian 0.9% Libyan 2.1% Other 2.5% Kazakh 2.5% Algerian 0.5% Italian 1.9% Angolan 10.4% Indian 1.4% British 0.7% Other: Gabonese 6.5% Congolese 13.7% 49 different nationalities French 10.4% Filipino 2.3% Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 19Number of nationalities represented in the Dietsmann Group 20Percentage of national employees (vs expatriates) 25 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES GENDER EQUITY The specific nature of working on-site in extreme environments has to be taken into account as it requires a robust condition of health and quite often involves a rotating work schedule which is not convenient for everyone. Office positions obviously do not involve the same constraints as operational positions, and the gender ratio is significant for these positions: women represent 50% of employees working in office positions. This percentage has increased by 7% since 2012 (43%). ADMINISTRATIVE POSITION GENDER BREAKDOWN 2013-2014 (by country of work in main countries of operation) 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Congo France Gabon Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Other Russia Rates of women 2013 Rates of women 2014 The overall percentage of women (all positions) at Dietsmann remains low (11%), in part due to the lack of adequate candidates for operational positions. Gender diversity is, however, effective in Monaco and at an encouraging level in France, Kazakhstan and Russia. As far as administrative positions are concerned, the best in class are Kazakhstan and Russia. It should also be noted that in Kazakhstan the percentage of women in management positions is one of the best (86%). 26 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 14 Gender percentage administrative positions 15 Gender percentage all positions GENDER BREAKDOWN ALL POSITIONS DEC. 2014 (by country of work in main countries of operation) 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Congo France Gabon Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Others Russia GENERATION EQUITY The breakdown of employees by age is well balanced: the average age is 40. The percentage of young (under the age of 35) employees is 32%. This high percentage highlights Dietsmann’s ambition to recruit and give opportunities to young talent. At the other end of the age spectrum, 11% of employees are over 55 years old. This is a quite significant percentage and it should be noted that 78 employees have worked for Dietsmann for more than 25 years (see details in Section III) . Compared to last year, the trend is towards a slight ageing: the average age has risen from 39 to 40 and the number of employees over 55 has decreased by 1%. 27 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES BREAKDOWN BY AGE GROUP (2013 2014 comparison) 20% January 2014 December 2014 15% 10% 5% 0% -20 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 16 Average age 17 Percentage of employees over 55 18 Percentage of employees under 25 LOCAL EMPLOYMENT The nationalization of expatriate positions is a priority in terms of career management. Typically, over 99% of administrative staff positions and over 74% of management positions are filled by nationals of the countries in which Dietsmann operates. The Company remains focused on increasing the proportion of nationals employed in all categories. Dietsmann’s HR policy is reflected in the proportion of national employees across the Company overall, which is now over 80%. NATIONALS VERSUS EXPATRIATES COMPARISON 2013 2014 6,000 Nationals Expatriates 4,500 3,000 1,500 0 2013 2014 Since 2013 the number of national employees has increased from 79.75% to 80.25 of the total employees. It should be noted that this increase is also applicable for management positions. 28 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES EMPLOYEES BY POSITION CATEGORY (2013 and 2014 comparison) 100% Nationals 2013 Expatriates 2013 75% Nationals 2014 50% Expatriates 2014 25% 0% Administrative Management Operational Dietsmann undertakes to provide local employees with skill-development opportunities. In fact, 72% of participations in training courses benefited national employees. As a result, Dietsmann is proud to work with thousands of highly motivated and well-trained local staff, some of whom have been promoted to senior management positions including in Nigeria, Angola, the Republic of Congo and Gabon where the Company has been present for more than 25 years. BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL TRAINING COURSES DELIVERED FROM JAN. TO DEC. 2014 Expatriates 28% Nationals 72% 29 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY OF WORK DEC. 2014 2,000 Nationals Expatriates 1,500 1,000 500 0 Angola Congo France Gabon Iraq Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Other Russia South Sudan Dietsmann strives for the maximum local employment at every level of its organization. This benefits the economy and local communities in the countries in which it operates. Nationalization is, however, one of Dietsmann’s greatest HR challenges because the success of nationalization plans depends on a whole range of parameters, such as the level of education of the local staff, the quality of the local training centers and the mix of specific Human Resources skills required to manage this kind of project. Generally the nationalization of a position involves a substantial financial investment. To support the implementation of an increasing number of nationalization plans and to make these plans more successful, in 2012 Dietsmann developed a Nationalization Tool Box (NaTB). This tool box comprises a set of training courses, tests and support material that enables the local HR department to formulate and implement a nationalization plan fitted and adapted to the specific local situation. The NaTB recommends a step-by-step nationalization process and includes support materials, such as technical, reasoning and psychological tests, general, technical and management training course support and cost evaluation software for each step as well as all the additional information that will enable the Country HR Manager to set up and implement a training plan. The NaTB has been used successfully by several subsidiaries and resulted in efficient nationalization plans, including in Sonadiets Angola as shown in the following graph. Globally, the process of nationalization has resulted in 16 positions previously held by expatriates being nationalized in 2014. 30 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES RECRUITMENT PLAN AND REINFORCEMENT OF ANGOLANIZATION 20 Reinforcement with Supervisors 16 Reinforcement with Clov Initial program 12 8 4 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In addition, Dietsmann is developing or expanding training centers in its countries of operation. The aim is to address the lack of some specific training courses. Detailed information about the training centers can be found in Section VII as these centers are also a component of Dietsmann’s contribution towards the development of local infrastructures. Local employment-related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 37 Number of projects covered by a nationalization plan 38 Number of key positions nationalized 39 Percentage of national employees in management positions 40 Percentage of training dedicated to national employees 31 INDEX V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES UNGC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. UNGC Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. UNGC Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OVERALL STRATEGY Protection of the environment is supported by a specific HSE policy based on ISO 14001 standards and is included in the HSE charter. As Dietsmann’s main activity involves the provision of services, its impacts on the environment are more indirect than direct. Even so, to strengthen its approach to environment protection the Company is working on defining good-practices related to resource consumption, waste management and global environmentfriendly behavior. When operating on a client’s premises Dietsmann complies with that client’s environmental standards. Dietsmann also focuses on preventive maintenance to increase equipment lifetime and avoid spills. Furthermore, the Company encourages its business partners’ active protection of the environment through the Business Partners Policy. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann complies with all relevant environmental legislation and regulations, and official documents publically state the Company’s precautionary approach in terms of the environment. In order to remain fully compliant the HSE department maintains an up to date legislation and regulations database. Remaining objectives related to environment are to draw up a series of environmental good practices that should help to reduce the environmental impact (resource consumption, waste and pollution), increase employee training in respect of environmental matters, implement a more accurate internal impactassessment system and improve Dietsmann’s ability to respond effectively to any issues that could arise. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Care of the environment is a priority for Dietsmann in all of its activities. According to its HSE Environment Protection Policy, Dietsmann undertakes to ensure that regulatory requirements and Group standards are respected by carrying out regular environmental reviews and by deploying environment management systems based on the ISO 14001 standard at all sites. The Dietsmann Technologies SA site in France (Salies-du-Salat) has been ISO 14001 certificated since 2007. 32 INDEX V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 51 Percentage of permanent facilities (offices) in which an environmental risk assessment has been carried out In line with its HSE Environment Protection Policy, Dietsmann assesses specific risks and formulates a crisis management plan for emergency pollution situations. This plan is reviewed and improved on a regular basis. WASTE MANAGEMENT WASTE SORTING Dietsmann develops and implements training and education programs on environmental protection good practices for all employees. To date these programs have focused primarily Waste sorting at on raising awareness regarding reducing waste production, Morro Bento Training promoting and maximizing recycling and the traceability of Center Angola ultimate waste products. As a result, Dietsmann employs licensed waste companies to dispose of waste wherever available. Waste is sorted at 100% of the Company’s sites and this waste management is supported by specific procedures. At those sites the sorted waste is transferred to waste collection companies or, in the case of industrial waste, to the client. Where available, local facilities are used for the separate disposal of obsolete electrical and electronic equipment and for batteries and the weight of waste material is monitored and measured on a regular basis. Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 47 Percentage of permanent facilities with a waste storage and sorting area In 2014 100% of the sites of operations in the six screened countries included a waste storage and sorting area. 33 INDEX V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING & PROMOTION The HSE inductions of all employees include environment protection. The subsidiary in Gabon goes further. The job description of every employee includes the requirement to respect and implement the HSE guidelines related to the environment in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard. TOWARDS CONSUMPTION REDUCTION Dietsmann has been campaigning for switching off lights and computers. “Reducing Energy Usage” messages are displayed in almost all subsidiaries. To reduce water consumption at Dietsmann Congo, rainwater is harvested and used for the equipment cleaning activities. The local climate allows the tank to be filled for 60% of the year. Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 50 Percentage of countries in which environment awareness raising campaigns have been provided to employees Developing and implementing training and education programs on the environmental protection good practices for all employees is part of the HSE Environment Protection Policy. Developing campaigns that will raise employees’ awareness of the need to use water carefully and to use renewable energy sources whenever feasible is a component of this policy. CARBON FOOTPRINT REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT NetcoDietsmann in Nigeria is pursuing its effort to plant grass, flowers and trees on the Afam VI operation site. This local approach called “beautification” continued during 2014 and is implemented on sites where it is possible. The gas turbines at Afam and Okpai have CEMS (Continuous Environmental Monitoring System) which ensures that emissions are Beautification in in-line with current applicable Afam VI 2014 Nigerian guidelines. 34 INDEX V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES CONSUMPTION MONITORING Dietsmann Gabon has been monitoring power consumption in the Port-Gentil office since January 2013. As the diagram shows, during 2014 measurement and control has been achieved. Dietsmann is committed to communicating environmental impact assessment and reporting to its main stakeholders. Towards this end Dietsmann is working on the issuing of a carbon footprint assessment tool that could be used in all subsidiaries. In the meantime, Dietsmann Congo has implemented a specific assessment of its carbon emissions. The carbon footprint tool will be based on the regular measurement of various types of emissions including electricity consumption as it is already assessed on a monthly basis in Gabon. Monitoring the Carbon footprint data will enable the Company to reduce its energy consumption in accordance with regularly updated targets. MONITORING OF ELECTRICITY CONSUPTION IN DIETSMANN GABON 8000 2013 2014 6000 4000 2000 0 December January February March April May June July August September October November Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) 48 Percentage of permanent facilities (offices) assessed 49 Global carbon emissions estimated in assessed countries 35 INDEX VI ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE UNGC Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OVERALL STRATEGY Dietsmann endorses the United Nations Convention Against Corruption and is committed to combating all forms of corruption. The Company has a long-term commitment to ethics and transparency and uses the stipulations of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as a basis for the development and implementation of good Corporate Governance for Dietsmann’s overall management. Although the Dutch Corporate Governance Code only applies to Dutch companies listed on a stock exchange recognized by the government, Dietsmann voluntarily complies with the Dutch Code’s stipulations and best practices including audits, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards and the Management Board and Supervisory Board use the Code as a management framework. Dietsmann‘s ethics principles and guidelines are encapsulated in Dietsmann’s Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, the first version of which was published in 2004. Dietsmann also encourages its business partners to respect its Ethics commitments through the Business Partners Policy and the Business Ethics Charter. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann complies with applicable legislation and regulations related to ethics, Corporate Governance and anti-corruption. Dietsmann’s Ethics standards will be explained to employees through the Corporate Shared Responsibility training. Dietsmann takes every opportunity to promote ethics commitments among its business partners. ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCESSES Corporate Shared Responsibility training and Upline email The Upline email which is being implemented enables employees to seek further advice should they have concerns regarding sensitive situations. The Ethics Committee is responsible for answering, analyzing and recording requests for advice and reports of grievances and concerns. The Upline email, the terms of use of which are explained in the Upstream procedure, enables any deviations from the Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy to be recorded and analyzed so attempts can be made to prevent similar deviations recurring in the future. Both the Upline email and the Upstream communication procedure are accurately explained to all employees in the Corporate Shared Responsibility training as described in Section III. 36 INDEX VI ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Ensuring business partners’ compliance Dietsmann is committed to applying UNGC principles at all operating sites and striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encourage them to implement good practices. As stated in Section III, a Group procedure provides all subsidiaries with an evaluation form for current and potential main suppliers or sub-contractors. The form includes ethics compliance items. Promotion of ethics commitments In 2013 Dietsmann’s Nigerian joint-venture, NetcoDietsmann (NTD), launched an anti-corruption campaign supported by a dedicated email address for confidential feedback on any instance of bribery. A letter of information was sent to all suppliers and vendors and a poster campaign was displayed. To date no grievance has been received via the email. Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) Anti-corruption 33 Percentage of employees trained in ethics principles (Corporate Shared Responsibility Training) 34 Number of Upline requests related to ethical issues in countries in which the Upline tool has been implemented Business partner screening 35 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and followed-up (Global compliance including ethics) Respect of legality principle During the reporting period Dietsmann was not the subject of any investigation, legal proceedings or incident involving Human Rights, Labor Rights or Ethics deviances. Dietsmann’s audited financial statements are published in the Company’s annual report. Compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations is monitored by internal and external auditors. Dietsmann has neither experienced any reportable environmental incidents during Dietsmann Business the past year nor has been subject to any Ethics Charter statutory notice or prosecution. 37 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Dietsmann has built-up close relations with the communities that host its operations through long-term local initiatives and actions involving knowledge sharing. DIETSMANN SUPPORT & COORDINATION OFFICE MONACO In Monaco Dietsmann has a long-standing involvement in the activities of local and neighboring municipalities, mainly through sponsoring or contributions to local organizations. NO FINISH LINE This year Dietsmann was once again proud to be one of the official sponsors of the 15th ‘No Finish Line’ eight-days run organized by The Children & Future Association to help disadvantaged and sick children. Dietsmann and the other companies involved sponsor this event by donating one euro per kilometer run or walked by each employee. This year Dietsmann as official third-level sponsor donated over 10,000 Euros to this significant event. During the 15th ‘No Finish Line’ held at the Port Hercules circuit in Monaco in November 2014 the Dietsmann team of 172 participants completed a total of 8,041 kilometers and ended 7th out of 362 teams involved. The total of € 8,041 they raised will be used by the Association to fund major projects, such as the provision of comprehensive support to foreign sick children undergoing humanitarian surgery in the Monaco Cardio-Thoracic Center, or the continuous support of initiatives dedicated to helping children suffering from HIV/AIDS led by the Fight Aids Association chaired by H.S.H. Princess Stéphanie. This sponsorship gives Monaco employees the opportunity to be involved collectively in a humanitarian activity in the name of Dietsmann. As usual the initiative is led by Dietsmann’s tendering department Manager who, every year, voluntarily, takes on the recruiting, organization and coaching of the Dietsmann team. 2014: 11,256 participants and 342,323 kms run Amount raised: over 390K€ Dietsmann participants in NFL 2014 38 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES CAP D’AIL TRIATHLON Dietsmann, for the second time, was an official sponsor of Cap d’Ail Triathlon (neighboring municipality of Monaco) which consists of a 600 meters swim, a 17 km cycle ride and a 6 km run. On 7 September 2014, the 13th edition of this triathlon gathered 200 participants. LES ENFANTS DE FRANKIE In line with the Company’s concerns regarding Human Rights, Dietsmann continues to make an annual donation to “Les Enfants de Frankie”. Since its creation this Association, supported by 150 volunteers, has assisted more than 100,000 children in great difficulty in Monaco and the PACA region by working closely with hospitals, social services, orphanages and over 200 associations dedicated to children. “Les Enfants de Frankie” organizes sports and cultural events, festivals, holidays, workshops and, thanks to these activities, finances several projects a year. FEDERATION MONEGASQUE DE VOLLEYBALL (FMVB) The two-year partnership agreed last year between the President of the Monegasque Volleyball Federation, Christian Palmaro, and Dietsmann’s President & CEO, Peter Kütemann, is still ongoing. Dietsmann, as a partner of the Monegasque Volleyball Federation, supports the development of the volleyball and beach volley teams representing the colors of Monaco at the highest level and contributes towards the harmonious development of social life in the Principality of Monaco. In addition, this year the Company sponsored the eight employees who made up the team representing Dietsmann in the Beach Volley Trophy Albert II. This is a mixed tournament open to businesses in the Principality of Monaco. It took place during the months of May, June and September and involved 28 teams divided into three divisions. The Dietsmann team, which was provided with all the necessary equipment by the Company, was proud of coming 7th out of the 12 teams involved in the third division competition after its first time of participating. Dietsmann’s Beach Volley Trophy Albert II team players 39 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES SONADIETS ANGOLA In Angola Dietsmann, through its joint-venture Sonadiets, is focusing on transferring know-how to communities through the Morro Bento Training Center. KNOW-HOW TRANSFER TO COMMUNITIES, MORRO BENTO TRAINING CENTER Sonadiets runs a training center dedicated to potential future employees. In line with clients’ requirements the training center offers several job-skills related modules (electricity, mechanics, instrumentation & HVAC) as well as general courses (mathematics, physics and English language) and HSE certification courses. Around 30% of the courses are theoretical and the remaining courses involve practical workshops in real working conditions. During 2014 the training center provided a total of 6,875 days of training to 78 trainees. As often as possible training courses are offered to potential future employees from the community. During 2014, for example, 15 non-employees benefitted from around 1,300 days of training. It should be mentioned that the Training Center operates in accordance with ISO 9001 standards. CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS COMMUNITIES’ INFRASTRUCTURE Sonadiets focuses its involvement with local communities on developing the training center in Morro Bento, a growing suburb a few miles outside Luanda. The training center is in a 1000m² space. Its two training buildings, which can host 50 trainees, include six fully-equipped classrooms, a rest area (kitchen and Wi-Fi), a large workshop containing the same technical equipment as is used on operating sites (instrumentation, mechanics, electricity) and an e-learning room (11 computers and monitored internet access), sanitary facilities and the training center administrative offices. All classrooms and workshops are equipped with air-conditioning & video projection equipment. TRAINING CENTER A class room Practical training equipment 40 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES DIETSMANN CONGO THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO In the Republic of Congo Dietsmann’s long-term focus has been on sharing knowledge, including via its training center. It is worth highlighting that since 2004 when Dietsmann Congo started the nationalization process, 32 positions have been successfully nationalized. SHARING KNOWLEDGE WITH COMMUNITIES Dietsmann Congo continuously hosts trainees and has been mentoring several ISTAC students who have been participating in three/four year apprenticeships. During 2014 Dietsmann Congo also improved the range of equipment in its training center. TRAINING CENTER A class room Practical training equipment Optalign smart Fixtur laser 41 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS Dietsmann Congo is a regular sponsor of the local Rotary organization, which supports several local organizations, and each year Dietsmann Congo makes donations to other associations. In 2014 Dietsmann Congo supported the Congo Assistance Foundation a non-governmental organization that promotes social action in the areas of health, development, education and vocational training aims. After a slight decrease in activity between 1991 and 1997, the Congo Assistance Foundation has focused on early childhood, women and the elderly. A contribution was also provided to Unicongo, the Interprofessional Employers’ Union of Congo, for the world day for occupational health and safety. This union undertakes actions and projects aiming at supporting the development of local businesses. It also participates in the economic and social development of the country. DIETSMANN GABON GABON Dietsmann is also focusing on knowledge sharing in Gabon through partnerships with several local training institutions. Dietsmann Gabon has also renovated and extended its own training center. KNOWLEDGE SHARING The Port-Gentil training center has existed for several years. It started with a single classroom with space for 20 trainees. In 2013 a second classroom for 10 trainees was added and an area in the workshop was set aside for the organization of practical sessions (mainly mechanics). In May 2014 work started on the construction of a new workshop. It was completed in August. This 60m2 area is dedicated to instrumentation, mechanics and electricity and is equipped with all the machinery and tools necessary for practical training. Training courses are conducted by Dietsmann Gabon’s own trainers – instrumentation, mechanics and electricity – who share their teaching time between Dietsmann Gabon and Dietsmann Congo. A dedicated space (workshop) containing the equipment for the three modules is being set up. As the three trainers are also in charge of carrying out know-how audits on the different operating sites they are aware of the actual working conditions on site. In addition, through an agreement with the local “Lycée Technique”, Dietsmann Gabon hosts at least two trainees per year and the Dietsmann Gabon HR Manager is involved in the end of year examination. Depending on the available work load Dietsmann also hosts one or two trainees from the local business school. On average 10 short-term placement trainees (less than two months) are hosted each year. When the opportunity is available some of the trainees hosted are hired. In 2014 two trainees were hired. 42 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES TRAINING CENTER New workshop New classroom Small turbine for training mechanics Practical training equipment Dietsmann Gabon is also deeply involved with the CSP (Centre de Spécialisation Professionnelle of PortGentil) via a partnership. Each year a dozen students are selected for this training. The diploma they receive on successfully completing the course ensures them a good opportunity to start a career in local industry. NETCODIETSMANN NIGERIA In Nigeria relations with local communities are formalized through tools implemented by the clients. For example, at the Afam VI operating site, NetcoDietsmann – Dietsmann’s Nigerian JV – follows the Shell Production Development Company’s (SPDC) system: consultation with local communities is handled by SPDC which operates a GMOU (General Memo Of Understanding) with communities affected by operations. NetcoDietsmann refers to this analysis to focus its contributions on identified needs. At the Okpai operating sites NetcoDietsmann follows the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) system: relations with local communities are conducted by a Public Affairs Coordinator. NetcoDietsmann refers to the recommendations of the Public Affairs Coordinator to focus its contributions on identified needs. In addition, regular meetings with local authorities ensure a continuous dialogue and frequent “Social Performance Workshops” are held with SPDC in order to improve social performances. This system allows the support to be focused on relevant needs. 43 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES PARTNERSHIP WITH A TRAINING CENTER NetcoDietsmann is supporting a capacity-building project through material contributions, such as classroom equipment, supplies and training modules, to a local technical school called Don Bosco. This contribution is especially meaningful because NetcoDietsmann is reliant on this training center for the provision of several technical training modules (primarily electricity, mechanics, instrumentation and general knowledge). TRANSFERRING KNOW-HOW TO COMMUNITIES In addition to its support of the Don Bosco training center NetcoDietsmann also regularly provides local young people with on-the-job training and theoretical knowledge course. In 2014 NetcoDietsmann supported several trainees at the Don Bosco training center including 15 young people from local communities (not NetcoDietsmann employees). In addition, this year Afam VI hosted six trainees and Okpai hosted 11 trainees. DIETSMANN LIBYA LIBYA Although activities in Libya were limited during 2014 due to events that occurred during the year and the general unrest in the country, the Dietsmann joint-venture is still planning to continue the ongoing investments in know-how transfer and local workforce training. TRANSFERRING KNOW-HOW TO COMMUNITIES The training center was opened at the end of 2013. Dedicated infrastructures have been provided by Dietsmann and the classrooms have been equipped. The first intake of 20 young graduates, some of whom have since been hired, followed technical training courses related to oil & gas. The training activity has been put on hold but will resume as soon as activities fully restart. The training center is open to any community member fitting the defined criteria. DIETSMANN TECHNOLOGIES FRANCE In France relations with local communities are also focused on knowledge sharing. Every year Dietsmann Technologies France hosts trainees and apprentices, and also regularly trains employees from foreign offices/sites. In this context, during 2014 a training center was opened in Boussens. Dietsmann Technologies France also supports numerous local organizations and events organized by local communities including non-professional sports events and festive events. 44 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES KNOWLEDGE SHARING – BOUSSENS QUALIFICATION COLLEGE Dietsmann Technologies France has increased its involvement in student and employment forums and participated in four events during the year. In 2014 Dietsmann Technologies France also opened a new training center focused on the certification process of Dietsmann employees from any of the subsidiaries. The primary aim of this center is to certificate Dietsmann technicians for specific operations, such as regular visits, controls, adjustments and tests. This certification process will improve the mobility of Dietsmann employees. The Boussens Qualification College 45 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES TRAINING CENTER Reception desk Metrology / Lineage room Classroom e-learning room Rest area / Break room A volumetric compressor in the main workshop 46 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES LOCAL COMMUNITIES’ INITIATIVES RELATED INDICATORS IN THE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW TABLE (SEE PAGE 54) 41 Percentage of employees on internship or apprenticeship contracts 42 Percentage of countries in which a training center has been established 43 Number of training days provided to nationals (not on payroll) in training centers 44 Number of partnerships with schools and universities 45 Total amount dedicated to the socio-economic development of local communities 46 Percentage of countries in which community health training campaigns have been provided 52 Amount dedicated to the socio-economic development of communities AMOUNT DEDICATED TO THE SOCIO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES Congo Nigeria Monaco France 47 INDEX VIII M  AP OF DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES RUSSIA Usinsk RUSSIA Konakovskaya RUSSIA Moscow RUSSIA Reftinskaya THE NETHERLANDS Breda RUSSIA Sredneuralskaya (Corporate Seat) SWITZERLAND Geneve KAZAKHSTAN Aksai 11 KAZAKHSTAN Atyrau RUSSIA Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk FRANCE Toulouse ITALY Imperia RUSSIA Nevinnomysskaya FRANCE Salies du Salat MONACO (Support & Coordination Office) 1 2 3 4 LIBYA Tripoli IRAQ Basrah 9 NIGERIA Abuja 7 NIGERIA Port Harcourt 10 8 SOUTH SUDAN Juba GABON Port-Gentil CONGO Pointe Noire 6 ANGOLA Luanda BOLIVIA Santa-Cruz 5 MOZAMBIQUE Maputo 1 No Finish Line Monaco 8 Partnerships with CSP (Centre de spécialisation 2 Cap d’Ail Triathlon Monaco professionnelle) Port-Gentil Gabon 3 Les Enfants de Frankie Monaco 9 Know-how transfer Training center Libya 4 Fédération Monégasque de Volleyball Monaco 10 Partnership with “Don Bosco” training center 5 Know-how transfer Morro Bento Training Nigeria center Angola 11 Know-how transfer Dietsmann Qualification 6 Know-how transfer Training center Republic College of Boussens France of Congo 7 Know-how transfer Training center PortGentil Gabon 48 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS Dietsmann strives to conduct its operations as efficiently as possible and continuously improve its high level standards of performance. The company also focuses its efforts on implementing all required processes to guarantee this high level of efficiency and continuous improvement. This is processed through the ISO 9001 certification awarded to Group subsidiaries and is also based on the measurement of its Corporate Social Responsibility progress, which enables areas with scope for improvement to be identified. WORKING TOWARDS EXCELLENCE Dietsmann Group (Support and Coordination Office in Monaco) has been ISO 9001:2008 certificated by the LRQA International Certification organization since 1996. Dietsmann Technologies SA in France and Dietsmann Technologies SrL in Italy have also been ISO 9001 certificated for a long time. The aim is to achieve quality certification in all the countries in which Dietsmann has operating sites. The Dietsmann Group certification was successfully renewed in 2014. Dietsmann Congo achieved ISO 9001 certification in November 2013. Quality certification achieved in Nigeria In NetcoDietsmann a Quality Manager is dedicated to the implementation of a quality system. As a result, NetcoDietsmann achieved ISO 9001 certification in 2014. Quality certification achieved in Gabon A dedicated person has been handling the development and implementation of a specific Quality Management System. In December Dietsmann Gabon successfully completed its ISO 9001 certification. Towards quality certification: Angola Sonadiets has allocated a dedicated employee, supported by a consultant, to implement a specific Quality Management System. The Quality Management System is being developed and will be supported by an additional, experienced, person in order to achieve ISO 9001 certification in 2015. 49 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 54) The aim of the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table is to enable Dietsmann’s performance to be assessed in respect of four main topics: n I ts responsibility regarding employees: “Social” section n I ts commitment to fighting against corruption: “Ethics” section n I ts initiatives to contribute towards local businesses and local development: “Local content” section n I ts involvement in protecting the environment: “Environment” section SOCIAL In this section, Dietsmann’s performance is assessed on the basis of several indicators. General indicators: n T otal workforce n W orkforce by job category ‘Position: world’ Specific indicators assessing Dietsmann’s ability to: n G enerate loyalty through attractive employment conditions > Employment n E nsure equal working conditions and career management for every employee whatever their gender, age or nationality > Diversity n P ropose dynamic career opportunities through skill enhancement > Training and career opportunities n F acilitate social dialogue with management and take employees’ expectations into account > Social dialogue and cohesion n P rotect employees’ physical integrity > Health and safety n P revent any form of discrimination or psychological maltreatment > Employee protection and fight against discrimination ETHICS The Ethics section includes three indicators relating to Dietsmann’s efforts to fight against corruption. The two “Anti-corruption” indicators monitor the implementation of ethics training and the number of related grievances received. The “Business partner screening” indicator enables the extent to which Dietsmann ensures it is not complicit in ethical deviation through its partners’ potential non-compliance to be assessed. 50 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS LOCAL CONTENT The term ‘local content’ describes the positive effects a foreign company or industry can have on the areas in which it operates. Companies can provide measurable benefits by: n B uying supplies and services locally. n E mploying and training local people. n S upporting community development. Community development support includes social investment programs involving companies making voluntary contributions towards the positive development of the communities and societies in the region and/or country in which they are operating. Such programs typically donate to, or develop skills and resources in, local communities and local or national institutions. The assessment of Dietsmann’s level of performance in terms of local content is divided into three related sub-sections: n L ocal purchases Dietsmann’s policy is to maximize purchasing from local suppliers and to help these suppliers achieve the required performance standards. As a result, in most of the countries in which it operates Dietsmann exceeds local regulations related to local purchase. In countries in which high technology equipment is not manufactured locally the required equipment is purchased through Dietsmann’s French procurement department. n L ocal employment This subsection assesses the level of career opportunity offered to national employees through nationalization plans and through the training courses provided to local residents. n L ocal community initiatives In line with Dietsmann’s sustainability project development axis, the Company’s local community initiatives focus on knowledge sharing. The indicators include the number of days of training provided to nationals not on the payroll and the efforts dedicated to building and equipping Dietsmann’s own training centers as these centers are long-lasting infrastructure. The partnerships with technical schools, schools and universities reflect the Company’s involvement in supporting the future of local communities. Another indicator sums up the total amount dedicated to the socio-economic development of local communities. Dietsmann believes that investing in local content could also mitigate some of the risks of doing business in foreign countries by creating healthy and sustainable relations with local communities. 51 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS ENVIRONMENT The Environment section assesses Dietsmann level of performance in protecting the environment. As the Company’s activities are primarily the provision of services, the key factors for Dietsmann are ensuring proper waste management, the implementation of a global environmental management system and the training of employees in respect of environment-related issues. Although the Company’s CO2 emissions are very low due to the nature of its activities, the trend is to monitor emissions so as to ensure the level never exceeds the legal limit, gain an insight into areas with scope for improvement and implement measures to achieve improvement. GEOGRAPHICAL SCOPE Screened countries:  2014: 6 screened countries: Nigeria, Angola, the Republic of Congo, Gabon, Kazakhstan, France. 2015: 7 screened countries: Nigeria, Libya, Angola, the Republic of Congo, Gabon, Kazakhstan, France. World: All countries of operations. West Africa: Nigeria, Angola, the Republic of Congo, Gabon. 52 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW TABLE GEOGRAPHICAL ALL ASSETS SOCIAL 2014 2013 SCOPE OR CONTRACT 1 Total workforce 5,661 5,658 World 2 West Africa (Angola, Gabon, Republic of Congo) 2,233 2,117 All assets 3 North & Central Africa (Nigeria, Libya, Iraq) 1,057 967 All assets 4 East Africa (South Sudan, Mozambique) 124 168 All assets 5 East Europe & Central Asia (Russia, Kazakhstan) 1,940 2,104 All assets 6 Latin America (Bolivia) 2 1 All assets 7 West Europe (Monaco, Italy & France) 299 295 All assets Workforce by job category position world 8 Administrative 398 431 World All assets 9 Operational 5,048 4,987 World All assets 10 Managers 215 240 World All assets Employment 11 New hirings of national employees 968 972 World All assets 12 New hirings of expatriates 517 687 World All assets 13 Outflow rate 5.28% 7.56% World All assets Diversity 14 Gender rate administrative positions 44% 53% World All assets 15 Gender rate all positions 9.11% 10.83% World All assets 16 Average age 41 41 World All assets 17 Percentage of employees over 55 11.23% 12.76% World All assets 18 Percentage of employees under 35 32.04% 32.98% World All assets 19 Number of nationalities represented in the Group 60 62 World All assets 20 Percentage of national employees (vs expatriates) 80.25% 79.75% World All assets Training & career opportunities 21 Total training days 11,127 10,096 World All assets 22 Training expenses in millions of euros €1,571 World All assets 23 Number of employees who benefited from Human Resources 511 World All assets career development tools (TACT, PARS, KMP) 53 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS GEOGRAPHICAL ALL ASSETS SOCIAL 2014 2013 SCOPE OR CONTRACT Social dialogue & cohesion 24 Percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining 100% 100% Screened countries All assets agreement 25 Percentage of scheduled annual interview (ICMS) carried out 67% 69% World All assets 26 Global percentage of employees interviewed (ICMS) 55% 47% World All assets (1) Manpower excluded Health & Safety 27 Percentage of employees who benefited from a medical check-up 90% 92% World All assets 28 Total awareness-raising campaigns on health issues World All assets 29 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) per million man-hours 0.16 World All assets worked 30 Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) per million man-hours 0,4 World All assets worked Employees protection & fight against discrimination 31 Percentage of employees trained in discrimination prevention & 84% / Kazakhstan (1) All assets use of the Upline assistance and protection tool France Monaco 32 Percentage of Upline requests related to social issues in 0 / World All assets countries in which the Upline tool is implemented ETHICS Anti-corruption 33 Percentage of employees trained in ethics principles (Corporate 84% / World All assets Shared Responsibility Training) 34 Percentage of Upline requests related to ethical issues in 0 / World All assets countries in which the Upline tool is implemented Business partner screening 35 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and 43% 11% Screened countries followed-up (Global compliance including ethics) LOCAL CONTENT Local purchases 36 Percentage of local purchases (goods & services) 78% 72% Screened countries All assets (*) A “/” in a cell indicates the data is not available or not applicable. 54 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS GEOGRAPHICAL ALL ASSETS 2014 2013 SCOPE OR CONTRACT Local employment 37 Percentage of projects covered by a nationalization plan / West Africa Contracts 38 Number of key position nationalized 16 10 West Africa All assets 39 Percentage of national employees in management positions 74% 72% World All assets 40 Percentage of training dedicated to national employees in total 72% 85% World All assets training provided Local communities initiatives 41 Percentage of employees on internship or apprenticeship 4% 3% Screened countries All assets contracts 42 Percentage of countries in which a training center is established 67% 43% Screened countries All assets 43 Training days provided to nationals (outside payroll) in training 1,464 / Screened countries All assets centers 44 Number of partnerships with schools and universities 7 6 Screened countries All assets 45 Total amount dedicated to the socio-economic development Screened countries All assets of local communities €251,797 €100,027 + Monaco 46 Percentage of countries in which health training campaigns were 33% 29% Screened countries All assets provided to community ENVIRONMENT Waste management 47 Percentage of permanent facilities with a waste storage and 100% 86% Screened countries All assets sorting area Carbon footprint 48 Percentage of permanent facilities (offices) assessed 17% / Screened countries All assets 49 Global carbon emissions estimated in countries assessed 0.43 / Congo All assets (Tons of CO2 / employee/ year) Environmental protection 50 Percentage of countries in which environment awareness raising 83% 71% World All assets campaigns were provided to employees Environmental management system 51 Percentage of permanent facilities (offices) in which an 33% 14% Screened countries All assets environmental risk assessment has been carried out (*) A “/” in a cell indicates the data is not available or not applicable. 55 INDEX X INFORMING STAKEHOLDERS OF DIETSMANN’S IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Every stakeholder is informed of Dietsmann’s actions related to the progressive integration of the Global Compact’s ten principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations on a regular basis via the external and internal communication channels relevant to the subject concerned and the particular stakeholders target group. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION n D ietsmann’s 2014 Annual Report includes a section dedicated to communicating officially and clearly the Company’s commitment to upholding the 10 UNGC principles. The Annual Report also includes a full section dedicated to Corporate Shared Responsibility. n D irect Marketing communications were sent to business partners every month along with invoices. n A specific section and the UNGC logo are included in the updated Corporate brochure. n P ublications on Dietsmann’s Corporate website: In the value and sustainability sections a click-on UNGC logo links to the page on Dietsmann’s commitment to the 10 principles. A UNGC page is online. All Dietsmann’s COP reports are available on this page and in the Media Library of the website. All the Corporate Policies and Charters in which the UNGC principles are integrated are published on Dietsmann’s website. A press release dedicated to Dietsmann’s UNGC commitment is published in the News section. Press interviews for magazines always include a chapter on Dietsmann’s UNGC commitment. A CSR policy has been created and is available online. A sustainability section includes HSE and HR sections. n O fficial documents published: The Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. The Business Ethics Charter. The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. The HSE Policies and the HSE Charter. The CSR Policy. The ICT Policy. The Business Partners Policy. 56 INDEX X INFORMING STAKEHOLDERS OF DIETSMANN’S IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNGC PRINCIPLES INTERNAL COMMUNICATION n T he President & CEO included Dietsmann’s UNGC commitments and CSR approach as part of the Company’s culture in all interviews with the press as well as in his official video speech shown to all employees in January 2014. n N ewsletter: a dedicated article on Dietsmann’s Sustainability Project has been published and sent to all employees. n A n animated Corporate Shared Responsibility (CSR) training course has been developed for all employees in the languages commonly used within the Company. n A n abridged Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy that the employees can refer to easily is being disseminated progressively with the CSR training in all the languages used within the Company. All new employees in the Company receive the training and the handbook and must sign an agreement to uphold Dietsmann’s principles & policies. n A 12 months ‘Dietsmann 12 safe maintenance rules’ HSE campaign that includes posters and presentations to all teams was issued in 2014 for all sites/offices in all the languages used within the Company. The campaign will continue until June 2015 to cover all 12 rules. n W orld Day For Safety 2014 On 28 April 2014 Dietsmann was once again an active participant in the ‘World Day for Safety and Health at Work’. The theme for 2014 was the use of chemicals and the PPE that should be used to protect every employee from the risks of using chemicals. Posters and presentations in all the languages commonly used within the Company were issued. n T he Safety Handbook is available in all the languages used within the Company. n A birthday card that includes a sustainability-related message and the UNGC logo is automatically sent to employees. 57 www.dietsmann.com Support & Coordination Office Gildo Pastor Center 7, rue du Gabian MC 98000 Monaco tel: +377 93 10 10 10 e-mail: info@dietsmann.com
