atlantic gru pa su sta inability re p o rt 2014 CONTENTS letter of the president of the management board · 03 1. organizational profile · 08 About the company · 08 Atlantic Grupa’s supply chain · 20 Managing sustainability risks · 21 Commitments to external initiatives · 23 How we support UN Global Compact principles · 23 2. about this report · 28 Report parameters · 28 Materiality · 30 Stakeholder engagement · 31 3. corporate management · 33 Governance structure of the organization · 35 Remuneration policy for management board members · 38 Ethics and integrity · 40 4. economic impacts · 44 5. product responsibility · 47 Integrated certification · 50 Product health and safety · 52 Product and service labelling · 54 6. workplace responsibility · 63 Employment · 67 Occupational health and safety · 71 Training and education · 72 7. environmental responsibility · 75 Energy consumption within the organization · 77 Biodiversity · 79 Waste · 80 8. community engagement · 83 Sports · 84 Culture and knowledge · 84 Socially vulnerable groups · 84 Value day · 85 9. gri index · 87 atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 LETTER OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO LE TTER OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO The ever growing complex global socio-economic circumstances have revealed that the business sector has a vital role to play in driving sustainable economic growth, while at the same time contributing to social cohesion and inclusion. As Atlantic Grupa aspires to contribute to economic development and ensure both long-term business success and prosperity of the local communities, all our activities are deeply rooted in sustainability values. Responsibility with regard to all stakeholders, for us, signifies an attitude and belief, which as an integral part of our development strategy, parallels our continual growth. We strive to build a more secure future for our employees, customers, suppliers, consumers and society as a whole. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 3 The conditions in which we have been working over the LE T T E R O F T HE PRE S I DE N T AN D C E O past several years remain challenging, primarily due to the ongoing economic crisis and the aftermath it leaves on the business and social environment, especially in Southeast Europe where Atlantic Grupa makes most of its revenues. Political crisis in Ukraine along with its economic implications, as well as the inflation of rouble, have added an extra burden. Despite the challenges, we are continuously successful in generating growth even in the stagnant region, while by the results achieved in key European markets, as well as declared ambitions of growth, we confirm company’s orientation towards internationalisation as our strategic focus. Even though 2014 was characterised by extremely difficult macro and micro economic environment, Atlantic Grupa recorded sales and profitability in line with the announced expectations in addition to continuous deleveraging. We are particularly pleased that our business model has proven stable in a difficult economic environment, as confirmed by reported results and launching of new investments. In accordance with the set timeframe, we completed the largest capital expenditure in our production capacities construction of the new factory within our sports food segment for the production of energy atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 4 bars in Nova Gradiška, Croatia, aimed almost entirely for LE T T E R O F T HE PRE S I DE N T AN D C E O the Western European markets. By acquiring the company Foodland in Serbia, with the premium brand Granny’s Secret, we have in a single step moved towards the realisation of two strategic goals expanding the current premium brand portfolio, and internationalization, as the products are present in food retail chains in all continents. As a transparent company listed in the first quotation of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, we continue to deliver the results we have promised for an ongoing 28 quarter-period. We are thus recognizable to capital market and to our shareholders as a conscientious and prospective company. Our vision, nevertheless, surpasses the parameters that are solely measureable in financial terms. Owing to a clear vision of our development, we have, since 1991, grown and matured from a local distributor with six employees, into one of the leading corporations in Southeast Europe. We engage 5.152 employees, with companies in 11 countries and revenues of over 670 million Euros – a regional multinational company, leader in the manufacturing and distribution of consumer goods. We have ambitious plans for development and aboveaverage growth rates in Eastern and Western Europe; namely Germany, Austria, Italy, United Kingdom, Sweden and Switzerland. Being committed to maximize the benefits it can bring to atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 5 the society, and mitigate the potential negative impacts, LE T T E R O F T HE PRE S I DE N T AN D C E O Atlantic Grupa has taken a significant step towards sustainability through major activities in three areas – environment and energy efficiency, people and society, and management. We are constantly working on building and developing high quality working conditions and an identifiable corporate culture, with added focus on strengthening our managerial team and developing managerial capacities. By creating a healthy and encouraging working environment, we try to provide our employees with more than just a job – many programmes developed within the system are aimed at developing human resources and careers within the company as well as at performance management and appropriate rewarding of excellent results. Since our ultimate goal is to provide our consumers sustainable and quality products, our quality system is totally integrated and combines the requirements of business process management with the highest product safety and quality assurance principles and the environmental management requirements. Environmental awareness and the long-term sustainability of our business model oblige us to be concerned with the ecological impact of the industry. Within our company, care for the environment, consistent with the Environmental Management System, has developed from a local point atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 6 all the way to the corporate level, with the main focus LE T T E R O F T HE PRE S I DE N T AN D C E O being on sustainability and protection for the future. The sustainable environmental management system is centred on the well-planned and economic use of natural resources, the utilization of environmentally-friendly technologies in manufacturing, waste reduction, and reduced energy and water consumption. Finally, in order to fully integrate sustainability into our business operations in 2013 we have adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting methodology, which provides a globally recognised framework through which to monitor and improve our sustainability performance. With our second sustainability report for 2014, our reporting practices continue to evolve, underpinning our strategic priorities, and reinforcing our values. We stay committed to making our sustainability principles part of the strategy, culture and day–to–day operations of our company, and to engaging as a reliable partner in collaborative projects with our stakeholders. Emil Tedeschi, President and CEO atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 7 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e 1. ORGANIZATIONAL P R OFILE about the company Atlantic Grupa is a multinational company whose business operations include the production, development, sales and distribution of consumer goods with simultaneous market presence in over 40 countries around the world. Atlantic Grupa is one of the leading food companies in the region (Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia&Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Kosovo), whose product portfolio includes coffee, sports food, soft drinks, sweet and salted snacks, savoury spreads and baby food. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 8 Additionally, Atlantic Grupa has a wide portfoAtlantic Grupa is the company with: o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e lio of personal care products; it is the owner • (I) HRK 5.1 billion in sales revenues, of the leading Croatian producer of vitamins, • (II) modern production network (in Croatia, minerals, supplements and OTC medicines Germany, Slovenia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herand the owner of one of the leading private zegovina and Macedonia), pharmacy chains united under the name Far• (III) regional distribution infrastructure and macia. Atlantic Grupa has a strong regional • (IV) 12 brands with sales above HRK 120 distribution network through which, in addition millions, high market shares and consumer to its own range of well-known brands, it also recognisability. distributes a range of products from external The company’s headquarters is in Zagreb. Atpartners. Moreover, Atlantic Grupa’s products lantic Grupa has companies and representative have significant market presence in Commonoffices in 11 countries, while in those markets wealth of Independent States and Western where it is not present with its own operatEurope, and with its sports food assortment ing companies, Atlantic Grupa has developed Atlantic Grupa is one of the leading European partnerships with regional and national disproducers in this segment. tributors. Atlantic Grupa has a well-balanced regional presence accounting for 76% of total sales while 24% refers to the company’s presence in Europe and CIS countries. new organisational in the Atlantic Grupa’s portfolio), management structure of business decided to promote the Serbian market into a operations Strategic Distribution Unit. Accordingly, the new business organisation In 2014, Atlantic Grupa introduced a new orincludes: ganisational structure of business operations with the aim to manage business segments • Six Strategic Business Units (SBUs) – Cofand distribution markets as effectively as posfee, Snacks, Beverages, Savoury Spreads, sible. Pharma and Personal Care, and Sports and Functional Food Namely, in accordance with the strategic focus • Business Unit (BU) Baby Food on the internationalisation of operations, the • Five Strategic Distribution Units (SDUs) company nominated the CIS market as its new – Croatia, Serbia, International markets, Strategic Distribution Unit. Taking into account HoReCa and the Commonwealth of Indethe importance and the size of the Serbian pendent States (CIS), and market (the second largest individual market • Two Distribution Units (DUs) – Slovenia and Macedonia. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 9 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e BUSINESS CORPORATE SUPPORT OPERATIONS FUNCTIONS STRATEGIC STRATEGIC FINANCE CORPORATE BUSINESS UNITS DISTRIBUTION UNITS AND IT ACTIVITIES Coffee Croatia Sports and Serbia functional food Beverages International markets Snacks HoReCa Pharma and CIS personal care DISTRIBUTION UNIT Savoury spreads Slovenia BUSINESS UNIT DISTRIBUTION UNIT Baby food Macedonia Each business unit has its own internal orCorporate support functions ensure the impleganisational structure which is, depending on mentation of uniform corporate standards and its activity and business volume, composed of more transparent and efficient business operaorganisational areas: business units, organisations at the company level. Corporate support tional units and departments. Along with Strafunctions are centrally organised and, dependtegic Business Units, Business Units, Strategic ing on their respective functional area, provide Distribution Units and Distribution Units, the support the development and management of Business Operations segment of the company the entire Atlantic Grupa, while being divided also includes the functions of Central Purchasinto: ing, Central Marketing and Corporate Quality • Corporate Activities, and Management, established in order to take ad• Finance and Information Technologies (IT). vantage of all synergies within the system and to ensure efficient coordination of purchasing, The strategic corporate function Corporate marketing and quality assurance tasks as well Activities includes the following departments: as to establish uniform standards on the entire Human Resources, Corporate Communications, Group’s level. Legal Affairs, Investment Maintenance, and Corporate Security. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 10 The strategic corporate function Finance and InIn addition to the above, the organisational o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e formation Technologies (IT) includes the followstructure also includes the support function of ing units: Business Development and Investor Internal Audit, which operates as an independRelations, Corporate Reporting and Consolidaent function that reports to the Supervisory tion, Corporate Controlling, Corporate Tax, CorBoard of Atlantic Grupa. porate Treasury and Strategic IT Management. strategic business unit beverages strategic business unit coffee strategic business unit snacks atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 11 strategic business unit savoury spreads o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e strategic business unit pharma and personal care strategic business unit sports and functional food strategic business unit baby food atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 12 strategic partnership for growth o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Another development that marked the year 2014 was strategic partnership with the largest oil company in Croatia – INA. On this basis, Montana sandwiches are exclusively sold on Ina’s gas stations from April, while the strategic partnership was extended to the coffee segment from June. This cooperation also represents a significant step forward in the development and expansion of the coffee business and is an example of an effective synergy of business units. leading distributor of multinational brands atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 13 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e TODAY, ATLANTIC GRUPA IS A COMPANY WITH: → sales revenues of HRK 5.1 billion → 5.152 employees → representative offices in 11 countries, → modern production network (in Croatia, Germany, Slovenia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia) → developed regional distribution with 16 distribution centers atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 14 ‣ NATIONAL COMPANY o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e 1991 Incorporation of Atlantic Trade and the development of consumer goods distribution Establishing cooperation with the company Wrigley 1992 Opening of the distribution centre Split 1994 Opening of distribution centres Osijek and Rijeka 1996 Cooperation with Procter & Gamble 1997 Investment in the Ataco distribution system in B&H 1998 Launch of Montana, the first Croatian ready-made sandwich for broad distribution 1999 Establishing cooperation with Johnson & Johnson ‣ REGIONAL COMPANY 2001 Establishing a representative office in Bosnia & Herzegovina Start up of a distribution company Atlantic Trade d.o.o.* Serbia Acquisition of Cedevita d.o.o. Establishing cooperation with Ferrero 2002 Incorporation of Atlantic Grupa d.o.o. 2003 Acquisition of Neva d.o.o. Start up of a distribution company Atlantic Trade Skopje d.o.o. 2004 Start up of a distribution company Atlantic Trade d.o.o. Ljubljana Acquisition of the brand Melem atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 15 ‣ EUROPEAN COMPANY o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e 2005 Acquisition of a German sports food producer Multipower 2006 Establishing a representative office in Moscow Transformation of Atlantic Grupa into a joint-stock company 2007 Acquisition of Fidifarm d.o.o. Acquisition of Multivita d.o.o. Listing of Atlantic Grupa d.d. **shares on the official market of the Zagreb Stock Exchange 2008 Acquisition of pharmacies and forming of the pharmacy chain Farmacia 2010 Acquisition of Droga Kolinska d.d. 2013 Establishing cooperation with Unilever 2014 Acquisition of the company Foodland d.o.o., Serbia * d.o.o. Croatian abbreviation for “limited liability company” (Ltd) ** d.d. Croatian abbreviation for “joint-stock company” (Inc.) atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 16 ownership structure o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e on 31/12/2014 increase in 2010. Following this transaction, the partnership will be further continued with the DEG remaining a significant shareholder Atlantic Grupa has a stable ownership strucwith 2.28% stake in Atlantic Grupa. In light of ture: 50.2% of the company is owned by Emil the strong demand of investors, the book was Tedeschi, 8.5% by the European Bank for Reoversubscribed by 1.7x and the complete offerconstruction and Development, 5.8% by Lada ing was allocated at a unique price of HRK 925 Tedeschi Fiorio, and 20.3% of Atlantic Grupa a share. Both domestic and foreign investors is owned by pension funds. In November 2014, participated in the process, ensuring a strong the German development finance institution – shareholder’s base with 65% of stake being DEG reduced its ownership share from 8.5% to subscribed by domestic investors and 35% by 2.3% in the process executed via the accelerforeign investors. In the transaction amountated bookbuilt. DEG has been a long standing ing to EUR 25 million, 58% was allocated to partner in the development of Atlantic Grupa, investment funds, 39% to pension funds and dating back from the acquisition of Cede3% to banks and individual investors. Additionvita in 2001 when the institution joined the ally, this transaction significantly expanded the company in financing the deal, only to further free float to 35.5%, which places the Atlantic extend the partnership with an equity investGrupa’s share in the eight place in terms of the ment in 2006, and later with another capital free float market capitalisation. Ownership structure on 31/12/2014 Tedeschi Florio Management Lada 5.8% 1.1% Erte Plavi OMF 3.3% EBRD Other 8.5% 14.1% AZ OMF 3.9% PBZ CO OMF 1.4% Pension Funds 20.3% Raiffeisen DMF 1.4% Tedeschi Emil 50.2% Raiffeisen OMF 9.6% Other 0.6% *free-float 35.5% atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 17 overview of top 10 shareholders of Atlantic Grupa d.d. on 31 Dec 2014 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e NO SHAREHOLDER NO. OF SHARES % OWNERSHIP 1. Emil Tedeschi 1,673,819 50.20% 2. Raiffeisen Obligatory Pension Fund, category B 321,000 9.63% European Bank for Reconstruction 3. 284,301 8.53% and Development EBRD 4. Tedeschi Fiorio Lada 193,156 5.79% 5. AZ Obligatory Pension Fund, category B 130,439 3,91% 6. Erste Plavi Obligatory Pension Fund, category B 110,304 3,31% 7. PBZ d.d. State street client account 108,968 3,27% 8. Raiffeisen Voluntary Pension Fund 48,298 1,45% 9. PBZ CO Obligatory Pension Fund, category B 45,436 1,36% 10. PBZ d.d. Joint custodial account 32,723 0,98% According to the decision of the Company’s amount of HRK 10.50 per share, i.e. a total of General Assembly held on 30 June 2014, the HRK 35 million. The dividend was distributed in dividend distribution was approved in the July 2014. In August 2014, the Atlantic Grupa’s share reached the highest price of HRK 1,080.50 since its quotation on the Zagreb Stock Exchange in late 2007, while its growth of 31% compared to the previous year significantly outperformed stock indices CROBEX and CROBEX10. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 18 workforce o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e in 2014 In 2014. Atlantic Grupa continued its intensive Croatia (37,77%), Serbia (34,75) and Slovenia and dynamic business growth and develop(14,02%). In 2014, 2,1% were part-time and ment, which was reflected in the number and 97,9% were full-time employees. In the same structure of our employees. The company period, 7.5% of employees had short-term conhas *4458 employees out of which 51% are tracts, while 92.5% had long-term contracts. women. The majority of our employees work in Region No. of Age group M F (market) employees < 30 30 – 50 > 50 BIH 152 111 41 14 113 25 Croatia 1.684 726 958 315 1.107 262 Germany 182 104 78 26 108 48 Italy 8 3 5 7 1 Macedonia 164 108 56 31 117 16 Montenegro 2 1 1 2 Russia 72 34 38 14 40 18 Serbia 1.549 761 788 80 1.177 292 Slovenia 625 326 299 83 372 170 Spain 8 6 2 2 6 UK 12 6 6 1 6 5 Total* 4.458 2.186 2.272 566 3.055 837 * Without freelancers Atlantic Grupa strongly supports the right of international conventions, laws of the Republic its employees to participate in decisions conof Croatia and union's statute. The union may cerning their economic and social rights, and work according to company union regulations. interests in accordance with the Labour Law. In 2014, 90% of our employees were covered As a responsible employer, we have a tradiwith collective agreements, comparing to tion of joining workers that are promoting the 70.84% in 2013. Out of this number, 85% of interests of the worker to the employer, either employees have their own company's collective through a union or work council. Union alliagreements and 15% are covered with indusance of Atlantic Grupa is in accordance with trial or federal collective agreements. * Without freelancers atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 19 atlantic grupa ’ s purchasing organization of Atlantic Grupa, o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e supply chain which is followed by the procedures, manuals and instructions describing in detail the specific areas of purchasing activities in Atlantic Grupa's operating companies. The Guidelines foresee that Atlantic Grupa’s purchasing orWith our 19 production facilities present in 6 ganization takes only such actions and pracEuropean countries with a wide portfolio of diftices that ensure sustainable sourcing and ferent feedstock, materials, services and equipprocuring by helping reducing waste, improving ment which we procure, Atlantic Grupa offers environmental impact and protecting human many opportunities and possibilities for coopand labour rights. Besides the criteria regarding eration to its suppliers. From our suppliers we quality and commercial terms and conditions, procure all the raw materials for our products, we require from all our suppliers to act with packaging, machines for producing and finishintegrity, to comply with all applicable laws of ing the products, other equipment and technitheir countries, including laws related to discal devices, as well as other services that are crimination, employment, health, safety and necessary support to our processes. Our supenvironment. Therefore, we actively seek such ply chain consists of both large multinational suppliers who share our values and business business corporations and local suppliers. From principles, and promote the application of high some of the suppliers we procure products standards within their business environment. and services in significant amounts, while with These standards include: others we cooperate on an occasional basis. In 2014, Atlantic Grupa cooperated with more • compliance with the laws, including the than 200 suppliers. prohibition of giving or receiving bribe or personal payment The strategy of the purchasing organization of • respecting human rights and employees’ Atlantic Grupa is based on a careful selection rights of adequate suppliers capable to supply the • health protection and work safety laws and company with goods and services of requested standards compliance quality. Atlantic Grupa constantly encourages • prohibition of child work as well as bonded suppliers to improve their own efficiency and to labour develop innovative products and technologies. • prohibition of workers abuse, discrimination or harassment Basic principles for procurement and relations • obeying applicable environmental laws, with suppliers are defined in the Purchasing rules and regulations and demonstrated Guidelines, the fundamental document of the commitment to preserving the environment INTEGRATED AG SUPPLIER MONITORING SYSTEM The common model for monitoring the Atlantic Grupa’s suppliers was defined and established in 2014. The system includes unique criteria for approval, evaluation and auditing of suppliers, while intensive work was performed on the data collection and processing system as well as on the evaluation and monitoring model based on the risk management model. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 20 The purchasing organization of Atlantic Grupa tantly our consumers who use our products. o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e is committed to select only such suppliers that Evaluation of suppliers is conducted once a comply with these standards for conducting year, and is generally based on two main crithe business with our company. Monitoring teria: quality and commercial terms and condistandards and performance of our suppliers is tions. Evaluation based on quality of delivered challenging but crucial to protect our business materials and suppliers’ quality systems is and our company’s reputation, and most imporperformed in Quality assurance department. Supplier proves his quality system with certificates Other certificate: FSSC ISO 26000 Social HACCP 22000 / responsibility ISO ISO 9001 ISO 14001 or GMP IFS / BRC 50001Energy managecertificate certificate certificate or adequate ment; OHSAS 18001; certificate Information security ISO 27001... Each evaluated supplier is assigned with and services which Atlantic Grupa is procuring, one of the evaluation ratings: A – excellent, selection and awarding contracts procedures B – good, or C – conditionally acceptable/not etc. In addition, the portal provides the suppliacceptable. Aimed at improving two-way comers the opportunity to share their suggestions munication, Atlantic Grupa encourages the exfor improving the relationship with Atlantic isting and potential suppliers to use the online Grupa, quality and functionality of products supplier portal available at the company’s weband services, and other aspects of cooperation. site. The portal contains information on goods managing with national laws and international standards, sustainability risks we are developing internal procedures and policies concerning the most material issues for our company as well as for our stakeholdThe corporate culture that Atlantic Grupa ers, as we take into account local and global nurtures is reflected in our Quality Policy, consustainability trends. Having high quality firming our commitment to the principles of standards as our fundamental commitment, sustainable development, economic efficiency, we are operating in ways that generate shared environmental responsibility and social responvalue for the community and help protect the sibility. This means that, beyond complying environment for future generations. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 21 In addition to macroeconomic conditions that largely dictate the trends o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e in the consumption goods industry, in particular personal consumption as a component of the GDP, our company must consider major global risks such as the ongoing financial crisis causing the recession in Europe as well as in the region. While climate change and resource scarcity increasingly affect our business and social environment, we made a big step toward sustainability by expanding our concern for the environment from a local approach to the corporate level within a consistent Environmental Management System (EMS) based on three main pillars: environment and energy efficiency, people and society, and governance. With the consumers’ expectations constantly growing, the development of the consumer goods industry is also largely influenced by the ability of companies to adapt to consumer needs and market trends, which in turn requires investments in research and development, innovation and technology. Finally, as a company, we are best positioned to create shared value by promoting healthy lifestyles to our consumers and the community in which we operate. In response to the main challenges, our sustainability commitments are deeply implemented in our core business: • Risk control is implemented in the process of designing and developing or improving product when it comes to the use of raw materials, components or substances that may jeopardize or jeopardize human health. In Atlantic Grupa, procedures with the purpose to assure safety and conformity of any new or improved product are in place. There are many internal demands that must be followed in terms of legal and sustainable aspects in order to assure the production of safe foods. Furthermore, we are committed to developing new product recipes in order to improve our products and support healthy eating habits of our consumers. • When conceptualising, planning and designing new products, in addition to the aforementioned, the environmental aspect and the sustainable development aspect also have to be taken into account. Through the careful selection of raw materials and packaging materials, we can reduce environmental impacts throughout the entire life cycle of the product – from raw materials to final disposal of the waste packaging after the use of the product. • The extension of the principle of sustainable development is reflected in the relationship with our suppliers. By including environmental criteria in the process of selecting suppliers, we have expanded environmental care along our supply chain. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 22 commitements to this world’s largest corporate responsibility o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e external initiatives platform. Atlantic Grupa in Serbia is one of the founding members of the Responsible Business Forum – the first and only network of companies in SerIn 2007, Atlantic Grupa joined the United Nabia dedicated to social responsibility – whose tions Global Compact by committing to support activities contribute to further development of the ten universally accepted principles with socially responsible projects and exchange of respect to human rights, labour, environment experience on the current practice. Since 2013, and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact a representative of Atlantic Grupa holds a and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) signed an position in the Governing Board of this netagreement in May 2010 to align their work in work. In Croatia, Atlantic Grupa is a member of advancing corporate responsibility and transThe Croatian Business Council for Sustainable parency. According to this agreement, GRI is Development (HR BCSD) since 2005. This busideveloping its reporting guidelines to integrate ness association gathers companies in a joint UNGC issue areas, while the UNGC adopts mission of seeking solutions for growth, by balGRI Guidelines as the recommended reporting ancing business success, social well-being and framework for the businesses that have joined environmental protection. how we support un global compact principles human rights The company's politics and procedures concerning human rights, equal opportuPrinciple 1 – Businesses should support nities, safe and healthy working condiand respect the protection of internations. tionally proclaimed human rights and Ethical code of the purchasing organizaPrinciple 2 – Businesses should make tion applying, among others, the criteria sure that they are not complicit in huof sustainable purchasing: when making man rights abuses. sourcing and purchasing decisions, Atlantic Grupa’s purchasing organization is committed to consider both environmental and social factors aiming at minimizing the environmental and social impact that the items we purchase have. Purchasing business must be conducted in such a way to respect social, ethnic, cultural, sexual and racial diversity, and business decisions must not be directed in a way that favours any of the categories of ethnic, sexual or racial criteria. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 23 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Purchasing Guidelines ensuring sustainable sourcing and procuring by helping protecting human rights in our value chain. A number of humanitarian actions supporting vulnerable social groups: blind and visually impaired persons, children without parental care, children with special needs etc. labor Atlantic Grupa strongly supports the right of association of its employees and the Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold work of its Union alliance. In 2014, 90% the freedom of association and the of our employees were covered with coleffective recognition of the right to collective agreements. lective bargaining. The company's politics and procedures Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold concerning human rights, equal opportuthe elimination of all forms of forced nities, safe and healthy working conditions and compulsory labor. are available on the company's intranet and on all of our bulletin boards. Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Atlantic Grupa works in a way that respects all positive regulations which Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold forbid child labour, forced or obligatory the elimination of discrimination in rework that protects the employees’ dignity spect of employment and occupation. in a way that the employee is protected from mobbing or sexual harassment from their employers, superiors, associates and others with whom they may work. Our corporate culture respects any type of individual diversity and fosters cooperation. Each tender stresses gender equality when hiring. 51% of our employees are women. All of our employees, regardless of the contract they have, are guaranteed equal rights and opportunities to develop and grow. Employee engagement ratio in 2014 increased to 3,18:1compared to 2013 when it was 2.02:1 (engaged vs. not engaged employees). atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 24 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Purchasing Guidelines require from all suppliers to protect their employees’ rights (prohibition of child work as well as bonded labour, prohibition of workers abuse, discrimination or harassment) and ensure health protection and safety at work. environment Integrated Environmental Management System (EMS) based on well-considered Principle 7 – Businesses should support and economical use of natural sources, a precautionary approach to environusing environmental friendly technologies mental challenges. in our production, reduction of waste and lower consumption of energy and water Principle 8 – Businesses should un(full integration of all 19 production facilidertake initiatives to promote greater ties in the region in 2014). environmental responsibility. The total amount of energy consumption Principle 9 – Businesses should encour2011-2014 is decreasing (from 140,286 age the development and diffusion of MWh in 2011 to 113.305 MWh in 2014). environmentally friendly technologies. In 2013 we started implementing the Energy Management System (EnMS) as an upgrade to the corporate EMS. The environmental aspect and the sustainable development aspect also have to be taken into account when designing new products. Through the careful selection of raw materials and packaging materials we can reduce environmental impacts throughout the entire life cycle of the product – from raw materials to final disposal of the waste packaging after the use of the product. The principle of maintaining biodiversity also has to be considered in this process. Purchasing Guidelines requiring from all suppliers to obey applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations and demonstrate commitment to preserving the environment. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 25 anti-Corruption o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Since its foundation and listing on the Zagreb Stock Exchange (ZSE), Atlantic Principle 10 – Businesses should work Grupa bases its business activities on its against corruption in all its forms, inown Code of Corporate Governance of cluding extortion and bribery. Atlantic Grupa whereby the standards of business transparency are aligned with Croatian and EU legislation. The Code defines the procedures for the functioning of the Supervisory Board, Management Board and other bodies and structures responsible for decision-making, ensuring the avoidance of conflicts of interest, efficient internal control and an effective responsibility system. Moreover, considering the fact that Atlantic Grupa is company publicly listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Company also applies the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) and the ZSE. Based on the principles set therein, the Company announces the Statement of its application for each business year, confirming its actions and development in accordance with the good corporate governance practice in all business segments. The Statement can be found on the Company’s website (www.atlanticgrupa.com ) as well as on the official website of the ZSE (www.zse.hr). In addition to the above, Atlantic Grupa acceded to the Code of Ethics in Business issued by the Croatian Chamber of Economy. The Code lays down guidelines for ethical behaviour of business subjects in the Croatian economy, contributing to more transparent and efficient business operations and high quality relations between economic operators in Croatia and the business environment in which they operate. By adjoining the Code, parties are atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 26 anti-Corruption o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e obliged to responsible and ethical behavior towards the other companies on the Principle 10 – Businesses should work market as well as the development of high against corruption in all its forms, inquality relations and loyal competition. cluding extortion and bribery. Supporting the application of the principles of the good corporate governance practice, Atlantic Grupa adopted its own Whistleblowing Procedure Rules, prescribing the reporting procedure, rights as well as duties of each and all employees of Atlantic Grupa who in his/her work observes or becomes aware of either an actual or a potentially illegal action or potential violation of the accepted rules of business conduct in the Company carried out by another employee(s). By application of the Ethical code of the purchasing organization the Company supports conduct of a fair market competition among potential suppliers, prohibiting any conflict of interest (personal interest in the process of selection, receiving gifts and money from the potential suppliers etc.). Also, implementing the provisions of the Purchasing Guidelines the Company requires from all suppliers to act with integrity, to comply with all applicable laws of their countries including the prohibition of giving or receiving bribe or personal payment. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 27 ABO U T T HI S RE PO RT 2 . ABOUT THIS REPORT report parameters As a company committed to transparency and responsible business operations, in 2013 we decided to improve our reporting practices and to start annual reporting about our economic, social and environmental performance following for the first time GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This report is a logical continuation in sustainability reporting standards, we started last year, providing a transparent overview of the Group’s performance and progress in social responsibility for 2014. Our intention is to share our successes and challenges even more transparently with all stakeholders. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 28 Our responsibility with regard to all stakeholdselected nine performance indicators for which ABO U T T HI S RE PO RT ers has been an integral part of the company’s we believe can help us significantly improve development strategy, while business growth the ability to participate in competitive marand expansion have at the same time extended kets. Unless otherwise stated, all information the range of responsibility towards our intermentioned in the report is for the year 2014. nal and external surroundings and raised the We are already working on complete adoption awareness about the possibilities and the need of measurements in accordance with the new to have own influence on improving the genG4 version of GRI methodology for the future eral conditions around us. 3-year period. In these areas in recent years, we significantly With the intention of providing a comprehenenhanced our contribution to sustainable sive and balanced account of the important development, and our previous reports were non-financial aspects of our operations, this based on ten principles of the United Nation’s report covers the entire Atlantic Grupa and Global Compact with respect to human rights, its strategic business units, referring to all labour, environment and anti-corruption. We companies falling within the scope of Consolihave supported the UN Global Compact since dated audited financial results for FY 2014. 2007 and have reported on our progress reguFull information about financial results and larly, except for the year 2010: risk management practices can be found in our Annual report 2014 and Financial report 2014. • (http://www.atlanticgrupa.com/media/files/ Report on progress 2008-2009 fileitemtranslation/Godisnje-izvjece-2014/Anhttp://unglobalcompact.undp.hr/show. nual%20report%202014.pdf). jsp?page=111580 Atlantic Grupa management is responsible for • all aspects of this report. Report on progress 2011-2012 http://www.atlantic.hr/en/social-responsibility/ If you have any feedback or questions on this towards-environment/ Sustainability report, please contact: • Sustainability report 2013 http://www.atlantic.hr/en/media/publications/ gri-report Ivan Mišetić Secretary General Sustainability report 2014. is prepared, as previous one, in accordance with the G4 ivan.misetic@atlanticgrupa.com Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the fourth Atlantic Grupa generation of guidelines from GRI, at a core Miramarska 23 application level. Last year , we have already 10000 Zagreb, Hrvatska atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 29 materiality LIST OF PRIMARY TOPICS: ABO U T T HI S RE PO RT ECONOMIC IMPACTS ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY To determine the content of the report, we have ASPECT: ENERGY followed a systematic and rigorous materiality ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY assessment process, guided by the criteria deASPECT: WASTE fined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4). The sustainability issues have been analyzed WORKPLACE RESPONSIBILITY on the basis of an initial broad list of topics ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT that may affect our business or be of concern ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY to our stakeholders. Sources for this list include ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION relevant issues addressed by media, industry and sector benchmarks, matters raised by PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY stakeholders in public debate, internal docuASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY ments and business strategy. Considering the ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING significance of our economic, environmental and social impacts helped us focus on aspects that In this Report, only material topics identified by deliver the greatest value to our business and internal and external stakeholders as signifistakeholders, within four major areas: economic cantly important will be reported on. In terms performance, product responsibility, workplace of the extent of the impact, all aspects that the responsibility and environment responsibility. analysis showed to be material have impacts The company’s senior decision-makers are acwithin the organization as a whole. Furthertively involved in this process, as the results of more, the aspects analyzed have impacts outthe analysis were reviewed and approved by the side the company in geographical areas where Social Responsibility Committee. Atlantic Grupa conducts its operations and for all the stakeholder categories identified. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 30 stakeholder We know that we create value through our relaABO U T T HI S RE PO RT engagement tionships. Building and maintaining our stakeholder relationships is therefore fully embedded in the way we do business. Everywhere we operate, we actively participate in forums, indusOur ability to generate value through business try platforms and collaborative programmes.We choices also depends on listening and recognizcreate value for our stakeholders which, in turn, ing the needs and expectations of those stakebuild value for our business over time. holders who, directly or indirectly, affect the activities of Atlantic Grupa or are influenced by The Management Board is responsible for the them. As a multinational company, we have an transparent and quality relationships of Atimpact on the decisions of a large number of lantic Grupa and its stakeholders, being bound stakeholder categories, both internal and exto take care that the company respects all ternal, as our results and activities depend in a rights of stakeholders based on the law and certain degree on the fulfilment of stakeholder good business customs. Furthermore, going needs. beyond legal requirements, acting responsibly for us means engaging in an ongoing dialogue, According to the Atlantic Grupa Code of Corpoboth locally and internationally, with the main rate Governance, stakeholders are considered to stakeholders, in order to understand their difbe the persons who take over certain direct or ferent motives and concerns, as well as global indirect risks in relation to our company. Aside trends that are important to them. Stakeholder from shareholders, the stakeholders, among consultations are carried out regularly through others, are: employees, customers and users of many channels. Topics of interest for our the company services, suppliers, creditors, local stakeholders are addressed in various sections community and public authority bodies. of this report. Key stakeholders Communication channels Areas of interest Mutual benefits Occupational health Skilled and motivated Regular employee and safety workforce, ensured through engagement survey Employees Equal opportunities providing equal opportuniCorporate interactive Talent development ties, training, development intranet Community engagement and rewarding schemes Products’ health and safety Meeting consumer needs Accessible nutritional inforCustomers and users of Regional contact center by offering them choice and mation company services Brands’ Facebook pages quality Packaging waste management Achieving highest responsible and sustainable Economic impacts procurement standards, Suppliers Supplier portal Sustainable procurement with support in developBusiness ethics ing innovative and efficient products and services atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 31 Key stakeholders Communication channels Areas of interest Mutual benefits ABO U T T HI S RE PO RT Economic impacts Delivering strong sustainaGeneral Assembly Transparent governance ble earnings and dividends, Shareholders Corporate web page Sustainable procurement thus establishing supportDevelopment strategies ive shareholder base Economic impacts Transparent governance Ensuring fruitful long term Sustainable procurement Creditors Corporate web page partnership, by excelling in Development strategies all areas of business Environmental impacts Business ethics Regional contact center Donations and sponsorships procedure Establishing trust and long Community engagement Communities and Direct cooperation with local term relationship by imEnvironmental impacts environment community representatives proving quality of lives and meetings and consultations preserving the environment open calls for donations Brands’ Facebook pages Economic impacts Transparent governance Accessible nutritional Collaboration on contributPublic authority bodies Meetings and consultations information ing to public good Environmental impacts Development strategies INVESTOR RELATIONS IN 2014 In 2014, Atlantic Grupa won the first prize for best relations with investors, an award given by Poslovni dnevnik as the investment community’s recognition of companies who have fair and transparent relations with investors. The award has been given for five years in a row now, out of which Atlantic Grupa has 4 times been the winner of one of the top three awards. Moreover, in 2014 Atlantic Grupa participated in various investor conferences across Europe, held numerous meetings with domestic and foreign investors and participated in the road show where meetings with around forty investors in seven European cities were held. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 32 C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T 3 . CORPORATE MANAGEMENT Atlantic Grupa's corporate management structure is based on a dual system consisting of the Company’s Supervisory Board and Management Board. Together with the General Assembly, they represent the three principal bodies of the Company under the Articles of Associations and the Companies Act. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 33 Since its foundation Atlantic Grupa adopted interest, efficient internal control and an effecC O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T and implemented its own Code of Corporate tive responsibility system. In line with consistGovernance of Atlantic Grupa whereby the ent appliance of the Code’s principles, Atlantic standards of business transparency are aligned Grupa develops and operates in accordance with Croatian and EU legislation. With the with the good corporate governance practice given Code, Atlantic Grupa defined the proceand strives to contribute with its business dures for the functioning of the Supervisory strategy, business policy, key internal acts and Board, Management Board and other bodies business practice to transparent and efficient and structures responsible for decision-making, business operations and quality relations with thus ensuring the avoidance of conflicts of the business environment in which it operates. Commitment to external initiatives for good corporate governance Considering the fact that Atlantic Grupa is company publicly listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Company also applies the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) and the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Based on the principles set therein, the Company announces the Statement of its application, confirming its actions and development in accordance with the good corporate governance practice in all business segments. The Statement of Application of the Code of Corporate Governance for 2013, as well as for each business year, has been published on the Company’s website (www.atlaticgrupa.com) as well as on the official website of the Zagreb Stock Exchange (www.zse.hr). Moreover, Atlantic Grupa acceded to the Code of Ethics in Business issued by the Croatian Chamber of Economy. The Code lays down guidelines for ethical behaviour of business subjects in the Croatian economy, contributing to more transparent and efficient business operations and high quality relations between economic operators in Croatia and the business environment in which they operate. By adjoining the Code, parties are obliged to responsible and ethical behaviour towards the other companies on the market as well as the development of high quality relations and loyal competition. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 34 governance structure (www.atlanticgrupa.com) and the Zagreb Stock C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T of the organization Exchange (www.zse.hr). The members of the Supervisory Board in 2014 were: GENERAL ASSEMBLY Zdenko Adrović / President Lada Tedeschi Fiorio / Vice President The General Assembly is a body in which Siniša Petrović / Member shareholders accomplish their rights in ComFranz-Josef Flosbach / Member pany matters. In order to decide on issues Aleksandar Pekeč / Member prescribed by law and the Company’s Articles Vedrana Jelušić-Kašić / Member of Association, the regular General Assembly Lars Peter Elam Håkansson / Member of Atlantic Grupa d.d. was held on 30 June 2014. The following decisions were made at The members of the Supervisory Board have that Assembly: issuing the note of release to been remunerated for their work and have the the members of the Management Board and right to remuneration which is appropriate for the Supervisory Board, granting an authorithe tasks performed as well as the Company’s sation to the Management Board to acquire situation and business performance. In 2014, treasury shares, exclusion of the existing members of the Supervisory Board of Atlantic shareholders’ pre-emption rights upon disposal Grupa d.d. on the said grounds received comof treasury shares, paying a dividend to the pensation in the total gross amount of HRK Company shareholders in the amount of HRK 1,384,206.58. 10.50 per share, in proportion to the number of shares held by each shareholder, election of SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES four members of the Supervisory Board, and appointment of an auditor for the year 2014. Three Committees function within the SuperAll decisions from the held General Assembly visory Board with the purpose of assisting the were made in line with legal regulations and operation and functioning of the Supervisory are available on web pages of Atlantic Grupa Board: Audit Committee, Nomination and Re(www.atlanticgrupa.com) and the Zagreb Stock muneration Committee and Corporate GovernExchange (www.zse.hr). ance Committee. Each of these Committees consists of three members, of which two are SUPERVISORY BOARD OF ATLANTIC GRUPA appointed from the ranks of the Supervisory Board members, while one member is appointAtlantic Grupa d.d. has a Supervisory Board ed from the ranks of top experts in the subject consisting of seven members. After the end area. of term for Željko Perić, under the decision of the General Assembly dated 30 June 2014, The Corporate Governance Committee deLars Peter Elam Håkansson was appointed as fines a system of mechanisms for ensuring a a new member of the Supervisory Board, with balance between the rights of shareholders his term beginning on 30 June 2014. In 2014, and the needs of management to direct and the Supervisory Board held four sessions in manage the company’s operations. It proaccordance with the previously announced vides a framework to establish the company’s Schedule posted on web pages of the Company objectives and define the funds required to atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 35 achieve those objectives as well as to moniber from the ranks of the Supervisory Board C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T tor the implementation and efficacy of those and Marko Lesić as a member from the ranks objectives. The Committee is chaired by Siniša of external experts. Petrović, Vedrana Jelušić-Kašić was appointed as a member from the ranks of the Supervisory The members of the said Committees who are Board and, after the end of term for Hrvoje not members of the Supervisory Board have Markovinović, by the decision of the Supervireceived remuneration for their work and consory Board dated 23 September 2014, Nina tribution to the functioning of the Supervisory Tepeš was appointed as a new Committee Board of Atlantic Grupa in 2014 in the total member from the ranks of external experts. gross amount of HRK 58,997.32. The Nomination and Remuneration ComMANAGEMENT BOARD OF ATLANTIC GRUPA mittee proposes candidates for the Management Board, Supervisory Board and senior The Management Board of Atlantic Grupa management personnel as well as contents consists of the President and Group Vice Presiof contracts with the members of Managedents. Eighteen sessions of the Management ment Board, structure of their compensation Board were held in 2014. and compensation of the Supervisory Board’s members. The Committee is chaired by AlekThe Management Board of Atlantic Grupa opsandar Pekeč and, after the end of term for erates in the following composition: Željko Perić, by the decision of the Supervisory Board dated 23 September 2014, Lars Peter Emil Tedeschi Elam Håkanssonwas appointed as a member / President of the Management Board from the ranks of the Supervisory Board, while Mladen Veber Zoran Sušanj was appointed as a member / Senior Group Vice President from the ranks of external experts. for Business Operations Neven Vranković The Audit Committee analyses in detail the / Group Vice President for Corporate Affairs financial reports, provides support to the comZoran Stanković pany’s accounting and establishes good and /Vice President for Finance and IT quality internal control within the company. It monitors the integrity of financial information STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT COUNCIL of the company, particularly the accuracy and consistency of accounting methods used by Since its establishment in early 2012, the the company and the group, to which it beStrategic Management Council operates as a longs, including the criteria for consolidation of multifunctional body that discusses vital strafinancial reports of the companies that belong tegic and operational corporate issues, busito the group. Also, the Committee assess the ness analysis, priority definition, supervision of quality of the internal control and risk managestrategic plans, coordination between organiment system, with the aim of properly idensational units and key decision making. The tifying, publicizing and managing the major Council includes the following members: Presirisks to which the company is exposed to. The dent of the Management Board, Senior Group Committee is chaired by Lada Tedeschi Fiorio, Vice President for Business Operations, Group Franz-Josef Flosbach was appointed as a memVice President for Finance and Information atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 36 Technology, Group Vice President for Corporate the Code of Corporate Governance of Atlantic C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T Activities, and directors of all Strategic BusiGrupa with which the standards of business ness Units and Strategic Distribution Units, transparency are aligned with Croatian and EU Senior Executive Director of Corporate Legal legislation. With the given Code, Atlantic Grupa Affairs, Corporate Investments and Investment defined the procedures for the functioning of Maintenance, Senior Executive Director for the Supervisory Board, Management Board Regional Key Accounts Management and Sales and other bodies and structures responsible for Croatia, Secretary General, Executive Direcdecision-making, thus ensuring the avoidance tors of Central Purchasing, Human Resources, of conflicts of interest, efficient internal conCorporate Controlling , Information Technology trol and an effective responsibility system. The and the Head of the Investment Committee. Code also prescribes the obligation of publishing data belonging to categories of priceBUSINESS COMMITTEES sensitive information, all in an effort to ensure equal treatment of shareholders and informaThe Investment Committee assists the Mantion transparency for present and future invesagement Board by providing expert analyses tors. In line with consistent implementation of and opinions on strategic decisions regarding the Code’s principles, Atlantic Grupa develops the acquisition of companies, brands, busiand operates in accordance with the good nesses, or the sale of existing organisational corporate governance practice and strives to business parts and on all individual investment contribute with its business strategy, business projects exceeding EUR 2 million. The Investpolicy, key internal acts and business practice ment Committee is headed by the Manageto transparent and efficient business operament Board Advisor, and its members are the tions and quality relations with the business Director of Internal Audit and the Director of environment in which it operates. Corporate Treasury. Considering that the shares of Atlantic Grupa d.d. are quoted on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, The Social Responsibility Committee conAtlantic Grupa applies the valid Code of Cortributes to the implementation of principles porate Governance of the Croatian Financial of sustainable development in the company’s Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) and the everyday operations, monitors its status and Zagreb Stock Exchange. In accordance with starts initiatives for the improvement of sorelevant regulations, Atlantic Grupa in 2014 cially responsible business conduct. The Soissued a Statement of Application of the Code cial Responsibility Committee is headed by of Corporate Governance, thereby confirming the Company’s Secretary General, while its its actions and development in accordance members are the Executive Director of Human with the good corporate governance practice Resources, the Director of Corporate Commuin all business segments. The Statement of Apnications and the Director of Corporate Quality plication of the Code of Corporate Governance Assurance. has been published on the Company’s website (www.atlanticgrupa.com) as well as on the official website of the Zagreb Stock Exchange IMPLEMENTING THE PRINCIPLES OF (www. zse.hr). CORPORATE MANAGEMENT In addition to the above, Atlantic Grupa is a Since its foundation and listing on the ZSE, signatory of the Code of Ethics in Business Atlantic Grupa based its business activities on initiated by the Croatian Chamber of Econoatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 37 my. The listed Code lays down guidelines for Croatia and the business environment in which C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T ethical behaviour of business subjects in the they operate. By signing the Code of Ethics, its Croatian economy. Such definition of ethical parties are obliged to responsible and ethical criteria contributes to more transparent and behaviour towards the other companies on efficient business operations and high qualthe market as well as the development of high ity relations between economic operators in quality relations and loyal competition. remuneration policy for Management Board contracted by Atlantic management board members Grupa at the reputable insurance companies in Croatia, with the annual premium of HRK 8,250.00, • personal accident insurance policy with the The contract on performing activities of a annual premium of HRK 8,300.00, member of the Management Board i.e. the • voluntary health insurance policy that employment contract for board members who includes the Management Board members, are employed at Atlantic Grupa lays down with which Atlantic Grupa, as the insurance the rights and obligations of board members contractor, with an annual premium of HRK based on their function as the Management 7,500 per person, provides a quality health Board members, as follows: treatment through an annual comprehensive health examination, any required spe• monthly salary for board members, set in cialist medical tests with the application of the gross amount, most contemporary and efficient medical • annual bonus (bonus remuneration) per devices and equipment in specialised polyyear of contract duration, set in the declinics with the best health experts, fined percentage of the realised principal • right to use an official vehicle, right to annual gross salary and remuneration on compensation of all costs incurred by the the grounds of membership in supervisory Management Board member while perboards of associated companies. The payforming his/her functions. ment of the annual bonus is conditioned upon the realisation of planned business All Management Board members have manresults in the ratio of at least 95% of the ager contracts which include a whole set of EBT plan for the consolidated Atlantic binding provisions as well as incentive ones, as Grupa’s business year. Provided that all follows: contractual criteria were satisfied, board members are paid the amount of realised • confidentiality clause – board members are bonus remuneration through the Stock Opobliged to keep confidential the Company’s tion Programme by acquiring own shares business secrets during and after their of Atlantic Grupa. For the President of the employment, regardless of the reasons for Management Board, the whole bonus reemployment termination. The obligation of muneration amount is paid in cash, confidentiality extends to business secrets • life insurance policy for the members of the of AG’s associated companies as well, atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 38 • no-competition clause – binds a board companies paid to that board member in C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T member to a period of one year from the the period of three months prior to condate of receiving severance pay, if he/she is tract termination. The obligation of severentitled to it, ance payment occurs in a case of contract • contract penalty – in case of breaking the termination by Atlantic Grupa in the period no-competition clause, any board member of its duration, unless the contract is termishall be liable to pay the contract penalty in nated due to reasons caused by the fault of the amount of twelve average net monthly the board member. salaries paid to that board member in the period of three months before contract In 2014, members of the Management Board termination, of Atlantic Grupa d.d., on the grounds of sal• prohibition of participation of any board ary and remuneration for supervisory board member in the ownership and/or managemembership in operating companies and anment structure, whether directly or indinual bonus received a gross amount of HRK rectly, in any company which is in market 10,379,065.72. From that amount, on the competition with Atlantic Grupa and asbasis of salary, remuneration for supervisory sociated companies, or in a company with board membership in operating companies and which Atlantic Grupa and associated comannual bonus, President of the Management panies have business cooperation, as well Board Emil Tedeschi in 2014 received a gross as to act as an advisor or consultant in amount of HRK 3,335,241.97. such companies, regardless of being paid or not for such activities, • performance of other activities as a board member, except those performed for Atlantic Grupa’s associated companies, regardless of being paid or not for such activities, including the membership in supervisory boards, advisory bodies, etc. shall only be allowed pursuant to the prior approval of the Management Board of Atlantic Grupa, • employment, contract duration and termination periods – board members are employed for an indefinite period in Atlantic Grupa or its associated companies, and the contract on performing the function of a board member is concluded for the period of 3 years, with the possibility of termination in accordance with the periods prescribed by law, • severance pay – severance pay is contracted in the amount of six average monthly gross salaries of the board member and gross remunerations based on the membership in supervisory boards of associated atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 39 ethics and In addition to the above, Atlantic Grupa accedC O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T integrity ed to the Code of Ethics in Business issued by the Croatian Chamber of Economy. The Code lays down guidelines for ethical behaviour of business subjects in the Croatian economy, Further to the above-mentioned Atlantic Grupa contributing to more transparent and efficient adopted its own Code of Corporate Governbusiness operations and high quality relations ance of Atlantic Grupa whereby the standards between economic operators in Croatia and of business transparency are aligned with the business environment in which they operCroatian and EU legislation. By its implemenate. By adjoining the Code, parties are obliged tation the Company consistently incorporates to responsible and ethical behaviour towards the highest standards of corporate governthe other companies on the market as well as ance into its business activities and resolved the development of high quality relations and to regulate its actions, both in regard of the loyal competition. other entities it enters into business relations with and in regard of its own employees. Basic WHISTLEBLOWING PROCEDURE principles of the Corporate Governance Code of Atlantic Grupa are: Given that the Company wishes to provide its employees the right to an honest, respon• transparency of business activity sible, transparent and ethical work i.e. work• clearly elaborated procedures for the oping environment in which the main principles eration of the Supervisory Board, Manageof business conduct are respected, Atlantic ment Board and other bodies and strucGrupa adopted the Whistleblowing Procedure tures making important decisions Rules which prescribes the reporting proce• avoiding conflicts of interest dure, rights as well as duties of each and all • efficient internal control employees of Atlantic Grupa who in his/her • efficient responsibility system. work observes or becomes aware of either an actual or a potential illegal action or potential Due to the fact that Atlantic Grupa is company violation of the accepted rules of business publicly listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, conduct in the Company carried out by another the Company also applies the Code of Corpoemployee(s). By such Rules, illegal action or rate Governance issued by the Croatian Fiviolation of the accepted business conduct nancial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) (Misconduct) are defined as any conduct inand the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Based on the cluding (but not principles set therein, the Company announces limited to): the Statement of its application, confirming its actions and development in accordance with • committing a criminal act pursuant to posithe good corporate governance practice in all tive legal regulations business segments. The Statement of Appli• violation of the Company’s internal acts cation of the Code of Corporate Governance • conduct that represents a serious risk to for 2013, as well as for each business year, human health and property has been published on the Company’s website (www.atlanticgrupa.com) as well as on the An employee who in his/her work observes or official website of the Zagreb Stock Exchange becomes aware of Misconduct has the right (www.zse.hr). as well as the duty to report it immediately in atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 40 writing to the Head of Corporate Security of obliged to inform the employee who submitC O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T Atlantic Grupa and the member of the Manted the report on the outcome of the process. agement Board of Atlantic Grupa competent By way of derogation, if the process requires a for Corporate Affairs. Immediately after receivperiod of time longer than the one prescribed, ing the report, they issue a certificate indicatthe Head of Corporate Security of Atlantic ing the date of receipt of the report to the Grupa is obliged, within the given period, to employee and, without delay, notify the followinform him/her of the actions taken in the ing, as applicable: process and, immediately after the conclusion of the process, on its outcome. • Head of Department in which the employee who committed the potential Misconduct is In case that it has been identified that the working, except in a case where the poemployee has undoubtedly committed the Mistential Misconduct relates to the Head of conduct, with respect to all the circumstances Department, or of the case, the Company is obliged to take all • The President of the Management Board – reasonable measures against that employee in a case where the potential Misconduct pursuant to the provisions of the Labour Act, relates to actions of a member of the Manthe Company’s internal acts, as well as submit agement Board, or necessary notifications to the competent state • The President of the Supervisory Board of authorities. Atlantic Grupa in a case where the potential Misconduct relates to actions of the The employee who submitted a report on the President of the Management Board. potential Misconduct in accordance with the Rules is guaranteed with full confidentiality of In a case where the potential Misconduct reany information regarding his/her identity and lates to joint actions of the Head of Corporate the content of the report with which he/she Security of Atlantic Grupa and the member of reported the potential Misconduct. the Management Board competent for Corporate Affairs, an employee who in his/her work Besides, any employee who in his/her work obobserves or becomes aware of Misconduct of serves or becomes aware of Misconduct shall the persons listed has the right as well as the have the right, at his/her own discretion, to duty to immediately report it in writing to the submit an anonymous report on the potential President of the Management Board of AtMisconduct, without providing information on lantic Grupa. In such a case, the President of his/her identity. the Management Board is obliged to issue a certificate indicating the date of receipt of the An action of an employee who knowingly report to the employee and carry out further reports a potential Misconduct of another procedure in accordance with the provisions of employee without any grounds and with a mothe Rules. tive to cause any harm to him/her or to gain any benefit for oneself or for other person is Within the period of 4 weeks after receiving a considered a violation of the Company’s interreport on the potential Misconduct, the Head nal acts. In this respect, in 2014. there were no of Corporate Security of Atlantic Grupa is recorded complaints from our employees. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 41 ETICAL CODE OF PURCHASING such a way to prioritize the suppliers that C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T ORGANIZATION are capable to provide quality products or services at competitive prices, or that Ethical code of the purchasing organization have visible and proven advantages to the is a set of values, standards, principles and business of Atlantic Grupa, compared to rules, which all the staff of the Atlantic Grupa’s other suppliers. While selecting the supplipurchasing organization, responsible for proers or later when the cooperation with the curement in the company, has to respect in suppliers is already established, any influperforming their business activities. The Ethience which is not of a business nature, or cal Code covers the following areas: which is affected by a personal interest of the purchasing staff is not allowed. In this • Legal compliance The purchasers are regards, the purchasers have no right to obliged to inform themselves on any law ask or to receive money, favours or gifts and regulation change pertaining to purfrom suppliers or potential suppliers. Exchasing and apply them in their business. ceptionally, only business gifts that are of In addition to various national and intersymbolic value could be accepted as an national laws and regulations of a general expression of common business practice or character, the purchasers have to follow business partner's courtesy, but their givand apply all other laws and regulations ing or accepting in no way should influence that are related to trade, industry, protecthe decision making process, supplier's tion of patents and copyrights, environmenselection, negotiations or agreements with tal protection, work safety, labour law etc. suppliers. The manners of dealing with suppliers, regardless of their negotiat• Applying the criteria of sustainable puring position and power of the purchasing chasing When making sourcing and purdepartment, must be civilized and fair, and chasing decisions, Atlantic Grupa’s purchasthe purchasing staff is bound to respect ing organization is committed to consider all agreed terms with suppliers, providing both environmental and social factors aimthat the other side respects its obligations ing at minimizing the environmental and too. The purchasing staff also commits to social impact that the items we purchase keeping secrets and professional data, and have. Purchasing business must be contheir selective use, which also applies to all ducted in such a way to respect social, ethconfidential information that is obtained nic, cultural, sexual and racial diversity, and from suppliers during the competition for business decisions must not be directed in goods and services supply, as well as offers a way that favours any of the categories of or business reports. This information may ethnic, sexual or racial criteria. not, without the consent of the party that placed this information at the disposal, be • Fair treatment of suppliers The purchasmade available to third parties. ing organization and the purchasing staff have to enable and support fair market • Respect to the purchasing profession competition among potential suppliers The purchasing staff has to develop and who are interested in entering into a busimaintain their professional competences, ness relationship with Atlantic Grupa. This which means that they are obliged to means that the supplier selection process continuously develop and improve their has to be always defined and conducted in professional value both in terms of speatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 42 cific skills and knowledge in the purchasing C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T area (technical knowledge, knowledge of commerce, trade, laws and regulations), and in terms of communication and other „soft” skills. For achieving this, the purchasers should be open to communicate with other purchasing professionals outside the company and with purchasing associations and institutions, in order to exchange and share experiences and opinions. As the representatives of the purchasing profession, the purchasers of Atlantic Grupa have to act in such a way to maintain dignity of the purchasing profession, and at the same time to ensure that the others who are in contact with the purchasers also recognize the dignity of the purchasing profession. • Loyalty towards the employer The purchasing staff has to show loyalty towards the employer, in whose interest they work. This loyalty is expressed through acting in accordance with the general policy and the strategy of Atlantic Grupa, with the directives and instructions received from the company's management, and in accordance with the authorization of the purchasing department and the purchasers, given by the company's management. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 43 eco no mi c i mpact s 4 . E CONOMIC I M PACTS In 2014, Atlantic Grupa continued its business growth by expanding its distribution portfolio and innovating its product portfolio. With continuous investments in production facilities, developments of new processes, following the latest technologies and educating production and sales personnel, Atlantic Grupa became one of the most dynamic business systems in the region and even wider with the internationalisation of operations as our main strategic focus of development. We have concluded the year 2014 with 5.152 employees in 11 markets. Owing to successful implementation of the strategy, in 2014 Atlantic Grupa continued with the organic sales growth and profitability improvement. We are particularly pleased that our business model has proven stable in a difficult economic environment, as confirmed by reported results and launching of new investments. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 44 In accordance with the set timeframe, we highest level of distribution service together eco no mi c i mpact s completed the largest capital expenditure in with the high realisation of distribution paour history construction of the new producrameters. tion plant for the production of energy bars in Nova Gradiška within our sports food segment, Atlantic Grupa achieved its announced expecwhich will deliver first products to the market tations for seven years in a row. Deleveraging by the end of the first quarter of 2015, and is reflected in the lower net debt to EBITDA by acquiring the company Foodland with the ratio, from 3.5 times in 2013 to 3.2 times brand Granny’s Secret we have in a single step in 2014. Moreover, cash flow from operatmoved towards the realisation of two strategic ing activities, growing 6.1% compared to the goals expanding the current brand portfolio, previous year, is growing faster than EBITDA, and internationalisation. indicating stability of the business model of Atlantic Grupa, and confirms its focus on busiThe signing of the distribution agreement with ness development with continuous monitoring Unilever in December 2013 and the successful of operating costs, management of financial distribution throughout 2014 have once again and operating risks, prudent liquidity manageconfirmed the status of Atlantic Grupa as the ment, further deleveraging and achievement leading distributor in the region, offering the of strong cash flows from operating activities. Atlantic Grupa Consolidated Change 2013 2014 ‘000 HRK 2014/2013 Direct economic value generated 5,022,170 5,133,874 2.2% Revenues 5,022,170 5,133,874 2.2% Economic value distributed1 4,746,641 4,937,969 4.0% Operating costs – incl. Education 3,732,190 3,826,707 2.5% & Freelancers Employee wages and benefits – 619,772 651,778 5.2% excl. Education, Freelancers2 Payments to providers of capital3 189,273 160,871 -15.0% Payments to Government4 57,838 61,390 6.1% Community investments 50,635 47,323 -6.5% CAPEX 96,933 189,900 95.9% Economic value retained 275,529 195,905 -28.9% 1 Excluding provisions (bad debts, inventories, employee 3 Interest expense (P&L item) and dividend paid future commitments as per IAS 19) 4 Refer to P&L items (corporate income tax, other 2 Including taxes and contributions on salaries taxes and contributions not related to result) *In 2014 the classification of contracted marketing expenses has changed from “Marketing and selling expenses” to decrease in “Sales revenues”, and classification of support for contracted marketing expenses has changed from decrease in “Marketing and selling expenses” to decrease in “Cost of merchandise sold”. In accordance with this change, sales revenue in 2013 has been restated. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 45 In 2014, decrease of Economic value retained term borrowings at the end of 2012, payments eco no mi c i mpact s primarily came on the back of significantly to providers of capital, i.e. interest payments, higher capex (due to construction on energy were lower in 2013 and 2014. This was to bars production facility in Nova Gradiška – Atsome extent offset by dividend payment of HRK lantic Grupa’s largest capital investment in the 30 million (HRK 9.00 per share) in 2013 and history), higher employee wages and benefits HRK 35 million (HRK 10.50 per share) in 2014. (excluding education and freelancers) as well as higher payments to government. Payments to Government Increase in payments to government reflected higher corpoRevenues The main engines behind the rate income tax as well as higher other taxes growth in 2014 were Strategic Business Unit and contributions not related to result. Savoury Spreads, the Strategic Distribution Unit International Markets and the beginning of Community investments Atlantic Grupa is a the Unilever principal distribution in the Stratemajor sponsor focused primarily on the promogic Distribution Unit Croatia and the Distribution of sports where most funds and involvetion Unit Slovenia. Analysing by markets, the ment are dedicated to supporting projects such largest growth has been achieved in the maras the basketball club Cedevita. Atlantic Grupa kets of Croatia and Slovenia. is also an active participant and organiser of a number of humanitarian actions and it systemOperating costs -incl. Education & Freelancatically supports a whole series of organisaers Looking closely at 2014 only, costs of tions and associations involved in protecting goods sold increased as a result of the change and helping vulnerable social groups. In 2014, in the sales mix caused by the beginning of the Multipower, in addition to its long-standing Unilever product range distribution (increase support to basketball, also sponsored sports of principal's brand share). Production material such as cycling, bodybuilding, triathlon, iron expenses in 2014 decreased as Atlantic Grupa man competitions, rugby, running, as well as used available hedging instruments to reduce some extreme sports such as parkour, mounthe effects of higher prices of raw coffee on its tain running and kitesurfing. In 2014, Atlantic purchase price and in that way largely avoided Grupa sponsored the race Giro d’Italia and the the negative effect of higher prices of raw cof20th Children’s Marathon in Belgrade. In the fee in the global commodity markets on its reculture and knowledge segment, Atlantic Grupa sults. Costs of services grew as a consequence has again in 2014 supported the 20th Sarajevo of higher transportation and logistics costs, Film Festival as a central cultural manifestation extension of the distribution companies' vehicle in the region. Further, Atlantic Grupa helped in fleets and higher rent expenses. Marketing and raising funds for establishing the Centre for promotion expenses advanced on the back of psychological assistance to women with cancer aggressive marketing activities. diseases. Employee wages and benefits -excl. EducaCapex – In 2014, the amount of the company’s tion, freelancers Employee wages and bencapital expenditure almost doubled compared efits grew in 2014 primarily due to a higher to the previous year due to the construction of number of employees as a result of increased the production plant for the production of enerbusiness volume. gy bars in Nova Gradiška. Additionally, the company's capital expenditures were also aimed at Payments to providers of capital – As a SBU Beverages, SBU Snacks, SBU Coffee as consequence of successfully refinanced longwell as corporate projects including upgrade of SAP and development of the SALMEX project. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 46 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y 5 . P R ODUCT R E S PONSIBILIT Y In our business environment, we nurture a corporate culture that represents a framework for our Quality policy. We are dedicated to following new scientific achievements and creatively integrating them into our products and services, as well as to raising the quality of life and business of our loyal consumers in an inspiring and innovative way. The satisfaction of customers and consumers is the daily mission we share. For that reason, we manage our safety policy in accordance with consumer and market demands, as well as respecting local and European legal regulations. We ensure product safety through a series of control activities aimed at hazard management in all links of the chain, from the supplier to the consumer. We are also strongly dedicated to informing our consumers clearly about the products helping them make informed and healthy dietary choices throughout the day. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 47 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y AG Key Process (15) AG Key System Organizational Improvement procedures (12) Management Processes review KPI's (7+1) (41) Audits 23+16=39 The year 2012 was the first year of operation Implementation of the process approach in of the integrated process management system new processes (Logistics) of quality, environmental and food safety manThe process of implementing the process agement that was introduced at the corporate approach in Logistics started in 2013 and level of Atlantic Grupa i.e. in all operating comcontinued in 2014. The process is defined at panies within the Group.The intensive process the level of entire Atlantic Grupa and includes of improving the Atlantic Grupa’s integrated subprocesses: Transport, Storage and Fleet process management system continued in Management, while the monitoring process 2014. was established on two levels, corporate and subprocess. The entire project was successIn 2014, improvement efforts fully verified during a certification audit for ISO primarily focused on: 9001 & 14001 in the three major AG logistics centres (Atlantic Trade Zagreb, Atlantic Brands • Implementation of the process approach in Belgrade and Atlantic Trade Skopje). new processes (Logistics), • Integrated AG supplier monitoring system, Integrated AG supplier monitoring system • Improvement of internal audit processes, The common model for monitoring the Atlantic • Redefining joint processes key performance Grupa’s suppliers was defined and established indicators for the production process at the in 2014. The system includes unique criteria AG level. for approval, evaluation and auditing of suppliatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 48 ers, while intensive work was performed on the level of entire Atlantic Grupa, together with all pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y data collection and processing system as well production process holders. The aim of these as on the evaluation and monitoring model workshops was to analyse the current individbased on the risk management model. ual process efficiency monitoring models and identify possibilities to establish joint key perImprovement of internal audit processes formance indicators (KPIs) for the year 2015. In May 2014, the first Annual Conference of Additionally, in the last quarter of 2014, the Atlantic Grupa internal auditors was organised first Annual Process Management Conference with the aim to strongly support internal audits was held, where accomplishments in that year as a toll for process improvement and risk were analysed and the 2015 objectives were identification. set. Redefining joint processes key performance Document management indicators for the production process at the In addition to the above, the year 2014 was level of Atlantic Grupa also dedicated to the project of launching a In 2014, workshops on the analysis of moninew document management tool in Atlantic toring process performance were held at the Grupa. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 49 integrated pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y certification The significant project of implementing the vative approach to certification and implemenintegrated quality and environmental managetation of the so called “multi-site” certification ment system was initiated in 2012, aimed at model for Atlantic Grupa. integrated certification of all members of AtThe second Atlantic Grupa’s integrated certifilantic Grupa. The project involved a new innocation cycle was implemented in March 2014. The Atlantic Grupa certificate family comprises Food Safety Food Good ManuQuality Environmental Legal Entity Market and Quality Safety facturing Standard Standard Standard Standard Practice Atlantic Grupa Croatia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Cedevita (Planinska) Croatia ISO 9001 FSSC 22000 HACCP ISO 14001 Cedevita (Apatovec) Croatia ISO 9001 FSSC 22000 HACCP ISO 14001 Neva Croatia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 GMP Montana Croatia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 Fidifarm Croatia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 GMP Atlantic Trade Croatia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 Bionatura Croatia HACCP Droga Kolinska Slovenia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 (Ljubljana) Droga Kolinska Slovenia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 (Mirna) Droga Kolinska Slovenia ISO 9001 FSSC 22000 ISO 14001 (Rogaška) Droga Kolinska Slovenia ISO 9001 FSSC 22000 ISO 14001 (Izola) atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 50 Food Safety Food Good ManuQuality Environmental pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y Legal Entity Market and Quality Safety facturing Standard Standard Standard Standard Practice Argeta BiH FSSC 22000 ISO 14001 Kofikom Product BiH ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Soko Štark Serbia ISO 9001 FSSC 22000 HACCP ISO 14001 (Smoki) Soko Štark Serbia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Palanački kiseljak Serbia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 Grand Prom Serbia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 Atlantic Brands Serbia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 Atlantic Multipower Germany ISO 9001 IFS ISO 14001 Droga Kolinska Macedonia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 (Skopje) Atlantic Trade Macedonia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 (Skopje) New members of our family are marked in red: CONTINUOUS EDUCATION • ISO 14001 in Multipower and Logistics, Atlantic Grupa continuously invests in the edu• FSSC 22000 in bottling plants in Croatia cation of its employees in the field of quality and Slovenia, management. Several workshops were held • GMP in Cosmetics (ISO 22 716). as part of the Functional Education Module, grouped under the following topics: In addition, two new major certifications were • product safety and quality management prepared in 2014 that will enter the certifica(GHP, GMP, DDD), tion cycle in 2015: • environmental management, • new documentation and methodology, • IFS Multipower Croatia, all pointing to the fact that this structured • IFS HPC Neva education model is year after year growing into an organised education centre for corporate quality assurance. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 51 product health pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y and safety From the very beginning of developing a new • uniform approach with balanced product product or during the improvement of an existquality objectives for all own brands and ing one, we endeavour to achieve a standard control of the whole chain from receiving high quality of Atlantic Grupa’s products recogmaterials to releasing products for sale, nisable to customers. • specialisation of the quality assurance system according to specific issues of The continuous following of scientific research, individual Strategic Business Units in the EU legislation and all other targeted markets product segments of beverages, savoury and their subsequent application from the very spreads, sweet and salty snacks, children’s beginning of a new product’s existence provide and sports food, cosmetics and medicines, consumers with quality and health-safe prod• traceability and maintenance of a high ucts. To achieve such complex goals, proactive quality level in transport, storage and disinvolvement of experts from the fields of retribution to customers. search and development and quality assurance is necessary. The following factors have an Laboratory testing of input materials, semiimportant role in the production of health-safe finished products and finished products are products: selection of source materials (noncarried out in three central laboratories spetoxic, allergen-free, GMO-free, aligned with the cialised for chemical, sensory and microbiologREACH regulation, etc.), quality control of all ical tests with state-of-the-art measurement input materials and ingredients, monitoring of equipment. The accuracy of measurement all production phases, and quality assurance of results is regularly verified by the method of finished products. international interlaboratory testing. The preThe Company’s extensive activities in the field vention programme for control of food hazards of quality control are managed by the Corpoprescribes regular monitoring of the following rate Quality Management Department, and natural and technological pollutants: pesticide executed by quality assurance departments residues, heavy metals, allergens, microtoxins, within the Strategic Business Units and peralkaloids, PAHs and dioxins, nitrates, pharmasons responsible for quality assurance within cologically active substances and contaminathe Strategic Distribution Units. Such organition by migration of substances from primary sational structure enables the following: packaging. • coordinated monitoring of legislation, Such tests are outsourced to accredited and • implementation of best practices, specialised laboratories. Monitoring is focused • optimal improvement and use of expert on input materials and adjusted to the supknowledge in the field of microbiological, plier’s risk assessment. The 2014 results show chemical and other hazards, that the control system is efficient and that all • centralised supplier management in view of hazards are well under control. In 2014, spethe quality of input materials, cial attention was placed on heavy metals and atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 52 allergens. Heavy metals are lately often mensignificant efforts to receive as much compr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y tioned in the context of risks related to their ments from our consumers as possible, which presence in wheat, potato, meat and fish. By is the reason for organising regular trainings increasing monitoring of our raw materials and of personnel answering phones in our free call active communication with our suppliers we centres. All received complaints in 2014 were have successfully contained this risk. handled to the satisfaction of customers, while effective corrective actions were taken in the In 2014, our experts shared their experiences production process in order to prevent reoccurin an internal professional conference that covrence of such issues. ered the following topics: • new risks related to genetically modified All marketed food products, except one, that organisms, were involved in health safety monitoring by • proper management of cross contaminainspection services or internal control officers tion with allergens, were identified as complying with the health • substantiated risk assessment, safety requirements. Compared to the previous • supplier management based on risk analyyear, we cut the number of situations where sis. it was decided to preventively recall a product In addition, several courses in the field of good in half, which shows that the system is being hygiene practice and product safety manageimproved in the right direction. ment were organised within the internal proIn 2014, considerable improvement was also gramme School of Quality. achieved in the fields of safety management and product quality. HACCP systems The activities in the field of quality assurance were improved in all distribution markets and support the company operations and represent traceability of a product within the chain was advanced IT solutions: the SAP QM module significantly improved, allowing for faster was implemented in the Slovenian market and preparation of customer information and comin some legal entities in the Croatian market, munication with them. while other locations use internal IT solutions on similar platforms according to the same The safety management and product quality model. Furthermore, a new AG QM SAP standsystem was in 2014 enhanced with the product ard was prepared in 2014 and implemented protection system which analyses all producin the location of Atlantic Multipower Croatia. tion and logistic locations according to the risk This standard joins the best practices from of intentional contamination of products. SAP Slovenia and SAP Cedevita solutions or, more precisely, upgrades the extensive experiIn line with the presented unique quality assurence in the field of quality management. ance standards applied in the whole Atlantic Grupa, an equal process of preparation, trainThe efficiency of the quality assurance process ing of new personnel and efficient control was is assessed on the basis of achieving target implemented for Atlantic Multipower Croatia’s values of key indicators: the number of connew production plant in Nova Gradiška, which sumer complaints and the number of product started production in 2015. recalls. We in Atlantic Grupa are investing atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 53 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and G4 PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Recalls–health and Withdrawals – preventive actions due to safety impacts potential health and safety impacts 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 1 2 (1 voluntary 3 (voluntary AG OWN BRANDS 0 0 0 0 (voluntary 0 codes + 1 codes) codes) Regulations) PRINCIPALS 2 1 0 0 0 0 No data 0 AG DISTRIBUTION (Regulations) (Regulations) Direct financial consequences in all cases were In order to achieve even better results, since minor (no fine or penalty paid, small quantities 2013. we are practicing monthly communicaof products destroyed after withdrawal and setion between the corporate quality assurance lection). Indirect financial consequences were and all quality assurance departments in businot observed. ness programmes, with the aim to speed up the transfer of good practice. product and service labelling Responsibility for the production of safe foods is Firstly, we follow internal guidelines for product Atlantic Groupa's fundamental commitment, and improvements regarding new recipes including is systematically implemented on a daily basis in the use of additives, genetically modified organthe scope of the quality system. Furthermore, our isms, gluten, and development of products rich in company is constantly aware that the consumer positive nutrients, such as magnesium, calcium, expects ever more in this regard, that healthy nutritional fibres, antioxidants, products without eating habits are of increasing importance in trans-fatty acids or wellness products etc. a world of rapid technological innovations and global trade, and so the company undoubtedly Secondly, we recognize our responsibility to preassumes its share of responsibility in this resent transparent and truthful information about spect. our product to our consumers. In accordance atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 54 with internal procedures that stand in line with broader efforts to contribute to health and wellpr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y local and EU legislation, we provide information ness of our consumers, we also make nutritional about the sourcing of components, content, safe information accessible, promoting active and use and disposal of the product. Motivated by balanced lifestyle and building trust within the our consumers’ suggestions, and as part of our community where we operate. Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures G4 PR3 for product and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements. % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in COFFEE INFORMATION NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 The sourcing of components Only 1 BIO product in the Organic product 1% 1% 1% (raw materials, packaging) assortiment GDA information on the label 34% 36% 38% Only decaffeinated Content of the product Decaffeinated product 3% 3% 3% products all carring the (recipe) information Only extra caffeinated Added caffeine 1% 1% 1% products all carring the information Added caffeine Not adequate Only extra caffeinated to diabetics, pregnant women, 1% 1% 1% products all carring the children and people sensitive to information caffeine Safe use of the product Store in a cool and dry place 100% 100% 100% Add cold water 4% 5% 5% For freeze cappuccino Add hot but not boiling water 30% 31% 32% For instant coffee Signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% product packaging atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 55 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in SNACKS INFORMATION NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 GDA information on the label 24% 100% 0% natural vanilla 5% 5% 5% For chocolate for kids rich in Calcium 5% 5% 5% For chocolate for kids Chocolate with high cocoa content, Integrino high in fiber 5% 3% 5% Content of the product wholegrain biscuits and (recipe) breakfast cereals rich in vitamins and minerals 1% 1% 0% biscuits for kids no artificial flavours 0% 0% 1% breakfast cereals no artificial colourings 0% 0% 3% Bananica, dragees mix of 8 grains 2% 3% 0% snack for kids Safe use of the product Store in cool and dry place 100% 100% 100% Easy open Cold seal flexible packaging 0% 0% 5% chocolates in flexible foil all signs for appropriate Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% recycling product packaging % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in MEAT AND FISH PATE INFORMATION NOTE compliance with the requirement described next MONTANA SANWICHIES % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 MSC Tuna 0% 0% <1% GDA information on web The sourcing of components chicken fat in recipies 80% 90% 95% for all products (raw materials, packaging) For Junior and Delight bouillon in recipies 50% 50% 60% subbrands Only for 95g products; as nutritional information 45g and 27g are single 70% 70% 99% on the label portion don't need the Content of the product information (recipe) GDA information on the label 0% 0% 0% no additives 31% 31% 43% atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 56 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in MEAT AND FISH PATE INFORMATION NOTE compliance with the requirement described next MONTANA SANWICHIES % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 Refrigerate after opening 55% 55% 55% Do not use if the product is 100% 100% 100% Safe use of the product inflated (ARGETA) Do not use if the product is 0% 0% 50% inflated (MONTANA) all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% product packaging % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in BABY DRY CEREALS INFORMATION NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 The sourcing of components New IMF producer na na na (raw materials, packaging) to be found enriched with vitamins and 100% 100% 100% minerals without additives and preserva100% 100% 100% Content of the product tives (recipe) % are falling due to wider without gluten 38% 35% na assortiment increase number of sugar with no added sugar 8% 8% na free products after opening the product should be stored in a dry and cool place Safe use of the product 100% 100% 100% (not in fridge) not more than 3 weeks Disposal of the product atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 57 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio CARBONATED of significant product category in INFORMATION NOTE SOFT DRINKS compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 end og 2014 new GDA information on the label 90% 95% 100% legislation GDA is not declared more DR (daily reference) information Content of the product on the label (recipe) caffeine and orthophosphoric 76% 70% 64% acids free with sweeteners, sugar-free 10% 6% 6% with fruit juice 10% 17% 35% Safe use of the product serve cool 100% 100% 100% all signs for appropriate recycling Cockta clasik use 100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product product packaging recycled PET sign of dispose carefully 100% 100% 100% % of products in brand portfolio NATURAL MINERAL of significant product category in INFORMATION NOTE WATERS BOTTLED IN RV compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 The sourcing of components natural sources of water 100% 100% 100% (raw materials, packaging) rich in minerals, contains hidrogen Content of the product carbonate, sulphate, sodium, magnesium, 100% 100% 100% (recipe) calcium It is not recommended to consume water by patients with acute renal failure and 100% 100% 100% hyper volumetric state, with disturbances in acid-base equilibrium. Safe use of the product Drinking in huge quantities could cause diarrhoea, which ends, if you stop drink100% 100% 100% ing or respect recommended intake. after opening, store in refrigerator 100% 100% 100% all signs for appropriate recycling prod100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product uct packaging sign of dispose carefully 100% 100% 100% atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 58 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio NATURAL MINERAL of significant product category in INFORMATION NOTE WATERS BOTTLED IN PK compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 The sourcing of components natural sources of water 100% 100% 100% (raw materials, packaging) Content of the product contains , sodium, potassium, calcium, 100% 100% 100% (recipe) magnesium Safe use of the product store in dark place and below the 25°C 50% 100% 100% all signs for appropriate recycling prod100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product uct packaging sign of dispose carefully 100% 100% 100% % of products in brand portfolio PERSONA L CA RE of significant product category in INFORMATION NOTE category: LIP CARE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 The sourcing of components Natural 59% 93% 93% (raw materials, packaging) List of ingredients using the International Nomenclature of Cosmetics Ingredi100% 100% 100% ents (INCI) Content of the product Paraben free 0% 14% 27% (recipe) Mineral oil free 0% 14% 27% UVA and UVB protection 100% 100% 100% Safe use of the product Dermatologically tested 100% 100% 100% all signs for appropriate recycling prodDisposal of the product 100% 100% 100% uct packaging atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 59 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio PERSONA L CA RE of significant product category in INFORMATION NOTE category: SKIN CARE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 The sourcing of components Natural 6% 6% 8% (raw materials, packaging) List of ingredients using the International Nomenclature of Cosmetics Ingredi100% 100% 100% Content of the product ents (INCI) (recipe) Paraben free 0% 0% 23% UVA and UVB protection 26% 26% 31% Safe use of the product Dermatologically tested 100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product Designation of packaging materials 100% 100% 100% % of products in brand portfolio PERSONA L CA RE of significant product category in INFORMATION NOTE category: ORAL CARE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 List of ingredients using the International Nomenclature of 100% 100% 100% Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) all toothpastes containing Content of the product Contains Sodium Fluoride 88% 86% 86% sodium fluoride must be (recipe) labelled with this wording all toothpastes containing Contains Sodium Monofluorosodium monofluorophos12% 14% 14% phosphate phate must be labelled with this wording For any toothpaste contain‘Children of 6 years and younger: ing 0,1 to 0,15 % fluoride Use a pea sized amount for unless it is already labelled supervised brushing to minimize Safe use of the product 94% 93% 93% as contra-indicated for swallowing. In case of intake of children (e.g. ‘for adult use fluoride from other sources cononly’) this information is sult a dentist or doctor’ obligatory Designation of Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% packaging materials atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 60 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio PERSONA L CA RE of significant product category in INFORMATION NOTE category: HAIR CARE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 Content of the product List of ingredients using the International 100% 100% 100% (recipe) Nomenclature of Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) Safe use of the product Dermatologically tested 100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product Designation of packaging materials 100% 100% 100% % of products in brand portfolio PERSONA L CA RE of significant product category in INFORMATION NOTE category: MAN CARE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 Content of the product List of ingredients using the International 100% 100% 100% (recipe) Nomenclature of Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) Safe use of the product Dermatologically tested 100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product Designation of packaging materials 100% 100% 100% PERSONA L CA RE % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in category: INSECTICIDES INFORMATION NOTE compliance with the requirement & REPELLENTS described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 List of ingredients using the Content of the product applies only on products with International Nomenclature of 31% 31% 31% (recipe) skin application Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) applies only on products with Safe use of the product Dermatologically tested 31% 31% 31% skin application in line with EU directive Risk statements 88% 88% 88% relating labelling of dangerous substances in line with EU directive Safety statements 94% 94% 94% relating labelling of dangerous substances in line with EU directive Chemical hazard symbols 77% 77% 77% relating labelling of dangerous substances Designation of packaging Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% materials atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 61 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of sigFOOD SUPLEMENTS INFORMATION nificant product category in compliance NOTE with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 Nutritional information on the label 100% 100% 100% Content of the product Natural colours 60% 65% 70% (recipe) Natural aroma 63% 68% 72% Risk statements 100% 100% 100% in line with EU Safe use of the product Safety statements 100% 100% 100% regulation Dosage 100% 100% 100% Packaging without leaflets 5% 80% 95% Packaging without plastification 5% 90% 90% (with UV lacquer) Disposal of the product Designation of packaging materials 80% 95% 95% All signs for appropriate recycling 80% 95% 95% product packaging Sign of dispose carefully 80% 95% 95% % of products in brand portfolio of sigDRUGS/OTC INFORMATION nificant product category in compliance NOTE with the requirement described next % in 2012 % in 2013 2014 Content of the product (recipe) Risk statements 100% 100% 100% in line with EU Safe use of the product Safety statements 100% 100% 100% regulation Dosage 100% 100% 100% Packaging without plastification 100% 100% 100% (with hydro lacquer) Disposal of the product Packaging without plastification 100% 100% 100% (with UV lacquer) atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 62 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y 6 . WOR KPLACE R E S PONSIBILIT Y Atlantic Grupa’s work ethics and one of its most important priorities is that our employees have high quality and efficient management, based upon the highest standards in the field and a responsible employer. Quality of managing human capital is seen through the partner relationship between an employee and employer. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 63 All processes connected with management in including freelancers), recording a continuous wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y human resources are annually certified by an upward trend with regard to the number of its independent certificate (www.PoslodavacPartemployees. ner. org). This certificate is awarded to organizations that fulfil the highest standards in In 2014 we successfully continued the project managing people in the following fields: stratCorporate Culture at the Group’s level. The egy, recruiting and selection; work, motivation programme “Value a Colleague” was started and rewards; specialization and development; within this project, in which all employees may relationship with employees. Near the end of nominate a colleague and/or team for whom 2014 we started the recertification process they think that he/she best represents the and believe that we will retain our high standcompany’s corporate values. The programme ard and confirm the status of Employer Partproved to be very successful and will continue ner obtained in previous years. to be implemented on an annual basis. In Atlantic, special attention is paid to building During 2014 we continued the project “Natua unique corporate culture that respects any rally Caring” at the Group’s level, whose aim type of individual diversity and fosters coopwas to raise awareness about the attachment eration and synergies between the different that connects us with our work colleagues. segments of production, innovations, marketing and sales. Employee protection is our priorNear the end of 2014 we launched a new proity guaranteed by our work regulation, collecject called Body and Mind-Opportunity to be fit tive agreement and Labour Law. By creating a with the principal aim to allow our employees healthy and encouraging working environment, to apply a healthy lifestyle throughout the day. we try to provide our employees with more This may relate to what they eat during lunchthan just a job – many programmes developed break, how they get to work, adjustments of within the system are aimed at developing huwork places, organised activities with colman resources and careers within the company leagues interested in the same sports, formas well as at performance management and ing of sports clubs, annual sports games and appropriate rewarding of excellent results. a series of actions aimed to promote activity, sports and health in our immediate work surIn 2014 we have continued all processes that roundings. You think this is a philosophy? Of were initiated and implemented in 2013. At course it is. Healthy living is an entire philosothe end of 2014, analysed by all 11 markets in phy to be borne in mind throughout the day, which Atlantic Grupa operates, the company even while we work, because we spend a good had 5,152 employees (average number of part of the day at work. It doesn’t mean that people registered in legal entities within AG, this time is anything less than our life. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 64 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y The programme INNOWAVE, merging the planning purposes. We have also introduced a words “innovation” and “wave” in its title, new model of business partnerships and exsymbolises one of our core corporate values – cellence centres within the Human Resources creativity. The large letter A symbolises AtlanDepartment which contributed to strengthentic, something that holds us all together. At the ing the function of human resources in the time of economic crisis when best companies company. are recognised by their ability to find new approaches to production, distribution and end HRIS HRnet consumers, Atlantic Grupa has promoted the programme aimed at promoting the idea that The beginning of 2013 saw the implementaeach individual employed in our company can tion of HRnet, an information system under with his/her unique insight contribute to the the competence of the Human Resources growth and development of the company. DurDepartment that integrates all information ing 2014 we worked on improving the processon Atlantic Grupa’s employees. During 2014, es by awarding good ideas and establishing a new functionalities were introduced and the system for their evaluation, and the employees’ existing ones were improved and redesigned response to participating in this programme is (reporting, employment module, performance very good. management module, development module) in order to increase the efficiency and usability The performance management process (U3) of our processes. Between the many benefits continues for a fourth consecutive year and included in this new HRnet system are reduced in 2014 the HRnet performance management administration and increased engagement of module was redesigned and new functionaliemployees in key HRM processes. ties were added in order to facilitate the use The HRnet system essentially includes all of the system for end-users. personnel administration, annual leave and business travel management as well as all In the field of headcount planning and emadvanced processes like performance manageployee costs great steps forward were made in ment, employee development management, defining processes, regulating the data collecrecruitment and selection management, talent tion system, communicating with other deand career management, etc. The launching of partments involved in the process and in costs this software solution integrated in one place monitoring and reporting. A system of monthly all important HR processes available through a reporting was introduced as well as the imsimple application to more than 5,100 employproved possibility of using career history for ees of Atlantic Grupa. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 65 TALENT MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y Talent management in Atlantic Grupa repreAt the end of 2014, the employee engagesents a form of human capital management ment survey was carried out. It included all – a long-term, comprehensive and integrated employees of Atlantic Grupa in all markets, approach for support and strengthening of the while the analysis of results and reports were company’s core competencies. The general aim prepared by an external consulting firm. The of this project is to introduce a structured proimplemented actions plans based on the cess of identification, selection, development 2013 results were efficiently accepted among and retention of talents/ successors for preemployees and according to the initial 2014 sent and future needs of Atlantic Grupa. After survey results a positive change took place. the mode is established at the level of the enEmployee engagement ratio in 2014 increased tire employee population, we expect that it will to 3,18:1compared to 2013 when it was 2.02:1 ensure a highly flexible and agile organisation (engaged vs. not engaged employees).The Enthrough the creation of a sustainable succesgagement Index serves as an integral part of sion of management personnel at all levels. the annual performance evaluation for managers and as such serve as indicators of successKey benefits: ful people management. We plan to carry out • ensuring business continuity through sucsuch research once a year in order to be able cession management, to monitor the results of our targeted actions • recognition, motivation and retention of and to ensure that all employees give their the best people, opinion about working in the company. • platform for strategic decision-making in human resource management. In this process each participant (sponsor, supervising manager, employee and HRM) has its role and responsibility and active engagement is expected from all participants in order to ensure successful implementation. The central event of the project “Organisation & People” is a panel designed to assess employees in view of the quality of performance and the level of potential for assuming positions with more complex responsibilities. In 2014 the Talent Management process included close to 150 employees. This process is repeated every two years with the same group of employees. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 66 employment wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y In the field of managing human resources, we pay special attention to respecting the principles of emancipation and equal criteria. Our company’s politics and procedures concerning human rights forbid discrimination, while at the same time protecting the employees’ dignity and assuring transparency in the process of hiring or recruiting. Each tender stresses gender equality when hiring. One person from each member company of Atlantic Grupa is responsible for receiving complaints connected with any violation of an employee's rights, dignity and/or life and health. We can proudly say that in this respect up until now we haven't Employer branding is a project dedicated to received a single complaint from our employthe targeted and structured building of Atlantic ees. Grupa’s image as an employer. It extends beyond as well, as a business entity in countries We work hard to create opportunities for emwe are active in since, by its nature, it extends ployees to develop and grow, as we promote to other similar corporate areas. Until now, the the career concept that unites individual and second demanding phase of collecting infororganizational interests and needs. We remation on how we perceive ourselves and how ward our employees fairly and attractively, in we are perceived by others was carried out, line with the prevailing conditions on the local and the results were used as a starting point market. Rewarding is not influenced by gender, for defining Atlantic Grupa’s employer brand. race or any other personal characteristic. As a result of research and focus groups, it emerged that the company profile is that of a During the summer of 2014, a comprehencreator and entrepreneur. sive project of employer branding under the working title“Imagen Atlantic” was started. According to the results of research and our A series of external and internal research of aspirations, Atlantic Grupa is defined as an our company’s perception as an employer and inspirational company (society) of people who months of dedicated work resulted in no longer operate and love to work in an inspirational a working title, but a slogan that was adopted environment. Open, inquisitive and motivated, by consensus: Atlantic Grupa Ocean of OpAtlantic offers present and new colleagues, portunities. This slogan is the basis for a wider partners and investors an endless ocean of concept of employer branding and a series of growth and development opportunities. activities and projects to be implemented, both existing and new. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 67 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y Together we wish to create a vision and provide long term well-being, always keeping our fundamental corporate values in mind: CREATIVITY, symbolized by a wave, PASSION, symbolized by the sun, and GROWTH, symbolized by a mountain. You will notice that the values experienced engagement, as well as to external community a slight makeover, not at all unusual for this – potential employees, partners, investors... generation. After all, they also have to grow the Ocean of Opportunities is the framework with us. from which all human resources activities will be developed, including different projects in The market research in the initial project this field. Moreover, the project has an obvious phase included Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and effect on Atlantic Grupa’s overall image, hence Germany – where we have the most extensive the ocean tide will pull with it other related business activities and the largest number of areas of corporate identity and promotional employees, while the entire project is related activities. A kind of launching into the Ocean of to all markets of Atlantic Grupa. Opportunities, which as a project will actively sail from the beginning of 2015, are schedule The aim of the entire project is primarily to be books and calendars that will be used during seen and recognized as a desirable employer the next year. The seas will surely not be calm, on all markets. This applies to internal combut we at Atlantic always knew how to seize munity – our employees, through continuous the opportunities carried by waves, together in development and maintaining a high level of the Ocean of Opportunities. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 68 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y Total number and rates of new employee G4 LA1 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender und region Workforce in 2014 Region No. of Age group M F (market) employees < 30 30 – 50 > 50 BIH 152 111 41 14 113 25 Croatia 1684 726 958 315 1107 262 Germany 182 104 78 26 108 48 Italy 8 3 5 7 1 Macedonia 164 108 56 31 117 16 Montenegro 2 1 1 2 Russia 72 34 38 14 40 18 Serbia 1549 761 788 80 1177 292 Slovenia 625 326 299 83 372 170 Spain 8 6 2 2 6 UK 12 6 6 1 6 5 Total 4458 2186 2272 566 3055 837 The majority of our employees work in Croatia (37,77%), Serbia (34,75) and Slovenia (14,02%). New employees in 2014 Region No. of new Age group % M% F% (market) employees < 30 30 – 50 > 50 B&H 2 0,37 2 0 0 100,00 0,00 Croatia 315 58,66 146 161 8 55,24 44,76 Germany 31 5,77 11 20 0 67,74 32,26 Italy 0,00 0 0 0 0,00 0,00 Macedonia 8 1,49 3 4 1 62,50 37,50 Montenegro 0,00 0 0 0 0,00 0,00 Russia 27 5,03 7 20 62,96 37,04 Serbia 78 14,53 34 42 2 56,41 43,59 Slovenia 75 13,97 24 46 5 49,33 50,67 Spain 0 0,00 0 0 0 0,00 0,00 UK 1 0,19 0 0 1 100,00 0,00 Total 537 100,00 227 293 17 56,05 43,95 In 2014, we employed a total of 537 people, representing an increase/decrease in total headcount number of 5,83% since 2011. For 2014, 2,1% were part-time and 97,9% were full-time employees. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 69 2011 2012 2013 2014 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y Number of new employees 482 400 331 537 % of new employees out of total headcount 11.48 9.42 7.82 12,05 Employee turnover No. of emInvoluntary Age group Region Voluntary ployees left % turnover turnover M% F% (market) turnover in % < 30 30 – 50 > 50 in 2014 in % B&H 6 1,89 16,67 66,67 17 67 17 66,67 33,33 Croatia 154 48,58 97,40 3,25 31 55 14 61,69 38,31 Germany 24 7,57 95,83 4,17 38 42 21 54,17 45,83 Italy 0 0,00 0,00 0,00 0 0 0 0,00 0,00 Macedonia 6 1,89 83,33 16,67 33 67 0 83,33 16,67 Montenegro 0 0,00 0,00 0,00 0 0 0 0,00 0,00 Russia 17 5,36 94,12 5,88 47 53 0 65 35 Serbia 71 22,40 91,55 8,45 7 54 39 57,75 42,25 Slovenia 36 11,36 61,11 38,89 19 50 31 52,78 47,22 Spain 2 0,63 100,00 0,00 0 100 0 50,00 50,00 UK 1 0,32 100,00 0,00 0 0 100 100,00 0,00 Total 317 100,00 89,91 10,09 25 53 21 59,94 40,06 2011 2012 2013 2014 Voluntary turnover in % No record No record 6.66% 6,35% Involuntary turnover in % No record No record 0.67% 0,69% Total % 14.44% 4.67% 7.33% 7,04% We started to keep track of voluntary/involuntary turnover from 2013. Over the past couple of years we have placed a strong focus on increasing our investment in our people and improving employee engagement. It has been positive to see this reflected in a significant reduction in employee turnover, which has reduced by 50% since 2011. Turnover for the 2014 financial year was 7,04% including involuntary turnover which sits at 0,69%. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 70 occupational health • External independent institutions evaluate wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y and safety the level of risk for all work processes • All conditions for offering emergency aid and other types of medical protection are secured: the services of an occupational Atlantic Grupa systematically takes care of its physician, periodical medical check-ups for employees’ safety and health respecting legal the workers working under special condiordinances: internal acts, collective agreetions, periodical check-ups concerning ments on occupational safety, occupational sanitary hygiene, employers decision for safety regulations, by being a responsible each employee to have a medical check-up employer. Managing our employees’ safety and regardless of their status, actively proprotection is under the jurisdiction of the Corgrammed medical vacation in specialized porate safety division. This division is responmedical centers sible for coordinating all activities connected • Employees are trained in a safe and secure to occupational safety, protection, training in a way safe and secure way, and occupational medi• Expert training for specific work processes cine. The system is based upon the principle is provided of respect and coordination between social • Jobs with specific working conditions are partners: employer, occupational safety experts defined and workers. • A warm meal for all employees is provided. Respecting European Union guidelines, positive By educating our employees, and developing legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia and adapting our technological processes, we (Occupational safety law), and Atlantic Grupa's are trying to prevent any accidents by creatinternal acts, all workers are ensured the right ing safe working conditions. Nevertheless, it is to be protected and the right to health, which impossible to eliminate all risks and exclude all is a result of work itself: dangers. Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, G4 LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work related fatalities, by region and by gender Injury Rate (IR)** Lost Day Rate (LDR)*** Absentee Rate (AS)**** Injuries Illnesses* 2014 2013 2012 2011 2014 2013 2012 2013 2014 2013 2012 2011 B&H 0 0 1.21 0 0 0 31.46 2011 0 0 6,672.88 0 Croatia 1,34 0,92 1.71 1,47 77,2 31,84 45.31 0 13.258,05 6.266,43 7,068.52 6.088,16 Germany 5,28 5,49 0 1,60 44,05 79,55 0 31,54 23.372,42 14.697,94 0 13.124,15 Macedonia 0,58 0,59 2.49 1,33 14 6,54 32.95 10,69 16.791,97 794,46 1,49.95 3.301 Russia 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 46,51 0 0 0 0 Serbia 1,5 1,92 2.17 2,21 64,98 59,65 36.59 0 12.259,87 10.897,06 11,186.31 13.251,35 Slovenia 0,31 1,13 1.60 1,61 14,92 17,30 37.66 67,49 13.179,38 9.743,23 10,463.11 10.737,06 * we had no fatal injuries in the last four years (2014, 2013, 2012, 2011) ** we had no occupational diseases in the four three years (2014, 2013, 2012, 2011) atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 71 When it comes to programmes related to operations, various programmes are in place wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y assisting workforce members and their fami– such as workshops on most common health lies regarding serious diseases, our practices issues, in-site first aid station, regular physical include financial support as well as education examinations, additional health insurance, paid and training, counseling, prevention and risk leave and financial aid. control measures. Depending on the country of training and education Acquisition of new knowledge and skills the permanent education and improvement of through the professional and personal develour employees, as we develop and implement opment of employees is a prerequisite and a specialized programs and training on all emguarantee of employee satisfaction and moployment levels. tivation, and consequently of business success. Our interest is ensuring and enabling The educational content and programs we our employees the opportunity to receive, prepare and offer include seminars and courses refresh and expand their knowledge and skills realized by our experts for our employees, as in compliance with the company’s needs and well as outside institutions through programs development. Thus, we pay special attention to “tailored” to meet our needs. Average hours of training per year G4 LA9 per employee by gender and by employee category Average hours of training per year per employee by gender: Average training hours / person 2011 2012 2013 2014 M** 10 10 11 11 F 10 10 10 11 Total % 20 20 21 22 * average training hours per employee=total number of training hours provided to employees/total number of employees ** total number of training hours provided to male employee/total number of male employee atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 72 Average training hours per employee category and function wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y Level* 2011 2012 2013 2014 Senior Management 100 117 216 200 Middle Management 75 77 88 95 Other 13 12 10 11 * level such as senior management, middle management Function* 2011 2012 2013 2014 Product Execution 44 46 45 45 Product Placement 45 45 45 47 Internal Perspective 168 150 162 160 * function such as technical, administrative, production atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 73 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y LEARN DEVELOPMENT@AG project of Central Marketing, that is, KAM/ Sales Department and the Corporate Talent Development in Atlantic Grupa is defined and & Development Team. The year 2014 saw the realised in four development LABS: LEADER continuation and, in some segments, expanLAB, FUNCTION LAB, TALENT LAB, MY LAB. sion of activities in the areas of Quality, Safety and Pharma, while the areas of Marketing and The task of LEADER LAB is primarily to deKAM were introduced as a concept and several velop LEARN leadership competencies for all initial modules were implemented. Atlantic Grupa leaders. By concept, it consists of two parts: Basic Leadership Skills and TALENT LAB covers programmes defined Leadership in Action. The Basic Leadership on the corporate level, corresponding to the Skills programme is designed for newly hired development needs resulting from the talent or newly promoted leaders and it is realised management process, while MY LAB covers all through a set of development activities intendforms of individual development. TALENT LAB ed to develop basic leadership skills, while the has launched some of its projects in 2015, of Leadership in Action is a concept that supports which the most significant is the young talent active involvement of leaders in rethinking and identification programme. Preparatory activimaintaining the desired leadership culture. The ties for launching the TALENT LAB projects Leadership in Action concept was announced were performed in 2014. at the end of 2014, while the implementation of both concepts began in early 2015. The year In addition to the above, each Atlantic Grupa 2014 was characterised by an active indiemployee through his/her individual developvidual approach to developing leadership skills ment plan available via the information sysin response to the needs arising from talent tem, during the entire 2014 had access to the management processes and the Leadership catalogue of development activities according Academy cycle in 2012/2013. to defined competencies as well as to options related to applying for and realising required FUNCTION LAB is focused on the developactivities which are not a part of the standard ment of functional competencies for the folcatalogue of trainings. lowing areas: Quality, Safety, Pharma, Marketing and KAM. The areas of Quality, Safety and Pharma are under the organisation and control of the business units that manage them, while Marketing and KAM are realised as the joint atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 74 7. E NV IR ON MENTAL envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y R E S PONSIBILIT Y Our sustainable environmental management system is based on well-considered and economical use of natural sources, using environmental friendly technologies in our production, reduction of waste and lower consumption of energy and water. Environmental management has a long tradition in individual facilities of Atlantic Grupa. Some production facilities have been awarded the ISO 14001 environmental management system certificate more than 10 years ago. In terms of scope, the major milestone of the environmental management system development in 2014 was the implementation of the system to the distribution and to entire Atlantic Grupa. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 75 The second aspect of the environmental costs and environmental impacts. The first envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y management system development was the step was the conduction of energy audits on revalorisation of how our business affects the Sites and identification of the necessary measenvironment. With the introduction of some ures for improving the energy performing. elements of the environmental risk manageWaste management and pollution prevention ment, we took a closer look from all the perremain our ongoing priority. Other important spectives to all the environmental factors in environmental activities were conducted simulAtlantic Grupa that could harm the environtaneously on four key fields: ment. By changing the methodology of the identification and valorisation of the aspects, • the integration of environmental perspecwe gave a chance to devote even more attentive in all areas and functions of business tion and control of factors with high risk. We • the integration of environmental values continue developing procedures and transferinto existing projects ring best practice for key environmental tasks. • series of activities to raise employee enviThe focus in 2014 was the implementation ronmental awareness of the energy management system. The main • first sustainability reporting according to goal of the implementation is to identify opGRI principles. portunities to optimise energy consumption, integration of environmental • The switch to a recycled plastic Cockta bottle (50% r-PET). With using the enviperspective in all aspects of ronmentally friendly package for Cockta business and beyond instead of virgin PET, we are reducing the bottle’s lifecycle impact by a reduction of In 2014 Atlantic Grupa started actively to look CO2 emissions. Furthermore, the replaceacross the whole value chain, including supply ment allows the saving of natural resourcchain, operations and logistics, development of es and reducing the quantity of waste. products, marketing, use of products by consum• Participation in the educational project / ers, end-use of product and potential disposal. competition named “Packaging product consumer – protection of the environment” We recognised this approach as a base of the in aim to affect the consciousness of the live-cycle thinking. The essential step in this public about the importance of the recydirection was the beginning of recognising and cling. The winning evening dress was made managing the potential environmental impacts out of Barcaffeè waste sacks. of our business beyond the internal boundaries. • Promoting the upcycling through the presentation of the urban subsistence gardenIn the previous years we focused our environing made of 3300 Cockta plastic bottles mental concern among our external stakeholders and over 2800 stoppers. The main objecon suppliers. In 2014 we transferred it also on tive of the project was to promote the our customers and consumers. Some projects recovery of discarded materials and give that have to be highlighted: them a new use. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 76 energy envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y Year 2014 can be identified as a turning point ness represent 5 % of the total energy conin terms of collecting data for energy consumption. Apriximately the same percentage sumption in Atlantic Grupa. There have been of the total energy consumption represents the two changes in the reporting method. The consumption of steam. scope of reporting has additionally expanded Despite this wider reporting approach, the on the distribution part of business and the energy consumption within the organization is steam has been included on the list of energy decreasing due to optimizations, transferring sources. The revision includes the data for best practice and conduction activities to raise 2013 and 2014. The distribution part of busiemployee energy awareness. Energy consumption G4 EN3 within the organization Energy consumption within the organization 2012 2013 2014 SLOVENIA 30.962 30.469 29.092 CROATIA 15.970 18.348 16.562 SERBIA 75.539 55.814 53.140 BiH 9.965 9.666 10.882 MACEDONIA 3.529 2.212 2.079 GERMANY 1.768 1.549 TOTAL MWh 135.964 118.278 113.305 Energy consumption MWh SLOVENIA CROATIA SERBIA B&H MACEDONIA GERMANY TOTAL MWH 2012 Electricity Kwh 8,013 7,529 20,437 3,092 1,660 40,731 LPG 12,723.95 23,691.67 1,747.28 38,163 Natural gas 3,559.94 447.27 19,389.22 5,588.85 28,985.28 CNG 9,376.50 9,377 PROPAN 301.44 301 Fuel oil 1,340.08 2,644.83 1,283.37 121.83 5,390 Mazut 6,363.15 6,363 Steam 6,654 6,654 Total MWh 30,961.64 15,970 75,538.86 9,964.59 3,528.72 135,964 atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 77 Energy consumption MWh envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y SLOVENIA CROATIA SERBIA B&H MACEDONIA GERMANY TOTAL MWH 2013 Electricity 8,041 7,055 20,486 2,738 641 813 39,774 LPG 13,094.22 10,562.20 1,712.64 318.87 25,688 Natural gas 3,580.41 477.30 17,250.50 5,602.77 26,910.98 CNG 12,831 12,831 PROPAN 355.73 356 Fuel oil 1,115.85 2,853.87 1,306.09 110.79 636.15 6,023 Mazut 5,830.29 5,830 Steam 2,084 6,124 8,208 Total MWh 30,469 18,348 63,983.80 9,647.19 2,464.23 1,768.10 118,278 2014 Electricity 9,266 8,158 21,096 3.109 631 801 43,061 LPG 9,134 1,354 285 10,772 Natural gas 3,019 1,119 17,119 6,532 27,789 CNG 11,268 11,268 PROPAN 190 8 30 7 235 Fuel oil 1,601 3,649 1,211 94 457 7,012 Mazut 5,841 5,841 Steam 1,642 5,685 7,327 Total MWh 29,092 16,562 53,140 10,882 2,079 1,549 113,305 atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 78 biodiversity envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y Within the process of risk control in designing possible raw materials that meet the requireand developing a new or existing product, bioments of ecological and sustainable aspects. diversity is defined as an environmental aspect Particular attention has to be paid to threatwith respect to the selection of raw materials ened plant and animal species (ref. document: that may have or have bad effects on human IUCN Red List). Number of IUCN Red list spehealth. cies and national conservation list species with During the phase of selecting the raw materihabitats in areas affected by operations by als for a new product, the principle of mainlevel of extinction list is also one of the informtaining biodiversity has to be taken into acative KPI’s of the Central Purchasing monitored count. The development technologist selects on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis. Total number of IUCN red list species and national G4 EN14 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Number of raw materials used from the category 2013 2014 Critically endangered* 0 0 Endangered* 0 0 Vulnerable* 0 1 Near threatened 1 1 Least concern 0 1 *Threatened categories Among seven business units producing food category) and Skipjack tuna Katsuwonus and food supplements: Beverages, Coffee, pelamis (listed in LC – Least concern category). Snacks, Savoury spreads, Sport and functional Our long term goal is to avoid using species food, Pharma and Baby Food, only Savoury from threatened categories. spreads operations are using raw materials In 2014 the specific raw material market from IUSN Red List. situation was the cause that we exceptionally bought also some quantities of Bigeye tuna For the production of Argeta Tuna pate we use – Thunnus obesus, whether we know that this mostly the Fish species Yellowfin tuna -Thunspecie is listed in VU (vulnerable) category. We nus albacares (listed in NT – Near Threatened will completely stop buying this specie in 2015. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 79 waste envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y In addition to reducing waste quantities, our special attention is given to the possibility of main goal is to increase the separately colusing more environmentally acceptable packlected waste on all production locations. Within aging, reducing the weight or amount of packthe improvement of business processes, we aging and the selection of partially recycled would like to point out as a good example the packaging materials. process of developing new products, where Total weight of G4 EN23 waste by type and disposal method Nonhazardous waste (t/year) 2014 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVER COMPOST LANDFILL TOTAL SLOVENIA 961,19 85,18 494,28 338,61 68,32 75,20 2022,77 CROATIA 444,58 11,04 1,32 348,00 0,84 60,11 865,89 SERBIA 664,95 0,00 472,34 0,00 0,00 1076,82 2214,11 BiH 233,28 0,00 56,41 0,00 0,00 833,60 1123,28 MACEDONIA 16,25 0,00 35,50 0,00 0,00 52,10 103,85 GERMANY 228,48 0,00 0,00 0,00 32,69 143,35 404,52 TOTAL 2548,73 96,22 1059,85 686,61 101,85 2241,17 6734,42 Hazardous waste (t/year) 2014 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVER COMPOST LANDFILL TOTAL SLOVENIA 0,00 0,91 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,91 CROATIA 5,52 3,48 0,05 0.00 0.00 0.00 9,05 SERBIA 1,16 0,00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,16 BiH 0,09 0,20 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,30 MACEDONIA 0,00 0,00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,00 GERMANY 0,26 0,00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,26 TOTAL 7,04 4,60 0,05 0.00 0.00 0.00 11,68 In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Macwaste removal is defined per square meter of edonia the method for collecting municipal the site and does not provide the weight of the waste (landfill) is based on two month measremoved waste. urements. The billing system for the municipal atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 80 envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y Total ammount of Non-hazardous waste 2011 2012 2013 2014 4500 4000 3500 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVERY COMPOSTING LANDFIL Total ammount of Hazardous waste 2011 2012 2013 2014 10,00 9,00 8,00 7,00 6,00 5,00 4,00 3,00 2,00 1,00 0,00 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVERY COMPOSTING LANDFIL In 2014 the share of separately collected the recycling waste has increased for 8%. The waste has increased on all Sites of Atlantic most notable activity was the setup of the Grupa. The quantity of the waste on the landeco-labels to promote the proper sorting of fill has slightly increased due to the increase waste and reduce the water, paper and energy amount of the total waste. The ammount of consumption. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 81 INTEGRATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL New environmental activities that will colour envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y VALUES INTO EXISTING PROJECTS Atlantic Grupa in GREEN are: • the unification of the ecological islands for In 2014 we started with new environmental all locations of Atlantic Grupa, project called ATLANTIC GREEN – Opportunity • celebration of the Earth day through speto grow in harmony with the nature, which cial activities for all employees of Atlantic encompasses: Grupa, • Value day – the traditional day when AG • planting apple threes on the production employees leave their jobs and devote the site, day to charitable and environmental activi• the first electric car in Atlantic Grupa's ties. The next step is to dedicate the day fleet opportunity to grow in harmony with entirely to environmental issues as landnature. scaping of the Sites, removing trash from the banks of the river and city parks, raising environmental awareness in kindergarten, planting trees. • Inowave – the program for notification of innovation is going to be upgraded with the Greeninowave section for environmental ideas. • Naturally fit project, focused on the promotion of bike to work campaign that will result in reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption in relation with the arrival at work. RAISING EMPLOYEE system. Therefore, FOLLOW ME! slogan conENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS ducted this environmental journey for raising the environmental awareness. The most notaAtlantic Grupa is constantly working on raising ble activity was the setup of the eco-labels to employee environmental awareness, due to the reduce the water, paper and energy consumpfact that employees are the key holders totion and promote the proper sorting of waste. wards sustainable environmental management atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 82 co mmuni t y engagement 8 . C O M M UNIT Y E NG A GEMENT As a part of a broader community in which it functions, Atlantic Grupa is aware of the importance and need for making its own impact on improving general social conditions, promoting correct values and, ultimately, the need to invest a part of its own profits back into the community. In addition to its wide range of charitable projects, Atlantic Grupa is also a major sponsor focused primarily on the promotion of sports where most funds and involvement are dedicated to supporting projects such as the basketball club Cedevita. Atlantic Grupa is also an active participant and organiser of a number of humanitarian actions and it systematically supports a whole series of organisations and associations involved in protecting and helping vulnerable social groups. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 83 SPORTS and Business and their colleagues. Their wish co mmuni t y engagement was to visit one of the most developed CroaThe basketball club Cedevita continues to tian food companies and Atlantic Grupa was a be the flagship of all Atlantic’s sponsorships. logical choice, giving its contribution to Atlantic Grupa is actively involved in the prowider cooperation with the academic and stumotion of basketball as a sport of national dent community. importance by attracting increasingly better players and trainers as well as in the promoSOCIALLY VULNERABLE GROUPS tion of the brand Cedevita, to which the club was renamed. What is particularly important Atlantic Grupa continued its cooperation with and upon which the success of this project the Centre for Education Dubrava in 2014. lies is Atlantic Grupa’s dedicated support in This year Atlantic welcomed young entreprefinancing, organising, and managing the club’s neurs from the Centre at its Cedevita producBasketball Academy with over 700 children. tion plant, introducing them to its business The Club and the Academy actively work in processes. This year, the Rehabilitation Cen24 basketball schools organised in Zagreb’s tre Zagreb’s branch Paunovac received funds elementary schools, thus ensuring both the for reconstruction of the tennis court. In the future of this sport and the option of a healthy course of 2014, Atlantic Grupa supported the and useful free time activity. Owing to Atlantic Institute of Economic Sciences in organising Grupa’s sponsorship, as well as the efforts put the fourth agricultural forum “Food for Euin getting additional sponsors for the BC Cederope”, organised as part of the Strategy for vita, the club is now one of the most promising Agricultural and Rural Development of the Reteams in Croatia and regional leagues. public of Serbia 2014 2024. The association “Centre for Youth Integration” better known CULTURE AND KNOWLEDGE as the “Drop-in Centre” received a donation in support of providing services within the proAtlantic Grupa has again in 2014 supported gramme “For a Sustainable Drop-in Centre”. the 20th Sarajevo Film Festival (SFF) as a Atlantic also supported the “Forum for Sustaincentral cultural manifestation in the region, able Communities” dealing with the subjects of once more not only as a Festival sponsor, but corporate philanthropy, intersectoral collaboraalso as the main partner of the special festival tion, civil society sustainability and the role of project Sarajevo grad filma (“Sarajevo Film the business sector, donors and foundations in City”). It is a project that gives an opportunity the development of local communities.. to young film professionals from the widely interpreted region to work in professional conWith its brands Dietpharm and Farmacia, Atditions. On one hand, the project is concerned lantic Grupa helped in raising funds for estabwith the future of young professionals, on the lishing the Centre for psychological assistance other, the future of the regional film industry to women with cancer diseases. Since 2008, and, finally, the future of the festival. the Association of Women with Cancer Diseases “All for Her” provides information, psychoIn June, Cedevita’s plant was visited by around logical and organisational support to afflicted forty students of the Master’s degree prowomen as well as their family and friends. With gramme “International management”, Univerthe brand Argeta Junior and the project “Mali sity of Klagenfurt. The reason for their stay in dar za važnu stvar!” (Small offering for an imZagreb was to visit the Faculty of Economics portant thing!), Atlantic Grupa donated equipatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 84 ment for two kindergartens in flood-stricken raised in this way will be used to co-finance co mmuni t y engagement areas “Majka Jugović” in Doboj and “Dječji expensive medicines for the treatment of the vrtić” in Maglaj. The Croatian Association of Association’s members. The Atlantic’s Follow Leukaemia and Lymphoma Patients is impleMe Team supported this project in Atlanmenting the project “Plastic Bottle Caps for tic’s locations in Zagreb and other cities and Expensive Medicines” aimed at collecting and invited all colleagues to participate in this recycling plastic bottle caps, whereas the funds humanitarian and environmental initiative. VALUE DAY and passionately assisted their local communities and each other through improving their This already traditional annual gathering of work spaces, gardening, cleaning the environAtlantic Grupa members brought together a rement, painting and maintenance of public cord 1,206 Atlantic employees who year after homes, shelters and schools; and by donating year with their positive energy, unity, humaniblood. Some employees visited former coltarian support and harmony, leave a positive leagues in retirement homes, others displayed trace in their environment through activities their culinary talents by cooking for the homethat they nominate themselves. less, while a number of Atlantic employees spent the day at a seminar with fellow colThis year Atlantic members could be seen in leagues from production, where they were 10 countries and 24 cities where they, through shown, first-hand, how our products are develmore than 70 activities, creatively, responsibly oped, packaged and distributed. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 85 co mmuni t y engagement HUMANITY AT WORK The VALUE DAY activities also included coordinated relief actions in all three countries affected by the raging waters during the spring floods in Croatia, BiH and Serbia. Atlantic Grupa as a whole and through the organised activities of its regional companies, contributed in aiding the affected population, including their own employees whose homes were affected by the floods. Atlantic Grupa established the crisis headquarters in Serbia that met regularly, agreed on and monitored all actions and donations of goods and aid to employees. All of the companies operating under the Atlantic’s system in Serbia joined the Humanity at Work action by organising a donation of packages of goods for people in the affected areas. A Solidarity Fund was also opened for employees and companies to voluntarily donate funds for the renewal of homes for 34 Atlantic employees and their families. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 86 gr i i nd ex 9. GRI I NDE X GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4 -1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 3-7 G4 -2 Sustainability trends, key impacts, risks, and opportunities 21-22 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization 8 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 11-13 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 8 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 8,14 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 15,17 G4-8 Markets served 8 G4-9 Scale of the organization 9 G4-10 Employment profile 19,68 G4 -11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 19 G4-12 Description of supply chain 20-21 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, G4-13 16 structure, ownership, or its supply chain COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle 21-22 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or G4-15 23-27 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Active memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national G4-16 23 or international advocacy organizations atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 87 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES gr i i nd ex G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements 29 G4-18 Defining the report content and boundaries 29,30 G4-19 Material aspects identified 30 G4-20 Boundary within the organization for each material aspect 30 G4-21 Boundary outside the organization for each material aspect 30 G4-22 Restatements of reported information 45,77 G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries / STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholders 31-32 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 31 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement 31-32 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 31-32 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 29 G4-29 Previous report 29 G4-30 Reporting cycle 29 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 29 G4-32 GRI INDEX 87-90 G4-33 External assurance / GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest G4-34 33,35-37 governance body G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics 35-38 Executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmenG4-36 35-38 tal and social topics Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body G4-37 31-32,35 on economic, environmental and social topics Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: executive or non-executive, independence, tenure on the governance body, number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the G4-38 35-38 commitments, gender, membership of under-represented social groups, competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts, stakeholder representation Function of the chair of the highest governance body, whether the chair of the G4-39 36 highest governance body is also an executive officer Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its comG4-40 35-38 mittees Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are G4-41 40 avoided atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 88 Roles of the highest governance body and senior executives in the development, gr i i nd ex approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, G4-42 31,34 strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives and G4-51 how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to their economic, 38-39 environmental and social objectives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 38-39 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes G4-56 34,40-43 of conduct and codes of ethics G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about integrity 40-41 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE CATEGORY ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE – DISCLOSURES ASPECT 45 ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G4 -EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 45-46 CATEGORY ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT ENERGY DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 75-77 G4-EN 3 Energy consumption within the organization 77-78 ASPECT BIODIVERSITY DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 79 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with G4-EN 14 79 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk ASPECT WASTE DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 76,80 G4-EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 80-81 CATEGORY SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT EMPLOYMENT DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 67 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age G4-LA 1 69-70 group, gender and region OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ASPECT 71 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeG4-LA 6 71 ism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 89 TRAINING AND EDUCATION ASPECT 72 gr i i nd ex DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee G4-LA 9 72-73 category SUB-CATEGORY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY ASPECT 47,52 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR 2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life 54 cycle, by type of outcomes PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING ASPECT 47,54-55 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of G4-PR 3 55-62 significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-2, G4-35 through G4-55, G4-57, G4-58 are not mandatory in accordance with ''Core''. Nevertheless, some information is reported ''comprehensively'': G4-2, G4-35 through G4-42, G4-51, G4-52, G4-58. No external assurance included. No omissions regarding the reported information. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2014 90
