The Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 Date: 11.11.2015 Produced by – Alexandru Stroia Get an edge with advanced solutions Relational Financial Solutions Profile’s Support for the UN Global Compact • Relational wants to become a signatory of the UN Global Compact. That is why we are pleased to present our COP under the United Nations Global Compact. • Everyday, Relational encourages all its employees to support human rights: by their interactions, by looking after their own wellbeing and by realizing the impact of their behavior on other persons and the communities. We will continue to support the UN Global Compact and the initiatives and principles presented in this document. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY COMPANY EXECUTIVE 11th November 2015 To our stakeholders and members: We do confirm that Relational affirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual COP we describe our actions to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders & members using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Dimitris Gkaris General Manager Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses What we already do: Relational supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not do business with any countries or regimes where human rights abuses are known (e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances, etc.). Relational has an Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy, together with an Ethical Policy. Through these policies we commit to ensure that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. We protect and promote the human rights and basic freedoms of all our employees and agents. Human Rights Implementation: While we expand our operations internationally, we make all the efforts to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Relational has a Grievance Procedure, offering mediation to staff as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. We share our commitment to the UN Global Compact with our costumers, to reflect our ethical business performance and to engage positively, also with management, employees and communities. Relational’s Policies, mentioned above, reflect our continuous stance on human rights. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. What we already do: We accept and support our employees’ right to organize or gather, may it be informal or unionized. Nevertheless we will not try to get in the way of a staff association or influence it in any way We absolutely disapprove of forced labour, either through physical force or through other means. We also refuse child labour with equal intent. Every kind of child labour opposes our goals and can therefore in no way be accepted or tolerated by us. Labour What we already do: Relational complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related training to staff as appropriate to their job role. Implementation: Relational has a range of Human Resources Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including an Equal Opportunities Policy, Appraisal and Dignity at Work. Measurement of Outcomes Relational has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Relational has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies; What we already do: Recycling of consumables, recycling of in-house paper, double sided photocopying (when possible), purchasing of recycled paper, turning off equipment when not in use, e-Xmas cards instead of paper cards To reduce travel, we use tele-conferencing, when possible. We also permit home-working. Environment Implementation: A possible way to improve our ecological behavior, as a company, would be internal information about altering the journey to work, for example by promoting alternatives and presenting the rates and possibilities of the local transport systems. Measurement of Outcomes: Relational has never had any environmental incidents and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. What we already do: Relational has in its policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our dealings wherever we operate. Relational supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and does not operate with organizations who are corrupt. Implementation: All staff have been trained. Relational reviews its Confidentiality and Data Protection Policies, which ensure that staff are aware of the need to protect the personal data that we necessarily have access to and which can not be disclosed, on an annual basis. Anti-Corruption Implementation: Relational’s Anti-Bribery Policy sets out clearly exactly what could be considered to be bribery in terms of business operations. Measurement of Outcomes: Relational has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery, Relational’s financial statements are prepared by our auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. Conclusion Relational looks forward to the many exciting opportunities that we have identified to make further progress towards the UNGC’s 10 Principles during the next year of our signatory status. Web: www.relationalfs.com
