July 2015 Contents Page Part 1: Statement of Continued support by the Managing Director 3 Part 2: Communication on Progress 4 A. Labour 4 B. Human Rights 5 C. Environment 8 D. Anti – corruption 13 E. Corporate Social Responsibility 17 Part 3: SODIC Subsidiaries 24 2 July 2015 Part 1: Statement of Continued support by the Managing Director I am pleased to confirm that Sixth of October Development & Investment Co. “SODIC” reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In our first Communication on Progress we describe the goals we set and the actions taken to integrate the ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Ahmed Badrawi Managing Director, SODIC 3 July 2015 Part 2: Communication on Progress A. LABOUR The following practices mandated by the United Nations Global Compact are already in place: 1. The company takes all necessary measures to ensure that it does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour:  Workers can give notice and leave employment within a reasonable length of time. This is clearly communicated to workers prior to starting employment.  The company ensures that it does not withhold wages or bonuses and that it pays them in a timely and regular manner.  The company ensures it does not make deductions from wages for disciplinary measures or other deductions not authorised by national law.  Within normal working hours workers are making at least the minimum wage as mandated by Egyptian law.  Overtime work is paid, voluntary and not compelled through threat of pay deductions, termination or other sanctions.  The company ensures that it does not retain identity cards, passports, travel documents or other personal items without which workers cannot leave employment. If letters of release or other documents are needed for the worker to leave employment, such letters are issued without delay.  All workers are allowed to leave company premises during breaks and at the end of their shifts, and workers in company housing may freely enter and exit their accommodation at any time.  The company ensures that it does not require workers to pay recruitment fees or lodge money deposits.  Loans or salary advancements to workers are based on fair terms that are clearly explained to the worker, are not granted to cover basic living expenses, are limited in size, and do not require the worker to remain with the company until repayment is completed.  The company ensures that it does not use labour from agencies or firms involved in human trafficking or other forms of bonded labour. 2. The Company complies with minimum age standards:  The company ensures it does not employ workers under 18 years of age.  The company is aware of local age-levels for completion of compulsory education and does not employ workers under that age for work that may interfere with such education.  The company has a reliable procedure to check the age of young job candidates by birth certificate, other official forms of identification, or by alternative means such as physical appearance or knowledge of historic events. 4 July 2015 3. SODIC ensures that employment related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria:  It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to any of the discriminatory characteristics.  Each job category in the company has a written description stating the salary level and the qualifications required for that job category  The company ensures that employment advertisements do not reference discriminatory criteria, such as race, gender or age (unless listed as part of a legal equal opportunities promotion).  The company ensures that job applicants are not asked to give information about their marital status, pregnancy, intent to have children, number of dependents, or similar information that may lead to discriminatory hiring decisions. 4. Benefits for working mothers SODIC provides working mothers with a baby crèche on site its headquarters. This space is created for mothers to bring their infants and toddlers with them to work along with their assigned care givers. The baby crèche gives the mothers the ability to continue breastfeeding after the three months paid maternity leave by utilizing the one hour allocated for breastfeeding during the working day. It also allows the mother to continue working productively without pay or career interruption knowing that their children are close by, cared for by their chosen care giver and monitored by other caregivers for safety. The room is equipped with its private wet area for hygiene and privacy and appropriate development toys. The room is available free of charge for all working moms of SODIC for children up to 3 years old. B. HUMAN RIGHTS 1. HEALTH & SAFETY A. On site: As a real estate developer, SODIC contracts construction contractors to execute its projects on ground. As such on site health and safety measures are encouraged by SODIC and executed by third parties. Goal: SODIC to stipulate in their contracts with construction contractors that they maintain and test their equipment regularly. Once this clause is in place SODIC will perform random inspections to ensure contractors are complying. 5 July 2015 Progress: Sodic successfully implemented within our contracts with construction contractors a specific procedure for maintenance and testing of their equipment on a regular basis with supervision from Sodic and our consultants in order to maintain such equipment in proper working condition, thereby mitigating potential adverse impact to the environment as well as the safety of personnel and structures on site. B. SODIC Offices: In its owned or rented locations SODIC adheres with the below United Nations Global Compact mandated principles: 2. OTHER HUMAN RIGHTS CONSIDERATIONS 1. The company ensure that its workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities  The company has effective health and safety procedures in place, which comply with industry, national and international standards.  Responsibilities for health and safety tasks are clearly defined.  The workplace is maintained to ensure clean and comfortable conditions including a suitable temperature, ventilation and lighting; suitable washing and sanitation areas appropriate for both genders.  The company provides safe drinking water for workers and facilities for clean and sanitary food storage and eating. 2. The company ensure that workers are provided with the protective equipment and training necessary to perform their tasks safely  The company has a procedure to ensure that all workers are provided, free of charge or deposits, with the protective equipment necessary to safely perform their job functions.  The company is committed to ensuring that workers use the protective equipment provided and understand why it is necessary to use the equipment.  The company ensures that all workers have the necessary training to safely perform their job functions and keeps workers fully informed, in a language and form understandable to them, of the health and safety procedures.  An accurate record is kept of who has been trained and for what tasks.  On a regular basis and when assigned to new tasks, workers receive training in the safe use of equipment and processes.  A company function or member of staff is responsible for keeping informed of scientific and technological developments regarding health and safety risks and protective equipment. 3. The company ensure that the workweek is limited to 48 hours; that overtime is infrequent and limited; and that workers are given reasonable breaks and rest periods 6 July 2015  Normal company working hours are limited to 48 per week by both company policy and practice.  Overtime is infrequent, remunerated at premium rate, and does not exceed 12 hours in any one week, or 36 hours per month.  The company has a system to plan, record and monitor hours worked by each employee, and regularly evaluates whether the number of workers is sufficient to meet production targets without resorting to overtime.  Workers are allowed at least 24 consecutive hours of rest in every seven day period.  The company ensures that workers have no less than a 30-minute break for every 4 hours of work and that workers are allowed to use toilet facilities whenever necessary and not just during designated breaks. 4. The company provides a living wage that enables workers to meet the basic needs of themselves and their dependents.  It is company policy to provide workers with a living wage sufficient to meet basic food, clothing and housing needs and provide some discretionary income for themselves and their dependents.  The company is aware of whether the legal minimum wage in the country of operation meets the requirement for a living wage.  Part-time workers receive wages and benefits that are proportionate to those of fulltime workers, and receive overtime compensation at a minimum of 1.25 times their hourly salary.  The company pays wages at regular intervals and does not take deductions from wages for disciplinary measures or other deductions not authorised by national law.  Bonus and piece-rate payment systems are monitored to ensure that the total salary paid meets living wage requirements without resort to overtime. 5. The company ensure that workers are paid holiday leave, sick leave, and parental leave in accordance with international minimum standards:  Workers are granted at least three weeks of paid holiday leave per year or more if required by national law. Part-time and short-term workers are provided with paid holiday leave proportionate to the number of hours worked, at a rate equal to that of permanent full time employees.  Workers are entitled to paid sick leave in accordance with the applicable national law.  The company ensures that sick leave is not deducted from workers' vacation time.  Female workers are entitled to 90 days of paid maternity leave per child as per Egyptian law. 7 July 2015 6. The company ensure that all workers have an official employment status:  The company ensures that all employees receive employment contracts prior to starting work for the company, and that contracts are understood by each employee.  Contracts detail each employee's rights and obligations of employment, including clear job description, bonus and salary systems, and reasonable notice periods.  The company ensures that contractors provide workers operating within company premises with an official employment status in line with company standards. 7. The company take steps to ensure that company security arrangements are in accordance with international principles for law enforcement and the use of force  The company regularly conducts security risk assessments, and ensures that company security arrangements, including the deployment of private guards or public security personnel, are proportionate to the security risk.  The company selects private security firms based on information about professional ability, level of staff training, quality of equipment, past involvement in human rights abuses, links with political factions or organisations and other relevant criteria.  There is a manual defining the duties of security personnel, and all security personnel receive training on rules of conduct based on international human rights standards for law enforcement and the use of force.  Where public security personnel are assigned to company facilities, the company seeks to ensure transparency concerning its interactions with public security agencies, and the company communicates to the relevant public security agencies its desire that security functions be conducted in accordance with international human rights standards for law enforcement and the use of force.  The company has a procedure for recording security-related incidents, including a mechanism for handling complaints from staff or local communities related to the conduct of security personnel, and forwards credible allegations of human rights abuses to the relevant authorities.  The company has a procedure for monitoring and evaluating its security arrangements, including the proportionality of the security arrangement; impact on local communities; impact on existing local tensions or conflicts; security incidents recorded; and credible allegations of human rights abuses by company security personnel. Representatives from the local community are consulted as part of the monitoring. C. ENVIRONMENT: 1. ENERGY EFFICIENCY SODIC had put together a set of goals in July 2014 to work towards in its first year as a United Nations Global Compact participant: 8 July 2015 Goal: SODIC will use Energy efficient street lighting in designs and will implement solar powered water heaters for its newest New Cairo project Villette. Progress: SODIC has requested from its design consultants on our new development Villette, to include Energy efficient street lighting designs as part of the infrastructure package. The consultant has been working on the project design taking this parameter into consideration. SODIC will allow for provisions for implementing solar powered water heaters within our villa designs to allow customers to install them during the fit out of their villas since Sodic has been selling residential units without interior fit out. This is also being planned for our North Coast project Caesar. Goal: SODIC will design Villette project and future Westown Projects with LEED / green building criteria as much as the business case allows for. Other than solar powered street lights and water heaters this includes; recycled paving materials; reduced glazing on facades for reduction of air conditioning loads. Progress: SODIC has requested consultants to consider the green buildings code and LEED certification criteria that can be applied on our projects which don't heavily impact the cost of construction. We have started assessing the use of recycled paving materials and reduced glazing on facades for reduction of air conditioning loads. We have also added insulation of walls for units within our designs; we have recycled paving materials in SODIC West by extracting natural stone from the ground for hardscaping. Goal: SODIC shall target to reduce power consumption. Progress: SODIC has planned on an initiative to reduce power consumption. Since Sodic does not install electrical systems as most of our products are core and shell, we are focusing on street lighting, energy saving light bulbs and installing LED lights within our planned office space when we move to Polygon. Additional initiatives include careful management central HVAC systems especially with the summer peak loads. Goal: SODIC to provide a plan to replace conventional light bulbs with energy saving ones, change all street lights to solar system, change all heaters to solar/gas heaters, change all chillers to absorption chillers, etc. This applies to projects under design. 9 July 2015 Progress: SODIC’s design plans mandate the use of energy saving light bulbs, solar powered street lights, all heaters to be solar/gas heaters and all chillers to be absorption chillers. This has been applied to projects under design such as (Villette and Caesar), and where applicable within our new office space in the Polygon. Goal: SODIC will be incorporating the use of double skin cavity walls for the upcoming designs of structures. SODIC will be designing for the use of double low-E glazing for the structure. Progress: SODIC has indeed introduced the used of double skin cavity walls, except for staircase areas due to structural design constraints and double low-E glazing in the design of the standalone villas of its project “Villette”. These new features shall enhance the thermal insulation of the structure toward better experience of the customer, meanwhile reducing the consumption of air conditioning units’ electrical load and running cost. 2. WASTE WATER RECYCLING Goal: SODIC will investigate the possibility of recycling waste water from Sodic's office. Progress: Wastewater from SODIC sites and projects are being discharged into government networks and recycled by the government owned treatment facilities for irrigation of landscaping. SODIC’s office will now be relocated into the newly completed Polygon project. Accordingly, wastewater from Polygon will feed the government managed sewage treatment plant. Goal: SODIC will be enforcing the use of treated waste water for irrigation. Progress: SODIC is in the process of designing its new project “Ceaser” which shall include a Water Treatment Plant (STP) that filters the sewage water for reuse in irrigation 3. WASTE DISPOSAL Goal: SODIC will ensure site safety team monitors waste contractors’ construction waste disposal. SODIC will continue asking for receipts demonstrating contractors are taking the disposed waste to authorized dumping sites. 10 July 2015 Progress: SODIC has been supervising the process of contractors’ waste disposal on our job sites to ensure waste is properly disposed of and hauled to approved waste disposal areas. We have also continued asking for receipts from contractors demonstrating that they are disposing waste to authorized dumping sites. 4. NOISE POLLUTION Goal: When in full construction mode within a larger residential neighborhood, SODIC will respect noise thresholds as dictated by the facility management company, follow noise protocol for the residential neighborhoods which implies performing low noise construction activities after normal working hours and on Fridays and Holidays. SODIC will restrict contractors from performing noisy activities outside of normal working hours. Those in violation are to be escorted outside the site. Progress: This has been applied in Sodic West Developments especially having Beverly Hills and Allegria inhabited with residents. We have requested from contractors to follow noise protocol for the residential neighborhoods which implies performing low noise construction activities after normal working hours and on Fridays and Holidays. SODIC has clearly communicated the policy and restricted contractors from performing noisy activities outside of normal working hours. Those in violation are escorted outside the site. 5. WATER CONSUMPTION Goal: SODIC will exert more effort in reducing water usage and grey water and irrigation recycling. Progress: SODIC has taken an initiative in reducing water usage and grey water and irrigation recycling. We have established fixed times every day for irrigation of green areas (especially irrigation after sunset) such that water evaporation is reduced and so that we can optimize usage of irrigation water. This has helped reduce water consumption already by 10-15%. The long term plan is to monitor consumption across Sodic West and focus on optimization of irrigation water. The same principles are being applied in Kattameya Plaza because it is a completed development. Goal: Implement water saving faucets within our offices (faucets with sensors to reduce water consumption in bathrooms). 11 July 2015 Progress We have implemented water saving faucets within our offices and plan to do the same in Sodic’s new office in Polygon. 6. PAPER CONSUMPTION Goal SODIC will commit to the reduction of printed paper. Progress: We have stressed on reduction of paper usage via the distribution of hard copies of documents; we scan documents and distribute them electronically. We also limited the connectivity of employees to color printers to reduce the volume of unnecessary color printing. We also installed a new document control system that distributes correspondence electronically and further reduces paper consumption and photocopying of documents. 7. RECYCLING Goal: SODIC will ensure the recycling of all construction waste. Progress: SODIC is currently re-cycling all excavated stone and using it for road pavers and façade stone cladding. All other construction debris is getting disposed in government approved disposal areas for recycling by others. This has been implemented in our newer communities within Westown and within our main Roads in Sodic West. 8. GREEN SPACES Goal SODIC will invest in planting more softscape and invest in more green areas; the challenge will be to recycle wastewater to irrigate plants. Progress We have converted Allegria / Westown from an arrid desert into communities with trees and landscaping. We have invested in planting more softscape and green areas utilizing an in-house plant nursery and maintain a net increase in our quota of green trees. Irrigation is based on treated waste water. This has been implemented in our SODIC West projects and Kattameya Plaza so far. 9. DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS Goal SODIC will design the façades in such a way that Air Conditioning units are concealed. 12 July 2015 Progress: SODIC has managed to design the facades of all “Westown Residences and Eastown Residences” project phases in such a way that the AC outdoor units are concealed behind decorative features of wooden screens. D. ANTI-CORRUPTION Goal: SODIC will draft a Code of Conduct Policy that ensures integrity in all dealings within SODIC. Progress: A Code of Conduct Policy has been drafted and distributed among employees with the following highlights: Part A: Introduction We believe that the keystone to our business success is integrity with respect to our dealings with customers, suppliers and governments. The highest order of ethical conduct has and will be the very foundation of our enterprise. These qualities have been instilled and transmitted throughout the company. SODIC’s Code of Conduct Policy includes statements of business, philosophy and objectives which apply to all components of our operations. It is intended to be read and applied as part of all our jobs. This code of conduct provides firm and uncompromising standards for each of us in our dealings with our agents, customers, suppliers, political entities and others. The code reemphasizes and provides further guidance regarding policies which are an integral part of SODIC business philosophy. Adherence to the code is the responsibility of SODIC employee and a condition of continued employment. Adherence to the code will continue to be the subject of management attention. Part B: Issues addressed in the Code of Conduct Policy 1. Improper use of company’s funds and assets: The company funds and assets should not be used directly or indirectly for illegal payments, gifts or gratuity of any kind, whether legal or illegal, which directly or indirectly inure to the personal benefit of any agent or employee of any entity with which the company does business, with the following exception: A. Unless prohibited by the policy of the customer, the company may give, social amenities to customers and employees of non-government customers, normal sales promotional items bearing the Company’s name or items of insignificant value. B. Under no circumstances may the payment of a gratuity or fee (or gift of any kind) be made to a government employee or any other party, whether in recognition of efficient service or otherwise. The company funds and assets shall not be used directly or indirectly for political contributions, whether legal or illegal. The term “political contributions” is used in its broadest sense and 13 July 2015 includes local, provincial or national fund raising dinners, banquets, raffles or any funds or gifts (including the free or discounted use of property or services) which could be routed directly or indirectly to a political candidate, party, committee or organization. Example: The foregoing prohibition of political contributions would be violated if a manager directed any employees to work for a political candidate or party or used Company funds to reimburse employees for political contributions made with their private funds. This section is not intended to limit or otherwise restrict the personal political activities of employees or the right of employees to make personal contribution to any company political action committee. The Company shall not deal with any suppliers, distributors, agents, consultants or firms which: A. Don’t comply with the applicable laws of the country or with the laws of any other company that may be involved. B. Provide for a commission rate or fee that is not reasonable and commensurate with the functions or services to be rendered. The Company funds and assets & its affiliates must be properly and accurately recorded on the books and records of the Company, in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles and practices, and no false or artificial entries shall be made in the books, records or accounts of the Company. No payment made on behalf of the company & its affiliates shall be approved or made with the intention or understanding that any of such payment is to be used for any purpose other than that described by the documents supporting the payment. 2. Bribery SODIC employees shall not accept any payments, gifts or gratuities of any kind. However, in rare circumstances, where the refusal to accept a gift or gratuity may be impossible without injuring the legitimate business interest of SODIC, such gifts may be accepted as long as its amount is within the limit of EGP 600. In case an employee received such gift in excess of the specified limit (EGP 600), he/she should declare it to the HR Department. SODIC may unless otherwise prohibited, pay the transportation and lodging expenses incurred by customer, agents or suppliers, prospective or otherwise, in connection with a visit to their facility or product installation for any reasonable business purpose, including on-site examination of equipment, the participation in a training session or contract negotiations with the company under the following conditions: A. Written approval for the payment of such expenses has been obtained and whenever practiced, the senior management of the traveler has been informed of the payment of such expenses, or 14 July 2015 B. SODIC is obligated by contract to pay such expenses and the obligation is specifically delineated. SODIC or its affiliates will not employ any individuals known to be related, by blood, marriage or adoption (except relationships more remote than first cousin), to any person having influence over the purchasing decisions of any private or public entity to which SODIC sells any of its products, unless such employment is first disclosed to and approved in writing by the Managing Director. 3. Conflict of Interest As we work with brokers, agents, customers, vendors and others who do business with our company, we may be presented with potential conflicts between our own interests and those of the company. Because such conflicts of interest undermine our company’s success and its reputation, our code prohibits acting in conflict with the interests of the company, and we manage our business relationships with our responsibility toward SODIC in mind, avoiding even the appearance of conflicts of interest. A conflict of interest occurs when our personal considerations compete with the purpose, policies or operations of SODIC. The potential for conflicts of interest doesn’t end when we leave our offices, and this policy applies equally to business and personal activities. Even outside the office, we avoid situations that may lead to a conflict—or the appearance of a conflict—with SODIC’s interests. Many actions and behaviors can create conflicts of interest:  Conducting business with family or personal friends—such as awarding a SODIC contract to your family member or a friend.  Owning a significant interest in, or serving in a key role for, outside companies that do or seek to do business with SODIC, or that compete with SODIC for business.  Taking advantage of personal investment opportunities afforded to you by virtue of your position with SODIC.  Making personal investments in companies that you know are candidates for acquisition or investment by SODIC.  Accepting business gifts 4. Secondary Employment SODIC employees shall not be employed by any other firm or person, including self-employment. SODIC employees shall not have any relationship with any other business enterprise which might affect the employee’s independence of judgment in transactions between SODIC and other business enterprise or otherwise conflicts with the proper performance of the employee’s duties at SODIC. 15 July 2015 SODIC employees may not accept any appointment to membership of the Board of Directors, standing committee or similar body of any outside company, organization or government agency (other than charitable, educational, fraternal, political, community or religious organizations or similar groups) without first receiving the prior approval of SODIC’s Managing Director, whether or not a possible conflict of interest might result from the acceptance of any such appointment. 5. Personal Financial Interest: Supplier/Customer Relationships: SODIC employees may not have any interest in any supplier or customer which could in any respect compromise the employee’s loyalty to SODIC. Competitor Relationships: SODIC employees may not have any interest in an enterprise the business of which is similar to that of SODIC except as a stockholder or other security holder in a company unless given formal approval by the Managing Director. 6. Interest of Associates The interest of SODIC employees’ associates in a supplier, customer or competitor of SODIC may create a conflict of interest depending upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case. “Associate” for purpose of this policy statement shall mean: Any relative of SODIC employee, any person living in the employee’s household or to whom the employee furnishes support or any person having a personal relationship, similar to the above with a SODIC employee. Any business in which an employee has financial interest, any creditor or debtor of the employees, or any other person benefits to whom could reasonably be expected to relieve the employee of some obligation or obtain for the employee some personal gain or advantage. 7. Business Involvement of Associates: SODIC employees may not cause or influence SODIC to deal with any business in which the employee or an associate is interested. If an instance occurs where it is to SODIC’s advantage to enter into such a transaction, the proposed situation will be submitted in writing to, and receive prior written approval of SODIC’s Managing Director before any commitment is made. Such approval will not be granted unless it can be ascertained that the terms of the transaction are to be determined by competitive bidding or established by law or determined under conditions which clearly establish an arm’s length fairness of terms. 8. Inside Information SODIC employees may not disclose confidential information to any person other than in the proper discharge of the employee’s duties. 16 July 2015 9. How to Report a Violation As employees, officers and directors of SODIC, we understand our obligation to report violations or possible violations of the SODIC Code of Conduct immediately. To fulfill our obligation to an ethical environment at SODIC, we can speak with our supervisor/ Manager, Department Head, or with a Human Resources, Legal, Compliance or Audit department representative. E. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR): SODIC has three different CSR platforms; Education, Rehabilitation and Relief. Since inception SODIC has been committed to giving back to its community and has invested over EGP 40,000,000 in CSR efforts. Our programs are managed against predetermined KPI’s and geared towards maximizing impact and reaching eventual financial sustainability. A. Education: Egypt’s sustainable development starts with welleducated children who will eventually reach their potential as productive and capable citizens contributing fully to their families and societies. SODIC invested in four different education projects in 2014/2015. 1. Future Lights Development Organisation (FLDO): Ensuring high quality preschool education in Cairo’s slums (2009 – present)  Since 2007, FLDO has consolidated its holistic Montessori-style Arabic language training curriculum benefiting 6,500 children in 35 preschools in some of Cairo’s poorest slums. 17 July 2015  1,300 parents have benefited from the comprehensive training programme developed by FLDO addressing issues of child development, psychology and nutrition.  FLDO’s model nursery school is now fully sustainable through fees and serves as a training hub.  A 2014 University of Cairo external evaluation determined that FLDO’s training programmes have a statistically significant impact on children’s cognitive development and on teachers’ instructional knowledge.  FLDO runs a recycled wood workshop that employs female heads of households, thus multiplying its social impact.  In 2015 FLDO is setting up 10 nurseries in Beni Suef that it will fully own and run.  SODIC has supported FLDO since 2009 and is currently the sole supporter for the education component of this project. 2. Educate-Me: Transforming education in Cairo’s slums through a Learning Centre in Talbeya (2014 – present)  Educate-Me was founded in June 2010 to send financially underprivileged children back to school. Its education scholarship program has reinstated 700 children to date.  Today Educate-Me runs a learning centre in Talbeya that serves more than 200 beneficiaries with a focus on character building as well as effective academic education to empower children to dream and reach for their dreams.  Educate-Me offers; an early childhood education program (4-7 year olds), a non-formal after-school program (7-14 year olds), a youth and adult education program (15+ year olds) and a formal education scholarship program (7-14 year olds) 18 July 2015  SODIC has supported Educate Me since the beginning of 2014 through direct funds to cover the overheads of the centre and has solely funded their “Sponsor a Child” campaign which has raised all the funds needed to educate 200 children in the centre. 3. Bedayaat Foundation: Helping street/working children in Minya learn to read and write (2012 – present)  Founded in 2008, the Bedayaat Foundation aims to empower street children living in Ezbet Badawi and Al-Ashish Al Mahfouz, Minya to become self-reliant by implementing a holistic programme that builds their basic literacy and math skills, decreases their violent behaviour, and develops their self-esteem.  The program encourages and enables the children to return to school when possible and eventually become productive members of their local communities.  Bedayaat works with 250 children aged 6-17 and 300 families on child development and child protection to ensure that families are supportive of their children’s education.  Bedayaat offers the community income generating opportunities through a weaving unit and recycling activities.  SODIC has supported Bedayat since the beginning of 2014. 19 July 2015 4. Tawasol for developing Stable Antar: Educating children who had escaped regular schooling (2013 – present)  Operating in Istabl Antar in old Cairo since 2008, Tawasol runs a small community school in Istabl Antar for children who had escaped schooling.  The school provides children with regular schooling and vocational training including carpentry and carpet hand weaving in addition to access to facilities like a library, computer lab and choir and theatre classes.  The school which started with 20 students has today grown to be home to 140 children reaching its full capacity.  SODIC supports the school through covering the running cost of the school and has contributed to the purchase of a 1000 square metre plot of land in Ezbet Khairallah to build a new school, a few minutes' walk from the original community school that will offer primary, preparatory and secondary and tailored career advising. B. Community Development: Driven by the belief that everyone has potential, but not everyone gets a chance, SODIC has worked on giving the underprivileged communities in Egypt a chance at a better future. 20 July 2015 1. Helwan Association for Community Development (Bashayer): Ensuring that women in Helwan have professional skills and a reliable stream of income (2007 – present)  Helwan Association for Community Development, also referred to as Bashayer, was established in 1987 and runs a variety of programmes focused on women in the district of Helwan.  The production unit run by Bashayer supports a crochet and sewing women’s cooperative that employs over 300 women from the area.  SODIC has supported Bashayer since 2009 in professionalizing its production unit, accounting systems, and branding/marketing, ensuring that it can sustain its sales into the future. 2. Shomoo Association for Sustainable Development: Empowering female victims of abuse through awareness and microloans in Minya (2012 – present) 21 July 2015  Shomoo was established in Minya in 2004 to raise women’s awareness of their basic rights, and to combat discrimination and violence against women.  To achieve this Shomoo created a network of literacy classes for women, currently operating in 42 different villages in Minia, and piloted microcredit initiatives in cattle rearing, poultry farming and the production of dairy products.  Shomoo impacted over 4,000 women to date.  SODIC has been supporting Shomoo since 2012. 3. Darb el Ahmar Arts School for Children (DAAS): Supporting the establishment of a professional performance troupe in El Darb El Ahmar (2011 – present)  In 2011 Al Mawred established the Darb El-Ahmar Arts School for Children (DAAS) in order to train youth aged six to eighteen, providing them with high-quality arts instruction as well as a recreational space for free and creative expression.  The one-year afterschool programme offers daily training in brass, percussion, and circus arts to 140 students, providing a unique refuge for young people who are generally forced to work in hazardous conditions following school hours.  SODIC has invested in the development of a professional performance troupe able to perform a bespoke performance developed by Lebanese director Hanan Hajj Ali called ‘Lost and Found’ for fee. DAAS’ performance troupe has performed in Cairo, Beirut, Kuwait City and London. 22 July 2015 4. The integrated development of Ezbet El Assaal, Cairo Oldest Slum: May 2012 present  Ezbet El Assaal is located in the heart of Shubra, and is Cairo's oldest slums.  In May 2012 SODIC signed a three-way cooperation protocol for the integrated development of Ezbet El Assaal – a pilot project with the objective of creating a successful replicable model.  In May 2013 the project witnessed the completion of its first phase with 15 buildings completely renovated, rebuilt or refurbished in Abdel Dayem Street, home to 78 families.  The sewage network of Abdel Dayem Street was also completely renovated and connections made to all houses.  Starting January 2014 Egyptian fund 306306 adopted the project as a seed for the national project of transforming El Assaal area, giving the project access to diverse funding and multiplying impact, renovating four additional streets in one year. SODIC continues to fund the design and technical supervision of the project. Since then 4 new streets were renovated.  Future Lights for Development Organisation (The preschool training programme SODIC also supports) graduated 10 nurseries in El Assaal in 2014, providing high-quality preschool education for nearly 1,000 children as part of the holistic development approach to this project.  SODIC has invested over EGP4,000,000 in the development of Ezbet El Assaal to date. 23 July 2015 SODIC Relief: SODIC runs a relief programme which included blood drives, charity runs, clothing drives and others to engage its employees and offer circumstantial relief in dire situations. This program has affected over 1200 lives in the year 2014/2015. Part 3: SODIC Subsidiaries: Edara Property Management Edara Property Management is the Facility Management arm of SODIC employing over 2000 employees. Edara manages all operational and inhabited SODIC developments. A. Quality, Health, Safety & Environment (QHSE) System Edara Property Management is committed to providing a safe working environment for its staff. It is also committed to protect our Environment. Accordingly Edara complies with the international standards and has been awarded three international certificates from URS (united registrar systems) Accredited via UKAS: • ISO QMS 9001:2008 – Quality Management System. 2012 • ISO EMS 14001:2004 – Environmental Management System. 2013 • BS OHSAS 18001:2007 – Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series. 2013 Edara’s integrated management system (IMS) integrates the norms of these three standards using the QHSE Management System as the foundation. 24 July 2015 B. Security Risk Assessment: all activities carried out by Edara are subject to a detailed risk assessment as per the below template. This includes activities carried by the maintenance, agriculture and environment departments e.g. spraying pesticides, fertilizing, maintenance of electric panels, using hazardous equipment, building cleaning, waste disposal etc… Form Issue#(1) Issue date: Rev.(0) Rev.date: HSF-01-01 Occupational Health Risk & Aspects Assessment and Safety Risks Assessment and Environmental aspects Na me Depa rtment Job title Si gna ture: Da te: Impact on human Severity of risk assessment POTENTIAL HAZARD Current Process beings Additional No. Process Hazard control Details On the Legal control Severity Likelihood Hazard method Severity Likelihood Hazard environme obligation (S) (L) level (SXL) (S) (L) level (SXL) nt (if any) C. Manuals and Procedures: there are manuals and procedures in place for each of the following: Ambulance and Civil Protection Procedures Waste Management Control Occupational Health and Safety Instructions D. Evacuation Plans Evacuation plans are in place for all SODIC West commercial developments, namely the Strip Mall and Westown Hub. The plan contains all the steps and technical aids that shall be provided by either the individuals or the managers who are present at the time of incidents, so as to evacuate the building of all the individuals, employees, and visitors who are present at the time of evacuation. The evacuation plan states in detail: 1. The number of fire extinguishers on site and their location 2. The nearest hospitals and ambulance points and their contacts 3. The nearest fire departments and their contacts Evacuation Types: 1. Full Evacuation: It is the case in which the danger is aggravating, threatening all the visitors of the facility without exception, such as cases of explosions, natural disasters, and major fires. 25 July 2015 2. Partial Evacuation: In which the danger is limited in a definite place, threatening part of the facility and its surroundings without harming the rest of the places, such as taking hostages or limited fires. Evacuation Process Instructions: Evacuation shall be executed through emergency alarms and an internal radio network. The alarms sound must be known for the security personnel and employees and must cover all the buildings in the site. The Evacuation Plan Supervisory Team: Project GM, Security Manager, and the Evacuation Team. The tasks assigned: 1. Supervising all the exits of the buildings 2. Supervising the disconnecting of electricity power, gas sources, and flames sources 3. Removing the obstacles from the roads and passages used as escape exits 4. Ensuring the notification of all the teams of the plan (fire department, ambulance, and security) to execute the evacuation plan 5. Meeting the supportive bodies and guiding them with the data that help them deal with the incident and facilitate execution 6. Guiding the employees to the nearest exit and preventing any overcrowding 7. Following-up the evacuation plan and minimizing what negatively affects security (fights, overcrowding, thefts, etc.) 8. Ensuring the vacancy of all the buildings after the evacuation processes 9. Ensuring all relevant government authorities are notified depending on situation Evacuation Decision: The evacuation, whether full or partial, decision shall be made only by the Project Manager, and in case of absence, the decision shall be made by the Deputy Manager or the Security Manager. Each location’s evacuation plan includes the following details: A detailed description and map of each building and its specific evacuation plan (doors, exists, stairways, passageways, gathering points) A detailed description of locations of fire hoses and extinguishers and firefighting procedures Roles assigned per evacuation team member; disconnecting electrical power, gas and air conditioning unit, panic management, directing crowd, manning entries and exits A list of emergency contact numbers Instruction in case of finding a strange object Emergency Plan Training Program: 1. 25% of the workers in the facility shall be trained on the Civil Defense activities 26 July 2015 2. The buildings shall be evacuated under the supervision of the Civil Defense on a regular trial basis 3. A rapid intervention team is permanently available on site. 27
