SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SÜRDÜRÜLEBİLİRLİK RAPORU 2014 CONTENT Aksa Sustainability Report 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN ............................................................................................... 02 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO............................................................................................................. 04 ABOUT THE REPORT....................................................................................................................... 06 ABOUT AKSA..................................................................................................................................... 08 GOVERNANCE AT AKSA................................................................................................................. 12 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT................................................................................................. 18 OUR STAKEHOLDERS...................................................................................................................... 22 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS......................................................................................................... 26 OUR EMPLOYEES............................................................................................................................. 34 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT............................................................................................... 44 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY ....................................................................................................... 52 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS....................................................................................................... 56 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX................................................................................................................ 61 2 Aksa Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN D ear Stakeholders, The foundations for Aksa were laid within Akkök Holding in 1968 and today the company is the only local acrylic fibre producer in Turkey. As a leading company operating in the Turkish chemistry sector and with a domestic market share of 72%, we continue to generate values for the economic and social development of our country through our qualified human resources, superior technology and production capacity as well as close customer relations and a high level of social awareness. Focused on achieving sustainable success, we seek to ensure that future generations will enjoy a better standard of living in terms of economic, environmental and social elements. Our efforts undertaken in 2014 regarding sustainability management proved to be fruitful. We passed TS ISO 31000 Risk Management Compliance Audit successfully and became the second company in Turkey and the only company in our sector to boast the Risk Management Compliance Document. Our Corporate Governance Management Rating issued after the Capital Markets Board (CMB) Governance Principles evaluation turned out to be 9.22 over 10. We therefore proved our corporate governance success as a company that managed to enjoy the highest rating in the very first time it was covered by the İstanbul Stock Exchange (BIST) corporate governance index. The need for the business world to come up with smart and innovative solutions in the face of climate change, one of the most important global challenges, rises gradually. Aware of the responsibility we have in this respect, Aksa produces sustainable solutions for the future of the world and continuity of our business success. Advancing in line with our sustainability goals by reducing Aksa Sustainability Report 3 our environmental footprint through a number of our current human resources and to ensure of practices related to greenhouse gas emissions that the talents that fit the roles we need will be and waste generation, we devised projects that available in our organization. In line with our unwould support efficient use of resources in our derstanding of training leaders from within the production processes in 2014 too. By reaching company, we introduced Coaching and Mentoran energy efficiency level of 3% per unit prodship programs covered by the Leader and Manuct when compared with the base year of 2011 ager Training Program. What is more, we began as far as acrylic fibre production is concerned, to receive feedback regarding the efficiency of we also managed to reduce our carbon emisour training programs through the Training Modsion values per unit product during the reporting ule launched within the scope of our Integrated period. While continuously developing our comHuman Resources software “Mosaic” while conpany standards and performance in terms of octinuing to support the professional development cupational health and safety besides quality and of our employees. environmental issues further, we mainstreamed In 2014 we continued our corporate citizenship our sustainability strategy throughout our value studies, which we accept as an important part of chain and contributed further to the sustainable our corporate culture. By means of the projects business success of our suppliers. and events we organized in areas such as education, culture & arts and sports, we sought to enOne of the most important aspects of our susrich the community we exist in not only economitainability performance is our qualified human recally but also socially. In the period ahead too, we sources. Firmly believing in the fact that the emare committed to investing further in our human ployees that enjoy continuous self-development resources and social responsibility studies. opportunities in a fair, safe and peaceful working environment will always play a great role in imI have absolute faith in the fact that we will proving our performance further, we continued achieve even greater success with every passing to lend our support for the development of the year in line with our sustainable success vision. I creativity and talents of our employees through would like to thank our colleagues that have conmany training programs we organized during the tributed to the success we have enjoyed so far, reporting period. to our business partners that have empowered us through the trust they have held in us, to our In an effort to identify areas for further imcustomers, and to all our stakeholders that have provement, we analysed our business processes never refrained their support from us. through studies involving CORASCI (Assignment Responsibility Matrices) in the reporting period. Saygılarımla, Apart from implementing 360 Degrees Feedback, Evaluation Centre, and Leadership Potential Inventory practices, we shared the results from these practices with our employees through one on one interviews. In addition to that, we devised and conducted Career Development ModMehmet Ali Berkman el project to support continuous development Chairman 4 Aksa Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CEO D istinguished Stakeholders, Affiliated with Akök Holding, Aksa continued to implement the sustainability understanding developed through its 46 years of experience in the sector while remaining strictly committed to the Holding’s corporate values and principles in 2014 actively besides generating value for all our stakeholders. Our company made us proud by enjoying many new achievements and proving its pioneering role in the sector over and over again. During the reporting period we created a competitive superiority in the markets we operate in and increased our market share both in Turkey and abroad besides strengthening our position in the sector. Having managed to reflect our steady growth over our financial results in 2014, we enjoyed tremendous success by reaching 99% capacity in production. Not only did we enjoy 162.8 million TL in net profit with an increase of 16% in that period hence strentghening our financial structure further but we also distributed 79% of our profit from 2013 and thus ranked among the top companies on the dividend yield list of İstanbul Stock Exchange (BIST). Maintaining our leadership with a market share of 72% in Turkey and 17% on a global scale, we remained a favourite choice for investors. We continued our market domination through our innovative approach especially regarding Technical Fibres. With a view to using water resources efficiently and developing an alternative raw water resource, we devised a project to obtain fresh water from seawater and held the groundbreaking ceremony for the project in 2014. Meanwhile, we are implementing a Joint Treatment Facility Project, which will set an example in terms of its design and will ensure the treatment of the entire domestic and industrial wastewater generated by Akkök group in Yalova during the production processes. Merging the treatment operations of Aksa Akrilik, Ak-Kim Kimya and DowAksa companies, the project is to ensure reuse of the treatment facility exit water by the production facilities thanks to the G4-1 G4-2 G4-EC2 Aksa Sustainability Report 5 advanced treatment technologies utilized apart from 2014 were implemented in 2014. In the next reporting converting 3.5 million m3 of seawater into fresh waperiod, we intend to provide a working environment ter on an annual basis. Planned to be completed in for our employees where they can be more efficient 2015, the project is closely monitored by the Office and feel happier by implementing the improvement of the Yalova Governor and Provincial Directorate for actions to be identified with our employees through Environment and Urbanization. Once the project has the “Great Place to Work” employee survey apart been materialized, the recovered water will match the from materializing practices that ensure the continuquality of dam waterin other words it will be raw waity and sustainability of our Occupational Safety Culter. Therefore, an alternative raw water resource will ture through feedback received from our employees. be created while eliminating the need for the water to be discharged into the sea. By prioritizing local employment and local supplies not only do we contribute to the economic developIn line with our strategy to turn the risks stemming ment of our operation geography but we also confrom climate change into opportunities and to comtinue to lend our support for social development by bat climate change, we conduct many studies to means of our social responsibility projects, sponsorminimize our environmental impact. Reducing our ships and donations. In 2014 we organized numerous greenhouse gas emissions through saving energy, projects in education, health, culture, arts and sports our actions are based on the premise of ensuring effibesides cooperating with NGOs as well as supportciency in the use of natural resources. We reduce the ing the social projects undertaken by Akkök Holding. waste generated at the source and improve our reThis year we provided 1,094,563 TL in total for donacycling rates constantly. During the reporting period, tions and social assistance. we saved 108.307 GJ on thermal energy and 10.000 GJ of electric energy. During the reporting period we I am delighted to share with you our 10th sustainabilalso began our studies to comply with the requireity report that reflects the practices we undertook in ments of the ISO 50001 Energy Management System line with our approach to be a transparent and acstandard, which we plan to obtain in 2015. countable corporation besides our performance regarding sustainability. Just like the previous period, Within the scope of our principle to work in a cusour report complies with the Global Reporting Initiatomer-oriented fashion, we integrate the needs and tive (GRI) standards while adding the issues accepted requests of our customers with our business processto be critical for our value chain by developing the es. The technical consultancy studies we launched in prioritization studies emphasized by the GRI in line 2013 continued this year too. with the new G4 principles. Stressing that in the next reporting period we are committed to continuing and As far as Aksa is concerned, providing a working endeveloping further our sustainability performance, I vironment that is fair, safe and offering opportunities would like to thank our employees, our customers, for continuous learning and self-development resuppliers, business partners and shareholders, who mains a prioritized goal. In that respect we provided 54,555 man*hour training for our employees during have all contributed to our success. the reporting period. Introduced as an indicator of the importance we attach to the democratic participation of our employees in the business processes, the “Suggestion System” practice received 296 suggestions from our employees during the reporting Cengiz Taş period. 216 of the suggestions received in 2013 and CEO G4-1 G4-2 6 Aksa Sustainability Report ABOUT THE REPORT Aksa Sustainability Report 7 In this report, we present our stakeholders with our sustainability performance as Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. together with all our affiliates in Turkey, between the dates January 1st 2014 and December 31st 2014. W e continue annually We have included within the scope of reportpublishing sustainabiling our applications and performance results ity reports based on in Turkey, where our production operations Global Reporting Initake place. Our report includes not only imtiative (GRI) reporting pacts generated by our production operstandard since 2005. ations, but also our widespread impacts in With this 10th report we have prepared, we various stages of our value chain within our comprehensively and transparently elucidate sustainability priority issues, in accordance the social, economic and environmental perwith GRI G4 Standard reporting principles. formance demonstrated by Aksa within the We also aim to extend the scope of our suscontext of all its operational activities and tainability report in the forthcoming period; present to the valuable views of all our stakewe commit to enhance our performance in holders. the field of stakeholder communication in line with our principles of transparency, responsiIn 2013, we had prepared the content of our bility and accountability. sustainability report based on GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Principles, carrying our appliAksa Akrilik Sustainability Report 2014 was cation level to the level B. This year, aiming at printed in a limited number to minimize encarrying our performance one step further, we vironmental effects, while the PDF version of have prepared our report in accordance with the report is offered to the views of our stakeoption Core. This report, which also expressholders at www.aksa.com. You may reach us es our commitment to the 10 principles deterat surdurulebilirlik@aksa.com for your demined by the United Nations Global Compact mands, suggestions, complaints and all kinds of which we are a signatory, is also featured as of feedback regarding our reporting perfora Progress report. mance. G4-6 G4-17 G4-18 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-28 G4-29 G4-30 G4-31 G4-32 8 Aksa Sustainability Report ABOUT AKSA Aksa Sustainability Report 9 A ksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş., which was estabAkkök in Brief lished within the body of Founded in 1952 by the late Raif Dinçkök Akkök Group of Compaand ranking among the most well-estabnies in 1968 to meet the lished corporations in Turkey with its 62 acrylic fiber demand in years of accumulation, Akkök Holding Turkey, started production operates in the chemical, energy and real in 1971 with a capacity of 5,000 tons/year, in estate sectors with its 17 commercial and Yalova. Aksa, which has an established proindustrial enterprises, one of which is overseas. Akkök Holding, which monitors closeduction capacity of 380,000 tons/year in a ly the global markets in its sectors, aims to 502 thousand square meter field in Yalova, is achieve global standards, extend its undertoday the only local producer in Turkey with a standing of corporate management and domestic market share of 72%, as well as the sustainability perspective to all of its comworld’s largest acrylic fiber producer with a panies and stakeholders, and constantly global market share of 17%. further its position in the global conditions of competition. As of the year 2014, Aksa provides one sixth of the world acrylic fiber production and serves Akkök Holding, which became a signatory the textile and industrial textile industries of of the United Nations Global Compact in over 50 countries on five continents. Aksa, 2007, has thereby further consolidated its which operates in the core production items of commitment to the principles of transparency and accountability, which it adopts acrylic-based tow, top and fiber, also generates along with all the companies within its electricity and steam. The company, which probody. The group establishes all of its reladuces its own energy with an energy generationships with its social stakeholders, prition license with a capacity of 142.5 MW, has marily its employees, customers, suppliers engaged the second phase of the power plant and shareholders, in light of these two baproject that will generate 100 MW of electricity sic principles. The companies affiliated with and 350 tons/hour of steam in 2013. Akkök add value to the society, environment and economy in all their activities as Aksa, which entered the carbon fiber market corporate citizens, besides amply fulfilling with technological infrastructure investments in their financial responsibilities. Akkök Group 2009, has established DowAksa as a 50% joint of Companies has realized a combined venture with Dow Europe Holdings B.V., an afturnover of 3 billion US dollars with over filiate of The Dow Chemical Company, in 2012. 4,600 employees, in 2013. 407 million US Today, DowAksa continues producing carbon fidollars of this amount consists of exports ber with an annual capacity of 3,500 tons/year. to over 50 countries. Aksa has taken over Ak-Tops, which it owned 100%, together with all its operations and carpet, furniture, hosiery, blanket, synthetic fur, completed works for the merger in 2013, aimtextile for outdoor use, and filtration. ing at further consolidating its position in Aksa participates in the Turquality Project, the the industry as the world’s largest acrylic fiworld’s first and only state subsidized branding ber producer and in line with its strategies of program conducted by the Ministry of Economy modernization, productivity and operational with the vision of “creating 10 global brands in 10 excellence. years”. Aksa completed its strategic road works Aksa’s product portfolio provides products and in 2014, its business plan for the years 2014-2019 services to the sectors of tricot, hand-knitting, was approved by the Ministry of Economy. G4-4 G4-8 G4-9 G4-17 AKSA AT A GLANCE 72 % Aksa produces 72% of the acrylic fiber consumed in Turkey at its 17 % Aksa has realized 17% of world acrylic fiber production on its own. facilities in Yalova. 308,000 A customer portfolio comprising 300 industrial enterprises in 50 5 Aksa has an annual acrylic fiber production capacity of 308,000 tons. countries across continents. SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE Capacity Utilization Rate (%) 99 % % 98 40 41 Akkök Other Holding A.Ş. % 19 Emniyet Ticaret ve Sanayi A.Ş. 2013 2014 AFFILIATES, SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT As of the reporting period, 39.59% of Aksa VENTURES Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. shares are owned by Title Country Nature of Participation Akkök Holding A.Ş. and 18.72% by Emniyet TiBusiness (%) caret ve Sanayi A.Ş. The free float rate of the Akpa Tekstil İhracat Turkey Foreign 13.47 company is 41.69%. As of December 31st 2014, Pazarlama A.Ş. Trade 37.11% of Aksa shares are in active circulation at Fitco B.V. Holland Foreign 100.00 Investment BIST. In the reporting period, there was no sigDowAksa Advanced Holland Foreign 50.00 nificant change in our capital structure. Composites Holding Investment B.V. Aksa Egypt Acrylic Egypt Textile 0,50 Fiber Industry S.A.E. G4-6 G4-7 G4-9 G4-17 Aksa Model of Vision Our Mission To direct the sector that we are NET SALES (MILLION TL) leading, to create value for our stakeholders and to carry the value we create sustainably 2013 1,756 into the future. 2014 2,104 20% EBITDA* (MILLION TL) Our Superordinate Goals Investing in our technology to 2013 251.6 maximize operational excellence, 13% Discovering new areas of utilization for Acrylic Fiber, Growing through new prod2014 284.7 ucts or strategic collaborations, in order to ensure sustainable profitability. * Earnings Before Interest Taxes Depreciation and Amortization NET PROFIT (MILLION TL) Our Core Values 2013 140.6 • HSE Awareness • Compliance 16% with Ethical Values • Openness to Cooperation • Customer Orientation Our Basic Qualities 2014 162.8 • Participatory management • Locking onto common targets • Continuous learning • Experience and knowledge accumulation • Motivated, engaged and solution-producing employees 12 Aksa Sustainability Report GOVERNANCE AT AKSA Aksa Sustainability Report 13 Our Corporate Assessment Score was Disclosed Aksa Akrilik was the 50th company to be voluntarily ranked among over 400 companies registered on the Capital Market Board and listed on the stock exchange. Aksa Akrilik’s Corporate Assessment Score, calculated as a result of the evaluation of the main headings of stakeholders, public disclosure and transparency, stakeholders and board of directors within the framework of Capital Market Board Corporate Management Principles, was 9.22. Subsequent to this study, Aksa was included in the “Corporate Management Index”, consisting of companies which have a minimum Corporate Governance Principles compliance score of 7 out of 10, and a minimum score of 6.5 out of 10 in every main heading, which carries out price and performance measurements. O ur processes and practicexamine them closely, and strive to reflect es, which we have formed them on our processes. as a result of modern management practices aiming Corporate Governance at sustainable growth and Protecting and maintaining our characteristic development as well as our of being a respectable, innovative, industrious, may years of experience, are our most importcreative and participative organization before ant guides. We ensure our operational and our stakeholders through our operations that managerial effectiveness through our comwe manage within the framework of fairness, munication channels that efficiently ensure transparency, accountability and responsibilithe dissemination of our strategies from highty, the four basic principles of Corporate Gover levels to lower levels, our auditing mechernance, are among our most basic objectives. anisms and our employees at all levels who For this reason, we give particular importance ensure the constant development of our orto our commitment to and compliance with ganization. Corporate Governance principles. We put our operational and administrative As a result of this understanding, we have processes into practice through strategic joined the rating for Compliance with Corplanning practices we realize in light of our porate Management Principles voluntarily in Corporate Governance principles. We make 2014, and our score was declared to be 9.22 use of globally accepted management stanover 10. dards for all these processes and we strive to completely fulfill the requirements of these Ethical Rules are a significant guide within the standards. In addition, we pay strict attencontext of compliance with corporate govertion to the issue of compliance with rules and nance principles. We prioritize business ethstatutes determined by laws and regulations. ics principles in all our business processes. Through all these practices, we continue our The guiding principles, aimed at developing a activities while always looking for ways for the common way of behavior in our relations with impact that we generate as a company to be all our stakeholders, are an integral part of more positive economically, socially and enour corporate identity. Akkök Group of Comvironmentally. In this regard, we acquire our panies Business Ethics Principles, prepared in stakeholders’ feedbacks on various platforms, 2013, were adopted in 2014. Besides being an G4-1 G4-2 G4-14 G4-56 14 Aksa Sustainability Report Aksa ranked 35th in the Top 500 We Became the First Company with Industrial Enterprises of Turkey TS ISO 31000 Risk Management Survey Verification Certificate in Our Industry Aksa was ranked as the 35th largest industrial Aksa has successfully passed the “TS ISO 31000 enterprise according to the results of the Risk Management Verification” audit during the “Top 500 Industrial Enterprises of Turkey” reporting period, while having its Corporate Risk 2014 survey conducted by Istanbul Chamber Management studies certified by the Turkish of Industry (ISO). Aksa, the world’s largest Standards Institute (TSE), thereby becoming and the only Turkish acrylic fiber producer, the second institution holding this certificate in advanced three ranks in the ISO 500 list with Turkey, and the first among industrial enterprises its net sales from production in 2014, worth and at Istanbul Stock Exchange (BIST). 2,066,006,094 TL. 10 main risk areas were defined in our 2014 Risk Inventory as follows: 5 Operational 1 Compliance 3 Strategic 1 Financial G4-1 G4-2 G4-14 Aksa Sustainability Report 15 a significant role in the fulfillment of the responsibilities of the Board of Directors. Corporate Governance Committee, Early Risk Identification Committee and Audit Committee operate supporting the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee, consisting of independent members, is responsible for taking the proper steps in order for all internal and independent auditing processes to be conducted adequately and transparently. The committee also monitors the effective implementation of the internal control system managed within the body of the Holding. The Corporate Governance Committee fulfills the tasks of determining whether corporate govimportant constituent of our ethical approach, ernance principles are applied, the justificatiov n the principles indicate our basic and essenfor their abeyance and the conflicts of interest tial corporate values. Trainings at the level of arising from any abeyance, advising the Board manager and director were organized during of Directors to improve corporate governance the reporting period in order to ensure the dispractices, and monitoring the works of the Insemination of these principles and their adopvestor Relations department, as well as the tasks tion by all group companies. of a Nomination Committee and Remuneration You can visit http://www.aksa.com/tr/i-80 to acCommittee. cess our Ethical Rules. Risk Management Akkök Ethics Line, constituted in order to facilitate the reporting of suggestions or violations At Aksa, risk management processes are acturegarding Business Ethics principles and manalized to minimize the impacts of the risks that aged by an independent third party, has actively might affect all stakeholders, primarily sharestarted service. Stakeholders can report illegitiholders. The Early Risk Identification Commitmate and ethically inappropriate transactions to tee, constituted in order identify in advance the the Corporate Governance Committee and to strategic, financial, compliance, reputation and the Ethics committee through the ethics line or operational risks that might endanger the exisby e-mail. tence, development and continuity of the company, also provides advice and suggestions to At Aksa, the duties of General Manager and the Board of Directors regarding the evaluation Chairman of the Board of Directors are executed of risks, calculation of their impact and probabiliby different individuals and there are 4 Indepenties, their reporting, as well as the constitution of dent Members in the Board of Directors consisteffective internal control systems and implemening of 12 individuals. Committees subordinate to tation of precautions in this direction. the Board of Directors constitute the basic constituents of governance processes and they play The Corporate Risk Inventory formed by the G4-1 G4-2 G4-14 G4-34 G4-56 G4-EC2 16 Aksa Sustainability Report committee, which meets every two months, is Directors, detailed action plans are prepared for one of the primary monitoring tools used in corevery risk, risk owners are assigned to every risk porate risk management works. Risks included in and it is thereby ensured that these action plans the inventory, with a ‘high’ or ‘very high’ level risk are effectively implemented. score, are monitored at the level of the Board of MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS As Aksa, we actualize globally accepted applications of basic management systems, such as quality, environment, occupational health and safety, energy management, while conducting our operations. In this regard, we ensure our compliance with systems such as TS ISO EN 9001 Quality Management System, TS EN ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System, TS ISO EN 14064-1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management System, TS ISO 31000 Risk Management System, TS ISO 27001 Information Security Management System, and Safety Management System which is conducted within the scope of the Regulation for Preventing and Reducing the Effects of Major Industrial Accidents. Apart from these practices, we continue our works for compliance with TS EN ISO 50001. Within the context of this harmonization, performance during the working year is monitored through internal and external audits, improvement and action plans for the forthcoming year are formed and implemented. We work in accordance with standards, legal and other requirements, we contribute to the development of new regulations, standards and rules regarding our processes. We provide trainings appropriate for our policies and objectives extensively and continuously, in order to increase the competence, awareness and education levels of our employees about management systems. G4-14 G4-EC2 Aksa Sustainability Report 17 STRATEGIC PLANNING Strategic Planning Workshop constitutes the foundation for Aksa’s strategic planning processes. The workshop is organized every year We Organized the First on a regular basis under the leadership of the “Youthful View of Strategy General Manager and with the participation Workshop” of all directors and managers. As part of the “Youthful View of Strategy Workshop” was workshop, changing political, economic, soorganized for the first time this year, with the cial, technological, industrial, logistic and enparticipation of 23 young employees with at vironmental conditions in the world, in Turkey least a few years of experience in the compaand in the sector are reviewed. In addition to ny, aiming at adding a different perspective these studies, feedbacks received from the to the Strategic Planning Workshops. market and customers are evaluated and domestic and foreign markets are analyzed. FolStudies to constitute a strategy map as well lowing all these analyzes, the strategies and as the action plans that will actualize these strategic targets of Aksa are reviewed and strategies were conducted at the workshop necessary updates are performed in needed where the model of vision, which is the outstrategy areas. Subsequent to the workshop put of the Strategic Planning Workshop reorganized during the reporting period, the prialized in 2014 with the senior management, mary strategic themes were identified as prewas shared with participants. serving our leading position in the domestic market, adding value to ourselves and our customer through value added products, improving and extending sources of income, customer affinity and institutionalism in management. G4-14 18 Aksa Sustainability Report SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Aksa Sustainability Report 19 T he global success we have regarding the data we acquire as a result of achieved is made possible these audits. We share the realizations for the through our sustainability untargets we set transparently with our stakederstanding which we base holders and we take action concerning feedupon our strategy of operational backs. excellence. As part of this unOur General Manager is responsible for finanderstanding, creating long-termed positive cial and operational performance, as well as values not only financially, but also socially sustainability performance, before the Board and environmentally, is among our most imof Directors. Performances for sustainability portant objectives. With this understanding, issues that are divided among departments Aksa continues to be an important player in its directly dependent on the General Managindustry and the global arena through its busier according to their expertise are conveyed ness manner and pioneering practices that go from lower levels to the senior management beyond legal harmonization. through various reporting practices; feedIn order to ensure the continuity of our susbacks and updates regarding performance retainability performance and carry our persults for sustainability priorities are constitutformance further, we continuously audit all ed following evaluation meetings participated our operations and processes, we set targets by the senior management. G4-18 G4-23 G4-26 20 Aksa Sustainability Report Material Issues for Aksa EN VIR ON ME NT CO N TO TRIB SO UTI CIE ON TY •C •E ont ne •L ribu • W rgy M oca tion ate ana •C l Col to E •W rM gem ana olla b lab o r duc atio •E ast eM gem ent Uni ora a ana e ver tion tions* n* mis sion gem nt* sitie sw ent s an ith sM * dN ana GO gem s* ent •L eg • Q al Com ual plia •O •O ity nce HS* per • Ta •C atio len ust nal tM om E •E mp an •C orp er S xcelle •H loye agem Ma o r a t isfa nce um eE nga nt e nag ate Ri ctio Rig an g •S e me s k n* hts a n dE e me ust nt Ma nag mp loye t n Com ainab em e pet le ent itiv * ene ss SUS T OPE AINA RAT BLE ION S EMP LOY EES * Also material in the value chain. G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-26 Aksa Sustainability Report 21 Alongside stakeholder feedbacks, our model shaped in this context, under the main headof vision, our understanding of operational exings of Sustainable Operations, Employees, cellence and strategies play a significant role Environment and Contribution to Society and in the identification of our sustainability matewe included them within the scope of our susrial issues. In 2014, we have revised our matetainability report. rial issues we had presented at the identification workshop during the previous reporting period. Besides, we participated in practices realized as part of the sustainability studies of Akkök Group of Companies, with which we are The global success we affiliated, and we had the opportunity to evalhave achieved is made uate our material issues on a different platpossible through our susform. In addition to these studies, we have also tainability understanding evaluated the issues communicated by our which we base upon our stakeholders through one-on-one interviews strategy of operational with our function representatives, directors excellence. and managers, as well as performance realizations and targets regarding these issues. We have gathered our priority issues, which was G4-18 G4-23 G4-26 22 Aksa Sustainability Report OUR STAKEHOLDERS Aksa Sustainability Report 23 The views, ideas and feedbacks of our stakeholders about our sustainability performance is of critical importance for its enhancement. T he views, ideas and feedbacks of tion and action plans, we also acquire feedbacks our stakeholders about our susabout our sustainability performance. During tainability performance is of critthe working year, we collect many feedbacks ical importance for enhancing it. through different channels, primarily from We make a special effort to acprofessional associations about the quire feedback about our operdevelopments in our industry, ations from our stakeholders, whom we reach from our employees about through different channels and at different pracour operations and worktice frequencies, to evaluate these feedbacks efing conditions, from loficiently and to reflect them on our operations. cal authorities and local Constituting more effective and transparent communities about the communication and participation channels with social and environmental our stakeholders that we define as all individuimpacts of our operations, als, institutions and organizations affected by from our customers about our operations and impacting our operations, product, product quality is among our priorities. We review our target and joint projects, and we stakeholder groups in consequence of repushare our performance tation surveys regularly conducted by Akkök results with them Group of Companies through independent intransparently. stitutions, we determine areas of improvement regarding communication and form action plans. Within the context of these communicaG4-25 G4-26 G4-27 24 Aksa Sustainability Report Stakeholder Communication Methods Group Fiscal Reports, Sustainability Reports, Customer Satisfaction Customers Surveys, Corporate Website, Activities Sustainability Reports, Open Door Practices, E-mail, Employee Engagement Surveys, Trainings, CSR Projects, Aksa HR Portal, Employees Organizations of AKEK and AKSET, Representative Committee, Suggestion System, OHS Committee, Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Suppliers Face-to-face Meetings, Auctions, Corporate Website, Audits Fiscal Reports, Sustainability Reports, Investor Relations Line, Investors Corporate Website Fiscal Reports, Official Correspondence, Audits, Sustainability Reports, Public Institutions Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Fiscal Reports, Official Correspondence, Sustainability Reports, Open Door Local Authorities Practices, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Corporate Website, Joint CSR Projects, Sponsorships, Sustainability NGOs Reports, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Open Door Practices, Sustainability Reports, Face-to-face Meetings, CSR Local Community Projects, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Industrial Sectoral Association Memberships at Different Levels, Industrial Associations Meetings Education SANTEZ, TEYDEB, Research Projects, Support for Master and and Research Doctorate Sutides, Face-to-face Mettings, Visits Institutions Akkök Group of General Assemblies, Portakal Portal, Periodical Reporting Practices, Companies Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Corporate Website, Press Releases, Press Conferences, Sustainability Media Reports, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Corporate Website, Sustainability Reports, Fiscal Reports, Sector Competitors Researches G4-24 Aksa Sustainability Report 25 Corporate Memberships Acrylic Based Composite, Advanced Material and Technology Producers’ Association Undersecretariat of Maritime Affairs Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association (Turmepa) Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) DEİK American Council (Mehmet Ali Berkman) DEİK – European Council (Ahmet Dördüncü) İMEAK Chamber of Shipping İstanbul Chamber of Industry İstanbul Chamber of Commerce Turkish Textile and Apparel Exporters’ Association (ITKIB) Ltd. Eskihisar Gebze Water Products Cooperative Turkish Quality Association Kalder Yalova Chamber of Commerce and Industry Turkish Chemical Industrialists Association Turkish Statistical Institute (TÜİK) Turkish Port Operators CIRFS European Man-Made Fibers Association Turkish Textile Employers’ Association Yalova Industrialists’ Association TEİD Etik ve İtibar Derneği G4-15 G4-16 26 Aksa Sustainability Report SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Aksa Sustainability Report 27 A ksa, which aims to extend its sustainability understanding in all the stages of its value chain, conducts sustainable operations from product development to raw material procurement, to production processes to customer relations and continues to generate added value for its stakeholders. With the aim for its economic, social and environmental impacts to be positive through the understanding of Operational Excellence followed in all business processes, Aksa leads the sector of acrylic fiber with its efficiency oriented investments, projects and practices in these fields. The continuity of the ecosystem created within the operational geography is ensured through local supProduction processes are managed with the objective ply and supplier development oriented purchasing of less cost and less environmental impact and better processes, while it is aimed for suppliers to continuquality acryclic fiber, practices and projects that will ously enhance their performances in the fields of enenhance product and service quality are conducted vironment, ethics and occupational health and safety. with reference to international standards and methCustomer feedbacks are acquired through active cusodologies. The probable impacts of new products to tomer communication, thereby ensuring operational human health and environment are eliminated through development. It is aimed for customer satisfaction to studies conducted within the context of Process and be continuously enhanced in all processes through Product Innovation, new areas of usage are created Customer Oriented Approach. for acrylic fiber aiming for increasing the market share. QUALITY At Aksa, in line with the mission of carrying the value Performance Management and Six Sigma Project created for the stakeholders to the future in a susManagement are also actualized in this context. tainable manner, the understanding of Total Quality The efficiency of the systems are ensured through Management is adopted, while projects and practicinternal and external audits that are conducted and es that will ensure product and service quality are the requirements for new practices are determined implemented with reference to standards and meththrough survey studies conducted with internal odologies accepted in the industry and worldwide. stakeholders. Processes that are managed with the target of less In 2014, Lean Six Sigma projects were identified in cost and less environmental impact as well as better light of the opportunities determined in the prequality acrylic fiber, focus on productivity projects vious period, process needs and customer feedand investments. backs, 9 white belt projects were realized in this regard. Besides operational improvement, projects At Aksa, the sustainability of production processincluding the issues of water and energy efficiency es and product and service quality are guaranteed and practices providing high returns in short perithrough operational targets determined within the ods were actualized. In line with the philosophy of context of the “Operational Excellence Strategy”. lean, TPM works were continued in the elected pilot While Management Systems are implemented in unit; this improvement activity focused on Autonoall production and non-production processes with mous Maintenance and Planned Maintenance works reference to international standards, various pracaimed for reducing the values of error rate, malfunctices such as Monitoring and Measurement Activition time, downtime, number of labor accidents. ties, Process Control, Project Management, Process G4-12 G4-EN27 28 Aksa Sustainability Report Six Sigma method, which was first put into Aksa Central Laboratory practice in 2013, was continued in the reportControl activities at every stage of acryling period with 9th wave practices. As part of ic fiber production, from raw material inthe “lean” philosophy included in the methput to the delivery of the products at the od with the 8th wave practices, all business warehouse, are being managed through processes were reviewed with an approach the Central Laboratory that was renewed focusing on the issue of prodigality and longwith the latest technology as a result of termed improvement opportunities were put the investments made in 2013 and serves forth. Aksa, which espouses sustainability in in support of Aksa Directorate of Quality. improvement; takes the use of the Lean 6 SigOutputs of quality controls conducted ma methodology both in projects and in daily at the laboratory and physical-chemical works as a principle. analysis data are conveyed to the departments in order to render quality processes effective and to direct production accurately as soon as possible. The laboratory also provides analysis services and expert support for the elimination of cusAksa takes parts in various internatomer complaints, process and product tional systems and initiatives that dedevelopment projects, and the needs of termine product quality and safety standards. In this regard, OEKO-TEX® subsidiary operations and power plants. Standard 100, an independent auditing and certification system encompassing all the production stages of textile products, is currently being implemented at Aksa. Aksa is harmonizing with the Regulation Concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). The regulation, published by the European Union in order to indicate the limits of safety for human health and the environment regarding chemicals in daily used products, includes a range of EU regulations and directives and collects them into one system. ETAD develops collaborations with health and environment authorities for the sustainable growth of the dye and pigment industry, supports the principles of triple responsibility and works for raising awareness about health and environmental issues among its producer members as well as develop their cooperation. Aksa uses dyes that are compliant with the standards of ETAD, which is also the ecology and toxicology association for dye and pigments. G4-12 G4-EN27 Aksa Sustainability Report 29 Similarly, in projects conducted outside the scope In this regard, Business Continuity Working Orof Lean Six Sigma, issues such as quality, efficiency, ganization Plan and Business Salvage Plans were improvement of production machines, energy savprepared and the precautions that must be taken ings, process improvement are addressed. Thanks to eliminate risks that might suspend production in to the projects, whereby processes are harmonized relation to the required durations were listed. with technological advancements and production costs are reduced, the environmental impacts genIn accordance with the plan prepared for the comerated by Aksa operations are also minimized. The munication between the systems in Aksa’s Yalova targets within the scope of the projects are inteand Istanbul campuses to be uninterrupted and grated with the annual targets of project managers, for the host systems to back each other up, Yalova team members and sponsors, thereby ensuring the and Istanbul were organized as disaster recovery dissemination of corporate strategies throughout centers for each other. As a result of the tests that all the levels of the organization. were conducted, it was ensured that in any event of malfunction that might occur on one of the As part of the business continuity works actualized campuses, work could be resumed from the backduring the reporting period, audits were conducted up hosts on the other campus within 20 minutes in the Raw Material, Production and Maintenance without any information loss. departments through an independent institution. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT DowAksa Works for product and process development within the Aksa improved its techbody of Aksa rely on increasing the areas of usage for nological infrastructure acrylic fiber and diversifying as to satisfy the expectain 2009 and actualized the production of cartions of our customers. In this regard, the quality of our bon fiber, considered to be one of the most signifiproducts and quality-enhancing works are of particular cant raw materials of the 21st century. As of the year significance. The compliance of materials and raw mate2012, carbon fiber production takes place under the rials used in the product content with determined regroof of DowAksa Advanced Composite Materials ulations regarding human and environmental health is Industrial Limited Company, which was established of capital importance. In parallel to this understanding, within the framework of equal joint partnership by Aksa take all these conditions into consideration while Aksa Akrilik and The Dow Chemical Company. developing its products and prioritizes its quality of beDowAksa concentrates primarily on issues such ing a responsible producer. as infrastructural works, the development of structures in terms of robustness and durableness, the rendering of energy production at wind turbine more productive, the minimization of Filament fuel consumption in automobiles. It aims to bring modern solution to significant problems in TurThe production of pigment colored acrylic filament key and in the world, with its technical expertise yarn was realized with the authentic technological inand advanced production facilities. formation acquired through R&D studies conducted at Aksa. The research studies show that acrylic filament yarn market volume will further increase in the Turquality Strategic Roadmap forthcoming period. In this regard, 5.5 million dollars Aksa has completed its strategic roadmap studies of investment was made last year for acrylic filament for the Turquality Project, the state subsidized brandR&D works and production in view of the increasing ing program conducted by the Ministry of Economarket demand. Thanks to this product, excellent my with the vision of “creating 10 world brands in 10 brightness of colors, self-cleaning ability, high quality years”, which it has joined in 2013. The strategic busiappearance and high imperviousness are achieved in ness plan for the years 2014-2019 was also approved the fabric. Aksa is the only producer of this product by the Ministry of Economy in April 2014. developed with its own technology. G4-12 G4-EN27 30 Aksa Sustainability Report Characteristics of Acrylic Fiber Latest Areas of Usage for What is Acrylic Fiber? • Easily washable and shape Acrylic Fiber Acrylic fiber is the wooliest retaining Clothing: Slipovers, hosiery, among synthetic fibers. There • Resistant against moths, oil plush, circular knitting, sportsare two kinds of acrylic fibers, and chemicals wear and children’s wear namely textile and technical. • Excellent dye affinity for Home Textile: Carpets, blanTextile fibers are used in clothbright colors kets, rugs, furnishings and coring and home textile, and technical fibers are used in indus• High fastness against duroy clothes trial machines and materials, sunlight Outdoors: Car tops, boat covas well as outdoors. • Wooly naturalness and ers, canvas, outdoor furniture warmth in appearance and Industrial: Dust filter, feel strengthening fill material in building construction, car batteries G4-12 G4-EN27 Aksa Sustainability Report 31 OPERATION CHART PRODUCTION SUPPLY Chemical Fields Land & Seaway Raw Textile Fields Material Supply Solvent Recovery PRODUCTS Tow Providing Tops Energy Bumps for Sister Companies and the Grid PRODUCT PRODUCT USAGE DELIVERY AREAS Clothing Home Textile Outdoor Use Industrial Uses 32 Aksa Sustainability Report SUPPLY CHAIN Aksa adopts a responsible supply chain manageAffairs. Aksa has conducted audits in 6 compament in line with its principle of transparency and nies during the reporting period and was evaluattakes constant communication with its suppliers ed according to the criteria of accident frequency as a basis. Aksa, which looks for environmental, and severity, OHS audits and OHS matrix penalty social and economic criteria in supplier selection point. Following the evaluation results, it was enand evaluation processes, conducts active comsured that necessary action plans were taken. It is munication works with its suppliers, organizes inplanned to continue works for the supplier evaluterviews and trainings. ation system during 2015. Aksa assesses suppliers in issues such as enviAksa prioritizes local suppliers in order to conronmental and OHS policies, ethical values, emtribute to the prosperity level of the local comployee rights during supplier selection and permunity in the region of Yalova where it operates. formance evaluation processes. The policies and In 2014, the rate of local suppliers was realized as approaches of the suppliers are scrutinized, legal 86% and the rate of expenditures on local suprequirements and related certificates are exampliers to the total supply budget was realized as ined. Suppliers are expected to have a working 38%. environment complying with OHS principles and to standardize working hours. Workplace and operating safety is ensured for subcontractor company personnel through the As part of purchasing processes the quality of the documents we procure from subcontractor comend product, company profitability and producpanies regularly, every month. In this regard, it tion planning are taken into consideration in prodis ensured that employees receive their salaries uct and service purchases. In relation to product regularly, their social security premiums are paid safety, the product operating safety manual is fully and in time, they are employed according shared with all customers and transporters and to OHS rules, mobbing cases are prevented, and necessary information is provided. working hours are standardized. At Aksa, there is an operational structure enEmployees who have not turned 19 from among suring the regular auditing and tracking of subsubcontractor or sub-employee personnel are contractor and sub-employer companies. The not allowed in our factory site. In accordance with responsibility for this structure belongs to the decisions taken in this issue and as Aksa Akrilik Subcontractor Responsible depending under the Kimya San. A.Ş. is classified as very dangerous, we Purchasing Department. Subcontractor Respondo not permit the employment of personnel who sible works in coordination with the units and have not turned 19. We also ask for the professiondirectorates of HR, Law, HSE and Administrative al competence certificates of the personnel. Aksa Purchasing Portal (iSupplier) Aksa has actualized “Aksa Purchasing Portal (iSupplier)” in order to establish a more efficient communication with its suppliers. The proposal, order, invoice, delivery performance and payments of the suppliers can be tracked through the portal. Thanks to the portal the technical pictures received by the suppliers were carried over the system, the proposal and order durations and paper consumption were reduced. In this regard, a total of nine companies were provided with trainings about the program. G4-12 G4-EC8 G4-EC9 G4-EN32 Aksa Sustainability Report 33 OUR CUSTOMERS Aksa, which attaches great importance to custainability in production in order to develop the tomer satisfaction management in accordance processes of its customers and increase their efwith the understanding of the Customer Orientficiency. Between the years 2012 and 2014, Aksa ed Approach, develops new products and serhas realized a total of 21 consultancy works. vices in line with customer needs and expectaAksa develops new products and services in actions and aims to be the best in quality, service, cordance with customer demands. Process almanufacturability, price and procurement with terations, packaging, labeling and warning label its existing products. alterations are applied in line with the demands The Customer Satisfaction Survey is the most and suggestions of customers. important among practices aiming at ensuring customer satisfaction. The satisfaction levels of Aksa predicates its corporate culture on customdomestic and international customers are reguer information confidentiality. All employees and larly measured by an independent survey institupersonnel are informed on this issue through tion every two years. trainings. The installation processes of ISO 27001 Information Security Management System, which At Aksa, there is a Customer Services Unit to reensures the maximum security of company and spond to the needs, demands and complaints of stakeholder information, in Marketing, Sales and customers. This unit regularly organizes CustomCustomer Services processes was completed in er Satisfaction Committee meetings, evaluates 2014. The system is expected to be extended to the demands and complaints of customers and all company units in 2015. In the reporting period, prepares the necessary action plans. All samples no complaints regarding the violation of customer sent by customers to Aksa for research purposes information confidentiality were received. are analyzed and customers are provided with the required technical assistance. Aksa has paid complain/technical support visits to 178 customers in 2014. The technical support practice is not only in parallel to products but also in line with the processes of our customers. As a result of Aksa Customer Learning Center (CLC) improvements made in the processes in this reSince 2008, Aksa Customer Learning gard, we contribute to the improvement of enviCenter enables customers to know Aksa, ronmental performance through savings in our observe its processes and participate in customers’ production processes. R&D studies together with Aksa TechAksa technical teams regularly visit customers nical Team. This practice aims for the onsite, evaluate their needs and complaints one active participation of customers in imby one and provide written feedback to their provement processes and newly developed fields. Also, joint projects that we customers. At the end of the process, a statistical might conduct in cooperation with our analysis of the complaints is made and targets customers are actualized within the conare determined in relevant departments for retext of the CLC practice. In 2014, a total ducing complaints. of 103 visitors from 13 companies have participated in the practices of the Center. Aksa supports its customers in the fields of efficiency in production, product quality and susG4-27 G4-PR5 34 Aksa Sustainability Report OUR EMPLOYEES Aksa Sustainability Report 35 S eeking to recruit responsible, creative, participative, confident employees In the reporting period the integration that like to develop themselves furof the entire human resources processther, we act in line with our awareness es following the merger with our group that the only way to realize our corcompany Aktops was completed. porate goals is through qualified and While 38 specialists, engineers joined content employees. Through our human resources Aksa Family during the period besides practices that go beyond legal requirements, we 114 people from operations, the toconstantly improve our social performance and tal number of our employees reached safeguard our corporate sustainability. 1,248 by year-end. Implementing business processes that respect the rights for people and employees, we make sure that our corporate culture opposing discrimination is first reflected on our organization. In line with our organization culture that learns and produces, we attach special importance to the employee trainings and accompany their individual and professional development. We identify the leaders of the future among our employees through effective talent management practices and provide them with career options allowing them to take initiatives. Through internal communication practices we constantly strengthen employee engagement and take great lengths to enhance employee satisfaction and engagement. In an effort to provide healthy and safe working environment, we perform with a vision for constant improvement and act in the light of feedback received from our stakeholders. HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS MANAGEMENT Providing our employees with a working environment regarding human and employee rights constantly. that complies with human dignity is among our leading corporate values. Implementing human resources Based on fulfilling duties, our recruitment policies enprocesses that respect employee rights, prevent dissure that we stand on an equal distance to our potencrimination and comply with the global human rights tial employees without paying attention to age, disprinciples throughout our entire organization, we seek ability, race/ethnicity, gender, religion/beliefs, culture ways to mainstream this approach on our value chain. and sexual orientation. When the work analyses conActing in the light of these values from recruitment to ducted show that the operational positions require remuneration, from performance evaluation to career ability to work under tough physical conditions, we management practices, we develop our performance recruit mainly males for these positions due to their G4-11 G4-EC3 G4-EC5 G4-LA2 G4-LA3 G4-HR5 G4-HR6 36 Aksa Sustainability Report physical and mental endurance while our practices prioritize employing women for the administrative 4 As of late 2014 the number of our direct positions. Recruiting disabled people in positions employees is 1,248 while the number of our indirect fit for their physical conditions, we support the soemployees taking part in our operations under subcontractors is 690. cio-economic development of our region through our local employment policy. We expand our anti-discriminative policy on all our processes and implement a fair remuneration policy that pays no attention to gender or any other differences. While reflecting the realities of the national and international business world, we pursue a remuneration policy based on the job done with our Job Evaluation and Remuneration Model that is also centred on a strategy built on responsibility, seniority, employee performance besides fringe benefits. Moreover, we make communication mechanisms available for our employees and other stakeholders to use in the cases where the company’s ethical rules, which also include articles against discrimination, are violated. Employees by Gender 123 Our stakeholders are able to apply to Female the Ethics Representative of our ComMale 1.125 pany, the Ethics Board, the manager 98 they work under, HR Department or 798 Akkök Ethics Line in case of violations. During the reporting period there were no reports of discrimina116 92 tion cases recorded within the scope 756 619 of the Aksa operations. During the reporting period there were no complaints delivered to us regarding workforce criteria. 2011 2012 2013 2014 G4-11 G4-EC3 G4-EC5 G4-LA2 G4-LA3 G4-LA13 Aksa Sustainability Report 37 During the reporting period the rate of our female and male employees going back to work and continuing their jobs after using parental leave was 100%. All our 8 female employees that had gone on to use their maternity leaves went back to work and continued their jobs for at least 12 months. During the reporting period our 71 male employees used parental leave rights and went back to their jobs while as of the end of 2014 our 3 female employees were still on maternity leave. TALENT MANAGEMENT In line with our strategic business goals, we atInventory practices were conducted while we tach maximum importance to recruiting and shared the results with our employees through keeping qualified workforce for our company face-to-face meetings. We established personal and continuously improve our performance in development plans for our employees while detalent management through active performance fining their strengths and personal development evaluation, employee development and career areas. We also drew up career maps on directormanagement practices. In addition to that, our ates’ basis. Senior Management undertakes studies through Using the results from the performance evaluaTalent Management Committee and we review tion processes as the main reference point for all the current developments regarding the matter, our career development practices, we support devise action plans every month and monitor personal and professional development of our the issue throughout our organization in generemployees and help them show their potential. al. Firmly believing in the fact that “Talent ManImplementing our performance evaluation agement” is one of the leading factors affecting practices with an approach focused on the job employee engagement, we conduct practices results and competencies of our employees, through modern human resources methods and we ensure that the expected job results are identify the competencies and development arachieved through constant development. The eas for our employees to provide them with caprocess designed by our Human Resources dereer options allowing them to take initiatives. partment is implemented by the unit managers, In that respect in the 2013-2014 period we supwho also report their feedback, ensures that the ported and managed constant development of individual goals are evaluated in harmony with our human resources and devised and began to the unit, directorate and company goals. During implement the Career Development Model projthe reporting period 360 degrees feedback ect to ensure that the talents that comply with and evaluation centre and Leadership Potential G4-11 G4-EC3 G4-EC5 G4-LA10 38 Aksa Sustainability Report the roles we will need will be available in the organization. By analysing our business processes Developed in collaboration with our through CORASCI (duty responsibility matrices) parent company Akkök Holding to studies, we identified the areas for improvement manage training-development and and continued our studies to update the job performance management system definitions of our employees. processes, Integrated Human ResourcWe believe in training leaders from within the es software “Mosaic” has been made company in line with our corporate goals and available for the use of our employcome up with solutions within and outside the ees with the title specialist and higher company to accompany the career plans of our while we have begun to use it actively employees. During the reporting period we bethrough its new modules. Working by gan to implement the Coaching and Mentorship taking the requirements of every poprograms within the scope of the Leader and sition in our organization as its basis, Manager Development Program. In the same the Training Module supports profesperiod we introduced the Master’s Degree and sional development of our employees while providing us with the feedback Doctorate Degree Support Program with a view about the efficiency of our training to lending our support for scientific studies, programs. increasing our intellectual capital and training technical experts. In the same way in 2014 we launched “Advertisement System”, an internal communication practice allowing the company employees to enjoy a career within the group. Developing practices for the new workforce that our company will need in the future and that will adapt to the company, we undertake perception During the reporting period 81% of and image studies in the universities for that purour white-collar employees passed pose. During the reporting period we launched their performance and career develLong-Term Internship program besides univeropment evaluations, this rate turned sity visits. Within the scope of the practice that out to be 91% for our blue-collar emwill continue in the periods ahead with the goal ployees. In the same period perforto create image envoys to increase our recogmance feedback rate in female and nition, we recruited 9 students as interns for 3 male employee categories was 89%. months. Through our training practices developed in the light of our strategic goals and corporate experience, we ensure that the confident and participatory workforce to work will adapt to the new technologies developed while we accompany the professional and personal development of our employees so that their knowledge and skills could develop further. G4-LA10 G4-LA11 Aksa Sustainability Report 39 The solutions we have developed within the and outside the company besides the trainings provided, we implement practices that will address During the reporting period we prothe position, competency and development moted 9 of our employees to mananeeds of our employees. Various technical traingerial positions within the scope of orings are organized for our employees to improve ganizational needs. Our 17 employees themselves, increase their technical know-how were promoted to higher Specialist and specialize. In line with the requests of the roles while our 17 operators were prorelated units, technical trainings are provided moted to higher operatorship roles for the related staff to be familiarized with the due to Evaluation Centre practices. changes introduced or might be introduced to the process, machinery, equipment or systems. Within the scope of the Aksa Competency Model, Personal Development Trainings are held to Featuring a representative from all of our departsupport the basic, job-specific and managerial ments besides the participation of the members competencies. from the Representative Committee, Aksa TrainOrganized in collaboration with the Sabancı Uniing Board (AKEK) lends its support to the Huversity and Turquality for the Mid-Level Managman Resources Department for evaluating the ers, Manager Development Programs support training needs and contribute to the behavioural the leadership and technical competencies of our and technical competency development of our managers. Besides programs with a rich content employees. AKEK meets two times a year and including Market-Orientation, Leadership and reviews the training plan besides the realization Coaching for High Performing Teams, Finance for data. This way each Department voices its opinManagers, Business and Management Simulation ion and the training practices are continuously programs, trainings such as Y Generation in Work developed. Life, Competency-Based Interview Techniques, Guidance for Leaders have been given. Established in 1982 to ensure professional development of the Operation-Level employees and support their process learning processes, Aksa School picks its trainers from among company employees. We develop the program constantly to ensure the sustainability of the active training practices. Apart from these, trainings about the Management Systems implemented at Aksa and regulation trainings are organized. In an effort to boost scientific studies and increase our intellectual capital and train technical experts, support is provided for Master’s and Doctorate degrees. G4-LA10 40 Aksa Sustainability Report Employees by Education Levels During the reporting period we provided 36,653 man*hour training for blue-collar employees and 17,902 man*hour training for white-collar employees while providing 6,505 and 48.050 man*hour training for our female and male workers respectively. During the reporting period among the recruitments made, 105 new employees are in the newly graduate High School Technical 34% (0-3 years of experience) category. High SchoolTrade Vocational 13% Primary School 11% Master Degree 0.2% Master's 3% Associate Degree 24% INTERNAL COMMUNICATION AND EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Encouraging our internal stakeholders to participate Regularly holding Aksa Training Board (AKEK) and in decision-taking mechanisms, we regard the views Aksa Social Activities Team (AKSET) meetings that of our employees as the most fundamental input of enable employees to communicate with the Senior our sustainability strategy. Through the communicaManagement directly, we ask for our employees’ tion mechanisms we have formed over the years and views through structures such as the Representaconstantly improved in the light of the technological tive Committee, Suggestion System and OHS Board innovations and feedback from employees, we listen regarding issues that concern them and that affect to the suggestions, requests and complaints regardthe sustainability of our business. Our Open Door ing business processes and working environment; Policy strengthens the contact of our employees therefore always taking our employee engagement with the senior management while various comperformance one step ahead. munication instruments are used in the practices G4-27 G4-LA9 Aksa Sustainability Report 41 conducted to increase the communication of our employees among each other while also increasing their engagement. Our internal communication organ, Introduced in 1996 for the first time, the Suggestion “Aksa Haber”, is published quarterSystem enables us to receive suggestions from our ly and covers the projects we have employees regarding many aspects especially inimplemented besides our corporate cluding the operations they participate in while once goals and news about our employthe suggestions have been reviewed, those that are ees. The magazine is now available accepted are implemented. Focused mainly on occufor digital access in addition to the pational health and safety categories besides faciliprinted issues. Thanks to an innovatating and expediting tasks, the suggestions from the tion introduced during the reporting employees are evaluated within the scope of a multiperiod we publication, the publication stage system and we seek ways to improve our peris not only regularly delivered to Aksa formance in that area constantly. During the reportemployees, Government agencies in ing period the categories that were popular among Yalova and NGOs but is also available the employees included quality improvement, cost for viewing in the digital environment reduction and energy saving. with an application downloaded from the AppStore. Other internal communication practices we undertake include an intranet platform titled “Portakal” and available for AKKÖK group companies, Aksa HR Portal, communication boards, monthly e-bulletins, Representative Committee where our employees are able to vote, cocktails organized for our newly recruited emHeld every two years, Employee Engagement Survey seeks to measure ployees to blend in and festival celebrations. Apart from engagement, satisfaction levels and these practices such as financial rewards, Manager of motivation of our employees. We conthe Year, Most Active Health Safety Environment (HSE) sider the survey also as an important Specialist, Exemplary Staff Member, Senior Plaque and internal communication mechanism. Education Volunteers Award not only allow us to get In the light of the survey results we to know and award our successful employees but also held during the reporting year, we deform another internal communication mechanism. cided to implement the “Great Place to Work” working life study while setWe undertake the practices that will increase the moting our roadmap for 2015. tivation and engagement of our employees through volunteering activities led by our workers again. Composed of 30 Aksa employees, AKSET (AKSA Social Activities Team) organizes activities such as parties, concerts, trips, courses and seminars in line with the During the reporting period 297 sugrequests received. The activities organized by AKSET gestions were received from our emduring the reporting period included courses such as ployees within the scope of the Sugdiving, tennis, photography, model airplane building as gestion System while 197 of these well as trips, theatre plays, concerts, Welcome Summer suggestions were deemed feasible Party, Goodbye Summer Party, Akkök Group of Comand 132 of them were implemented. panies New Year’s Eve Party and picnics. G4-27 42 Aksa Sustainability Report OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY We regard creating a healthy and safe working enDoctor divide the responsibilities among the emvironment for our employees as our main responsiployee categories and all Aksa employees receive bility and we therefore implement an active Occusuitable OHS trainings ensuring that they are able pational Health and Safety management analysing to fulfil their responsibilities. the risks from our operations periodically, taking preventive measures and forming action plans in Also featuring 5 employee representatives voted in case of emergencies. Constantly improving our perperson by our employees, the OHS Board is comformance in OHS, which remains one of our main posed of 20 members in total and represents our sustainability priorities, we implement pioneering entire blue-collar workforce. Leading our policies practices that cover our entire value chain. and practices regarding occupational health and safety, the OHS Board features Employer agent, Our operations are performed within the framework OHS specialist, workplace doctor, HR Director, Civil of the OHSAS 18001 Standard and Safety ManageDefence Specialist, Administrative Affairs Manager, ment System in an integrated fashion with the EnForeman and Head Workman as regular members. vironmental and Quality Management. We include our OHS performance among the business plans Apart from the obligatory 16 hours of OHS Training and manage it through tangible goals set while program provided per person during the reporting also ensuring it with stakeholder engagement and period, training and practice programs in various audit practices. The trainings we provide for our areas were also held. While trainings emphasizing employees and other stakeholders increase their OHS Leadership were given for our managers, peawareness regarding the matter and we constantriodic trainings were provided for our employees in ly update our roadmap by means of meetings held order to mainstream SEVESO Policy for Preventwith the Health, Safety, Environment (HSE) Specialists and OHS Board. Through our emergency preparation studies we protect our employees and 7 business continuity while monitoring processes and Accident Frequency Rate = Number of Work Accidents / (Total Number of Days with Premium *8)*1,000,000 goals through internal as well as external audits. Accident Severity Rate = Total Number of Days Lost Due to Work Accidents /(( Total Number of Days with Premium Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Specialists *8)*1,000,000 and OHS Board are the main structures that help Total Number of Days Due to Work Accidents= (Temporary monitor the OHS programs. HSE Specialists take on Incapacity Durations) + (Amount of Permanent Incapacity the operational responsibilities of the OHS operaLevels*75) + (Number of Fatality Cases *7500) tions in our plants. The practices conducted under Injury Rate= Number of Work Accidents *1,000,000 /Total Work Hours the leadership of the OHS Specialist and Workplace Our OHS Performance in Numbers 7 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Accident Frequency Rate 5.9 6.5 3.2 4.87 8.86 Accident Severity Rate 116.7 223.8 254.7 125.25 184.04 Injury Rate 43.6 42.66 26.44 19.49 30.33 Abscence Rate 905.8 1217.9 1,933.20 1,484 2,179.82 Number of Lost Days 1002.3 1,390.30 2,187.90 1,609 2,365.85 G4-LA5 G4-LA6 Aksa Sustainability Report 43 ing Major Accidents. All the employees were given trainings on the importance of proper nutrition and presentations were shared regarding influenza, AKSA attaches great importance to harms of smoking and the ways to give up smoking the issue of Preventing Industrial Acwhile informative posters about the harms of smokcidents and Reducing Their Impact. In ing were put up on the walls of our plant. order to meet the related EU directive requirements, Aksa launched SEVEWe provide health services for our employees and SO Project. In that respect, the studies their families not only through the health practices undertaken in a coordinated fashion in our workplace but also through the fringe benanalyse and update process dangers efits we offer. We ensure that our employees are while the structure of the process and examined medically when they are recruited initialthe risks are identified and significant ly and are then periodically given medical examinaobservations are made. tions besides increasing the checks on their health and observe it in special cases such as chronic diseases, pregnancy and disability. What is more, our employees are provided with private health insurance covering their families and are trained against factors that could have a negative impact on their OHS Trainings by Years (man*hour) health. 28,630 28,138 We audit the contractors acting as our business partners for OHS issues. The general audits for the contractor em22,404 ployees are held every three months while the audits featuring documentation and Social Security Institution checks are given every two months. Organizing a meeting with the contrac12,681 tor and subcontractor companies every month, we accompany their performance development in that area. 2011 2012 2013 2014 During the reporting period there were no reports of any fatal accidents or occupational diseases in our company. 44 Aksa Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Aksa Sustainability Report 45 tioned practices could be managed in an even more efficient fashion. In addition to these practices, internal and external audits are held Goals for 2015: within the scope of the “Integrated Manage› Obtaining ISO 50001 ment System” besides Environmental Internal certification Audits with a view to constantly observing › Participating in CDP Water compliance with the environmental issues. Disclosure Program Aksa also takes an active role in the AKÇEVRE › Materializing our Joint Board formed with the participation of the AkTreatment Facility project kim, DowAksa companies, both sister compa› Materializing our Reverse nies affiliated with Akkök Holding. Osmosis project In an effort to enhance our environmental performance further, we attach special importance on increasing knowledge and awareness of our employees. In that respect 1,045 hours of environmental training was provided for our employAksa identifies the importance placed on reees during the reporting period. Not only our ducing its environmental impact by setting the internal stakeholders but also external stakeaspect of environment as an important part of holders stand on an important position for evalthe way the company does business. In that reuating our environmental performance. Hence spect we implement practices focused on rewe come up with ways to collect the feedback ducing our environmental impact, define future from our stakeholders we meet through differplans for that purpose, monitor the related proent platforms and devise methods to reflect all cesses and review our performance constantly that feedback on our business processes. over what has been achieved. Working in harmony with the environment in an effort to ensure a sustainable operation, Green IT Practices achieve operational excellence and enjoy high Practices developed (such as gate exit efficiency remain among our fundamental priforms, project approval forms, visitor aporities. Therefore it is of utmost importance for proval forms) through the eBA (ElectronAksa to fully comply with the laws and norms ic Document and Workflow Management set by the related regulations. In 2014 we spent System) we have begun to use, many actions that used to be performed over paapproximately 6 million TL on environmental per are now taken to digital environment, protection expenditure and investments. hence saving on paper and time. Moreover, Conducted under the responsibility of the Enreplacing the computers used on the production machinery and presses with the vironmental Management Unit, environmental new generation Thin Client computers usmanagement practices are constantly moniing 1/10 energy has also saved further on tored by the unit while the senior management energy. In the period ahead, the other old supervises and supports the environmental computers in use will also be replaced with management studies through the “Industrial the Thin Client computers. Evaluation Meetings” so that the aforemen46 Aksa Sustainability Report ENERGY MANAGEMENT Energy and energy management are especialinternal need of the power plant besides enly important for Aksa to ensure operational suring operation of the power plants in the continuity. Aksa is not only capable of genmost efficient way. erating the energy it needs through its 142.5 MWe capacity energy generation license but Besides all these aforementioned studies, also provides energy whenever needed by its during the reporting period we continued our sister companies Akkim and DowAksa operpreparation studies for the ISO 50001 Energy ating in the same region. Moreover, the surManagement Quality Standard certification, plus energy generated is sold to the electricity which we seek to obtain in 2015. market. In 2014 our power plants generated 4.5 million tons of steam and 736 million kWh of electricity. 11% of that amount is used for the own needs of the power plants while the remaining amount is used in the production processes and is also supplied for the sister companies and the grid. During the reporting period we have enjoyed successful results regarding energy efficiency and reduced the internal needs for energy at the power plant by 10% once we have replaced the drivers of the rotary equipment motors, which play an important role in the internal electricity consumption need of the coal power plant. Held regularly to include all the departments in our plant, energy management meetings organized help us review the consumptions and take necessary actions besides monitoring the related performance. In addition to these practices, while the Energy Management Board studies the energy consumption, energy issues are monitored throughout the plant during the Quality Management Board meetings held every day. During the reporting period thanks to the 17 different energy efficiency projects held throughout the plant, 108.307 GJ of thermal energy and 10.000 GJ of electric energy was saved. Meanwhile the completion of the projects developed has led to reducing both the G4-EN6 Aksa Sustainability Report 47 Specific Thermal Energy Boiler pipes used to be damaged due to intense Consumption (Index, Basis: 2011, ferrous oxide deposits on the boilers located 100 kWh/ton tow) in the Energy Production Facility. Disengagement of the boilers in an abrupt and unplanned fashion as a result of this problem would have a negative impact on the energy supply, caus100 99.59 97.27 97.16 ing production and quality losses in acrylic fibre production processes. The improvement studies we held in 2012 and 2013 prevented the boilers from going offline due to pipe damage in an unplanned fashion and saved an estimated 3.2 million USD for the plant on an annual basis. 2011 2012 2013 2014 Power Plant Optimization Project Featuring Advanced Process Control Methods (AES Specific Electric Energy -Advanced Energy Solutions) Consumption (Index, Basis: 2011, AES project has optimized Power Plant 100 kWh/ton tow) units through advanced process control methods. The project has stabilized energy production process and met the changes in the demand for steam through coal boiler 100 100.84 99.79 100.4 in a safe fashion. In an effort to ensure system safety, a boiler running on low load has been disconnected and thus contributed to overall operational excellence. The benefits of the project include: › Safe and stable pressure control achieved over steam generation systems. › Steam production temperature has gone up with the same amount of fuel used and the turbine electricity generation has gone up by 180 kWh/h Amount of Waste Heat Generated (Index, Basis: 2011, 100 kWh/ton › A steam boiler running for system safety tow ) has been disconnected thanks to this project therefore saving 110 kWh/h on electric energy and preventing thermal losses. › Flue Gas Cleaning systems have been 100 introduced to advanced process control techniques so that the emission values are 82.9 always kept below the legal limits through 79.28 75.1 the enhanced automation system. › Unproductivity caused by lower pressure has been minimized the electricity generation of the turbines has been increased by 400 kWh/h › Overall efficiency of the power plant has been improved 2011 2012 2013 2014 G4-EN3 G4-EN5 G4-EN6 G4-EN7 48 Aksa Sustainability Report EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT Climate change remains an important problem Other emission values released by our power plants for the entire world. Companies face processes and process flues into the atmosphere remained below the legal limits set and turned out to be on affecting them directly as a reflection of this average as stated below: problem on the business world. At this point Aksa strives to continue its operations accompanied by the awareness of the responsibility 2014 that falls on us. Total NOx Emission 153 mg/m3 Total SOx Emission 32 mg/m3 As a result of this approach regarding climate, Aksa manages emission management issues in Total UOB Emission 0.51 kg/sa a meticulous manner. We measure our greenOther Emissions (PM) 1.17 kg/sa PM house gas emissions in line with the international requirements and share our related Moreover the UOB emissions stemming from our performance data with our stakeholders in a processes are discharged in line with the limits transparent fashion. As one of the first comwhile the emission reports ordered every two years panies to obtain the ISO 14064-1 certificate for are submitted to the Ministry of Environment and quantification and reporting of the greenhouse Urbanization. gases, Aksa has its related data audited by independent audit organization periodically and has it all certified with comprehensive assurance. Moreover, within the scope of a project we implemented in collaboration with academia, we have begun to work on identifying our carbon footprint. Other emissions including CO2 , SO 2 , NOx and dust are generated due to the processes involving our natural gas and coal power plants. The related parameters are monitored by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization online constantly through emission measuring systems. Thanks to the projects conducted during the year and the constant monitoring, our related emission values remain much below the values set by the regulations. G4-EN21 Aksa Sustainability Report 49 WATER MANAGEMENT Water remains a natural resource used intensively during our operations and is of critical significance for the continuity of our operations. Reflections from the During the reporting period the groundbreaknegative conditions created by climate change are ofing ceremony for the Akkök Holding Wasteten observed in water management processes. That water Treatment Facility project was held. The Treatment Facility project plans to manage the is why water management and the related perfortreatment operations of the production facilimance are monitored strictly. ties of the companies affiliated with Aksa Hold2014 turned out to be a challenging year regarding waing Yalova, namely Aksa Akrilik, Ak-Kim Kimya ter management both in Turkey and especially Yalova and DowAksa under a single roof. The facility is region where we operate. The drought experienced to treat all the domestic and industrial wasteespecially during the summer period called for taking water together and will boast the capacity to special measures regarding water management in meet 15 thousand cubic meters/day wastewaterms of operations. Hence as Aksa we were able to ter flow rate. take important steps to reduce unconscious use and process optimization in water consumption and were successful in managing this challenging process in the most efficient way possible. During 2014 we saved on the amount of water used considerably by reducing In 2014 71,355 tons of water was saved through the dam water usage by 43% and fire-protection wathe projects completed in the Textile Areas ter consumption by 50%. Alongside these practices Dyeing Units. This amounts to three days’ water we implemented maintenance studies focused on inconsumption in Yalova where 220,000 people creasing the efficiency of our wells. Apart from these live in total. practices, we established reserve tanks in our plant. During the related period one of our important benefits has been introducing the set-up project in our paint shop, which saved us water amounting to one month usage of Yalova province where we operate in a period marked by water shortage. Reverse Osmosis Project During the reporting period our water consumption In line with our approach to use natural rose by 1.5% when compared with the previous year resources efficiently besides sustainable and turned out to be 3,907,162 m3 . The reason for this water resource usage and sustainable proincrease is the merger of Aktops and Aksa operations duction, we devised our “Reverse Osmounder Aksa in 2014 besides the production increase sis” project during the reporting period. in tonnage. Once the project has been implemented in 2015, we will be able to cover approximateAs far as water management is concerned, wastely 50% of our water usage this way. water management is an important issue apart from the studies for efficient water usage. The industrial and domestic wastewater generated as a result of our operations are treated in our treatment facilities in line with the requirements demanded by Wastewater Discharge over Years (m3) the regulations and are then discharged. The water is discharged into Marmara Sea in line with the 2011 2012 2013 2014 regulations once the treated water has reached the 2,445,500 2,463,750 2,950,507 2,833,690 limits set by all the regulations. G4-EN8 G4-EN9 G4-EN22 G4-EN27 50 Aksa Sustainability Report WASTE MANAGEMENT We show special emphasis on waste management in an effort to reduce our environmental impact stemming from our operations. In that respect the issues of reducing waste at the source and disposing it in line with the ways set by the regulations are monitored according to the goals identified by Aksa. Aksa separates the waste as hazardous and non-hazardous in line with the regulations. Domestic waste from the offices and cafeteria are sent to the sanitary landfill of the municipality while recyclable waste such as packaging waste and paper is separated both in the offices and on site depending on their kinds and then sent to the recycling company. Our wastes stemming from the process are sent to the disposal facility so that they could be incinerated to generate energy as they have high calorific values. Other wastes are delivered to the waste disposal companies authorized by the official bodies while the waste is delivered through licensed vehicles required by the waste properties. In 2014 audits were made for the studies to use the ash wastes generated at the end of our Waste Amounts by Disposal Method in 2014 (tons) processes as cement raw material. In 2015 we plan to obtain a CE certificate for that purpose Total Hazardous Waste 3,199 1,446 so that all the fly ash could be a commercial Amount product by Aksa and could be sold as raw maRecovery 8 120 terial additive to cement and concrete power plants. Reuse 6 29 Incineration 3,185 1,297 Total Non-Hazardous Waste 40,397 47,388 Amount Recovery 270 789 Reuse 32,164 40,407 Delivered to Sanitary Landfill 1,799 1,255 Incineration 6,184 4,937 G4-EN23 G4-EN27 Aksa Sustainability Report 51 Total Waste by Disposal Method in 2014 Thin Film Practice Implemented on the solvent recovery unites, the Thin Film Evaporator (TFE) practice has changed the process for the drying of the waste generated. Thanks to this process, the waste generated by the solvent recovery units is reduced by 27% while the practice has reduced the amount of solvent lost with the waste by 77% and saved 97,944 kWh/year on electricity consumption. 505 Solvent Recovery Unit 505 Solvent Recovery Unit, which is more modern than our current recovAdded as Cement Raw Material 83% ery units and ensures further efficiency, Incineration 12% was introduced as an investment during Recovery 1% the reporting period of 2014. The unit Recycling 2% became operational at the end of 2014 and resulted in increasing the solvent Delivered to Sanitary Landfill 2% raw material recovery rate by 25% while ensuring 30% efficiency in energy consumption. Within the scope of the project there are seven storage tanks and seven processes colons besides parts assisting them such as heat exchangers, flashers and cooling equipment. The project seeks to recover 100 tons of raw materials an hour. 52 Aksa Sustainability Report CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Aksa Sustainability Report 53 Having adopted the philosophy of being an open, transparent, accountable company, Aksa is focused on creating the highest added value possible for our stakeholders and especially for the local community through our social activities. In line with our active communication strategy, we are in constant contact with the local community in our region and adopt an approach producing solutions for the needs and problems faced by the community. We undertake our practices with the voluntary participation of Aksa employees and stakeholders while prioritizing projects that seek to create awareness in the society and are sensitive to both the people and environment. Apart from lending our support for the social responsibility projects of Akkök Holding, with which we are affiliated, we devise a series of projects and practices focused on the local community and will set an example for our country. Developed for the active participation of our stakeholders and supported through direct and indirect communication channels, our social responsibility projects cover many areas especially education, culture and arts as projects providing social benefits in the regions we operate. SUPPORT FOR EDUCATION Firmly believing in the fact that education is one activities that will enrich the educational lives of of the fundamental elements required for the students and establish collaboration with the sustainable economic and cultural development universities and research institutes, which we in a society, Aksa does its best to contribute to regard as our key stakeholders. raising well-educated, cultured individuals that As an indicator of the great importance we atare sensitive to the environment and society. In tach to education, we established Aksa Technithat respect we develop active dialogue chancal and Industrial Occupational High School in nels with educational organizations, implement 1992 in Taşköprü, Çiftlikköy borough of Yalova G4-EC7 G4-EC8 54 Aksa Sustainability Report with a view to educating well-educated and talUnit to create an environment supporting the ented young people for the sector. As of 2014 development of emotions and skills such as the school has 28 teachers, 365 students in self-confidence, self-respect, self-expression, total and continues to educate students, who creativity and empathy and we continued our graduate as qualified technical workers capable support for the unit in 2014. While meeting the of working in the industrial areas. Throughout requests for donations and assistance from the Turkey among the occupational and technical schools in the region, we opened the doors of educational organizations only Aksa Technical our production facilities to students within the and Industrial Occupational High School boasts scope of the Open Door Visits. the “Process” department designed to meet the technical staff requirements of the plants located in the region. Educated in the ComOpen Door Visits puter (Software), Electronics and Process departments, the students continue their applied Launched in 1999 in line with our principles of education in the labs equipped with developed transparency and accountability, Open Door technologies. During the reporting period we visits create the opportunity for exchanging continued our continuous maintenance, repair, information with our stakeholders. Thanks to graduation day organization and library supthese visits employees are able to communiport for Aksa Occupational High School becate with their managers regarding any issues sides organizing various events for it. while customers, community, business partners and shareholders are able to communicate Undertaken in collaboration with Akkök Holdwith Aksa officials easily and in an open fashing and Education Volunteers Foundation of ion. Also continued during the reporting period, Turkey, Yalova Lightning Bug Mobile Learning Open Door Visits enable NGOs, local community members, schools, families of the employees, customers, comparison teams, domestic and foreign visitors to visit Aksa production site and receive information. Following these visits, evaluation surveys are given to visitors and the results from them are integrated with the improvement studies of Aksa. 259 stakeholders in total visited Aksa production site in 2014. I Read and Learn with Aksa Aksa engineers specialized in their areas started “I Learn with Aksa Sharing Seminar” voluntarily and began to meet young people in Yalova. Held with the participation of voluntary engineers in Yalova Anatolian High School in 2014, the event gave the opportunity for approximately 200 young people to benefit from the experiences and knowledge of Aksa engineers. G4-27 G4-EC7 G4-EC8 Aksa Sustainability Report 55 Cooperation with the Red Crescent Europe besides the sportspeople it has trained remains a source of pride for Yalova. Attaching importance to ways of increasing social responsibility awareness among our stakeAkkök Children’s Festival holders and especially among our employees, Organized by Akkök Holding since 2011 to inwe come up with events for that purpose. In crease awareness of children regarding susthat respect we organize a “Blood Drive” two tainability and recycling, Akkök Children’s Festimes a year in cooperation with Yalova Red tival was held in 2014 and we continued our Crescent Branch and encourage voluntary parsupport for it too. As Aksa we brought the ticipation of our employees. fund and educational theatre play titled “BubToy Museum Mobile Exhibition bly Funny Cabaret” stressing messages about sustainability for the children to enjoy. In 2014 İstanbul Toy Museum Mobile Exhibition visited Yalova thanks to contributions made by Reforestation Activities Aksa. Held in Raif Dinçkök Culture Centre for We believe in the importance of preserving visitors to view for free, the exhibition featured forests and increasing their size so that the the most favourite samples of the history of ecosystem could maintain its balance and risks toays since 1900s. Approximately 8 thousand regarding climate change could be averted. people visited İstanbul Toy Museum Mobile ExFor that purpose we undertake reforestation hibition in 10 days. studies with the voluntary participation of Festival Present for Children in Yalova our stakeholders and regard this practice as an opportunity to develop our dialogue with We celebrated 23rd April National Sovereignour stakeholders further. Since 1968 we give ty and Children’s Festival of the children in by away the plants and saplings grown in our own taking them to see “Lambs on the Run” movie. greenhouse to our voluntary stakeholders visDuring the event close to 1,000 children saw iting our facilities. During the reporting period the film for free in Cinetime Özdilek and were we planted 2,492 saplings in total. welcomed by clowns there at the entrance while they are also offered treats during the Donations and Social Aid screenings. We provide donations and social aid that develSupport for Yalova Orthopedically op the visions of individuals and society besides Disabled Sports Club supporting the social and cultural development of the local community in our operation Since 2012 Akkök Holding has acted as the regions through them. Firmly believing in the main sponsor for Yalova Orthopedically Disfact that social development actors will only be abled Sports Club (YOSK), which competes well-educated generations, we try to increase in the Wheelchair Basketball Super League as our investments in this area annually. During a leading sports club. Within the scope of the the reporting period Aksa spent 1,094,563 TL practice we continued our support for YOSK in total under “Donations and Social Aid”, most during the reporting period. Successful perforof which went to educational, cultural, art and mance shown by the club both in Turkey and sports activities. G4-EC2 G4-EC7 G4-EC8 G4-EN13 56 Aksa Sustainability Report PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PRIMARY FINANCIAL INDICATORS Consolidated Balance Sheet 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 (Thousand USD) (Thousand USD) ASSETS 861,643 848,805 Current Assets 421,320 401,625 Cash and Cash Equivalents 83,010 109,267 Trade Receivables 210,987 171,202 Stocks 101,931 86,770 Other Current Assets 25,392 34,386 Non-current Assets 440,323 447,180 Trade Receivables 30,376 Financial Investments 1,016 1,103 Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method 104,613 114,842 Tangible Fixed Assets 292,611 317,908 Intangible Fixed Assets 3,198 4,653 Goodwill 2,583 2,806 Other Fixed Assets 5,926 5,867 LIABILITIES 861,643 848,805 Short-term Liabilities 324,184 288,879 Financial Liabilities 121,717 105,824 Trade Liabilities 186,056 159,821 Provision for Period Tax Liabilities 4,796 4,890 Other Short-term Liabilities 11,615 18,343 Long-term Liabilities 57,334 69,140 Financial Liabilities 43,977 58,387 Financial Derivative Instruments Provision for Employee Benefits 9,309 7,186 Deferred Tax Liabilities 4,048 3,395 Other Long-term Liabilities 171 Shareholders' Equity 480,125 490,787 G4-9 G4-17 G4-EC1 Aksa Sustainability Report 57 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS Employee Breakdown by Gender 2012 2013 2014 Male 619 798 1.125 Female 92 98 123 TOTAL 711 896 1.248 Employee Breakdown by Status 2012 2013 2014 Blue Collar 591 727 1.047 White Collar 120 169 201 TOTAL 711 896 1.248 Employee Breakdown by Age 2012 2013 2014 <30 257 277 443 30-50 476 584 766 50< 44 35 39 TOTAL 777 896 1.248 Employee Breakdown by Contract and Region İstanbul Yalova Total Board of Directors 11 1 12 Permanent Staff 34 1,182 1216 Permanent Pensioner 5 7 12 Employees On Contract 1 2 3 Pensioners On Contract 0 17 17 Employee Breakdown by Employment Type and Region İstanbul Yalova Total Full-time 50 1,208 1258 Part-time 1 1 2 Employee Breakdown by Educational Status Total Two-year Degree and Below 1028 Bachelor's Degree and Above 232 Senior Managers 2012 2013 2014 Male 19 20 18 Female 1 1 1 G4-10 58 Aksa Sustainability Report Starting and Leaving Employees by Age Group and Gender Starting Leaving <30 217 41 30-50 237 57 50< 17 10 Male 181 62 Female 430 92 İstanbul 7 7 Yalova 463 100 Mid Level Managers 2013 2014 Male 34 46 Female 7 9 30-50 27 45 50< 12 5 Two-year Degree and Below 1 0 Bachelor's Degree 32 45 Master's Degree 8 10 Employees Subjected to Performance by Employee Categories Mavi Yaka Beyaz Yaka Permanent Pensioner 0 0 Permanent Staff 951 162 OHS Performance 2012 2013 2014 Accident Frequency Rate 3.2 4.87 8.86 Accident Severity Rate 254.7 125.25 184.04 Injury Rate 26.44 19.49 30.33 Absentee Rate 1933.2 1.484 2.179 Lost Days 2187.90 1.609 2365.85 G4-LA1 G4-LA12 Aksa Sustainability Report 59 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tons Co2e) 2012 2013 2014 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 806,943 857,737 1,136,312 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 27,455 20,507 22,700 TOTAL 834,398 878,224 1,159,012 Water Consumption (m3) 2012 2013 2014 Municipal and Well Water 2,983,616 3,847,412 3,907,162 Waste Water Discharge (m3) 2012 2013 2014 Waste Water Discharge (m3) 2,463,750 2,950,507 2,833,690 Amounts of Waste by Disposal Method 2013 2014 Total Hazardous Waste 3,199 1,446 Recycle 8 120 Reuse 6 29 Incineration 3,185 1,297 Total Non-hazardous Waste 40,397 47,388 Recycle 270 789 Reuse 32,164 40,407 Sanitary Landfill 1,799 1,255 Incineration 6,184 4,937 G4-EN8 G4-EN15 G4-EN16 60 Aksa Sustainability Report GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX Indicator Description Identified Omissions External Assurance Profile Disclosures G4-1 Message from the CEO (p.4-5) G4-2 Message from the CEO (p.4-5); Corporate Governance (p. 13-15) G4-3 Contact (Back Cover) G4-4 About Aksa (p.9); Corporate Website:http://www.aksa. com/en G4-5 Contact G4-6 About the Report (p.7); Affiliates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures (p.10); Aksa 2014 Annual Report (pp.9-11) G4-7 Shareholding Structure (p.10) G4-8 About Aksa (p.9) G4-9 About Aksa (p.9); Aksa At A Glance (p.10); Primary Financial Indicators (p.56) G4-10 Human Resources Indicators (p.57) G4-11 Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.35-37) G4-12 Sustainable Operations (pp.27-30); Supply Chain (p.32) G4-13 Corporate Website:http://www.aksa.com/en/investor-relations/material-disclosures/material-disclosures/i-220 G4-14 Corporate Governance (p.13-15); Risk Management (pp.17-18); Strategic Planning (p.17) G4-15 Corporate Memberships (p.25) G4-16 Corporate Memberships (p.25) G4-17 About the Report (p.7); About Aksa, (p.9); Aksa At a No Glance (p.10); Primary Financial Indicators (p.56) G4-18 About the Report (p.7); Sustainability Management No (pp.19-21) G4-19 Sustainability Management (p.20) No G4-20 About the Report (p.7); Sustainability Management No (p.20) G4-21 About the Report (p.7); Sustainability Management No (p.20) G4-22 GRI G4 Content Index (p.60) (In this report, there is no No any restatements of information provided in previous reports.) G4-23 About the Report (p.7); Sustainability Management No (p.19-21) G4-24 Our Stakeholders (p.24) No G4-25 Our Stakeholders (p.23) No G4-26 Our Stakeholders (p.23); Sustainability Management No (pp.19-21) G4-27 Our Stakeholders (p.23); Our Customers (p.33); Open No Door Visits (p.54); Internal Communication and Employee Engagement (pp.40-41) G4-28 About the Report (p.7) G4-29 About the Report (p.7) G4-22 Aksa Sustainability Report 61 Indicator Description Identified Omissions External Assurance Profile Disclosures G4-30 About the Report (p.7) G4-31 About the Report (p.7); Contact (Back Cover) G4-32 About the Report (p.7); GRI G4 Content Index (p.62) (Aksa Sustainability Report 2014 was not subjected to external audit.) G4-33 GRI G4 Content Index (p.61) (Aksa Sustainability Report 2014 was not subjected to external audit.) G4-34 Corporate Governance (p.15); Aksa Annual Report 2014 (pp.68-69) G4-56 Corporate Governance (p.13, 15) Indicator Description Identified Omissions External Assurance Standard Disclosures Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.35-37) G4-EC1 Primary Financial Indicators (p.58); Aksa 2014 Annual Report (pp.115-119) G4-EC2 Message from the CEO (pp.4-5); Risk Management (pp.15-16); Reforestation Activities (p.55) G4-EC3 Human and Employee Rights Management (pp. 35-37); Aksa 2014 Annual Report (pp.117-122) G4-EC4 Aksa 2014 Annual Report (p.40, 100, 123 ) Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA Not material. G4-EC5 GRI G4 Content Index (p.61) (The ratio of standard entry level wage to local minimum wage is calculated with respect to employee status.); Human and Employee Rights Management (p.35-37) Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Contribution to Society (p.53); Support for Education (pp.53-55); Our Employees (p.35) G4-EC7 Contribution to Society (pp.53-55) G4-EC8 Donations and Social Aid (p.55); Supply Chain (p.32); Support for Education (p.53-54); Open Door Visits (p.54) Material Aspects: Procurement Practices G4-DMA Sustainable Operations (pp.27-30); Supply Chain (p.32) G4-EC9 Supply Chain (p.32) Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Environmental Management (p.45); Energy Management (pp.46-47); Emissions Management (p.48) G4-33 G4-EC5 62 Aksa Sustainability Report Indicator Description Identified Omissions External Assurance Standard Disclosures G4-EN3 Energy Management (p.47) G4-EN5 Energy Management (p.47) G4-EN6 Energy Management (pp.46-47) G4-EN7 Energy Management (p.47) Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Water Management (p.49) G4-EN8 Water Management (p.49); Environmental Indicators (p.60) G4-EN9 Water Management (p.49) Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA Not material. G4-EN13 Reforestation Activities (p.55) Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Emissions Management (p.48) G4-EN15 Environmental Indicators (p.59) G4-EN16 Environmental Indicators (p.59) G4-EN21 Emissions Management (p.48) Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Water Management (p.49); Waste Management (pp.50-51) G4-EN22 Water Management (p.49) G4-EN23 Waste Management (p.50) G4-EN24 GRI G4 Content Index (p.62) (During the reporting period there was not any significant spills.) G4-EN26 GRI G4 Content Index (p.62) (There is no body of water significantly affected by Aksa's water use.) G4-EN27 Quality (pp.27-29); Product Development (pp.27-29), Water Management (p.49); Waste Management (p.50) Material Aspect: Compliance G4-EN29 GRI G4 Content Index (p.62) (No significant environmental penalties were received during the reporting period for non-compliance with environmetal laws and regulations.) Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Not material. G4-EN32 Supply Chain (p.32) Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Our Employees (p.35); Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.35-36) G4-LA1 Human Resources Indicators (p.58) G4-LA2 Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.35-36) G4-LA3 Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.35-36) Material Aspect: Labour/Management Relations G4-DMA Not material. G4-LA4 GRI G4 Content Index (p.62) (For serious operational changes, Aksa complies with the minimum period of notice defined by the law.) Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety (pp. 42-43) G4-EN24 G4-EN26 G4-EN29 G4-LA4 Aksa Sustainability Report 63 Indicator Description Identified Omissions External Assurance Standard Disclosures G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety (p.42) G4-LA6 Occupational Health and Safety (p.42) Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Talent Management (pp.37-40) G4-LA9 Talent Management (p.40) G4-LA10 Talent Management (pp.37-39) G4-LA11 Talent Management (p.38) Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Our Employees (p.35); Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.37-38); Corporate Website: http:// www.aksa.com/tr/i-80 G4-LA12 Human Resources Indicators (p.58) Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.35-36) G4-LA13 Human and Employee Rights Management (p.35) Material Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-DMA Corporate Governance (pp.13-15); Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.35-37); Corporate Website: http://www.aksa.com/tr/i-80 G4-HR3 GRI G4 Content Index (p.63) (No incidents of discrimination occured during the reporting period.) Material Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.35-36) G4-HR5 Human and Employee Rights Management (p.35) Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.35-36) G4-HR6 Human and Employee Rights Management (p.35) Material Aspect: Security Practices G4-DMA Not material. G4-HR7 GRI G4 Content Index (p.63) (In line with legal regulations, all security personnel receive trainings, which also include aspects of human rights.) Material Aspect: Indigenous People G4-DMA Not material. G4-HR8 GRI G4 Content Index (p.63) (Aksa does not pursue operations with significant negative impacts on local communities.) Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Coporate Governance (pp.13-15); Aksa Annual Report 2014 (s.55); Corporate Website: http://www.aksa.com/ tr/i-80 G4-SO5 GRI G4 Content Index (p.63) (During the reporting period there were not any incidents of corruption.) Material Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA Not material. G4-SO6 GRI G4 Content Index (p.63) (Aksa does not make directly or undirectly any financial and in-kind political contributions.) Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behaviour G4-HR3 G4-HR7 G4-HR8 G4-SO5 G4-SO6 64 Aksa Sustainability Report Indicator Description Identified Omissions External Assurance Standard Disclosures G4-DMA Corporate Governance (pp.13-15); Corporate Web Site: http://www.aksa.com/tr/i-80 G4-S07 GRI G4 Content Index (p.64) (There is not any legal action taken against Aksa concerning any anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes.) Material Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 GRI G4 Content Index: (p.64) (During the reporting period there is not any significant fines and nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.) Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Quality (pp.27-29); Product Development (pp.27-29); Our Customers (p.33) G4-PR2 GRI G4 Content Index (p.64) (During the reporting period, there is not incident of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle.) Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Our Customers (p.33) G4-PR4 GRI G4 Content Index (p.64) (During the reporting period there is not any incident of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling.) G4-PR5 Our Customers (p.33) Material Aspect: Marketing Communication G4-DMA Not material. G4-PR7 GRI G4 Content Index (p.64) (There is not any incident of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications.) Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Not material. G4-PR8 GRI G4 Content Index (p.64) (During the reporting period, there is not any substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.) Material Aspect: Compliance G4-PR9 GRI G4 Content Index (p.64) (There have been no significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.) G4-SO7 G4-SO8 G4-PR2 G4-PR4 G4-PR7 G4-PR8 G4-PR9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed pp.37-39 human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. pp.37-39 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of pp.37-38 the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; p.34,37-38 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and p.34,37-38 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. pp.37-38 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; p.47 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and p.47,57 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. pp.47-53 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. pp.15-17 G4-HR3 G4-HR7 G4-HR8 G4-SO5 G4-SO6 Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. Miralay Şefik Bey Sokak No: 15 Ak Han Gümüşsuyu 34437 İstanbul/Turkey Tel: 0 212 251 45 00 Faks: 0 212 251 45 07 www.aksa.com This report has been produced with 100% recycled paper. No tree was harmed during its production.
