WE 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILD TOMORROW 2015 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENGLISH WE ABOUT THIS REPORT 2015 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILD Characteristics of This Report TOMORROW This report is the sixth Sustainability Report of Hyundai E&C that suggests company-wide sustainability management strategies based on the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model and mainly consists of Value Creating Process to realize the strategies. In addition, we have enhanced the communication with 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT stakeholders by disclosing stakeholder interests and importance for each of the five sustainable management areas as well as including Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Reporting Period & Boundary This report covers Hyundai E&C’s economic, environmental, and social activities and performances of the headquarters as well as domestic and overseas sites from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. In addition, we partially included meaningful activities and performances until May 2015. For the quantitative performance, data of the recent 3 years is reported so that the yearly development can be analyzed. VALUE CREATION ENGLISH Creating Shared Value Reporting Standard To communicate our sustainability achievements to stakeholders more transparently, this report was prepared in accordance with the Comprehensive option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. This report also reflects the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the main agenda of ISO 26000. For the financial performance, Hyundai E&C reports its financial data based on the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Assurance In order to secure the credibility and fairness of the writing and contents of the report, a third-party assurance was conducted by an external, independent specialized agency and the results are available on p. 74~75 of this report. 2015 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION ABOUT THIS REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Characteristics of This Report CONTENTS This report is the sixth Sustainability Report of Hyundai E&C that suggests company-wide sustainability management strategies based on the Creating 02 Message from the CEO Shared Value (CSV) model and mainly consists of Value Creating Process to 04 Business at a Glance realize the strategies. In addition, we have enhanced the communication with 08 BIG PICTURE Towards Value Creation stakeholders by disclosing stakeholder interests and importance for each of the five sustainable management areas as well as including Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Economic Value Creation 15 23 Reporting Period & Boundary Sustainability Management Strategic Management This report covers Hyundai E&C’s economic, environmental, and social activities and performances of the headquarters as well as domestic and 16 Corporate Philosophy & Vision 24 Sustainable Value Creation overseas sites from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. In addition, 18 Sustainability Management System 28 Sound Corporate Governance we partially included meaningful activities and performances until May 2015. 20 Sustainability Issues 30 Enhancement of Ethical Management For the quantitative performance, data of the recent 3 years is reported so that 22 Sustainability Performance and KPIs 32 Strategic Risk Management the yearly development can be analyzed. Environmental Value Creation VALUE CREATION 35 Environmental Management 36 Maximizing Eco-efficiency 47 Technology Management 48 Differentiating Technology Capability Creating Shared Value 40 Minimizing Environmental Impacts 52 Customer Satisfaction through Innovation 46 Environmental Performances at a Glance Social Value Creation Reporting Standard To communicate our sustainability achievements to stakeholders more transparently, this report was prepared in accordance with the Comprehensive 55 Talent Management 56 Cultivating Innovative Talents 63 Social Management 64 Sustainable Supply Chain Management option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. This report also reflects the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the main agenda of 59 Work-life Balance 66 Shared Growth with Suppliers ISO 26000. For the financial performance, Hyundai E&C reports its financial data 61 Safe Work Environment 68 Strategic Social Contribution based on the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). 70 2014 HDEC Social Contribution Highlights Assurance Appendix In order to secure the credibility and fairness of the writing and contents of the report, a third-party assurance was conducted by an external, independent 72 specialized agency and the results are available on p. 74~75 of this report. 73 Financial Performance 77 GRI Index 74 Third Party Assurance Report 81 Major Awards and Accolades 76 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement / Memberships 01. 2015 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Passion of Each and Every Member of Hyundai E&C is Creating a Sustainable Tomorrow. CONTENTS In May 2014, for the first in the global construction industry, Hyundai E&C established 5 SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS 02 Message from the CEO the sustainability management strategy based on the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model 04 Business at a Glance and defined the five areas of sustainability: strategic management, environmental management, 08 BIG PICTURE Towards Value Creation technology management, talent management, and social management. Hence, Hyundai E&C STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT is building a world where the company and the society can accomplish the shared growth. The whole world is the land of infinite possibilities and the stage where Hyundai E&C makes its dream come true. Economic Value Creation Hyundai E&C realizes a sustainable future UE AL by creating global values. BU SIN ES SV 15 Sustainability Management 16 Corporate Philosophy & Vision 23 Strategic Management 24 Sustainable Value Creation 18 Sustainability Management System 28 Sound Corporate Governance ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 20 Sustainability Issues 30 Enhancement of Ethical Management Environmental issues due to the climate change 22 Sustainability Performance and KPIs 32 Strategic Risk Management and resource scarcity provide risks and opportunities. Hyundai E&C minimizes environmental impacts by maximizing the eco-efficiency. Environmental Value Creation VALUE CREATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT Technology is the future of Hyundai E&C and the innovative DNA 35 Environmental Management 36 Maximizing Eco-efficiency 47 Technology Management 48 Differentiating Technology Capability Creating Shared Value that makes the impossible possible in extremes. 40 Minimizing Environmental Impacts 52 Customer Satisfaction through Innovation Hyundai E&C ensures the customer satisfaction 46 Environmental Performances at a Glance by differentiating the technology capability. Social Value Creation TALENT MANAGEMENT Employees enable the innovation and are the driving forces of Hyundai E&C’s business activities. Hyundai E&C realizes employee values 55 Talent Management 63 Social Management UE by cultivating innovative talents. 56 Cultivating Innovative Talents 64 Sustainable Supply Chain Management AL IA LV 59 Work-life Balance 66 Shared Growth with Suppliers C SO 61 Safe Work Environment 68 Strategic Social Contribution 70 2014 HDEC Social Contribution Highlights SOCIAL MANAGEMENT Suppliers are the most important companions Appendix WE and local communities are the base of business activities. BUILD TOMORROW 2015 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION Hyundai E&C accomplishes the shared growth with the society 2015 COVER STORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 72 by empowering the entire value chain. 73 Financial Performance 77 GRI Index Hyundai E&C is making a construction history and paving the way for a sustainable future with our corporate spirit of creative daring. 74 Third Party Assurance Report 81 Major Awards and Accolades The cover represents the daring and progressive mind-set of each member 76 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement / Memberships of Hyundai E&C and our collective will to establish a sustainable base for mankind through the creation of shared value. 01. Message from the CEO Accomplishment of Global Sustainability Management Last year, even with intensified competition and emerging market risks as well as falling oil prices in foreign markets, Hyundai E&C’s corporate sustainability management has clinched a most valuable accomplishment. Since entered the foreign market for the first among Korean construction companies in 1965, we established a new record of USD 100 billion in overseas orders received (cumulative) in November 2013. Moreover, Hyundai E&C is leading the Korean construction wave winning overseas orders worth more than USD 10 billion annually for 5 consecutive years up to the year 2014. Beside these financial performances, Hyundai E&C is currently concentrating all of its capability for sustainability management activities such as the transparent management, environment-friendly business operation, and win-win management with suppliers, together with an active social contribution thus stabilizing our position as a global company. Hyundai E&C is the first construction company to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for 5 consecutive years as well as has been selected as the world’s sustainability leader in the construction sector in the years 2011, 2013, and 2014. I believe this achievement is a recognition that our innovative and future-oriented performances are most outstanding among global construction companies in aspects of the commitment to the society and sustainability. We should also take note that the Engineering News-Records (ENR), a worldwide renowned Engineering & Construction magazine, has rated Hyundai E&C as the 13th on ‘The Top International Contractors 2014’ based on its overseas sales. Hyundai E&C is expected to enter the 10th ranking in the years to come. Improvement of Business Environment and Innovation of Corporate Culture The main business focus of Hyundai E&C this year is our company’s structural ‘improvement and innovation of the corporate culture.’ For a stable and sustainable growth, the improvement of business environment should precede. Our goal is to diversify our business environment as well as to advance our business management system through the expansion of the value chain by stepping further beyond the form of EPC business. In order to overcome the current crisis, Hyundai E&C seeks its own identity and DNA differentiated from other companies. With solidarity and a challenging spirit in our hearts, Hyundai E&C, as a future-oriented company, will continuously pioneer the business market by responding to changes and searching for solutions. Hyundai E&C Since being incorporated into Hyundai Motor Group in the year 2011, Hyundai E&C has constantly been evolving. In the aspect of managerial strategy, we have focused on the profitability and liquidity rather than on the turnover as well as has consistently put its best effort to facilitate on the diversification of markets and work types. In addition, Hyundai E&C has established a new management system to enable a distributed risk management thus thoroughly prepared to respond to changes. A continued interest and a better and more eudemonic society encouragement on the process of Hyundai E&C’s change and innovation would be most appreciated. based on the policy of Trust management, Hyundai E&C will continuously carry out its duty and responsibility of being a leading global sustainable company. As a business partner, furthermore, we will continuously develop and execute various programs that assist our Site management, and Transparent management. suppliers to expand to overseas markets. Hence, Hyundai E&C will establish a successful model of a win-win management between large corporations and medium and small corporations. I wish to express my sincerest thanks to those who have unceasingly supported and attended to Hyundai E&C enabling us As companions of Hyundai E&C, your constant support and encouragement are always appreciated. to grow with sustainability and conduct ourselves with complete social responsibility. Thank you. As the first construction company in Korea, Hyundai E&C has consistently put its best effort to facilitate a better and July 2015 more eudemonic society based on its policies of Trust management, Site management, and Transparent management that have President & CEO of Hyundai E&C l Jung Soo-Hyun grown for the past 68 years. 02. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 03. Business at a Glance NORTH AMERICA Orders Received by Region / PACIFIC Domestic and Overseas Branches EUROPE 610.22 million USD MIDDLE EAST 3,781.86 million USD 66,314.09 million USD Houston LATIN AMERICA London Caracas Bogota 8,280.93 Istanbul Tashkent million USD Algiers Beijing Joong-bu Tehran Tripoli Baghdad Ho-nam Dae-gu Tokyo Kuwait Young-nam Al-Khobar New Delhi Riyadh Dubai Doha Muscat Dhaka Abudabi Hanoi Montevideo ASIA AFRICA Kuala Lumpur 158,756.68 320.96 Singapore million USD CIVIL & ENVIRONMENT WORKS PLANT WORKS million USD Jakarta Hyundai E&C will lead the development of the mankind Hyundai E&C pioneers the global plant market with the differentiated technology. based on the technology, experience and strong execution ability. Johannesburg The Civil & Environment Works Division has led the global infrastructure and Based on a variety of business performances acquired in overseas markets and environment business markets backed by the best technology and abundant competent technical staffs as well as know-hows, the Plant Works Division is experiences accumulated for 68 years. By successfully implementing various projects implementing industrial facility and nuclear energy businesses such as mega-scale such as land development, ports, rail ways, roads and bridges, water resources, petrochemical plants, steelworks & refineries, and LNG terminals, etc. Hyundai E&C COMPANY OVERVIEW & MAJOR and, environment, Hyundai E&C has enhanced its reputation as a Core Infra Solution will step forward as a pioneer of the global plant market by diversifying business Leader which is pioneers the era and comprehensively provides the core infra models, expanding to new higher value-added markets with core technology, and BUSINESS PORTFOLIO FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN 2014 construction for the economic development of the world. reinforcing its capability in Engineering, Procurement, and Construction. Hyundai E&C creates tomorrow with stakeholders around the world 27,167.3 billion KRW Orders Received providing a base for a better life backed by its outstanding technology and proven business execution ability. Leading the global construction BUILDING WORKS POWER & ENERGY WORKS market and contributing to the world’s development, we have expanded Revenue 17,387.0 billion KRW businesses to emerging markets in Latin America, Africa, and Hyundai E&C realizes the human-centered future space Hyundai E&C will open the page of an era of the cutting-edge, Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) based on the stable business foundation in Korea, Asia, and the Middle East. Therefore, Hyundai E&C Opperating Income 958.9 billion KRW through the challenge and passion. future environmental energy network. With the infinite imagination, Hyundai E&C’s Building Works Division makes The Power & Energy Works Division is developing various power and energy markets has been growing as a company which owns a bigger possibility and an imaginary cutting-edge space come true, where human, information, such as power transmission and industrial electricity based on its advanced engineering competitiveness. Net Profit 586.7 billion KRW environment, and technology coexist. The Building Works Division builds technology and competitiveness in executing business. Furthermore, Hyundai E&C environment-friendly green buildings and high-rise buildings as well as promotes has dominated a competitive edge in power generation and desalination plant markets. As of May 2015, total 5,615 employees are working at the headquarters, AACredit Rating* mixed development business throughout all construction fields such as residential, The Power & Energy Works Division will strategically enter markets in Africa, Latin 4 domestic and 27 overseas branches, and 161 domestic and 80 overseas commercial, medical, business, educational, and cultural buildings. Moreover, America, Southeastern Asia, and CIS countries based on the Middle East market * Credit rating from Korea Ratings Corporation, NICE Information Service, the Division leads the paradigm of the construction market and actively explores as well as aggressively secure the technology capability for highly profitable products sites. and Korea Investors Service new overseas markets. Therefore, Hyundai E&C will grow to a Constructor & and promote the shared growth with affiliates. Hence, Hyundai E&C will stand taller Developer that guides a new construction culture of 21st century at the frontline. as a Total Power & Utility Provider in the world. 04. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 05. HYUNDAI E&C Challenge of Hyundai E&C The world’s sustainability is threatened by global climate changes, population growth, energy and water scarcity, and resource depletion. Therefore, Hyundai E&C has continued to create BIG PICTURE for the Sustainable Future of the global value by providing sustainable construction products and environment-friendly technology services as well as taken Company and Society a new step for a challenge to solve problems of the world. Hyundai E&C is now becoming a new history of the sustainable construction of the world, beyond Korea. Towards Value Creation Beginning of Change BIG PICTURE 1 Megatrend Analysis BIG PICTURE 2 Hyundai E&C’s Sustainability Management & CSV Strategy BIG PICTURE 3 Hyundai E&C’s Value Creation Process Reclamation For Pasir Panjang Terminal Phase 3 and 4 06. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 07. BIG Four Megatrends of Construction Industry 2030 Megatrend Outlook PICTURE 1 60% Megatrend Analysis Through the analysis about megatrends, Hyundai E&C has defied URBANIZATION the urbanization, water scarcity/pollution, energy & fuel, and material resource scarcity as the four megatrends of the construction industry. Intensified concentration 60% of world population living in urban areas, Hyundai E&C has identified and integrated risk/opportunity of the city population and the rise of urban poor 10% increase in urban population from 50% of 2013 into the business thus endeavored to respond to future changes. < UN Population Division > WATER SCARCITY / POLLUTION 283% WATER SCARCITY /POLLUTION Threats on the growth and expansion 283% increase in water demand in South Africa of the businesses due to water scarcity compared to 2005, 40% increase in industrial URBANIZATION water demand in China < 2030 Water Resources Group > Identification of risk/opportunity through future analysis of megatrends TECHNOLOGY ENERGY / FUEL MATERIAL RESOURCE SCARCITY ENERGY / FUEL 15% Sudden changes in energy policy, supply, 15% increase in world oil consumption and fuel prices compared to 2010 due to the increase of transportation in emerging markets in 2030 < IEA > MATERIAL RESOURCE SCARCITY 83 billion ton Intensified scarcity of resources The extraction amount of mineral/metal/biomass such as metal, biomass, agricultural reaching 83 billion tons products, and water < KPMG > 08. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 09. BIG Research & Development for Each Megatrend PICTURE 1 OPPORTUNITY Provide large/smart infrastructure in accordance with expansion Megatrend Analysis of the urban areas Development of large/smart Through the analysis about megatrends, Hyundai E&C has defied infrastructure technologies the urbanization, water scarcity/pollution, energy & fuel, and material SOLUTION 01 Intensified resource scarcity as the four megatrends of the construction industry. socio-economic problems Hyundai E&C has identified and integrated risk/opportunity in urban areas due to population growth into the business thus endeavored to respond to future changes. RISK Development of water treatment and OPPORTUNITY environmental restoration technologies WATER SCARCITY /POLLUTION Overcome environmental risks SOLUTION 02 through water treatment and environmental restoration technologies Outbreak of security threats URBANIZATION on water supply between businesses and markets RISK Hyundai E&C endeavors to become a global integrated engineering R&D company that solves problems of the future by providing sustainable TECHNOLOGY Direction construction products and environment-friendly technology services with its outstanding technology. OPPORTUNITY Respond to energy scarcity with renewable energy and low-carbon ENERGY / FUEL MATERIAL RESOURCE SCARCITY high-efficiency technologies Development of renewable energy and Advent of severe crises low-carbon high-efficiency technologies on energy shortage caused SOLUTION 03 by demand increase for energy RISK OPPORTUNITY Development of waste-recycling Prepare for resource-restricted age by developing waste-recycling technologies and alternate materials technologies and alternate materials SOLUTION 04 World-wide excessive competitions on securing resources RISK 10. 08. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 09. BIG Five Sustainability Areas Creating Shared Value (CSV) DMA PICTURE 2 Hyundai E&C’s The whole world is the land of infinite possibilities and the stage Sustainability Management where Hyundai E&C makes its dream come true. & CSV Strategy STRATEGIC In order to promote its long-term growth as well as MANAGEMENT Hyundai E&C realizes a sustainable future the prosperity of mankind , Hyundai E&C has established by creating global values. the sustainability management strategy based on the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model. Hence, Hyundai E&C is building a world where the company and the society grow together with its five sustainability areas. Environmental issues due to the climate change and resource scarcity provide risks and opportunities. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Hyundai E&C minimizes environmental impacts by maximizing the eco-efficiency. Technology is the future of Hyundai E&C and the innovative DNA that makes the impossible possible in extremes. TECHNOLOGY HYUNDAI TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT Hyundai E&C ensures the customer satisfaction E&C by differentiating the technology capability. Employees enable the innovation and are the driving forces of Hyundai E&C’s business activities. TALENT MANAGEMENT Hyundai E&C realizes employee values by cultivating innovative talents. Suppliers are the most important companions and local communities are the base of business activities. SOCIAL MANAGEMENT Hyundai E&C accomplishes the shared growth with the society by empowering the entire value chain. 10. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11. BIG Creating Shared Value (CSV) Model CSV : The management principle by which economic value Hyundai E&C’s Creating Shared Value (CSV) Model PICTURE 2 and social value are created simultaneously by accepting Mission & Vision Hyundai E&C’s the demands of the society and solving problems. Creating Sustainable Habitat Sustainability Management For Human & CSV Strategy Creating Business Value Global Value STRATEGIC In order to promote its long-term growth as well as MANAGEMENT the prosperity of mankind, Hyundai E&C has established the sustainability management strategy based on Economy the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model. Social Value Hence, Hyundai E&C is building a world where Realizing the company and the society grow together Sustainable with its five sustainability areas. Maximizing Future Business Aspect Business Value Eco-efficiency ENVIRONMENTAL Creating Corporate Value MANAGEMENT Environment Social Value Minimizing Environmental Sustainable Environment-friendly Differentiating Construction Products Technology Services Impacts Technology Business Value Capability TECHNOLOGY CSV MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGY Technology HYUNDAI Creating Shared Value E&C Social Value Ensuring Customer Cultivating Satisfaction Business Value Innovative Talents Solutions for Solutions for Planet’s Employee Mankind’s Social Environmental TALENT Problems Problems MANAGEMENT Social Value Realizing Social Aspect Employee Creating Social Value Value Empowering Business Value Value Chain Society SOCIAL Social Value MANAGEMENT Accomplishing Shared Growth Provision Backed by the indomitable challenging spirit, Hyundai E&C provides advanced of construction products and technology services. Solution Therefore, Hyundai E&C, as a sustainable global integrated engineering company, provides solutions for environmental/social problems of the world. 10. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11. BIG Five Corporate Capital Areas Impact Analysis Five Sustainability Agendas PICTURE 3 Hyundai E&C’s Hyundai E&C’s business relies on the financial capital Value Creation Process Agenda 01 FINANCIAL CAPITAL that shareholders and investors provide. STRATEGIC Sustainable value creation can be realized through MANAGEMENT a capability to identify and effectively respond Hyundai E&C strives to maximize the shareholder value p.23 to business challenges as well as opportunities. through the sustainable profit generation. Hyundai E&C is enhancing the value of the entire society through the corporate growth by considering impacts of financial capital as well as manufactured & natural, intellectual, human, and social & relationship capital. Hyundai E&C consumes a considerable amount of energy MANUFACTURED & and material resource during the construction. Agenda 02 NATURAL CAPITAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Hyundai E&C devotes for minimum environmental impacts p.35 by applying its environment-friendly methods as a priority. Hyundai E&C is fully aware of the significance Agenda 03 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL of environment-friendly technology during the construction. HYUNDAI TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT E&C Hyundai E&C endeavors to increase the efficiency for customers p.47 by developing and applying high-efficiency, low-carbon technology. Hyundai E&C reinforces the corporate value Agenda 04 HUMAN CAPITAL by systematically cultivating global innovative talents. TALENT MANAGEMENT Hyundai E&C pursues the value realization of individuals p.55 by innovating the corporate culture for the work-life balance. Hyundai E&C always seeks for the win-win management SOCIAL & with business partners and suppliers in executing business. Agenda 05 RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL SOCIAL MANAGEMENT Hyundai E&C actively participates in the community p.63 thus realizes the shared growth with the society. 12. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13. BIG Capital Impact Model Hyundai E&C has defined the five capital areas based on Hyundai E&C’s Value Creation Process Five Sustainability Agendas PICTURE 3 the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Mission & Vision Hyundai E&C’s Framework for corporate capital and established the Capital Impact Model by areas. Creating Sustainable Habitat Value Creation Process Ensuring For Human Agenda 01 Business Impact Sustainable STRATEGIC Sustainable value creation can be realized through Profit Creation MANAGEMENT a capability to identify and effectively respond p.23 to business challenges as well as opportunity. Hyundai E&C is enhancing the value of the entire society Financial Capital TY NI ST through the corporate growth by considering impacts R TU Su RA TE PO st a Capital Impact GY OP ina of financial capital as well as manufactured & natural, K& e nd b & C ility Financing RI S atr SV M M eg is Str anag intellectual, human, and social & relationship capital. 30 lys ate em Long & Short-term 20 Ana gy en t Consuming Mission & Vision Investment Business Impact Energy & Materials Agenda 02 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Manufactured 01 & Natural Capital p.35 Planning / Marketing Capital Impact Demanding 02 Environment Developing Financing Preservation Business Impact Eco-friendly Technology 03 Hyundai E&C Environment-friendly Design & Engineering Agenda 03 HYUNDAI Intellectual Capital Business Model TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT E&C 04 Capital Impact TOTAL SERVICE PROVISION Environment-friendly p.47 Procurement Ensuring Fostering Customer Benefits 05 Business Impact Corporate Environment-friendly Competence Construction 06 Human Capital Operation & Agenda 04 Maintenance TALENT Capital Impact MANAGEMENT Realizing Cr e p.55 Individual Value at nt Empowering Co ion a Value Creation me eas ge t y A r Business Impact r p o nd na rat Ma a ili Value Chain e & xim IM ab So i KP stain cia zatio S u NC E OU l Va n o 5 MA TL lue f for OR O OK RF PE Social & Relationship Capital Capital Impact Agenda 05 SOCIAL Accomplishing MANAGEMENT Shared Growth p.63 Hyundai E&C Hyundai E&C creates values through its concrete business model Value and competitive advantages for Creating Shared Value Creation — the integration of corporate value and social value. 12. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13. STRATEGY HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX VALUE CREATION STRATEGY http://www.hdec.kr/challenge SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Creating Shared Value Hyundai E&C Creating pursues the sustainable growth BUSINESS VALUE Corporate Value of the company and society through the creation of shared value. Creating Our Approach Shred Value Hyundai E&C has been building the history of the Korean construction industry over its long history of 68 years. Since its foundation in 1947, SOCIAL VALUE Hyundai E&C has been a representative company of Korea creating a base for the national economic development and improving the quality Creating of life of the Korean. Now, we are to open a new page of challenge Social Value for the entire mankind. While creating corporate values around the world through environment-friendly products and advanced technology services, we will step forward as a global integrated engineering company by providing solutions for climate change, population growth, energy and water scarcity, and resource depletion that the earth is being confronted with. Key Sustainable Issues in Sustainability Management 1 Sustainability Management p.14-22 External Interest 1 2 Strategic Management p.23-33 4 2 3 Environmental Management p.35-46 3 4 Technology Management p.47-53 5 5 Talent Management p.55-62 6 Internal Impact 6 Social Management p.63-71 The Federation of Korean Industries Tower 14. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15. STRATEGY HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION Corporate Philosophy & Vision WEB SOCIAL VALUE CREATION http://en.hdec.kr/passion/intro_vision.asp APPENDIX Based on the management philosophy of the late Chairman, Chung Ju-young, the founder of Hyundai Motor Group, Hyundai E&C has been greatly contributing to the national economy and infrastructure to enrich the lives of the Korean. Hyundai Strategic Approach of Hyundai E&C E&C is becoming a global construction company sharing the management philosophy Hyundai E&C has established strategies such as ‘Building Business Foundation for Future Growth,’ ‘Strengthening Global Business Competencies,’ and ‘Advancement of Risk Management System’ and has consistently executed the strategies and core values with Hyundai Motor Group. by improving the business environment and innovating the corporate culture. Efforts such as to fortify core technology and expand the value chain have been the foundation of future growth business. Our global business competencies also have been reinforced through the rearrangement of the organizational structure and cultivation of global talents. Moreover, we have sought to advance the risk response capabilities by improving the risk management system. The devotion of Hyundai E&C and its performances have contributed to achieving the Group’s vision and taking a big step as a global construction leader. The Group’s The Group’s Group Vision HYUNDAI E&C Vision Management Philosophy Core Values A Company that Builds Tomorrow Together Based on the Group’s management philosophy, The Group’s five core values provide every member of the Group with detailed practice For the vision of ‘as a global leading provider to realize the dream of humanity by creating guidelines as a standard of their action and decision making. To realize future visions of high-value engineering solutions, we will create a new future through creative thinking and through Success DNA inherent of the Group, the faith and future-oriented values TOGETHER FOR WE BUILD the foundation for a better life through cross-business endless challenges, Hyundai E&C is growing have been shared with and internalized into the Group. Thus, Hyundai E&C will create A BETTER FUTURE TOMORROW synergy and convergence with future technologies,’ into a global leading construction company an advanced corporate culture as a global company by enhancing the communal spirit Hyundai E&C has endeavored to generate the best through creative perspective, positive thinking, and solidarity of the Group. values through the harmonious and sustainable and unwavering drive. growth with stakeholders. 01 02 03 04 05 01 03 05 Unlimited Strive for the business’s continuous growth Customer Collaboration Globality in order to take the responsibility Hyundai E&C’s Mission sense of We promote a customer-driven We create synergy through We respect the diversity responsibility for our employees and their families as well corporate culture by providing a sense of ‘togetherness’ of cultures and customs, Seek the highest quality to unlimitedly take best quality and impeccable that is fostered by mutual aspire to be the world’s best 01 02 the responsibility for our customers’ happiness service with all values centered communication and at what we do, and strive and safety on our customers. cooperation within to become a respected global As a global leading provider of high-value Through cross-business synergy the company and with corporate citizen. engineering solutions Prepare the basis for environment-friendly growth our business partners. Provide integrated construction services Enhance partnership with relevant industries to expand Realization Engrain a corporate DNA of pursuing the and diversify the type of overseas contracts business areas of possibilities unlimited growth and development 02 04 Establish an optimized management infrastructure Refuse to stay comfortable or complacent, yet have an entrepreneurial spirit to take the risk Challenge People of failure and pioneer new business areas We refuse to be complacent, We believe the future of our 03 04 R  ealize even the smallest possibility into embrace every opportunity organization lies in the hearts a reality and create a potential added value for greater challenge, and and capabilities of individual Convergence with future technologies Create the foundation for a better life are confident in achieving members, and will help them Ensure that individual technologies developed in separate Value ‘people’ as a top priority and create a better our goals with unwavering develop their potential work areas are integrated and utilized in new areas foundation for life by having a shared mindset passion and ingenious ideas. by creating a corporate Respect Provide the best-quality products and services to create new growth drivers with customers culture that respects talent. for mankind to as many people as possible and contribute Fulfill the role as a catalyst of new growth business areas Grow together with all stakeholders and contribute to the development of human society’s overall to the society standard of living Proactively respond to environmental issues and participate in philanthropic activities to contribute to the world’s local communities 16. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17. STRATEGY HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION Sustainability Management System WEB SOCIAL VALUE CREATION http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/sustainability.asp APPENDIX Hyundai E&C implements the sustainability management based on Creating Stakeholder Engagement Shared Value (CSV) to build a sustainable tomorrow for the world. Carefully listening It is essential to understand stakeholders and communicate with them for the sustainable growth and Communication development. Therefore, Hyundai E&C defines 6 major stakeholders who can influence either directly to stakeholder opinions through various communication channels, we actively reflect Channels or indirectly and operates various communication channels for them. their voices to the corporate management. Participate in governmental policy Public hearings Government, and comply with regulations Formal reports Media, and Transparently disclose information via media Associations Associations Build a constructive relationship with relevant associations Internal intranet; Company newsletter; Provide fair appraisal and compensation Facebook for employees Employees Support innovative capability HYUNDAI E&C Junior Board; Discussion with CEO Pursue work-life balance Employee Engagement Survey Sustainability Management & CSV Strategy Hyundai E&C has recognized socio-environmental issues that based on the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model for the first Call center; Web customer center Maximize customer satisfaction through technologies the world is confronted with, such as climate change, population in the global construction industry. The CSV model is the management Customer Satisfaction Survey Customers Increase customers’ trust and improve communication Hillstate Styler Construct a comfortable residential environment growth, energy and water scarcity, and resource depletion, principle which economic value and social value are created by as crucial threats to the survival of the mankind. As a global accepting the demands of the society and solving problems. integrated engineering company, we faithfully deliver the mission The corporate sustainability management has been actively to provide the ‘Sustainable Habitat for Human’ with sustainable implemented with a sustainability management TFT within the five Hi-Partner system Establish fair and transparent business relations Joint Cooperation Committee; construction products and environmental construction technology. sustainability areas: strategic management, environment management, Suppliers Share information and technologies Win-win Growth Support Center In May 2014, we established the sustainability management strategy technology management, talent management, and social management. Realize the shared growth and win-win management Supplier Satisfaction Survey 01 02 03 Protect the environment around sites Social contribution activities Society Enhance three major CSR activities Community meeting Strategic Management Environmental Management Technology Management Actively communicate with local communities Hyundai E&C realizes a sustainable future Hyundai E&C minimizes environmental impacts Hyundai E&C ensures the customer satisfaction by creating global values. by maximizing the eco-efficiency. by differentiating the technology capability. General shareholders’ meeting Establish a sound governance Shareholders & 04 05 Investment presentation; Continuously enhance the corporate competitiveness Public disclosure Investors Maximize the value of shareholders and investors Talent Management Social Management Hyundai E&C realizes employee values Hyundai E&C accomplishes the shared growth by cultivating innovative talents. with the society by empowering the entire value chain. Hyundai E&C Leads Hyundai E&C achieved a great honor to be selected as the Industry Group Leader of the Construction & Engineering Distribution of Stakeholder Interests Industr y in the Dow Jones Sustainabilit y Index ( DJSI ), the most authoritative sustainabilit y index in the world. the Global Construction Industry Following the achievements in 2011 and 2013, it is the third time to be the Industry Group Leader and our future Shareholders & as a Sustainability Giant values as the leading global construction company are also recognized. The DJSI is the investment index developed Government Employees Suppliers Society Investors by Dow Jones, the largest financial information company, and RobecoSAM, a Swiss assessment company. It annually evaluates the economic, environmental, and social sustainability of the largest 2,500 companies by industries and Procurement and announces the evaluation result. Outstanding competitiveness of Hyundai E&C has been highly valued through Corporate tax payment Total of annual wages subcontracting expenses Social contribution expenses Dividends payment the DJSI and expected to contribute to securing the liquidity and expanding businesses to new markets. Hyundai E&C will continue to enhance its position as the representative global integrated engineering company of the world through the company-wide sustainability management. 216.0 billion KRW 524.9 billion KRW 8,295.9 billion KRW 6.15 billion KRW 124.5 billion KRW 18. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19. STRATEGY HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION Sustainability Issues SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX Following the GRI G4 guidelines, the international guidelines for sustainability report, Hyundai E&C defined material issues that influence the corporate sustainability and determined key contents to report. In order to secure the accountability of the issue selection process and evaluation result, we conducted an internal and external environment analysis and materiality test based on principles of inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness which AA 1000 standard requires. STEP 01 STEP 02 STEP 03 Identification Prioritization Validation PRINCIPLE: Responsiveness Identification of sustainability issues through internal Prioritization of issues identified through the materiality test Validation of material issues Hyundai E&C thoroughly reviewed if issues identified have an important influence on the company. and external environment analysis Comprehensively considering the connection to management strategy and validity of issues, we reclassified PRINCIPLE: Inclusiveness PRINCIPLE: Materiality issues into three categories: 20 core sustainability issues, 30 material issues, and general issues. Hyundai E&C identified total 44 sustainability issues by analyzing the Hyundai E&C analyzed the materiality of each issue in aspects In planning this report, we focused mainly on the 20 core sustainability issues that have the highest importance external environment through the benchmarking of global standards, of external interest and internal impact by implementing the online as well as strived to satisfy our stakeholders’ right to know by including material and general issues. analysis of the domestic and global construction industry, and media survey about sustainability issues of the company which total 3,477 research. Also, the internal managerial environment has been reflected internal and external stakeholders participated in. through analyzing management data. Benchmarking of global standards: Conduct benchmarking on key Stakeholder Survey Key Issues * General Standard Disclosure Aspects of GRI G4 Aspect that are applied to all organizations. sustainability management trends by analysis on GRI G4, ISO 26000, UNGC, and DJSI Purpose: Strategy & Agenda GRI G4 Aspect Sustainability Issues To identify major interests and expectations of various stakeholders Review of domestic and global construction industry: Identify material STRATEGY issues in relevant industry by analyzing sustainability issues that domestic Strategy and Analysis*, Organizational Profile*, 1 Long-term corporate vision, 4 Sustainability management Period: and overseas construction companies report MAR 4, 2015 ~ MAR 11, 2015 (8 days) Sustainability Identifid Material Aspects And Boundaries*, Sustainability management system, Stakeholder engagement, Management Stakeholder Engagement* Distribution of stakeholder interests, Materiality test Media Research: Analyze total 3,738 articles that domestic press reported in 2014 in order to understand the society’s expectation for Hyundai E&C Survey Channel:  H DEC website, Hillstate website, Internal Groupware, email AGENDA 01 Governance*, Ethics and Integrity*, 5 Fostering new growth business, 6 Diversification of business abroad, Strategic Economic Performance, Indirect Economic Impacts 8 Business ethics, 9 Risk management, 10 Creation of economic outcome, Review on internal management data: Review the internal management Utilization: data and interview responsible personnel in order to reflect internally material Management 13 Fair trade, 15 Law compliance, 30 Local law compliance, Review  on the sustainability management approach, development issues about the corporate management environment of the Sustainability Report 31 Value-creation process, 33 Sound corporate governance AGENDA 02 Materials, Energy, Water, Boidiversity, 18 Environmental management system, 19 Environmental pollution prevention, Materiality Matrix Environmental Emissions, Efflents and Waste 25 Resource efficiency, 29 Minimizing environmental impact, 32 Energy, Management 36 Waste, 37 GHG, 38 Response to climate change, 40 Equipment/transportation, General Issues Material Issues Core Issues 41 Water, 43 Biodiversity A 2 3 1 AGENDA 03 11 5 B Products and Services, Marketing Communications, 2 Source technology secured, 3 Customer satisfaction, 11 Customer awareness, 4 Technology 13 6 8 Customer Privacy 12 Environment-friendly R&D, 23 Privacy protection, 10 9 C 18 12 24 19 15 Management 24 Low carbon, resource efficient technology, 27 Products and services 25 7 29 23 22 20 32 31 AGENDA 04 30 16 A. Core Sustainability Issues: Employment, Labor/Management Relations, 7 Safety management, 14 Appraisal and compensation, 33 27 17 14 Issues that interest and influence of the entire stakeholder group are extremely high Talent Occupational Health and Safety, Training and Education, 16 Development of human resource, 17 Work-life balance, 35 40 37 38 36 34 Management Diversity and Equal Opportunity, 20 Custom of labor relations, 21 Employee benefits, 26 Equal opportunity, 41 B. Material Issues: 28 26 21 Issues that interest of external stakeholders or influence Equal remuneration for women and men 39 Human right protection of employees is high External Interest 43 39 42 C.General Issues: Other sustainability issues that are included in Hyundai AGENDA 05 44 Supplier, Local Communities 22 Sustainability in supply chain, 28 Supplier evaluation, E&C’s management activities Internal Impact Social 34 Social contribution, 35 Education and supports in supply chain, Management 42 Engaging with local communities, 44 Employee volunteer activities 20. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21. STRATEGY HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION Sustainability Performance and KPIs SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX Sustainability Sustainability KPI 2012 2013 2014 2015 AGENDA 01 Aspect Issue Goal/Plan/ Prospect Sustainable Value Revenues (100 million KRW) 133,248 139,383 173,870 192,000 STRATEGIC Creation Overseas orders received (cumulative, 100 million USD) 935.37 1,044.39 1,155.27 1,264.79 MANAGEMENT Strategic Sound and Transparent Number of overseas hotlines (hotline) 26 27 27 27 Management Management Creating Shared Value Maximizing Total HSE training participants (person) 4,305 4,002 4,167 5,322 Eco-efficiency HSE training satisfaction (%) 80.7 83.3 94.5 95.0 Hyundai E&C Creating realizes a sustainable future BUSINESS VALUE Environmental Minimizing GHG emissions (tCO2-e) 436,752 390,111 377,749 425,005 Global Values Management Environmental Impacts by creating global values. Our Approach Differentiating R&D human resource (person) 105 122 166 183 The world is the land of infinite possibility and the stage where Economy Technology Capability dreams of Hyundai E&C are realized. Backed by the outstanding Number of patent applications (case) 51 55 75 90 competitiveness in construction, we have become the leading SOCIAL VALUE Customer Satisfaction Customer satisfaction rate (point) 94.3 94.4 96.3 95.0 construction company through advancing business portfolios, Technology through Innovation Management developing new growth businesses, and expanding business Realizing to emerging markets. Furthermore, establishing a sound corporate Sustainable Future governance and transparent ethical management system, Hyundai E&C has been realizing the sustainability management. Cultivating Annual average training hours per FTE (hour) 136 143 115 120 Innovative Talents Educational expenditure per FTE (million KRW) 1.00 1.02 0.94 1.14 Financial support for complimentary medical check-up Work-life Balance (100 million KRW) 17.0 17.1 18.6 19.0 Number of benefiting employees/employee families of Talent complimentary medical check-up (person) 5,082 4,988 5,681 7,098 Management Safe Work Environment Number of site inspections (time) 1,172 1,251 1,691 3,475 Key Sustainable Issues in Strategic Management Accident rate (%) 0.14 0.21 0.27 0.17 Long-term corporate vision p.16-17 Creation of economic outcome p.24-27 1 7 External Interest 2 Sustainability management p.18-21 8 Fair trade p.31 1 3 Number of benefitting suppliers of Overseas Expansion 3 Fostering new growth business p.24-27 9 Law compliance p.30-31 Sustainable Supply Training Program (company) 104 99 122 120 9 5 4 2 6 Chain Management 8 7 4 Diversification of business abroad p.24-27 10 Local law compliance p.30-31 Revenue generation due to Overseas Expansion Training Program (100 million KRW) 2,551 1,118 3,826 3,760 11 10 5 Business ethics p.30-31 11 Value creating process p.24-27 12 Shared Growth with Amount of Win-win Growth Fund (100 million KRW) 111 151 145 150 Internal Impact 6 Risk management p.32-33 12 Sound corporate governance p.28-29 Suppliers Number of benefitting suppliers of Overseas Site 13 29 24 17 Social Participation Program (company) Management Strategic Social Donations at headquarters (100 million KRW) 18.9 45.5 61.5 26.0 Contribution Annual company-wide goal of employees’ volunteer mileage program (mile per person) 8 8 10 10 22. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23. AGENDA 01 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Sustainable Value Creation ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH In order to realize the vision as a ‘Global Integrated Engineering Company‚’ Hyundai E&C Diversification of Business Portfolio Hyundai E&C has a competitive and balanced business portfolio HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other advances the business portfolio and seeks to develop new growth business and diversify through strength analysis of each business area and business portfolio strategy based on the nature and WEB overseas markets. We are creating economic values through the sustainable growth, cost prospect of each market. The business portfolio strategy consists of core product by areas, new growth engine http://www.hdec.kr/challenge innovation, and process improvement. business, basic business, and future product. We have fortified core products and basic businesses to further secure the competitive edge and maximized the corporate capability by constantly developing new growth engine business and future products. Backed by the balanced business portfolio, Hyundai E&C has sustainably Successful Overseas Expansion Hyundai E&C received overseas orders of 10 billion USD in 2010 for the grown in spite of changes of external environment such as falling oil prices and exchange fluctuation. We will Global Competitiveness first in the Korean construction industry and received overseas orders exceeding 100 billion USD (cumulative) in continue to enhance the business capability and global competitiveness with the close cooperation between 2013 thus opened up a new era. We wrote a new history of the global construction industry by receiving overseas business divisions based on diverse business experiences and know-hows. orders of more than 11 billion USD in 2014 as well as accomplishing the record of overseas orders received of more than 10 billion USD for three consecutive years. Since the first construction of Pattani-Narathiwat Highway in Thailand in 1965, Hyundai E&C has executed overseas projects in 58 countries in not only Asia and Business Portfolio Conceptual Map the Middle East but Africa, Latin America, Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), and North America. As of the end of 2014, we have received total 803 orders (cumulative) of more than 115.5 billion USD positioning e nt, e a tm Mix t e r tr G re ourselves as a global leading construction company. These achievements are fruits of Hyundai E&C’s efforts t io n ed -u wa e nt en uc se & lo p m sm str T ve Engineering News-Records to consistently develop new growth engines and further receive higher value-added overseas orders n MEN BU de -e n vi M ENT BU ar R e s ro n m co ON ON ve tb Por IR IL lo p o u r en IR IL u i ld US Engineering & Construction magazine by enhancing the business portfolio. t EN me ce t EN V DING nt de V DING in g H yd ro CIVIL CIVIL & CORE & Enhancement of Global Awareness According to the worldwide renowned engineering and NEW GROWTH construction magazine ‘Engineering News-Records (ENR, United States),’ Hyundai E&C ranked 13th PRODUCTS DRIVERS ved pro in the ‘Top 250 International Contractors 2014’ which is the best rank among Korean construction companies. EN EN ERG ERG nt, Im The achievement reflects Hyundai E&C’s devotion to diversify its business portfolio and aggressive efforts AN Y AN Y Steel pla PL PL nt T & T & op ER ER era for expanding to overseas emerging markets despite intensifying competition and external risks. We will Oil & POW BC* POW tion Ga CF cle pla nu s ar er constantly implement advanced strategies and generate practical performances thus will grow further into pow er g Pow enera tion the world’s leading company beyond the best construction company of Korea. Hig hri se bu r In d a ti on P u b i l di n we u st Advancement of Business Model Due to changes of the global market environment, new convergence o rt l i c g, po ri a sp co in d liz Business Strategy businesses such as environmental business, renewable energy, offshore, and desalination plant have been ra n MEN T BU r es i de w MEN T BU ed ON ON re IL s tic IL dt sho re s La n IR m e i on IR id e emerging. Therefore, it has been considered as an important capability to provide a Total Service that D o tru c t Off EN NG EN NG V DI ns V DI nc e is a comprehensive service throughout the entire value chain of the construction industry: business planning, CIVIL n ce, CIVIL & BASIC & FUTURE financing, engineering, procurement, construction, operation, and maintenance. Through the constant advancement of business models and abundant experience and advanced technology acquired from 803 BUSINESS PRODUCTS projects executed in 58 countries, Hyundai E&C will stand tall as a Total Service Provider entering higher value& EN n EN al me ERG er ERG mic r pow Y Y ron PL AN tra PL AN lar added businesses, such as precon service and construction management. che nvi T & nsm T & ,B ER ER Petro uclea *, E issi iom ind POW on GTL* POW ass * CFBC: Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion N er ustr w tal o ge i po pla *, S ** GTL: Gas-to-liquids ne al facil rse as nt, C** rat Offs IGC ion ity, Ove hore *** IGCC: Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle Hyundai E&C Achieving overseas orders of 01 02 03 04 05 06 10 billion USD for three consecutive years Heightens Its Reputation Despite of the depression of domestic and overseas construction business, Hyundai E&C has proved its capability as the first Planning & Financing Design & Procurement Construction Operation & as a Global Construction Company construction company of Korea by receiving overseas orders of more than 10 billion USD for three consecutive years. In 2014, Marketing Engineering Maintenance we accomplished a drastic increase in the growth rate by more than 20% compared to the previous year and achieved following Lighting Up the Stagnant significant performances: new orders of 27,167.3 billion KRW, sales of 17,387 billion KRW, and operating income of 958.9 billion Construction Market KRW. Thus, Hyundai E&C has been differentiated from domestic competitors that have been suffering from earning shocks due to the stagnant construction market and falling oil prices. The achievements are results of receiving large-scale orders in Latin America and CSI regions, increasing the proportion of high-quality overseas projects, and persistently reducing costs. Hyundai E&C TOTAL SERVICE PROVIDER will continue to increase the growth rate through consistently managing risks and carefully selecting profit-driven orders. 24. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25. AGENDA 01 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Sustainable Value Creation ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX Development of New Growth Drivers With a Strategic Planning Group, we have strived to show Enhancement of Overseas Expansion Hyundai E&C is currently operating 27 overseas branches and liaison offices around the world. Since Expansion of New Growth substantial performance in enhancing core products and developing new growth engine. In 2014, we executed established the branch in Bogota, Colombia in 2010, we have actively sought to expand the business to the entire Latin America with aggressive marketing. Business & New Markets midto long-term development strategies which were newly set after the establishment of the Strategic Planning As a result, we received orders of Puerto La Cruz oil refinery in Venezuela worth 3.4 billion USD and Chacao Bridge in Chile that is worth of 648 million USD. Group while expanding and rearranging the organization to secure new growth engines. Therefore, the detailed Our business in Africa has been also fostered through the order of the enlargement construction of the Azito power plant in Cote d’Ivoire in 2013 and orders plans of each business division have been actively promoted. Moreover, we are conducting the continuous of Jinja Bridge in Uganda and two combined cycle power plants in Algeria in 2014. By constructing the 3rd Bosporus Bridge, moreover, Hyundai E&C monitoring on market trends to identify new growth engines created by social and economic changes such as took a huge step into the European construction market that has been dominated by European companies. We also achieved a significant performance oil price fluctuation, global warming, and aging. Also, we have been implementing the expansion strategy to export our nuclear technology to Europe for the first in the domestic nuclear R&D field by receiving the Upgrade of Oyster research reactor in Netherland. by stages to enter construction-related markets. In 2015, Hyundai E&C will aggressively identify and deliver pilot projects to create actual performances with pre-established strategies and find an optimized solution that balances the corporate interest and future growth. Strategies for Major Emerging Markets Strategies for Emerging Markets Overseas Expansion Strategy In order to further apply our business experience acquired from the Middle East market to Africa, Latin America, and Eastern Europe, we have endeavored to create the base Major Emerging Markets 01 Continue the effort to expand to the Latin American market for the business expansion while selecting Latin America, sub-Saharan Africa, and Commonwealth Establish customized strategies by regions to receive orders of Independent States (CIS) regions as key emerging markets. Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) 12 countries Select profitable projects and strengthen In 2014, we continuously strived to establish a balanced regional portfolio by entering the Chilean and Dutch the risk management capability Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Kazakhstan, markets. With strategies to enter emerging markets not only based on the outstanding business competitiveness Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia, Republic of Azerbaijan, Georgia but also through new business models such as project financing, Hyundai E&C is actively expanding its business overseas to emerging markets as well as developed markets such as Europe. In addition, to proactively minimize and prevent business risks that can occur through the overseas business expansion, we have innovated the PRM (Project Risk Management) Team to the PRM Sub-Division building Major Emerging Markets 02 Major Emerging Markets 03 a global risk management system. The efficient risk management system will be a stable foundation for the sustainable growth by establishing a virtuous cycle that brings a market expansion, successful business Sub-Saharan Africa Latin America execution, and more business opportunities in the market. Hyundai E&C Creates a New Paradigm Hyundai E&C Is Becoming a New Leader of Emerging Markets Tied up with World’s Leading Companies through Aggressive Market Diversification Strategy Hyundai E&C Has Accelerated Hyundai E&C Is Drawing a Bright Future in Latin America to Dominate the Global Energy and Infrastructure Markets with GE. with Successive Orders Won in Venezuela. In February 2015, Hyundai E&C signed a MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) with GE, which is a global leading company in areas Hyundai E&C has been successfully executing the business in the Latin American market by receiving orders of a refinery plant of infrastructure and cutting-edge technology, thus consolidated a foundation for further aggressive overseas business. The two from PDVSA in November 2014 which is worth of 4,900 billion KRW followed by an order of Front End Engineering Design (FEED). companies agreed to jointly expand to construction, power generation, hospital, and infra businesses and establish a cooperative work PDVSA is a Venezuelan state-owned oil and natural gas company. The ‘Expansion and facility upgrade of Puerto La Cruz Refinery network so that they can share strategic approaches of each project. In addition, based on the firm credibility of Hyundai E&C and GE Plant’ is the third project among large-scale projects that Hyundai E&C has won in Venezuela since it entered the market in 2012. in the world, the two companies will actively identify business opportunities like project financing (PF) through Export Credit Agency It is also the proof of the advanced construction capability and technology Hyundai E&C has shown in the market. We will actively (ECA) of each country and seek to diversify the business portfolios in various areas such as plants and water treatment facilities foster the refinery plant business through this opportunity and concentrate on expanding business into Latin American regions and MOU Signing Ceremony of Hyundai E&C and GE in emerging markets. Signing Ceremony of Refinery Plant in Venezuela diversifying portfolios through our outstanding technology and capability. Hyundai E&C Writes a New History of the Global Plant Market Hyundai E&C Consolidates a Foothold though Uzbekistani Construction Market with the Strategic Cooperation with Abeinsa. to Take a Step into the Central Asia. In order to dominate the global market where competitions are intensifying, Hyundai E&C signed a MOU (Memorandum In March 2013, Hyundai E&C opened up a gate to Central Asia by successfully entering the Uzbekistani construction market receiving of Understanding) with Abeinsa of Spain in December 2014. Hyundai E&C and Abeinsa have been nominated as the first and second an order of the largest-scale Talimarjan Thermal Power Plant. For the best construction quality, we established a branch in Tashkent best companies in the field of electricity by Engineering News-Records (ENR), a worldwide renowned Construction and Engineering to develop a close and cooperative relationship with clients and a constructive bond of trust. Hyundai E&C has been also teaching magazine. Through the MOU, it is expected for the two companies to generate a great synergy by cooperating for plant business its advanced technology to local suppliers for successful project implementation thus building the capability as a global management around the world. Hyundai E&C will aggressively seek to enter the solar concentrating plant market in Latin America and Africa and company. Backed by the successful implementation of the project, we will receive additional projects in Uzbekistan thus further lead the global plant market by receiving orders of Integrated Solar Combined Cycle (ISCC) plants through the integration of Hyundai heighten our reputation in the entire Central Asian region. MOU Signing Ceremony of Hyundai E&C and Abeinsa E&C’s advanced technology for combined cycle power plants and Abeinsa’s solar power generation technology. Uzbekistan Talimarjan Thermal Power Plant (UZTAM) 26. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27. AGENDA 01 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Sound Corporate Governance ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Hyundai E&C concentrates its capability on maintaining the sound corporate governance. Especially, when the total remuneration of a director exceeds 500 million KRW, the amount paid and methodology HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other We strive to create shareholder values and balance interests of internal and external stakeholder are disclosed in a clear and transparent manner. WEB through the value creating management, global future management, and sustainability http://www.hdec.kr/investment/mi_control.asp management under the monitoring of the independent Board of Directors. Responsibility of Outside Directors The external directors enhance the transparency and fairness Attendance Rate of External Directors of the corporate management and provide advices and relevant expertise for material decision making of (As of 2014) the company. Moreover, they faithfully deliver their duties as advisors and facilitators for the corporate 100 Function and Operation of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is the main decision % management by objectively monitoring management activities. Also, outside directors are independent from Board of Directors making body that resolves issues clarified on the regulations and corporate article as well as issues about the management in accordance with relevant laws such as the commercial law while Hyundai E&C strives the corporate operation. It also monitors the performance of directors and the management and strives for directors' successful performance of duty by regularly inviting them to domestic and overseas sites and to maximize the corporate value and enhance stakeholders’ trust. We also have regular and temporary providing information necessary for work. board meetings. In 2014, we held 14 board meetings and discussed about total 37 agendas such as the approval of business with subsidiaries. Information regarding the BOD’s articles of association, responsibilities, Financial Supervisory Service’s and resolutions can be found on Hyundai E&C’s website. In addition, we regularly report the BOD-related In order to improve the BOD independence, secure the efficiency of decision making, and maximize shareholders’ Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (DART) information which we have a duty to disclose through the Data Analysis, Retrieval, and Transfer System (DART) Committees under the BOD value, Hyundai E&C has established and operated three committees under the BOD: Audit Committee, Outside of the Financial Supervisory Service. Director Nominating Committee, and Ethical Management Committee. http://dart.fss.or.kr Composition and Independence of the Board of Directors Hyundai E&C operates a Board of Directors Current Status of Committees under the BOD (As of MAY 2015) (BOD) that is chaired by the CEO and is composed of total seven members: one executive director, two nonexecutive directors, and four external directors. To guarantee the independence of the BOD, external directors Committee Composition Functions hold a majority of the board and an independent lead director is appointed. The independent lead director Audit the legality of business activities carried out by the BOD is responsible for monitoring the CEO’s managerial activities, mediating conflicts between internal and outside and the management Chairman Shin Hyun-Yoon Review integrity and feasibility of the company’s financial directors, and collecting and proposing the outside directors’ opinions, etc. Audit Committee activities + three External directors Review and control internal audit; Appoint external auditor Summon extraordinary meeting of shareholders Current Status of the Board of Directors (As of MAY 2015) Outside Director Chairman Jung Soo-Hyun Recommend candidates for external directors Position Name Type Recommender Principal Work Experience Nominating Committee + four External directors CEO & President, Hyundai E&C (current) Executive director Jung Soo-Hyun Standing Establish sustainability vision and strategic tasks CEO & President, Hyundai AMCO (former) Board of Review transparency of internal transactions and execution Chung Mong-Koo Directors Chairman, Hyundai Motor (current) Chairman Shin Hyun-Yoon of ethical management Non-executive Ethical Management + three External directors, Ensure execution of Compliance Program director Committee Kim Yong-Hwan Vice-president, Hyundai Motor (current) one Executive director Deliberate and resolve major social contribution policies Deliberate and vote on a deal among affiliate persons defined V ice-president, Education and Scholarship by the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act Shin Hyun-Yoon at Yonsei Univ. (current) Dean, School of Law at Yonsei Univ. (former) Chairman, Samsong Tax Firm (current) Lee Seung-Jae Non-standing Shareholders, the owners of Hyundai E&C, have rights to have a share in the profits and to vote according Outside Director, Jungbu Regional Tax Office (former) Director Protection of to related legislations including the commercial law. Hyundai E&C focuses on preserving shareholders’ rights External director Suh Chee-Ho Nominating Committee P  rofessor of Architectural Engineering, KonKuk Univ. (current) Shareholder Rights in any cases that affect the status of the company or create a significant impact on shareholder rights, such as Chairman, Architecture Institute of Korea (former) change of the Articles of Incorporation, mergers or split offs, and changes in capital, etc. The decision making Lawyer, Lee International IP & Law Group (current) is delivered at the general shareholders’ meeting. To secure the shareholders’ right to know, Hyundai E&C also Park Sung-Duck Inspection Commissioner, the Board of Audit shares important managerial information through various channels such as the corporate disclosure system, and Inspection of Korea (former) website, and general shareholders’ meeting in a timely and accurate manner. Nomination and Remuneration of Directors Hyundai E&C has standards for nominating directors Major Shareholders and appoints directors at the general shareholders’ meeting with recommendations from the BOD and the Hyundai Motor Group Outside Director Nominating Committee. When recommending and electing external directors, we comply with legal qualifications including commercial laws and appoint an external director among candidates who own 20.93 8.72 5.23 65.12 expertise and experiences in law, finance/accounting, and construction, etc. Remuneration of directors including the severance pay is provided within the limit that is approved annually at the general shareholders’ meeting. Overall remuneration status of directors and committees is disclosed on quarterly/biannual/annual accounts. Hyundai Motor Hyundai Mobis KIA Motors Others (Unit: % / As of DEC 31, 2014) 28. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29. AGENDA 01 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Enhancement of Ethical Management ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH In order to earn trust from stakeholders, Hyundai E&C aggressively conducts ethical management Operation of Cyber Audit Office For the awareness about the ethical management and appropriate HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other Type of Reports via Cyber Audit Office activities and complies with fair trade regulations in all countries where it operates business. execution, we are operating the Cyber Audit Office (http://audit.hdec.kr). Offering various information such as (Domestic and overseas) WEB We have been taking the lead to establish an ethical corporate culture throughout the company Code of Ethics, relevant internal policies, and online education, the Cyber Audit Office receives reports about the 06 08 http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/moral.asp including all employees, subsidiaries, suppliers, and business partners. % % corruption and unfair trade and recommendations to improve policies in real-time as well as handles them in a transparent manner. Besides, by operating overseas hotlines by countries as well as a Cyber Audit Office website Consultation with businesses Corruption in English, we have encouraged reports from overseas sites. All reports are non-disclosed thus the informant’s 86 HDEC Green CSR Declaration To share the vision of the ethical management with all employees and % identity and confidentiality are strictly protected. Ethical Management System stakeholders establishing the ethical management, Hyundai E&C has made sincere efforts to consolidate the ethical management system and internalize an ethical awareness with the HDEC Green CSR Declaration. Consultation with clients, etc. The HDEC Green CSR Declaration is applied to not only all employees but subsidiaries and suppliers. Furthermore, it is regularly reviewed to reflect various needs of stakeholders and industry trends that are rapidly changing. To establish an environment for the fair and transparent trade, Hyundai E&C operates an autonomous compliance Autonomous Compliance program which is an internal law-abiding system. In 2014, we expanded and conducted preventive educations Ethical Management System Program for Fair Trade over six times in order to internalize employees’ autonomous awareness about the fair trade compliance. Also, we spread recent fair trade issues and clear behavioral standards for the compliance with fair trade regulations through the internal message board. We will further strive to prevent violations of laws by operating key 3 Practical Elements 5 Areas of Implementation components of the autonomous compliance program all year-round and reinforcing internal inspections. Moral Pride Code of Conduct in HDEC Establish a transparent management system on a global scale 7 Key Components of Compliance Program for Fair Trade Hyundai E&C in which all of customers, Carry out an in-depth training Supervisory Body on ‘Clean Company’ 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 employees, and suppliers take pride Expand and improve management CEO’s Appointment Establishment Training system Monitoring & Regulations Establishment of Ethics Training evaluation tasks commitment of supervisors & amendment supervisory on any act of documentation for autonomous of Autonomous system violation system compliance Compliance Build infrastructures Handbook for ethical management Enhance win-win cooperation system Establishment of Autonomous Compliance System To fortify the employees’ awareness about fair trade, we have identified and implemented seven different core elements of the autonomous compliance program. For the effective implementation, we regularly hold Autonomous Compliance Conference to share trends of fair Ethical Management Education and Campaign In order to execute the sustainability management trade policies. Additionally, Hyundai E&C has concentrated its efforts on the proactive prevention of violations Ethical Management Practice Pledge by strengthening the ethical management system, Hyundai E&C established midto long-term implementation by monitoring business departments with the high possibility of violation. plans for the ethical management in August 2014 and has constantly advanced the ethical management at the corporate level. In addition, all employees have pledged to comply with principles of the ethical management Reinforcement of Fair Trade Training We have endeavored to enhance employees’ awareness at the annual convention on the compliance management since 2014. We provide all employees including the about autonomous compliance with fair trade by providing and expanding our mandatory fair trade training. CEO and the management with biannual company-wide ethical management educations for the ethical culture. In 2014, we reinforced the preventive system against fair trade for responsible personnel of each work risks Furthermore, in September 2014, we created an ethical management message board within the groupware through trainings about subcontracting, inside trade, and fair trade and checklist training by works. In 2015, we and have posted ethical management Q&As mainly about actual cases to promote employees’ execution will further strengthen the fair trade culture through expanding preventive educations by external specialists and of the ethical management. implementing trainings by in-house instructors for each trainee group. Fair Trade Training Fair Trade Training Programs Ethical Management Survey Hyundai E&C assessed the level of ethical management execution Regular Ethical Management Education in the company and identified improvements by areas through an ethical management survey for all employees 01 02 03 04 in April 2015. The survey results about four areas (ethical management policy, code of ethics and guidelines, Overview of the Prevention of Prevention of Labeling report of unethical behavior, and ethical training/campaign) will be used as a reference to figure out obstacles Subcontracting Act Inside Trade Cartel and Advertisement in realizing the ethical management and to identify and implement improvement tasks. For domestic project managers For responsible personnel of For employees and management For responsible personnel of and management team leaders procurement and general affairs, etc. working in contracts and sales housing sales and PR Improvement of Ethical Management Activities Based on the improvement tasks identified through Fair Transactions in Regulations related to inside trade Laws and cases of bid rigging; Understanding and violation of Act the ethical management survey, Hyundai E&C has systematically executed improvement activities for the Subcontracting Act; Recent in accordance with Monopoly Code of Conduct on Fair Labeling and Advertising trends in policy making and legal Regulation and Fair Trade Act; ethical management. In May 2015, we established ‘Antitrust Policy of Hyundai Engineering & Construction’ thus executions Code of Conduct expressed our will to practice the responsible and sustainable management in all countries and regions where the company operates. 30. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31. AGENDA 01 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Strategic Risk Management ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Hyundai E&C stably operates its business by proactively identifying risk factors with Corporate Risks For effective risk response, we comprehensively consider factors such as business areas, HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other the enhanced company-wide risk management system. In addition, we always explore new Definition of Risks markets to operate business, macroeconomic environment, and characteristics of stakeholders. Thus, risks WEB business opportunities to realize the sustainable business. are managed and classified into three categories: corporate risks, project risks, and long-term strategic risks. http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/sustainability.asp A corporate risk is highly significant since it can influence management targets of Hyundai E&C among various managerial environments exposed to the outside of the company. Corporate risks are divided into country risks and company & market risks. Country risks include political, sociocultural, and environmental risks that can occur Advancement of Risk Management System As the proportion of overseas projects increases, the from domestic and overseas external changes and are managed at the corporate level. Company & market risks Risk Management System importance of the company-wide risk management has been increasing as well. Since restructured the risk include usual market, business, and financial risks. management organization and identified the 20 key risks in 2012, Hyundai E&C has strived to strictly manage risks. We will further advance the integrated risk management system by expanding the scope of the risk Project Risks Among various uncertain factors that can occur during receiving or executing orders, Risk Assessment Meeting a project risk refers to a material risk affecting the achievement of project targets. Hyundai E&C has conducted a management to the entire project life cycle. series of activities to raise the possibility to achieve project targets by comprehensively managing various project risks such as engineering risks, measurement risks, and procurement risks which are directly related to projects. IT-based Risk Management System In order to effectively control the information created during Risk Management System the processes of identification, analysis, assessment, and response of risks, Hyundai E&C has established and Long-term Strategic Risks A long-term strategic risk is one of Trend Movers that affect the managerial operated an IT-based risk management system. In 2014, the order evaluation management system was newly environment in the macro perspective. Therefore, it is material since it may significantly influence the future developed to simplify the order evaluation process and build a database of relevant materials and evaluation of Hyundai E&C’s business. We have assigned the management of long-term strategic risks to the Research results. and Development (R&D) Division as well as defined the urbanization, water scarcity/environmental pollution, energy/fuel scarcity, and resource depletion as the four megatrends, which are closely related to the construction Establishment of Risk Analysis and Assessment System Since 2013, Hyundai E&C has established industry. Hyundai E&C endeavors to identify risk/opportunity factors through the future analysis by megatrends and operated a Risk Breakdown Structure (RBS), the risk management standards for the entire company and to integrate them into the business. distributing a checklist of all projects for each project type. Also, we have conducted risk assessments with experts for the systematic risk analysis and management. The results of the risk assessments are utilized as basic Reinforcement of Risk Management Process at Order Stage An active risk management at early stages materials for establishing management strategy and making decisions. Furthermore, the results are databased in is necessary since the project risks often occur at the early stage of receiving an order. Therefore, since May 2014, the IT system so that it can be a reference for decision making of similar projects. Key Risk Management Hyundai E&C has systematically managed risks at the order stage by operating an integrated order evaluation Activities process. Also, we have reinforced the risk management by developing improvement plans for the evaluation and Enhancement of Risk Response and Reporting System To minimize risks, Hyundai E&C has operated developing the order evaluation system. In 2015, we will increase the efficiency of the risk management at the order the risk response system which is a basis of planning, monitoring, and evaluating the operation of risk response stage through further improvement of the order evaluation process. Especially, we will concentrate our efforts plans. In addition, we have a risk reporting system for more prompt and effective response by comprehensively on the risk management for overseas projects which greatly affect the corporate profitability. analyzing the seriousness, possibility, and impacts and proactively defining reporting process and targets according to the analysis. We will persistently prepare countermeasures and enhance reporting processes by Monitoring of company-wide Key Risk Indicators To promptly and systematically respond to various scenarios for further expeditious risk response. risks, Hyundai E&C has conducted monthly risk analysis with the regular scenario mapping about the 20 key risks. In addition, we have established a risk response system where we can immediately react to unusual activities by identifying key risk indicators (KRIs) for each key risk as well as developing a response manual for each relevant organization. In 2015, we will fortify the efficiency of risk management by carefully identifying key risks that require a more strict management as the managerial environment changes. Risk Reporting System Board of Directors Hyundai E&C’s 20 Key Risks CEO High-level Risk 01 06 11 16 Political uncertainties Rise of raw material prices Failure of new projects Non-compliance with laws CRO in foreign countries Mid-level Risk 02 07 12 17 · The CRO directly reports to the BOD Inability to qualify Currency volatility Diminished ties with suppliers Occupational accidents and investigates a given risk and with global QC standards responsible personnel. Low-level Risk · The CRO directly reports to the CEO. 03 08 13 Changes in construction industry 18 Information · Establish a risk mitigation strategy, Intensified competition Liquidity crisis · Reported to both the CEO and the regular monitoring system, and policies and regulations and technology leak BOD for a prompt decision if a given countermeasures to a crisis situation 04 09 14 19 · Reported to the CRO risk is considered to be urgent and Weakening of brand awareness Changes in global economy Damages to corporate image Natural disasters (Chief Risk Officer) to have a significant effect on project(s) 05 10 15 20 Failure to set appropriate Stagnant domestic Vulnerability in HR management Man-made hazards management targets construction industry 32. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33. AGENDA 02 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ENVIRONMENTAL ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX VALUE CREATION AGENDA 02 http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/safety.asp ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Creating Shared Value Hyundai E&C Maximizing minimizes environmental impacts BUSINESS VALUE Eco-efficiency by maximizing the eco-efficiency. Our Approach Environmental issues such as climate change, energy and water Environment scarcity, and resource depletion that companies are confronted with have emerged as new challenges and, at the same time, opportunities. SOCIAL VALUE Under the vision of ‘2020 Global Green One Pioneer‚’ Hyundai E&C has Minimizing established strategies and goals for the environmental management Environmental and strived to improve the environmental efficiency through Impacts the systematic management. We have realized our environmental management with the environmental performance management system throughout all construction stages: technology development, engineering, procurement, transportation, construction, deconstruction, and operation. Key Sustainability Issues in Environmental Management 1 Environmental management system p.36-37 7 Greenhouse Gases p.38-39 External Interest 2 3 1 2 Pollution prevention p.44 8 Response to climate change p.38-39 4 5 3 Resource efficiency p.36-37 9 Water p.46 4 Minimizing environmental impact p.40 10 Equipment/transportation p.43 7 6 10 8 9 5 Energy p.46 11 Biodiversity p.45 11 Internal Impact 6 Waste p.46 Zawia Combined Cycle Power Plant 34. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35. AGENDA 02 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Maximizing Eco-efficiency ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY The construction industr y is highly resource intensive which consumes a quantity Performance Management of Environmental Management By establishing environmental management HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other Integrated Environmental Performance of resources. The corporate competitiveness is directly related to corporate activities to optimize targets for each site and using the Integrated Environmental Performance Management System, we have WEB Management System the environmental efficiency by developing high-efficiency technology and managing resources constantly managed environmental performances. Performances of the environmental management are reported http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/safety.asp * HRPMS : H yundai Research Project Management System effectively. Therefore, Hyundai E&C has established the environmental management system and to the top management biannually and reflected to establishing management plans and targets for the following continuously managed reduction targets by business stages thus stood tall as an environmentGHG and Energy Management System year while being used as references to identify improvement tasks. Especially, we have significantly improved friendly construction company that pioneers the resource-restricted era. the efficiency of the environmental performance management through the integrated management by connecting Waste Management System various systems such as GHG & Energy Management System, Waste Management System and violations against Establishment of Integrated Management System for Safety, Health & Environment In order to HRPMS* environmental regulations through the H-PMS (Hyundai-Project Management System, an IT-based Integrated Environmental Management effectively respond to climate change and global environmental issues, Hyundai E&C has combined OHSAS Environmental Performance Management System). Furthermore, we have devoted to prevent environmental System 18001 (Safety and Health), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System), KSI 7001 & 7002 (Green risks and reduce the pollution. For fortifying the corporate-wide environmental performance monitoring system, Management System), and ISO 50001 (Energy Management System) since 2012. Thus, we have established H-PMS the H-PMS has been integrated sequentially with procurement, training (e-HRD), social contribution, and HRPMS an Integrated Management System for Safety, Health, and Environment and implemented the environmental Integrated systems. Therefore, we have also undertaken a task to combine the procurement system (Enterprise Resource Environmental management with corporate plans and targets. In 2014, Hyundai E&C established plans and targets for each Planning, ERP) to the H-PMS from the end of 2014. Hyundai E&C will maximize outcomes of the environmental Performance site based on corporate safety, health, environment, and energy plans and targets. Therefore, we thoroughly Management System management through the corporate-wide and systematic performance management. managed them according to the implementation plan reinforcing the overseas environmental performance management system. Additionally, we have promoted the on-site environmental management by various efforts, Inspection of Environmental Management Activities To enhance the internal capability and encourage such as settling the Integrated Management System for Safety, Health, and Environment and rearranging the employees’ participation, Hyundai E&C has annually conducted regular inspections on all sites. The results e-HRD (education) the on-site waste management system. In 2015, Hyundai E&C will maximize the environmental efficiency as it is are included in the KPIs of on-site and HSE managers and the score of each site is included in the evaluation ‘a top priority of the corporate management value to become an environment-friendly company.’ Moreover, Social Contribution System (social contribution) of the completion. Based on the result, moreover, incentives are given to sites that acquired an outstanding we will proactively respond to changes in the management system such as ISO 14001 (Environmental score. In 2014, to strengthen the responsibility for the environmental management, the application of the HSE Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System (procurement) Management System) and OHSAS 18001 (Safety and Health) that will be revised. management inspection result was expanded to KPIs of Head of Operations, Head of HSE Jurisdiction, PD, Management Policy & Goal and all chiefs of construction parts including a chief of the government affairs part. Besides, we have improved Environmental Management Roadmap the efficiency of the system by conducting in-depth inspections at domestic sites for two to three days and additional inspections at overseas sites which implemented the HSE management inappropriately. In 2015, we will * HSE: Health‚ Safety, and Environment 2013 2014 2015 further reflect the inspection score by increasing the percentage from 30% to 40% and fortify the activity inspection to check the management status through interviewing on-site supervisors and employees. HSE Realization of Low Carbon Implementation of HSE Basics and * HSE as the Most Valuable Asset for Policy Green Growth Principles Successful Corporate Management Environmental Management Training Hyundai E&C has provided various systematic trainings to Establish a global green management system Implement environmental management through Execute the responsible HSE Management System led its employees to increase employees’ understanding about the environmental management and expand Establish green management performance efficient environment and energy management by top management the environment management activity. In 2014, we increased the quantity and improved the quality of HSE management processes Improve process efficiency through optimization of Develop the HSE System focusing on preventive measures Expand communication with stakeholders HSE system Establish the HSE paradigm complying trainings by developing curriculums by skills and including not only our employees such as site managers, Pursue collaboration and communication through with all HSE basics and principles administrators, and technicians but suppliers’ employees to trainee groups. Moreover, we have strived to raise best HSE service Execute the HSE Management System to develop cooperative Establish a proactive prevention system through partnerships with all sub-contractors employees’ awareness about the environmental management focusing on latest environmental issues such as risk management the government’s GHG & Energy Target Scheme which applies from 2015. Thus, total 5,625 employees received trainings for 10,179 hours in 2014. For 2015‚ we will further encourage the active participation of employees by diversifying trainees of the GHG & Energy Target Scheme training and implementing the credit system. HSE Expand the company-wide green management Utilize performance management system to reduce Establish GHG/energy reduction system system GHG Emissions and Energy Consumption Achieve ‘ZERO’ fatal accidents & environmental incidents Goal Systematically manage energy consumption Achieve ‘ZERO critical accident’ Eliminate risks through proactive measures and GHG emissions Comply with HSE standard work procedures Enhance the HSE Management System Hyundai E&C Has Become 2014 CDP Korea Carbon Management Honors Club Award Enhance information transparency Maximize internal customers’ satisfaction through active communication a Green Management Leader In November 2014‚ Hyundai E&C proved its capability as its active response to climate change. We also acquired an global green management leader being nominated as Industry Award at ‘Climate Change Grand Leaders Award’ for that the Whole World Recognizes a member of ‘Carbon Management Honors Club.’ The the first time as a construction company. The award is given Korea Carbon Management Honors Club Award was held by Climate Change Center and is for local governments and Environmental Global Leading Environmental Environment-friendly Company Environment-friendly Company by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Korea and companies domestic companies‚ organizations and individuals of various Management Company Valuing Principles and Basics as the Most Valuable Asset that have done excellent works to respond to climate change fields that have provided desirable examples of responding Roadmap for Successful Corporate Management received awards. The CDP index is one of the most reliable to climate change. By achieving these performances‚ Become a global‚ representative Implement environmental management through efficient sustainability management index in the world with Dow Hyundai E&C’s aggressive activities in responding to climate environmental company environment and energy management Minimize environmental impacts Jones Sustainability Index and Bloomberg Indexes. It annually change have been highly valued. With the sustainable Improve profitability based on the Strengthen response strategies to GHG Target Respond to Energy & GHG Target Management System company’s core technologies and global Management System analyzes major listed companies’ activities to respond to environmental management‚ we will continue to fulfill the environmental markets Increase opportunities to communicate on climate change. Hyundai E&C received the perfect score corporate social responsibility that the society requires. Increase opportunities to communicate on environmental environmental issues with stakeholders issues with stakeholders (100 points) for Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Provide environmental education to employees and ‘Band A‚’ the highest level of the evaluation result‚ for <Photo_ 2014 CDP Korea Carbon Management Honors Club Award> and develop talents 36. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37. AGENDA 02 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Maximizing Eco-efficiency ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX Climate change is a material megatrend that directly affects environmental changes such as energy and water Leadership in Carbon Management Since 2012, Hyundai E&C has participated in the Climate Disclosure Strategic Response to scarcity and destruction of the ecosystem. The accelerating industrialization in developing countries has caused Carbon Management Activities Standard Board (CDSB) Working Group to establish measures to apply the Climate Change Reporting Climate Change the increase of carbon emissions around the world which is expected to further increase by 20% in 2030 from Framework (CCRF). Additionally, we contributed to create the GHG management guideline for the construction that of 2010. Due to characteristics of the construction industry, most GHG emissions and energy consumption industry as a member of the GHG & Energy Target Scheme’s council, which is to establish management occur from equipment used during the construction. Regulatory risks significantly influence the construction standards. In 2013, we also participated in the revision of environmental regulations as an advisor, such as industry as well. Therefore, to be fully aware of and proactively respond to effects of climate change on the Noise and Vibration Control Act, the Clean Air Conservation Act, and the Construction Technology the construction industry, Hyundai E&C has enhanced the leadership in the carbon management by establishing Management Act. By participating in the GHG Target Scheme pilot project conducted by the Korea Infrastructure carbon management targets in accordance with the national GHG reduction targets, promoting reduction Safety & Technology Corporation in 2014, we revised the ‘MRV (Monitoring, Reporting and Verification) Manual activities, and actively participating in the GHG policies of the government such as the GHG & Energy Target of GHG Emissions for Construction Industry.’ The manual will be revised thus function as a construction industry’s Scheme. GHG methodology standard for the GHG & Energy Target Scheme. In 2015, Hyundai E&C will implement the site-centered carbon management by publishing the GHG reduction guideline for sites. Carbon Management Strategy To achieve the vision of ‘2020 Global Green One Pioneer‚’ Hyundai E&C GHG Emission Management For the autonomous GHG emission management, Hyundai E&C annually Establishment of has aggressively executed carbon management strategies to reduce GHG emissions by 30% compared to calculates the corporate GHG emissions and conducts the third-party verification about the emission data Carbon Management System the BAU (Business As Usual) by 2018 and to secure Zero-House technology by 2020. We also chose representative and GHG management to monitor the GHG reduction status accurately. Especially, we have been a leading sites by business units and analyzed GHG reduction potential of each site in 2013 to accomplish midto longenvironment-friendly construction company in the world by voluntarily managing the comprehensive Scope III term GHG reduction targets. In 2014, based on the analysis, we established corporate strategies to respond emissions as well as Scope I and II beyond the government requirement. In 2015, the GHG emission data from to the GHG Target Scheme. For implementing the strategies, we set up an annual reduction plan by predicting 2011 to 2014 was recalculated based on the ‘MRV (Monitoring, Reporting and Verification) Guideline of GHG GHG emissions and identifying GHG reduction items. Hyundai E&C will continuously reduce GHG emissions Emissions for Construction Industry.’ We will continuously devote ourselves to aggressively reduce emissions by reflecting the reduction performance to KPI and improving the IT-based GHG management system, etc. by establishing predictive GHG emission models with new data. Carbon Management Strategy GHG Reduction Activities Hyundai E&C’s activities to reduce GHG emissions consist of the optimization of reduction items, Green Campaign, and trainings on the GHG & Energy Target Scheme. Firstly, we have identified items that help reduce emissions greatly by replacing office lightings with LED lights, changing Goal 01 VISION Goal 02 to high-efficiency boilers, and improving air compressors, etc. The reduction items have been applied to sites 2020 through economic feasibility and effectiveness analysis. Secondly, Green Campaign, a representative GHG Reduce Energy Consumption Develop ‘Zero-House’ Technologies and GHG Emissions Global Green by 2020 reducing campaign of Hyundai E&C, has been constantly implemented at the headquarters and all sites. One Pioneer (LCCO2* technologies by 2025) At sites, various reduction items are being applied to reduce GHG emissions that can be generated during construction stages. At the headquarters, reduction activities are being promoted in daily lives of employees. Lastly, Hyundai E&C has enhanced employee trainings to reinforce the employees’ awareness about the environmental management and successfully deliver the GHG & Energy Target Scheme. Since the first training Green System Green Project Management Green R&D session of ‘Responding to GHG & Energy Target Scheme’ in 2014, we have continuously fortified practical trainings Establish Environmental Create Environment-friendly Sites Expand Environment-friendly thus omissions or errors during the data gathering at sites have been considerably decreasing. Management System Technologies 1 B uild the foundation for environmental 4 Systematically reduce GHG emissions 7 S ecure core environment-friendly management system 5 Expand environment-friendly outsourcing technologies 2 Improve image as an environment-friendly 6 O  perate sites in an environment-friendly 8 D ominate environment-friendly source company manner technology in advance Value Creation Case: 3 O perate the Environmental Management Committee * LCCO2: Life Cycle CO2 Cost Savings through Carbon Management Activities Green Campaign‚ which is a representative GHG reducing campaign of Hyundai E&C‚ has been actively implemented at the headquarters Reinforcement of Energy Management System Since established the GHG inventory system in 2010, Site Headquarters as well as all sites. Especially‚ reduction items that can be immediately applied to tasks have been developed to further reduce the energy we have consolidated a thorough energy management system by reviewing the energy consumption occurred Use steam at existing factories when curing concrete Maintain optimal indoor temperature consumption at sites. At the headquarters‚ daily reduction activities during every stage, from the planning to construction, and setting and monitoring energy reduction targets on S  witch to mobile tower cranes to substitute the use Turn off lights and cooling/heating equipments are being promoted‚ such as maintaining the proper indoor temperate of diesel with electricity a monthly basis. Particularly, Hyundai E&C achieved ISO 50001 (Energy Management System) certification Shut down computers or set them to sleep mode and saving electricity for computers‚ lights‚ air conditioners‚ and Install a remote mobile control device for tower cranes Use personal mugs instead of paper cups and in 2012 for the first among all construction companies in the world. It has been applied to each site to analyze heaters. Encourage car-sharing encourage the use of scrap paper Thanks to systematic carbon management activities‚ Hyundai E&C the energy consumption and select and manage key energy sources, which enables the advanced energy Check vehicles regularly Use stairs and reduce the number of elevator use Prohibit sudden acceleration‚ sudden braking‚ and reduced GHG emissions by 29‚070 tCO 2 * in 2014 and attained management. Furthermore, the GHG system has been managed in H-PMS, an on-site integrated management idling within sites financial achievement of 18.97 billion KRW. Through the constant Vehicle system, since 2014. As a result, the energy management system at sites has become more efficient through Adjust the tire pressure of construction equipment to Green Campaign‚ we will build an environment-friendly workplace and improve fuel efficiency Use hybrid cars for the corporate fleet aggressively reduce GHG emissions. the real-time data gathering and analysis about GHG emissions and energy consumption by energy sources. Encourage the use of bicycles within sites Use public transportation or commuter buses In 2015, we will further enhance the efficiency by improving the GHG management system as well as the datafor commuting to/from work * T he number indicates the cost saved by GHG emission reduction activities only. Please refer to CDP (https://www.cdp.net) for details. entering system for on-site responsible personnel. 38. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39. AGENDA 02 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Minimizing Environmental Impacts ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY As a global, leading integrated engineering company, Hyundai E&C has endeavored to minimize In the future construction market, 60% of buildings will be green home and green smart buildings and the global HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other the environmental impacts that can occur during the business. We have established an Development and Operation market size will grow to 7,800 trillion KRW by 2030. Hence, Hyundai E&C has developed environment-friendly WEB environmental management system for all construction stages including technology development, of Environment-friendly construction technology and applied it to the engineering. To minimize the energy consumption occurring from http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/safety.asp engineering, procurement, transportation, construction, operation, and deconstruction. Moreover, Technology the building operation, we have established a roadmap to commercialize the Zero-Energy technology by 2020 we have been actively promoting various activities and strived to protect the environment and developed innovative environmental technology according to our midto long-term plans. by offsetting inevitable environmental impacts occurring during the construction. Environment-friendly Energy Technology In order to reduce the energy consumption of buildings, we have developed various energy-reducing technology, such as green smart building, zero-energy house, Environment-friendly Construction Process green factory, Smart BEMS (Building Energy Management System), and zero-energy engineering optimization. The developed technology has been applied to domestic as well as overseas sites. 01 02 03 04 05 06 Development of Environment-friendly Energy Technology Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Technology Procurement Transportation Construction Deconstruction Operation Task Purpose and Detail Development & Engineering Increase environment-friendly Minimize environmental Minimize environmental Reduce construction waste Increase environment-friendly Micro Energy Grid Technology for Buildings procurement impacts caused by impacts caused by certification · Maximizing energy saving through efficient supply and consumption of energy Establish environment-friendly (AUG 2011~DEC 2014) Enhance environment-friendly Establish environment-friendly transportation construction deconstruction standards Realize the sustainable technology supply chain Maximize the energy Maximize the resource construction · Designing low-energy building optimally considering local weather conditions Optimum Design for Green Buildings Realize environment-friendly efficiency efficiency (JAN 2013~DEC 2014) · Establishing plan for Zero-energy for heating and cooling by using the passive method engineering Solar Cooling & Heating and Hot-water Application Technology · Developing cooling & heating and hot-water application system using solar heat (JAN 2014~DEC 2016) · Realizing and demonstrating commercialize-able zero-energy technology for apartment Realizing Technology for Zero-energy Apartment Buildings ·E xpanding business opportunities in housing through realizing zero-energy apartment (JAN 2014~DEC 2016) buildings Demonstration Monitoring of Hydrogen Fuel Cell · M onitoring the demonstration of hydrogen fuel cells used at buildings to produce electricity for Buildings and heat (APR 2014~JUL 2015) Smart Façade System Technology · Identifying development approach for Smart Façade Technology (JAN 2014~JUL 2014) · Selecting core technologies and identifying development strategies P.41-42 P.43 P.43 P.44-45 P.45 P.41-42 Establishment of Plans and Strategies for Commercialization of Green Factories · Reviewing the process of rationalization of factory energy and establishing strategies Prior to After (JAN 2014~OCT 2014) Construction stage construction stage construction stage Development of H-MEG Technology In December 2014, Hyundai E&C optimized the energy saving by improving the energy efficiency in every stage of energy production, saving, distribution, and consumption. Also, the H-MEG (Hyundai Micro Energy Grid) technology has been successfully developed, which is an integrated operational technology of a final stage to build a convergence Smart Green City. The H-MEG the economic development have been highly valued. Moreover‚ the excellence of Korean construction technology has been technology includes a building energy management system, energy assessment and optimized engineering noted once again as well. processes, integrated Micro Energy Grid management solution, and target management solution for building The ‘Jurong Rock Cavern Project (JRC1)’ is the first construction energy based on the energy performance analysis. It has been highly valued as a core future technology that will stage to build the largest oil storage cavern (capable for 183 significantly influence a new mega-scale green market such as green building, green remodeling, and green city. million barrels of oil) in the world at Jurong Island‚ which is an ‘oil hub’ of Singapore. Hyundai E&C has used its cuttingedge technology to construct the oil storage of 9.3 million barrels Response to climate change Green remodeling and pier/operation facilities for a tanker on the underwater Identify connecting plan for CDM* and Utilize core technologies for improving for domestic GHG reduction performance energy efficiency → Turn into a new bedrock at a depth of 150 meters. By successfully implementing business the project‚ we further tightened our hold in Singapore and Green building Overseas sector Hyundai E&C, as a Frontier In November 2014‚ Hyundai E&C won the Minister’s it will be a firm foothold for us to dominate an advantageous Realize cutting-edge green smart buildings Utilize for obtaining orders; Award from the Ministry of Land‚ Infrastructure‚ position in receiving an order of the second stage construction H-MEG Review a new business model against the Era of Resource Scarcity, and Transport at the ‘2014 Construction Industry of the storage. HYUNDAI Builds the Largest Underwater Awards’ for the ‘Jurong Rock Cavern Project (JRC1)’ Green home Micro Energy Grid Green city in Singapore. Through the project‚ our technology Build low-energy Hillstate Realize the Micro Energy Grid (MEG) Oil Storage in the World complex for green city and village capabilit y‚ practicalit y‚ and the contribution to <Photo_ Jurong Rock Cavern Project (JRC1)> * CDM : Clean Development Mechanism 40. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41. AGENDA 02 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Minimizing Environmental Impacts ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX Environment-friendly Engineering and Application To apply environment-friendly elements from In order to minimize environmental impacts of material use, we have assessed the environment-friendliness of a Development and Operation the engineering stage, we have identified the key approaches for the environment-friendly engineering: saving Environment-friendly material in the selection stage since 1997. Moreover, we have updated the list of environment-friendly materials of Environment-friendly energy and water, caring the ecosystem, and creating pleasant living environment. Therefore, we have been Procurement and encouraged our suppliers to develop environment-friendly materials. Particularly, by signing a ‘Voluntary Technology developing environment-friendly equipment and efficiency technology. Agreement on Environment-friendly Procurement’ with the Ministry of Environment, we have been continuously enhancing the environment-friendly procurement process to produce and purchase environment-friendly Considerations of Environment-friendly Engineering products. Design Factors under Consideration Major Technology Environment-friendly Procurement Process According to HEGS (Hyundai Environmental Goods Energy · E fficiency: Thermal insulation methods‚ thermal-insulating materials‚ Building integrated photovoltaic Standard) established in 2010, Hyundai E&C has classified and managed all purchased materials based on energy-efficient windows and doors‚ waste heat recovery ventilation system‚ (BIPV) system that ensures saving the standard. The environment-friendly products are classified into eight codes, HEGS 1 to 8. The code of integrated energy management system‚ etc. visibility ·R  enewable energy generation: Photovoltaic, solar, thermal‚ tidal‚ wind‚ Hyundai Energy Recovery a material that is to be purchased is entered into the Environment-friendly Procurement System when charging geothermal‚ biogas‚ hydrogen‚ etc. Ventilation (HERV) or ordering. At sites, data by codes is managed as individual performance of on-site and procurement managers. Water ·C  onservation: Water-efficient toilets‚ water meters‚ greywater recycling systems‚ We also have constantly encouraged the environment-friendly procurement at sites helping managers who have saving rainwater harvesting systems‚ decompression valves‚ etc. ·R  euse: High-pressure filters‚ ammonia stripping‚ collection of high-concentration Rainwater harvesting system insufficient performance. We will strive to minimize environmental impacts occurring from the use of materials liquid compound fertilizers‚ etc. by further expanding the environment-friendly procurement. Consideration · T opography: Fertile soil yard‚ contaminated soil washing technology‚ for the prevention of land subsidence Eco-friendly construction and ecosystem ·W  ater quality: Installation of water shield‚ treatment of water contaminated from washing Environment-friendly Procurement Process * HEGS : Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard soil dredging processing processes‚ treatment of organic wastewater‚ etc. technology ·N  atural habitat: Recycling of damaged plants and trees‚ creation of escape paths‚ ecological wetlands‚ and an island of artificial-plants 01 02 03 04 Comfortable · Indoor air quality: Environmental materials‚ composite sensors‚ Categorize Request and order Monitor the record Goals energy & environment management system‚ etc. Total Energy & Environment environment-friendly materials of environment-friendly living Promote minimization · V entilation: Nature-friendly arrangements‚ topographic consideration‚ Management System (TEEMS) products procurement environment of environmental impact wind-resistant structure evaluation Verification for the final material’s Categorize environmentInput the HEGS code of Monitor each site from material use · T hermal insulation: Thermal-insulating compound materials‚ external heat insulation eco-friendly property friendly products in a given material through systems‚ tunnel lining thermal insulation‚ etc. Technology for reducing floor Encourage the use of accordance with HEGS* the Environment-friendly shock noise environment-friendly ·N  oise: Acknowledge floor structure development‚ noise control‚ window‚ (HEGS-1~8) Procurement System products noise shield capability‚ predicting technology‚ etc. Green Building Certification Among buildings constructed by Hyundai E&C in 2014, eight HEGS-1 Environmental mark-certified goods HEGS-4 Energy savings mark-certified goods HEGS-7 Hazard material-reduced goods projects received the Green Building Certification and three were certified by the Building Energy HEGS-2 GR (Good Recycled) mark-certified goods HEGS-5 Foreign environment mark-certified goods HEGS-8 Recycled goods Efficiency Rating System. Moreover, three projects including the Green Smart Innovation Center achieved LEED Platinum (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification that is a standard benchmark HEGS-3 1-rated energy efficiency goods HEGS-6 Waste-reduced goods for materials, resources, engineering, structures, and functions of high-functional environment-friendly buildings. To realize the sustainable development, Hyundai E&C will construct buildings that is environment-friendly Environment-friendliness Assessment of Material The environment-friendliness of a material is classified throughout the whole life-cycle, from the planning to construction and repair & maintenance. into and managed by three standards: harmfulness, infringement of regulations, and usage amount. Hyundai E&C has been doing the best to establish the environment-friendly supply chain by providing trainings to reduce the environmental harmfulness of a material when it is proved to be highly harmful. Additionally, we have devoted to develop alternative and less harmful materials/elements. risks in advance‚ such as disputes‚ reconstruction‚ increasing production cost‚ and schedule delay‚ which can possibly occur during the actual construction. Also‚ it can increase the satisfaction for a project by improving project officers’ Since established a guideline on the operation of work vehicles in 2010 to reduce GHG emissions from the under st anding about the blueprint. A pplying the Pre Environment-friendly transportation of materials and the driving of heavy equipment, Hyundai E&C has distributed the vehicles construction Process‚ Hyundai E&C has reduced the production cost and construction period when constructing Hyundai Motor Transportation guideline to not only its employees but all suppliers requiring a strict compliance with it. Complex Exhibition Hall and new LH office building in Jinju as well as Qatar National Museum where its atypical structure Environment-friendly Vehicles Guideline Poster Environment-friendly Vehicles Guideline A guideline on the operation of work vehicles defines makes the construction extremely difficult. As a global leading 11 items for the economic driving to increase the fuel efficiency and also includes detailed guidelines Hyundai E&C Has Proven Hyundai E&C has aroused innovations to the construction construction company‚ we will enhance the technology capability market by introducing the Pre-construction Process that for each item. Hyundai E&C complies with the guideline when operating vehicles and heavy equipment by continuing the research and development for our information the Excellence of Technology uses the BIM (Building Information Modeling) technology management system using the BIM and Fast Constructible at the headquarters and all sites. Capability in the World enabling the risk and cost reduction. The Process contains Multi-trade Prefabrication thus further improve the profitability cutting-edge technology to implement the pre-construction and reduce risks. with Its Cutting-edge Introduction of Environment-friendly Vehicles Hyundai E&C has started to use energy-efficient hybrid virtually with the BIM technology that is especially optimized 3D BIM Technology for highly difficult projects. Therefore‚ it efficiently manages <Photo_ Construction of Qatar National Museum> cars since 2012 in order to reduce GHG emissions from work vehicles. We will aggressively contribute to the world’s efforts toward GHG reduction by persistently increasing the number of environment-friendly cars. 42. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43. AGENDA 02 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Minimizing Environmental Impacts ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX We have made various efforts to reduce the energy and resource consumption, GHG emissions, and waste Protection of Ecosystem Due to climate change and intensifying environmental pollution, the biodiversity Environment-friendly generation at sites to minimize environmental impacts that can occur during the construction process. Ecosystem Protection Activities of the world is expected to decrease by 17% in 2030. Based on the Nagoya Protocol, Hyundai E&C has applied Construction strict standards to protect the ecological environment and biodiversity around sites. Through proactive analysis On-site Resource Management In order to efficiently manage materials used during the construction 01 Transplant trees and plants; Create of possible impacts on the environment surrounding a site at the planning stage, we have developed and applied ecological wetlands by settling Replace habitat process, the BIM (Building Information Modeling) has been introduced. Also, the energy and resource basins; Install an island of artificial engineering and construction methods that can help to protect the biodiversity and minimize topographic change plants; Develop natural streams and consumption data is gathered and managed by work types and emission sources on a monthly basis through green areas and destruction of vegetation. In 2014, we thoroughly implemented the ecosystem protection measures at sites the Integrated Environmental Performance Management System. The BIM system where every construction where protected species are inhabiting. information is databased and connected can help reduce the use of unnecessary material by calculating accurate 02 Build escape paths and escapeleading fences for small animals; quantity and price of materials. Moreover, sites utilize rainwater storages and de-watering equipment that uses Install protection Install pathways that utilize silt devices and Protected Species around Sites underground water to reduce the water consumption. Instead of a water tank car to prevent dust, in addition, protectors, blocking paths, roadside pathways trees, and other on-site structures Incheon New Port Container we use sprinklers to consume less water during the construction. Oystercatcher‚ Saunders’ gull‚ Far Eastern Curlew‚ Kestrel‚ Spoonbill 03 Change the construction location; On-site Environment Management We have implemented the on-site environment management Apply low-vibration construction Han River Restoration Project‚ Section 6 Consider alternative Polygonatum stenophyllum max‚ Aster altaicus Willd. var. uchiyamai methods; Downscale bridge to minimize impacts on the environment around a site by categorizing the impacts into four elements: air, water engineering foundations (Nakai) Kitamura‚ Mongolian racerunner quality, soil, and noise & vibration. Besides, standards for air pollutant emissions and installation of controlling facility have been established and applied to each site to prevent air pollution and enhance workers’ health. Haman Jinju Section of Gyeongjeon Line Kestrel Based on relevant regulations, we have strictly adhered to the wastewater quality standard for a water treatment facility as well. In 2014, we invested and spent 47.4 billion KRW for the environment protection, which is a 29.2% Changwon Busan Highway increase from 36.7 billion KRW of expense in 2013. Terrapin‚ Wildcat‚ Buzzard‚ Kite‚ Hen harrier Expense and Investment On-site Management of Environmental Elements for Environmental Protection in 2014 Air quality Water quality 47.4 billion KRW In order to minimize environmental impacts and waste generation during the deconstruction process‚ Hyundai 36.7 billion KRW 2014 ∙ Establish the air pollutant emissions ∙ Operate wastewater treatment facilities such Environment-friendly E&C has realized the standardized environment-friendly deconstruction by establishing an efficient management standards and abatement facility as retaining walls‚ tunnels‚ and batch plants 2013 Deconstruction system and regulations. installation standards ∙ Conduct regular audit of wastewater ∙ Install dust barriers and automatic sprinklers management facilities and water quality ∙ Install diversion channels and grit chambers; Integrated Environmental Waste Management System Since July 2012‚ we have connected the waste 16.81% 22.11% Strictly manage oil facilities management system of the Ministry of Environment‚ ‘Allbaro System‚’ with our H-PMS System thus established and operated the Integrated Environmental Waste Management System at all domestic sites. Through Soil contamination Noise & vibration the system‚ we have effectively controlled violation of regulations in advance. Also‚ it enables the real-time data 22.85% 32.81% gathering of total waste amount and price by business units‚ processes/work types‚ companies‚ and waste ∙ Prohibit any equipment repair & maintenance ∙ Install sound-proof and vibration-proof facilities work and oil change work within sites ∙ Use low-noise equipment types‚ which has been used as a base material of budget compilation. ∙ Developed a contaminated soil washing ∙ Operate vehicles at low speed within sites Air Waste Others 5.42% technology (Environmental Technology ∙ Install sound-proof walls around sites Verification No. 92) Guideline on Environment-friendly Deconstruction Hyundai E&C has endeavored to minimize Water Quality Noise & Vibration ∙ Establish standards for the emissions of air ∙ Six patents and two utility models related to environmental impacts and accident occurrence during the deconstruction and demolition processes polluting materials and install restraining the remediation of contaminated soil facilities by complying with ‘Guideline on Occupational Safety Standards for Deconstruction Work‚’ which is based on the Industrial Safety Standards. To minimize environmental impacts from waste‚ reduce the waste generation, and enhance the recycling‚ we have classified wastes by property types from the point of the waste generation. Reinforcement of On-site Inspection Hyundai E&C has monitored the level of on-site environment Publication of International Furthermore‚ we proactively check the possible containment of harmful substances such as asbestos management by annually conducting independent external inspections and internal inspections by experts Environmental Management Standard by establishing relevant guidelines thus protect employees from direct exposures. If the asbestos containment for all domestic and overseas sites. In 2014, total 145 inspections were implemented for 112 domestic sites and exceeds 1%‚ we commit the removal and disposal of asbestos to hazardous waste management specialists. 33 overseas sites while enhancing the on-site inspection through the HSE Risk analysis by sites. Therefore, Hyundai E&C incurred zero accident in 2014 as well for three consecutive years. As the first among domestic Waste Disposal We have prevented the secondary environmental pollution through constant trainings and construction companies, we have been publishing the International Environmental Management Standard for key recycling measures for waste generated from the construction. For sites that discharge a large amount of waste countries such as Singapore, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar, and Kuwait where we operate business. Furthermore, or that are to be specially managed‚ we have established and applied targets for waste disposal and material we won the 9th Best Practices Contest of Construction Environmental Management for our contribution recycling. Also‚ we sell recyclable wastes to recycling plants to enhance the resource utilization and put a priority to the development of the construction industry by ‘improving the work efficiency through environmental guidelines on purchasing recycled materials and cyclic aggregate. Thanks to our efforts to minimize waste‚ the amount by countries’ in December 2013. We will continue to fortify the environment management by aggressively of waste discharged in 2014 significantly dropped to 458‚256 tons from 625‚147 tons of 2013‚ which is a 26.7% responding to environmental regulations of each country and systematically managing overseas sites through decrease. an active application of the guideline. 44. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45. AGENDA 02 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION Environmental Performances Hyundai E&C maximizes the eco-efficiency as well as minimizes environmental impacts by establishing an environmental SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX at a Glance management system for all business processes. AGENDA 03 OUTPUT INPUT TECHNOLOGY 0.091 0.095 Energy Consumption (TJ) Direct GHG Emissions 0.076 MANAGEMENT Description 2012 2013 2014 Intensity by Revenues (tCO2-e / 100 million KRW) Diesel 94.34 95.34 68.18 Direct GHG Emissions(tCO2-e) 13,245 13,232 12,188 Gasoline 25.24 17.74 14.57 Kerosene 17.61 11.25 32.78 2012 2013 2014 Creating Shared Value Oil subtotal 137.19 124.34 115.53 LNG 55.76 67.32 62.85 Hyundai E&C Differentiating LPG 4.40 2.12 3.77 ensures the customer satisfaction BUSINESS VALUE Gas subtotal 60.17 69.44 66.62 0.425 Technology 0.381 Lump coal (brown coal) 4.17 18.46 26.40 Indirect GHG Emissions 0.304 by differentiating the technology Capability Ignition coal (wood coal) 0.85 0.45 0.46 Intensity by Revenues (tCO2-e / 100 million KRW) capability. Hot water (district heating) 0.01 0.01 Indirect GHG Emissions(tCO2-e) 56,575 53,050 52,924 Electric power 1,145.42 1‚074.49 1‚072.97 Our Approach Technology Others subtotal 1,150.44 1‚093.40 1‚099.83 2012 2013 2014 Technology is the driving force of Hyundai E&C’s future while its Total energy consumption 1‚347.80 1,287.19 1‚281.99 innovative DNA is the key to make the impossible possible. We will SOCIAL VALUE create a better tomorrow of the earth through the development and Ensuring application of high-efficiency and low-carbon source technology Material Use 2.762 Customer 2.323 based on the analysis of midto long-term megatrends, such as the Other Indirect GHG Emissions Satisfaction Description 2012 2013 2014 1.792 urbanization, energy, fuel, and resource scarcity, water shortage, and Intensity by Revenues Steel(ton) 612,000 752,000 811,000 (tCO2-e / 100 million KRW) pollution. Hyundai E&C will fortify the global cooperation for R&D Ready-mixed concrete(㎥) 2‚293‚475 2,457,581 2,431,544 Other indirect GHG emissions(tCO2-e) 367,994 and further differentiate its technology capability. We will do the best 323,819 311,596 Cement(ton) 88,134 86,185 81,706 to deliver a sincere customer satisfaction through the constant quality Sand(㎥) 6,435,000 8,586,000 8,894,000 innovation. 2012 2013 2014 Aggregate(㎥) 7,716,000 6,436,000 7,660,000 G HG emissions in previous years were recalculated based on the revised MRV ※  (Monitoring, Reporting and Verification) Manual of GHG Emissions for Construction Industry. Asphalt concrete(ton) 532,161 316,900 354,972 LO2(ℓ) 1,813,310 1,891,813 1,961,952 Coal in medium-size 1,675,660 2,308,170 3,057,317 Key Sustainability Issues in Technology Management lumps(kg) ※ Parts of material use have been recalculated as the management standard changed. 1 Source technology p.48-51 5 Privacy protection p.53 External Interest Waste Discharge (ton) 1 2 Customer satisfaction p.52-53 6 Low carbon, resource efficient p.49-50 Description 2012 2013 2014 2 technology 3 3 Customer awareness p.53 Water Usage (ton) Waste discharge 254,875 613,302 452,021 6 4 5 4 Eco-friendly R&D p.48-51 7 Products and services p.50 Type 2012 2013 2014 7 Tap Water 361 710 397 Internal Impact Surface Water 335 120 282 Wastewater Discharge (ton) Underground Water 124 100 121 Description 2012 2013 2014 Rain Water 73 20 3 Wastewater discharge 1,577,351 1,117,667 1,093,787 Total Water Usage 893 950 803 46. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47. AGENDA 03 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Differentiating Technology Capability ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY As the resource scarcity accelerates around the world, securing innovative source technology Increase in Investment for R&D Facilities Since 2011‚ Hyundai E&C has persistently increased HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other R&D Division HR Status has become highly significant since it directly affects the corporate competitiveness. Hyundai the investment to improve research facilities such as building new facilities‚ expanding laboratories‚ and replacing WEB (Unit: person / As of DEC 2014) E&C has endeavored to maximize the global technology capability through the development equipment. In November 2014‚ we invested 9 billion KRW to complete the construction of Green Smart http://www.hdec.kr/rnd/field_base.asp of source technology for new growth engines and future products by enhancing the global R&D Innovation Center, which is the ultimate integration of Hyundai E&C’s cutting-edge environmental technology. network and cooperation with affiliates. 166 The center is a zero-energy demonstration facility where the integrated control and operation are possible through the Smart BEMS (Building Energy Management System)‚ which Hyundai E&C developed for the first 122 We have been striving to become a global construction company based on integrated engineering by aggressively 105 in Korea. The Center will be a foundation to lead the field of intelligent environment-friendly building in the future. R&D Strategies reinforcing the future technological competitiveness and promoting the business-creating R&D. Especially‚ Moreover‚ we have invested 1.4 billion KRW to enhance functions of the structural test laboratory‚ wind tunnel for 2015 is the first year of the R&D innovation‚ we have defined R&D Contents‚ R&D Role‚ and R&D Way as our laboratory‚ acoustic laboratory‚ and climate simulator by improving experimental equipment‚ etc. We further values and devoted to secure differentiated capability of source technology. 2012 2013 2014 established a research foundation for the practical environmental and energy demonstration by building four Firstly‚ by innovating the R&D Contents‚ Hyundai E&C has aimed to greatly improve the capability additional demonstration centers as well. Hyundai E&C has endeavored to develop commercialized technology of the organization and is doing the best to achieve R&D results through the technological cooperation that can be immediately applied to on-going projects by testing the stability and suitability of technology with affiliates and global partners. Secondly‚ we have innovated and expanded the R&D Role from the development at the centers. These efforts have helped us to achieve the top-notch technology and future competitiveness that was mainly focusing on element technology to the comprehensive technology management that is to create in the world throughout all business divisions reinforcing new growth engines. a future new growth paradigm and includes technology marketing‚ sales‚ and financing. Thirdly‚ we are becoming a global R&D COE (Center of Excellence) by innovating the R&D Way. The R&D approach to nurture internal talents has now changed to retain outstanding overseas talents for expanding our global innovation culture. Acquirement of Source Technology Since 2013‚ ‘Job Invention Compensation System’ for Therefore‚ Hyundai E&C is analyzing the four megatrends of urbanization‚ energy & fuel‚ resource depletion and R&D Capability Enhancement the patent application and registration has been promoted to identify internal intellectual property and water scarcity which are closely related to the construction industry and identifying research tasks that create to enhance the technology cooperation system. In March 2014‚ Technology Cooperation System‚ an ITfuture business based on the megatrend analysis. Also‚ we have concentrated our efforts on attaining source based internal cooperation platform‚ was established providing a foundation to apply patents and request technology for new growth and future products by enhancing the global R&D capability through the expansion for consulting. Thanks to these support systems‚ the number of patent registrations has significantly increased of our international network. to 75. Also‚ four technologies such as ‘Intelligent Multi Grouting (IMG) System’ and ‘Thermal hydrolysis technology of organic sludge using the direct heat-exchange process of flash steam and multi-tube heater with static mixer’ achieved new certifications or extensions. Three green technologies including ‘Biogas R&D Innovation Strategies upgrading technology using V-PSA system for vehicular fuel’ were also certified. As our capability in source technology has been improved‚ patent applications and registrations have been constantly increasing. In order Securing Future Technology for New Business to secure source technology‚ we have set goals of 90 patent applications‚ four new technology certifications (extensions)‚ and two green technology certifications for 2015. Three Innovation Tasks Establishing <R&D Paradigm Innovation> System 01 02 03 Innovation in R&D Contents Innovation in R&D Role Innovation in R&D Way Green Smart Future Has Been Realized Enhancing integrated engineering capability Aiming for business-creating R&D Establishing Global innovation through BEMS of Hyundai E&C 1 5 100 58 57.4 Fortifying the cooperation system Concentrating on R&D performance Increasing the competitiveness of with the headquarters Improving capability in technology marketing, global outstanding talents 1st construction 5 participating affiliates 100 key technologies 58 IPRs 57.4% energy reduction company to develop (Hyundai Motor‚ Hyundai Steel‚ (Intellectual Property Rights) at offices Expanding the technological cooperation sales, and financing Managing and cultivating technology BEMS Hyundai Hysco‚ Hyundai Autoever‚ with affiliates and global partners capability systematically ※ 2014: 1st Green Rank (the highest rank) in Green Building Certification Hyundai Architects & ※ 2015: Platinum Rank in LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Engineers Assoc) In December 2014‚ the construction of Green Smart Innovation Center (GSIC) was completed that Hyundai Reinforcement of R&D Capability Under the goal of ‘Securing Technologies to Become a Global E&C planned and constructed by its own to establish the research infrastructure and develop business models Consolidation of R&D Construction Leader based on Engineering‚’ Hyundai E&C reorganized and expanded the research institute through demonstrations. The GSIC is a cutting-edge building where more than 100 technology and 58 IPRs Foundation to the ‘Research and Development (R&D) Division’ in 2011. Recruiting remarkable global talents, we have (Intellectual Property Rights) of Hyundai E&C have been utilized. It is a demonstration facility to develop greensmart technology for the pleasant environment of a building and energy saving. consolidated a foundation to secure innovative future technology with aggressive investment for research For the differentiation from other green demonstration facilities‚ we have applied the Smart BEMS (Building facilities. Energy Management System)‚ which we developed by our own for the first time as a domestic construction Therefore, we invested total 29.9 billion KRW including 14.7 billion KRW for the R&D HR operation, 3.9 billion company. As a result‚ we have realized the integrated operation and optimized control of Micro Energy Grid that covers from the energy production to energy saving and consumption. Through continuous technology KRW for R&D, and 11.3 billion KRW for R&D capital in 2014. Hyundai E&C believes that competent R&D talents development and monitoring‚ Hyundai E&C will secure the core technology in the green remodeling area are the center of the corporate competitiveness. Therefore, we constantly attain outstanding global human and newly enter domestic and overseas businesses by commercializing our own cutting-edge technology. resources and have established and implemented a special plan to enhance the global business and achieve Additionally‚ the synergy with Hyundai Motor Group will be further improved through joint researches with affiliates‚ suppliers‚ and research facilities. the technology capability. As of 2014, the number of employees working in the R&D Division is 166, which Green Smart Innovation Center is a 187% increase from 89 employees of the end of 2011. 48. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49. AGENDA 03 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Differentiating Technology Capability ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX Technology Commercialization Hyundai E&C has constantly improved the capability to receive and Convergence Technology Development through Synergy with Hyundai Motor Group Hyundai implement competitive orders through new technology certifications and its technology capability has been E&C has constantly promoted joint R&Ds with Hyundai Motor Group affiliates and convergence technologies highly valued in the world as a result. In November 2013‚ we proposed the ‘Contaminated Soil Remediation are being developed in fields such as energy‚ environment-friendly construction material‚ electricity, and traffic. R&D Project’ to Singapore for the first in the Korean construction industry where we were selected as the first Under the Hyundai Motor Group R&D Strategy Committee‚ Motors-construction Convergence Subcommittee research facility. Our outstanding technology has been recognized leading us to be the second research facility was newly founded in 2014 creating a foundation to fortify the cooperation of Hyundai E&C and its affiliates of the project. We expect to receive a number of new orders in Singapore such as a dredged soil purification in the construction area. Furthermore‚ four consultative groups such as ‘Consultative group for new business project based on our research in the ‘Contaminated Soil Remediation R&D Project.’ Besides‚ our technology has of hydrogen fuel cell’ are being currently operated. In 2014‚ we cooperated most actively with Hyundai Motor been applied to various sites and contributed to receiving more orders and successfully implementing projects‚ for ‘Road Improvement Technology using Vehicle Driving Information.’ Also‚ we have been developing ‘Pavement such as ‘Intelligent Multi-Grouting System (IMG)‚’ ‘Auto Controlled Injection System of Powder type Accelerator‚’ Resource Usability of Industrial By-products’ with Hyundai Steel and Hyundai Motor and ‘Smart Home & ‘Vertical Pipe Cooling Method‚’ and ‘Prefabricated Parallel Wire Strand (PPWS)’ which we developed for the first Car’ with Hyundai Motor. In 2015‚ we will do the best to identify new growth fields and maximize the synergy in the nation. We are fully aware of that the ultimate purpose of the R&D is the technology commercialization with affiliates by developing synergy items and creating actual performances from joint cooperation. through the application to business. Hence‚ we will further reinforce the practical technology capability in 2015 Cost Reduction by increasing the target number of technology commercialization to 90‚ such as technology transfer and by In-house Technical Consulting technology application to engineering/construction of domestic and overseas projects. (Unit: hundred million KRW) Technology Development ny through Synergy with Hyundai Motor Group pa ing Through the expansion of in-house technical m Reinforcement of In-house Technical Consulting or Co el is co ine er oe r ve &C ot te ob ys ng ut 401 consulting and application of new technology and method‚ Hyundai E&C has intensified the cost competitiveness iH iE iA * iE iM iS iM ** ** da da da da da da da R&D R&D Tasks un un un un un un un he rs reducing cost and construction schedule. In 2014‚ we provided 148 technological supports to domestic and Hy Hy Hy Hy Hy Hy Hy Ot Construction Road ITS* 248 overseas sites. Also‚ the number of supports at the bidding stage has increased to 32 greatly contributing Material to receiving orders with our technology. The amount of cost reduction in 2013 increased to 40.1 billion KRW from Resource Usability of Industrial By-products 24.8 billion KRW of 2013 due to the enhancement of the technology capability and advancement of in-house Steel slag 2013 2014 technical consulting. In 2015‚ divisional and in-house technical supports are expected to reduce costs by 45 Resource Recycling Type PC** billion KRW. Intelligent Traffic System (completed) High-tech Modular House (completed) Expansion of R&D Network Reinforcement of Global R&D Cooperation In order to achieve future core technology and Construction High-strength structural steel (completed) reinforce the R&D capability‚ we have built the R&D network with 25 world’s leading agencies and promoted Green City Smart Home & Car a wide scope of international joint researches and Connect & Development in 22 different fields. In 2014‚ Hydrogen fuel cells we signed 11 joint research agreements with advanced research agencies such as National Renewable Energy Laboratory of the USA. Moreover‚ our employees have continuously visited global companies such as SIEMENS‚ TOS***/TEEMS**** Germany that own source technology to fortify the technology capability in new business areas and diversify our Ocean Energy Precise construction under water (completed) business portfolio. Water/Environment Wastewater recycling Global Technology Cooperation in 2015 Committees Consultative organization * ITS : Intelligent Transport System ∙ HMG R&D Strategy Committee ∙ Consultative group for new business of hydrogen fuel cell ** PC : Precast Concrete UK (Motors-construction Convergence ∙ Material analysis technology forum *** TOS : Total Operation System **** TEEMS : Total Energy and Environment Loughborough Univ. : High-rise building Subcommittee) ∙ Numerical analysis technology forum Management System Sheffield Univ. : High Performance Material ∙ Consultative group for robot technology of ***** Others : Hyundai MnSOFT, Sampyo (affiliate) Hyundai Motor Group ∙ ITS Working Group France Terrasol : Separated foundation Poster of Finland Singapore Hyundai E&C Technical Forum In order to develop creative and innovative technology in the construction 2015 Hyundai E&C Technical Forum VTT : Technological cooperation NTU : Joint research field‚ Hyundai E&C annually holds Hyundai E&C Technical Forum that is the only technology competition in Korea. Canada Germany Japan UWO : High-rise building The Forum is the biggest event of the company where domestic and overseas college students and SMEs VOITH : Tidal power generation YNU : Ultra-long span bridge submit the application over five months. Outstanding technologies are awarded in every September. TMU : Ultra-long span bridge US All student winners would receive incentives if they apply to enter Hyundai E&C and corporate winners achieve Denmark UCLA : Water treatment plant Siemens : Off-shore wind coal gasification plant Thailand a privilege to become suppliers of Hyundai E&C and receive supports for patent applications of their technologies. Gehry Tech. : High-rise building AIT : Technological cooperation We are striving to promote the interest in the technology development and increase the accessibility to new LBNL : Green Smart building Australia Penn State Univ. : TBM (Tunnel Boring Machine) technologies. CSIRO : CCS (Carbon Capture & Storage) Vietnam USNC : Very high temperature reactor UWA : Off-shore wind power Plant ECC HCMC : Renewable Energy System NREL : Renewable Energy System 50. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51. AGENDA 03 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Customer Satisfaction through Innovation ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY The sincere customer satisfaction comes from the excellent quality. Based on the corporate Online Communication Channels Open communication with customers is highly important HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other culture that prioritizes our customers, Hyundai E&C strives to constantly innovate the quality Expansion of to Hyundai E&C. Therefore‚ we have operated a customer center on our website to provide information WEB as well as create customer values by actively communicating with customers through various Customer Communication that customers need. Moreover‚ we offer 1:1 online consultations for convenient and prompt problem http://en.hdec.kr on/offline channels. solving. The website is provided in seven different languages such as Arabic and Spanish for our overseas customers and the mobile website has been established and constantly updated as well. Beside the Hyundai E&C website‚ we operate a Hillstate (a representative housing brand of Hyundai E&C) Hyundai E&C Homepage Quality Management System Hyundai E&C has operated a Quality Management System in order to fortify website to provide information customized for specific customers. Via phone and web, Hillstate customers can Quality Innovation the management of quality risk and proactively respond to customers’ demands. Moreover‚ the System has been http://en.hdec.kr obtain information about reconstruction‚ sales‚ and after services as well as professional consultations through persistently improved by the Quality Management Planning Team and Quality Management Innovation Team. Hillstate Homepage customer centers. In 2014‚ 1‚753 customer opinions were submitted through the web page and 62‚926 customer http://www.hillstate.co.kr Particularly‚ Case Application System (CAS) has been introduced and gathered more than 6,500 Best & Worst opinions were submitted through the customer centers. Practices through the Project Trouble Shooting Guide (PTSG) system. The CAS has contributed to preventing the reoccurrence of same failure cases and spreading success cases. For efficient use of cases within the CAS, Offline Communication Channels For effective customer communication, we provide various we will constantly improve the CAS and regularly analyze and share cases thus keep innovating the quality communication channels such as phone-call, e-mail, door-to-door visiting, face-to-face talk and so on. management. Especially, we operate 19 AS centers and five offices including Seoul and other regions, to provide quality services for the residents’ accessibility. Furthermore, we hold ‘The Hillstate Day’ Event before the completion Reinforcement of Corporate Quality Innovation To understand and proactively respond to needs of the construction, to improve the services and customer satisfaction by gathering customers’ opinions. Corporate Quailty Management of customers‚ we conducted regular quality evaluations for 62 sites and assigned quality experts to 12 new sites In addition, the CS Center has newly established and operated the MOT (Moment of Truth) Team for prompt AS Quality Evaluations Conducted for to establish a standard quality system in 2014. Also‚ we endeavored to settle the Project Trouble Shooting Guide in early days of move-in and enhancement of customer services. Customer enquiries submitted to AS centers 62 Sites (PTSG) system with online quality trainings for about 2‚000 technical staffs and publish an e-Book about Best & are being handled on the day of submission through consultation or customer visit. Worst Practices of the on-site quality management. Additionally‚ a construction recording process and application Quality System Established for system have been further enhanced to share project experiences and know-hows. Hence‚ the overall quality 12 New Sites has been significantly improved through the customized construction information and increased convenience of use. Thus, it is expected for our employees to share experiences and know-hows accumulated from Hillstate Stylers In order to reflect various customer opinions to business‚ Hyundai E&C has operated the project implementation at a site. In 2015, we will for tif y the global business capabilit y Activities for Customer Hillstate Styler for eight years since 2008 which is a quasi-expert valuation group mainly composed by advancing the quality risk management system and do the best to realize the customer impression. Satisfaction of housewives. Various opinions proposed from regular Hillstate Styler activities have been used as references to improve the quality of Hillstate apartments. In 2014‚ Hillstate Styler conducted six activities at six sites including Expansion of Quality Innovation of Suppliers Hyundai E&C holds regular workshops for suppliers the Dangjin site. Quality Chain Workshop and offers specialized quality training by work types for the quality innovation throughout the entire value chain. Hillstate Styler Activities In 2014‚ we contributed to increasing the quality level of suppliers by providing three quality trainings and Protection of Customer Information We have endeavored to secure the trust from our customers workshops for 145 quality managers of 126 construction suppliers. Furthermore‚ to satisfy customers’ needs‚ by delivering accurate information and protect the customer information by operating a Privacy Protection four quality chain events and trainings were conducted for 90 quality managers of 68 material suppliers. In 2015‚ Committee and appointing a Chief Privacy Officer (CPO). We also comply with marketing and communication we will further reinforce our quality trainings by providing the quality workshop to more suppliers and developing regulations to prevent the decrease of customers’ trust due to the inappropriate marketing. practical curriculums. Customer Satisfaction Survey Our quality evaluation team visits sites and conducts a customer satisfaction survey to identify needs and satisfaction level of customers. The customer satisfaction survey consists of ten areas including the company’s will to satisfy customer needs‚ satisfaction about the quality‚ leadership‚ and constant improvements‚ etc. In 2014‚ the survey was conducted for project owners‚ engineers‚ and supervisors of 62 sites and the result was 96.3 points that is 1.9 point higher than the previous year. To expand the scope Result of Customer Satisfaction Survey Hyundai E&C Has Innovated the Construction Quality of Korea (Unit: point) of the survey‚ we will carry out the online satisfaction surveys for customers of every site from the second half Winning the Minister’s Award for Its Outstanding Works of 2015. Hyundai E&C will continue to do the best to listen to the voice of customers by enhancing the objectivity 96.3 and credibility of survey results. In December 2014‚ Hyundai E&C won the Minister’s Award at ‘The 7th Korea Construction Excellence Award’ 94.3 94.4 for the construction of Ulsan Bridge and accident road. The Award is hosted by the Ministry of Land‚ Infrastructure‚ and Transport and conducted by Korea Construction Quality Association and Construction Economy News. It is to encourage the quality improvement of the domestic construction industry and identify and award best practices. Ulsan Bridge where Hyundai E&C undertook the construction in May 2010 is the longest single span suspension bridge and the first sea bridge of Ulsan. It is expected to bring positive effects such as solving the traffic problem of the downtown and saving 2012 2013 2014 the industrial logistics cost. For the bridge construction‚ in addition‚ Hyundai E&C developed and introduced the super high strength Prefabricated Parallel Wire Strand (PPWS) cable of 1‚960 MPa for the first in the world. Judges of the award highly valued our technology capability complimenting that we have significantly increased the level of the Korean construction industry. Hyundai E&C will continue to lead the quality improvement through the outstanding quality management. Ulsan Bridge 52. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53. AGENDA 04 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE SOCIAL ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX VALUE CREATION AGENDA 04 https://www.hdec.kr:1443/recruit/tp_vision.asp TALENT MANAGEMENT Creating Shared Value Cultivating Hyundai E&C BUSINESS VALUE Innovative realizes employee values Talents by cultivating innovative talents. Our Approach Employee Employees are the driving forces of the corporate innovation and the most valuable resources of Hyundai E&C. We have taken persistent SOCIAL VALUE steps toward the dream of Construction Korea by nurturing innovative Realizing talents who pioneers changes and innovations around the world. Employee Additionally, we have strived to create the value of individual employees Value by providing the best opportunity for the capability development as well as built a pleasant corporate culture where employees can work in a safe environment and maintain the work-life balance. Key Sustainability Issues in Talent Management 1 Safety management p.61-62 5 Labour practice p.56-58 External Interest 1 2 Appraisal and compensation p.58 6 Employee benefits p.60 5 3 3 Development of human capital p.56-58 7 Equal opportunity p.56-57 4 2 7 6 4 Work-life balance p.59-60 8 Human right protection p.57 8 Internal Impact Shuqaiq-Al Kudmi/Abha 380kV Transmission Line 54. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55. AGENDA 04 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Cultivating Innovative Talents ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY Hyundai E&C considers human resources as the biggest driving force of the corporate Pursuit of Diversity The diversity is a critical issue that directly influences the corporate competitiveness HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other Recruitment of Social Minorities innovation. In order to cultivate innovative talents who can make the impossible possible through since Hyundai E&C is actively operating its business all around the world. For the successful cooperation WEB (At HQ / As of DEC 31, 2014) constant challenges, we always seek for competent individuals and provide systematic human with local clients and suppliers, we have promoted the local hiring at overseas sites. By newly establishing 86 41 https://www.hdec.kr:1443/recruit/tp_vision.asp resource development programs so that our employees can acquire the global capability the Global Human Resources Management System in 2015, we will hire more local talents for the manager and professionalism. position. In addition, for the diversity at workplace, we have constantly increased the recruitment ratio for Individuals with Disabilities Foreigners female, foreign workers, men of national merit, and individuals with disabilities. We also have required every new 86 domestic site to recruit at least one individual with disabilities since 2014 so that we can deliver the corporate Pursuing the globalization for human, society, and the future, we have recruited and cultivated competent social responsibility. Hyundai E&C’s Ideal Employee talents as our biggest resource. Under the ‘Innovative Challenger‚’ the concept of our ideal employee, we deliver Men of Merit a vision of innovative talents who create new values by challenging to the new, to the impossible, and Compliance with Human Rights and International Standards As a global construction company to becoming the best. Hyundai E&C will stand tall as a global leader of the construction industry with our that faithfully fulfill the social responsibility, Hyundai E&C publicly endorses global standards on human and employees who aggressively execute their jobs with a challenging mind and passion and build a cooperative labor rights, such as the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Conventions, OECD network based on the creativity and global mind. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and Global Sullivan Principles, etc. Joined the UN Global Compact in 2010, we have complied with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anticorruption and aggressively participated in international corporate activities Hyundai E&C’s Ideal Employee for the social responsibility. Based on the Labor Standard Act, we have strictly prohibited child and forced labor Value CREATOR and established human right protection standards to prevent the religious or racial discrimination at overseas Individuals who, with creativity and a pioneering spirit, continuously sites through various supporting systems. Thanks to these efforts, Hyundai E&C incurred neither restrictions strive to challenge the status quo and create new value nor accusations in regard to human rights in 2014. Global DEVELOPER Individuals who are prepared to work globally with an open mind Development of Global Capability To successfully execute international business, we are providing and respect diversity Cultivation of educations on language, different culture, and negotiation. Furthermore, in addition to existing language classes Synergy BUILDER Global Innovative Talents such as French, Spanish, and Chinese, Arabic has been newly taught since 2013 for the global language Individuals who can create synergy within a group by proficiency of our employees. Hyundai E&C has been supporting the employees to grow into a global leader communicating and cooperating with diverse stakeholders through the leadership training and Overseas Site Participation Program. Recruitment of Outstanding Talents Hyundai E&C recruits human resources in a fair and transparent Equal Opportunities manner to find advanced talents that suit our ideal employee type and provide equal opportunities to all in Employment applicants. In 2014, we recruited 243 new employees, 49 interns, and 230 experienced workers. Moreover, we have introduced a flexible time shift to provide job opportunities to women of discontinued career thus I am Very Proud to Be a Member employed 44 additional employees. Through the intern system, we not only provide a job opportunity to the youth of World’s Leading Company, Hyundai E&C who suffer from the unemployment and economic difficulty but contribute to our global competitiveness Philippines by attaining competent talents in advance. 2015 Global Talent Program Aliwalas Yvette Kristel Jasa / UAE Branch In order to enhance the capability and loyalty of foreign employees at overseas sites, Hyundai It is such an honor to be in the Global Talent Program. Learning E&C initiated ‘2015 Global Talent Program.’ 24 foreign employees came to Korea and visited more about our company, I felt even prouder to be a member the Hyundai E&C headquarters, Research and Development (R&D) Division, and Green Smart of a renowned company that significantly contributes to the world. Also, Current Status of Recruitment Current Status of Employees Innovation Center, etc. Listening to lectures about Hyundai E&C and Hyundai Motor Group, all participants could recognize that we are considered as valuable (Unit: person) (Unit: person / As of DEC 31, 2014) the foreign employees were able to raise their pride in the company. We will continue employees of Hyundai E&C. This program will play an important role to consolidate a foundation for employees and company to grow together through various for our company to take one step towards the globalization. capability development programs for our foreign employees. Full-time Contract 2014 230 243 49 44 566 employees workers India 4,655 883 Jee Vincent Thaliah / Kuwait Oil Company NO.1 Site 2013 207 270 42 519 I could experience various Korean culture through the program. Most Male 4,350 Male 847 of all, it was such a great opportunity to learn about the vision and core values of Hyundai E&C. With the friendly relationship with Korean team 2012 212 242 33 487 Female 305 Female 36 leaders during the program, I could learn how to deal with difficulties such as communicating with Korean colleagues at overseas sites. I believe that the Global Talent Program will be very helpful for foreign Experienced New recruit Internship Flexible time shift Total 5,538 employees to work at Hyundai E&C. 56. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57. AGENDA 04 AGENDA 04 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Cultivating Innovative Talents Work-life Balance ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY Reinforcement of Work Capability Hyundai E&C has implemented a systematic job training based on Hyundai E&C strongly believes that the happiness of individual employee is the basis of HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other the e-HRD (Human Resource Development) System and contributed for the customized capability development the corporate competitiveness. In order to create a pleasant company that guarantees a work-life WEB by providing necessary training programs by jobs, positions, and groups. Additionally, we have endeavored balance of employees, we are building a corporate culture which is family-oriented and is based https://www.hdec.kr:1443/recruit/tp_welfare.asp to internalize our expertise by nurturing employees with professionalism as in-house lecturers. on the trust and open communication. Expansion of Integrated Group Training In order to generate synergies by the incorporation into Hyundai Motor Group, we have offered an integrated training in all educational courses. Besides, we have constantly Based on the creative, human-centered corporate culture that prioritizes the communication and trust, Hyundai expanded opportunities of Leadership Competency Program (LCP) trainings, overseas trainings at advanced Corporate Culture of E&C has systematically implemented activities to enhance employees’ sensibility by improving the quality of life global companies, and seminars. To provide trainings that satisfy employees’ needs, an Employee Opinion Open Communication and enhancing the corporate communication. Survey has been regularly conducted. As of December 2014, the total number of FTE is 4,655 while training hour and Trust per person is 115 hours and training expenditure per person is 0.94 million KRW. Enhancement of Employee Communication In order to listen to difficulties and enquiries of our employees, we are operating various employee communication channels. In 2014, we gathered employees’ Intranet-based Knowledge Sharing Through the intranet, employees can share knowledge and practices opinions through headquarters manager meetings and on-site online meetings to create a happier workplace. for tasks and trainings. Hyundai E&C has also increased employees’ accessibility to work-related knowledge As a result of discussions with relevant teams, 15 opinions have been selected to be promoted first. Also, through the Closed User Group (CUG) in the groupware by operating an interactive knowledge-sharing platform improvement activities are being conducted by annual plans for five areas: HR system, training system, familyabout regulations & guidelines, organizations & human resources, notices & cooperation, and departmental oriented management, emotional management, and improvement of work environment. Furthermore, Hyundai news. E&C recently opened an Employee Counseling Center (ECC) to solve grievances thus the work efficiency of employees as well as corporate productivity can increase. Improvement of Knowledge Management System (KMS) In order to keep pace with the information Case Application System (CAS) age, Hyundai E&C has operated the Knowledge Management System (KMS) since 2003 for efficient Labor Union Hyundai E&C, which has strived for harmony and trust between labor and management, accumulation and sharing of knowledge. As of March 2015, about 65 thousands cases of knowledge are stored guarantees an employee’s free join or withdrawal from the Labor Union in accordance with Article 3 and Article in the knowledge DB and the number of annual views is almost 700 thousands. Moreover, we recently developed 5 of the Collective Agreement in the Labor Union Act. Furthermore, according to the duty to notify on Article 10 the Case Application System (CAS) that contains about 6.5 thousands best and worst practices and has been of the Collective Agreement, it is a compulsory principle to immediately give notice to all employees in advance applied to all existing and new sites. We have also developed A-Dic (Abbreviation Dictionary) for employees regarding significant changes in the business, such as organizational restructuring. As of December 2014, at overseas sites to conveniently search for construction abbreviations. By efficiently sharing the accumulated 816 employees are members of the Labor Union and subject to the protection by the right of collective knowledge, we will prevent failures at engineering, construction, procurement, and commissioning stages bargaining. The figure counts 23.0% of the 3,550 employees who are qualified to join the Union. in advance and strive for the successful business operation. Junior Board Workshop Junior Board Activities Junior Board has been a young ‘Idea Bank’ of Hyundai E&C for 25 years since 1990, which proposes fresh thoughts and ideas about the overall management with its young and vibrant sense. While developing qualifications as a leader through the leadership training, the Junior Board has discussions We have reasonable HR and compensation system for performances created. Through the predefined KPI, with the CEO to function as a communication channel for other employees. Its advanced activities were chosen Fair Appraisal and we accurately evaluate a job capability of an employee and compensate fairly based on the evaluation result. as the best practice that realizes Hyundai Motor Group’s core values. By identifying various issues and solutions Compensation about the corporate management, the Junior Board will be an incubator of a future leader who actively Appraisal Since 2012, Hyundai E&C has operated the evaluation system for executives/employees communicates with the management. in accordance with the Management by Objective (MBO). In addition, we have provided a training on the performance management to key responsible personnel. We are also creating a corporate culture that Employee Engagement Survey Hyundai E&C has endeavored to create a corporate environment where enables the accurate evaluation and fair compensation by advancing the performance management processes, employees and the company can grow together by aggressively improving the work environment. Since 2011, such as ‘goal-setting,’ ‘mid-term evaluation,’ and ‘final evaluation.’ Various opinions have been gathered through the Employee Engagement Index (EEI) has been carried out to understand the employees’ work satisfaction a regular employee survey about the evaluation system since 2013. A public hearing with managers and a HR and the survey result of 2014 was 83% as the previous year. In 2015, we also held a briefing session about satisfaction survey of employees have been implemented as well. Through these diverse efforts, we are devoting the survey result for divisional Change Agent (CA) councils and shared the result with all employees via email and ourselves for the successful performance evaluation system. the groupware. Total 80 action plans based on the assessment results by divisions are being currently executed and the result will be reflected to each division’s KPI for a better work environment. Compensation With the compensation system to provide incentives and fixed pay based on each individual’s performance evaluation, we have inspired our employees to work harder and create better Facebook Page for Employees For interesting communication of not only domestic but overseas performances. Particularly, the promotion has now become based on individual performance and capability employees, we have a special Facebook page. We will enable employee families and friends to share postings by minimizing privileges for seniority and executing a Promotion Point Program. For the global competitiveness, as well to encourage further participation. Hyundai E&C will persistently improve the organization, HR management, and talent cultivation and build the HR system that can maximize employee values. Moreover, we guarantee the gender equality thus the individual wage may vary depending on one’s position and working condition but never on the gender. 58. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59. AGENDA 04 AGENDA 04 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Work-life Balance Safe Work Environment ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY Healthcare Support Carefully listening to our employees to improve the quality of life, we have various Creating a safe work environment for our employee is the first priority Hyundai E&C always HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other Welfare & Benefits welfare and benefit programs. To secure the pleasant work environment and employees’ health, we are operating pursues. To realize ‘TOTAL SAFETY,’ we have established a corporate safety management WEB the in-house medical center. Also, a regular medical check-up service has been provided to employees. In 2014, system and aggressively promoted safety activities to achieve the zero accident rate. http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/safety.asp total 1.86 billion KRW was invested in medical check-up for 5,681 employees and their families. We will open Certification for Best Family Friendly ‘Employee Assistance Center’ in 2015 to reinforce the work engagement and corporate productivity by solving difficulties of employees. HSE Management System The safety management of Hyundai E&C has built the safety environment that Reinforcement of realizes the accident prevention led by the top management beyond implementing reactive countermeasures. Childbirth & Parental Leave In order to contribute to alleviating the low birth rate in Korea, Hyundai Safety Management In order to create a paradigm of the safety management to comply with the basic and principles, we establish E&C has constantly improved the work environment to secure the balanced life of employees at work and HSE (Health, Safety, and Environment) management plans and targets every year and create a safe work home. In 2014, 20 female employees used the 90-day maternity leave and 214 male employees used a paid environment with systematic inspections and practical trainings. Especially, the HSE Work Guidebook has been paternity leave. The returning rate of 2014 is 100% since 234 employees all returned to work after the leave. published since 2013 for the safety management at overseas sites. The Guidebook includes data standardization By continuously operating the childbirth and parental leave programs, we will keep improving the work and guidelines for safe works by countries. In 2014, it was published in six more countries thus in total 12 environment of our employees. countries. In 2015, we are striving to enhance the HSE system emphasizing the prevention through strict safety management plans and the enhancement of HSE Division, inspection, training, and investment. Retirement Pension Plan Hyundai E&C is operating a retirement savings plan for employees in two types: Hyundai E&C has operated Safety & Health & Green Environment Management System since 2012 that defined-benefit pension plan and defined-contribution pension plan. Employees can choose to receive their integrates the safety & health, green and energy management for the efficient site management. Additionally, retirement savings either at once or as a pension plan. We will create a reliable company for our employees we further secured the accuracy and efficiency by comprehensively reviewing HSE work standards and through stably operating the retirement pension plan and increasing the pension amount. processes at the headquarters and sites thus significantly improving 61 domestic and 28 overseas processes in 2014. We implement the safety management system according to international safety and health standards by achieving both OHSAS 18001, an international standard, and KOSHA 18001, a domestic standard. HSE Division and Safety Inspection A HSE Team, a responsible body for the safety management, has been operated by business divisions to identify safety risks in advance and create a safe work environment We Build Employee Participation Programs Family Participation Programs by raising the safety awareness of employees. Furthermore, an International HSE Team was newly established For the sense of belonging and loyalty of employees, Hyundai We are operating a number of family participation programs A Happy Workplace E&C is providing diverse employee participation programs. to establish a warm corporate culture for employees and their under the HSE Innovation Team in 2014 to fortify the safety management support system for overseas sites. Besides, the importance of the safety management has been further enhanced by reflecting each site’s safety through Various Activities New Employee Mentoring Program is being operated yearfamilies. Through ‘Daddy Treats Today!’ program, which has been round and provides mentoring workshops and lectures to help popular among employees, our employees can visit the school management performance to KPI of not only on-site managers but team/part leaders as well as by increasing new employees adapt to the company. Moreover, we had ‘Find of their children and spend meaningful time with the children Employee and Family distributed points. Hidden STAR!’ which is an audition to find talented employees and their friends. Besides, through the ‘Headquarters Tour for Participation Programs for the creation of a happier workplace. The six winning teams Employee Family’ in 2014, we invited employee families to visit the In order to monitor the safety management at domestic and overseas sites while preventing accidents, have organized a company music club, ‘Healing Band.’ Since headquarters and a few sites and encouraged their pride in our Hyundai E&C has conducted improvement activities through regular safety inspections. In particular, 2014, our employees have had opportunities to listen to experts company. Also, Hyundai E&C has concentrated its efforts on the we established an efficient equipment risk management system by developing a Feed-Back System for data in various fields through the ‘Humanity Concert on Core Values’ work-life balance in various ways such as providing ‘Family Day’ entry and management of on-site inspections, hiring equipment experts, and newly founding responsible teams. program as well. biweekly and encouraging employees to use their annual vacations. We conducted 1,691 safety inspections which is a 35% increase from 2013 (1,251 inspections conducted). We will execute thorough safety inspections for the top management by business divisions and operate inspection team all year-round in 2015. Also, the number of inspections will be largely increased to 3,475 and outside safety experts will help enhance the inspection system. Hence, Hyundai E&C will take one big step toward the stable safety management. Humanity Concert on Core Values Headquarters Tour for Employee Family Hyundai E&C In December 2014, Hyundai E&C held ‘Safety Determination Proclamation Ceremony’ to enhance the safety management that is the first value of Has Put Its Sincerest the corporate management as well as reaffirmed its strong devotion to build Efforts to Build safer sites. All employees including the President Jung Soo-Hyun made a firm promise to advance the safety management by complying with a Safer Workplace the basic and principles and establish an advanced prevention system for safety and health. Since the ceremony, Hyundai E&C has greatly reinforced the safety management at domestic and overseas sites and built zero-accident sites by providing safety training to suppliers as well. <Photo_ Safety Determination Proclamation Ceremony> Find Hidden STAR! New Employee Mentoring Program Daddy Treats Today! Camp and Field Trips for Employee Children 60. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61. AGENDA 04 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Safe Work Environment ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX Safety Inspection Day In every month, Hyundai E&C holds a ‘Safety Inspection Day’ at all sites around AGENDA 05 Safety Management the world in the presence of the top management. We inspect and improve the safety conditions of sites, increase Activities the awareness about safety to prevent accidents, and encourage the active participation of all employees and site SOCIAL workers. The ‘Safety Inspection Day’ will be constantly developed through the diversification of inspection themes and expansion of emotional safety activities. We will make a full preparation for the zero accident by checking the status of compliance with the HSE standard and risk inspection and creating thorough safety precautions MANAGEMENT Safety Inspection Day for sites. Permit to Work (PTW) We have prevented safety accidents through the Permit to Work (PTW) for every work executed at sites. The Permit to Work is a system to obtain a permit to work in advance by establishing a safety measure for possible risk factors by works. If a work did not receive the PTW or omitted safety measures Creating Shared Value as stated in the PTW document, it is subject to an immediate halt. Total 81,518 PTWs were issued to domestic Hyundai E&C Empowering BUSINESS VALUE sites and average 533 PTWs per site were issued in 2014. For further enhancement of the Permit to Work, we will Value Chain persistently monitor the safety management with a mobile device, etc. accomplishes the shared growth Expansion of Out System Through the Out System for the safety awareness of all employees and onwith the society by empowering site workers, Hyundai E&C has established restrictive standards by violation levels and promoted the corporate the entire value chain. training to prevent safety accidents. In 2014, the Out System was executed 4,662 times: 2,418 employees Society received warnings, 1,588 employees participated safety trainings, and 656 employees were expelled out of sites. Our Approach We will continue to analyze accidents occurring at sites to expand the application of the Out System and promote voluntary participation of employees in safety activities by fortifying the regulation training for the expelled. While suppliers are Hyundai E&C’s partners to accomplish the future SOCIAL VALUE growth, local communities are the base to execute the corporate HSE Training According to HSE Training guidelines, we have been providing HSE trainings at all sites and activity. In order to become a sustainable construction company, Accomplishing for every employee and suppliers by sites. Therefore, 4,167 employees participated in HSE trainings in 2014. Hyundai E&C is establishing a global supply chain and identifying and Shared Growth By introducing interactive trainings through discussions, the satisfaction level increased to 94.5% from 83.3% cultivating competent global suppliers. Furthermore, we have faithfully of the previous year. By further broadening trainee groups in 2015, we will maximize the effect of trainings delivered our role and responsibility as a global corporate citizen with new sessions such as ‘HSE Leadership Training for the Management (biannual)’ for the top management by further expanding domestic and overseas social contribution and ‘Training on Process of the Six Dangerous Works’ for on-site workers. activities and actively participating in communities. Accident Rate Management The accident rate of 2014 was 0.27% which is a lower figure compared to the domestic and industrial average. In 2015, we will strengthen voluntary HSE activities led by the top management and proactively respond to HSE risks in order to achieve the target accident rate of 0.17%. We will continue to reduce the accident rate, fortify preventive activities, and settle down the safety culture. Key Sustainability Issues in Social Management 1 Sustainability in supply chain p.64-65 5 Engaging with local communities p.68-71 External Interest 1 2 Supplier evaluation p.64 6 Employee volunteer activities p.68-71 4 3 Social contribution p.68-71 3 2 4 Education and supports p.66-67 in supply chain 5 6 Internal Impact Value Creation Case: Cost Savings Hyundai E&C has strived to prevent accidents by enhancing critical accidents and costs thus creating economic values. * the safety inspection for all domestic and overseas sites and The insurance expenses also declined by 1.6 billion KRW, from by OHS Activities promoted the advanced safety management activities for 25.6 billion KRW in 2011 to 24 billion KRW in 2014. Hyundai the strict site management through the Permit to Work E&C will contribute to the realization of a safe and pleasant (PTW) and Out System. As a result, we have built a safer workplace through the leadership of the top management and * OHS : Occupational Health and Safety work environment drastically decreasing the number of cooperation of employees. 62. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63. AGENDA 05 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Sustainable Supply Chain Management ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY Sustainable growth of Hyundai E&C has been achieved with the continuous progress of the entire Reinforcement of Global Procurement Management Since advanced the material and subcontract HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other e-Procurement & e-Subcontract System supply chain including suppliers. Hyundai E&C endeavors to build the sustainable supply chain management system (e-Procurement & e-Subcontract System) in 2013, Hyundai E&C has integrated WEB for Overseas Projects that complies with international standards and to fortify the competitiveness of the global supply the management of procurement information about bidding, transport, financing, contract, and payment, etc. http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/scm.asp chain based on a stable partnership with suppliers. To increase the cost competitiveness and revenues of local suppliers through the cost reduction, we have assigned responsible procurement personnel to Singapore, Dubai, Tripoli, Kuwait, and Doha branches to purchase local materials, office supplies, and safety features required for the operation of overseas businesses We have reinforced the sustainable supply chain management by establishing guidelines and evaluation system and branches. Sustainable Supply Chain for the sustainability management of suppliers. For faster local procurement, we have developed and operated a simplified local payment system Management System for overseas sites and branches. Since 2014, in addition, we have developed the unit price contract program Policy Hyundai E&C established ‘HDEC Sustainability Management Guideline for Suppliers’ in October for further efficient procurement of repetitive purchases at overseas branches, which we will gradually expand 2014 for the first among domestic construction companies and has implemented the systematic and sustainable the application. supply chain management. The Guideline clarifies a strong will of Hyundai E&C to spread its responsible and sustainable management to the entire value chain. ‘HDEC Sustainability Management Guideline for Suppliers’ Optimization of Global Logistics We have integrated the management of all sites around the world HDEC Sustainability Management consists of three chapters: Responsibility for sustainable business, responsibility for environment, and by establishing an IT-based logistics system to handle various logistic information and payment. In 2013, Guideline for Suppliers responsibility for stakeholders. With 64 items in 14 areas, it defines standards of the sustainability management we developed an electronic bidding system and a local logistics cost system as a basis to computerize ( ): Number of items in each area which Hyundai E&C expects from suppliers. the logistics tasks. Moreover, we implement the unitary customs clearance management and monitor the status 24/7 through the Import Clearance Management System established in 2014. Additionally, our global logistics 01 Products and Services (3) Ethics and Human Right (4) Supplier Self-Assessment With HDEC Sustainability Management Guideline for Suppliers, we developed capability has been reinforced through the regular supplier evaluation and the diversification of company pool, Responsibility for Sustainable Business Trade and Competition (9) ‘Supplier Self-Assessment Index’ for the sustainability assessment of the entire value chain and the ESG such as local specialists, special cargo deliverers, and ship transports, etc. Internal Control (5) Asset and Information Protection (3) (Environment & Society & Governance) risk analysis. With advices of outside experts, Hyundai E&C proactively In 2015, we will further advance the logistics management in emerging markets by analyzing the logistic identifies and monitors negative risks in economic, environmental, and societal aspects that can occur in environment and risks in countries such as Uzbekistan, Russia and Chile where we have newly entered. 02 the supply chain for a more accurate assessment. Hence, we have pursued the efficient supply chain Environmental Management Responsibility for System (4) management as well as improvement of suppliers’ sustainability. Assessment items consist of three areas Identification of Outstanding Overseas Suppliers The capability to identify and manage outstanding Environment Product and Service Process (5) of economy, environment, and society and we have continued to advance the assessment system through local suppliers in a timely manner is most important to Hyundai E&C that actively operates businesses around Sites (4) Response to Climate Change (4) diverse efforts such as fortifying the index according to global trends in May 2015, etc. the world. For efficient implementation of international projects, we organized a ‘Global Sourcing Team’ in October 2013 which is responsible for managing overseas suppliers thus have integrated the overseas supplier Fair and Transparent Selection of Suppliers In order to acquire the fairness, we operate supplier management at the corporate level. 03 Shareholder (5) Employee (6) registration and selection processes transparently. Also, we evaluate the existing core suppliers and new In 2014, we developed a corporate management system for overseas suppliers based on the ERP system Responsibility for Customer (3) suppliers separately to cultivate outstanding suppliers. In selecting suppliers, we require the compliance as well. Besides, we have established a management system of construction suppliers to identify advanced Stakeholder Business Partner (5) Local Community (4) with environmental, safety, and health policies as a contract term. Through the Low Bid Deliberation System, suppliers with detailed supplier standards including supplier status and local regulations by countries. Hyundai we prevent excessively low bidding thus guarantee reasonable profits of suppliers as well. E&C will improve the accessibility for our employees to search supplier information more easily on the groupware by building the overseas subcontract supplier information portal. Supports for Overseas Expansion of Domestic Suppliers For successful business, it is essential Hyundai E&C has enhanced the work efficiency with an effective global cost management by improving Participating Suppliers to establish an efficient procurement system with suppliers and expand to overseas market together Reinforcement of Global the overseas procurement and logistics management. Moreover, the global capability of the entire value chain in Overseas Expansion Training Program by enhancing the global capability of outstanding suppliers. Therefore, we have constantly invested in Supply Chain Competitiveness has been constantly fortified through the Overseas Expansion Training Program for capable domestic suppliers. (Unit: supplier / cumulative) the global capability of our suppliers in various ways. We have supported suppliers to enter global markets through the biannual Overseas Expansion Training Program since 2009. Also, we provide Overseas Site Participation 325 Program that is a fully-funded program for CEOs of excellent suppliers to visit overseas sites. Establishment of Global Organization Operating 27 overseas branches around the world, we have spread the management infrastructure to sites and efficiently connected the headquarters and sites thus In 2014, we invited 24 CEOs to visit our main sites in Turkey, Qatar, and UAE and co-hosted an information 203 session about the overseas expansion in UAE with KOTRA and International Constructors Association of Korea established a global organization optimized for the successful business implementation. The overseas branches have identified local suppliers and managed the overseas supplier pool and sites leading the international 104 (ICAK). To provide opportunities to experience overseas sites to suppliers which have not entered overseas business. Hyundai E&C will further increase the business efficiency by strictly applying same standards to every markets, we are operating an overseas working program. We offer comprehensive educations for about two site around the world through the constant expansion of the global organization and enhancement of international months, which are required to operate overseas sites. Suppliers can learn about the construction, manufacturing, business infrastructure. 2012 2013 2014 quality, safety, human resources, custom clearance, orders, taxation system, and establishment of overseas branches through the education. 64. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65. AGENDA 05 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Shared Growth with Suppliers ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY Since suppliers are the most important companion of Hyundai E&C, we have strived for Educational Support for Suppliers Hyundai E&C assists suppliers with various practical educations HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other the stabilization of suppliers’ management with a wide range of financial supports and sought about the quality, safety, and fair trading and helps suppliers enhance the capability to execute overseas projects WEB for the sincere shared growth through cooperation for the technology development and through educations required for the overseas expansion, such as taxation by countries. In 2014, total 2,054 http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/scm.asp educations. suppliers received 42 trainings of 9 different courses. We have expanded educational supports by holding CEO seminars and quarterly shared growth seminars by work types for all registered suppliers through the Suppliers’ Council. For us to achieve the sustainable growth, it is necessary to stabilize the management and enhance Establishment of the competitiveness of suppliers. With financial and educational supports and cooperation for the technology Shared Growth System development, we have constantly pursued the shared growth with suppliers. For a successful partnership with suppliers, we have strived to achieve a greater synergy by empathizing Communication with Suppliers with suppliers through various communication channels. Support for Suppliers’ Win-win Management By providing financial, technological, and educational supports and programs to strengthen the communication, Hyundai E&C has made earnest contribution Hi-Partner We have operated a supplier portal, ‘Hi-Partner’ to efficiently manage suppliers and fortify Hi-Partner to achieve the win-win management with all suppliers as their companion. Hyundai E&C’s efforts were recognized the win-win management. Every supplier can attain various information such as electronic bidding, contract, tax with the award of the Minister of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs Award at the ‘Awards for the Promotion invoice, guarantee, and payment, etc. Hi-Partner is a representative communication channel of Hyundai E&C that of the Construction Industry’s Cooperation 2012.’ Moreover, we achieved more than 90 points receiving reinforces the work efficiency and information sharing with suppliers. the highest rating for two consecutive years at the ‘Evaluation of Joint Cooperation among Construction Companies 2013’ conducted by the Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs (MLTM). The MLTM’s Communication Channels Through various communication channels, Hyundai E&C fortifies the win-win Evaluation annually evaluates the performance of industry players’ joint cooperation and awards incentives management with its suppliers. The Suppliers’ Council consisting of six subcommittees is a regular consultative to excellent companies to create the environment of joint cooperation and shared growth between integrated and group to communicate with suppliers. It contributes to the improvement of Hyundai E&C’s policies by collecting special contractors as well as between large corporations and SMEs. and reviewing suppliers’ grievances and suggestions. Moreover, we conduct the shared growth seminar for all suppliers and carefully listen to suppliers’ opinions through separate meetings by work types. Operating Financial Support for Suppliers Signed the ‘Joint Cooperation and Fair Trade Agreement’ with suppliers the Win-win Growth Support Center within the ‘Hi-Partner’ portal, Hyundai E&C has enabled a 24/7 in 2010, Hyundai E&C has arranged the Win-win Growth Fund of about 20 billion KRW cooperating with financial communication with suppliers. institutions such as Kookmin Bank, Shinhan Bank and Woori Bank to help suppliers that suffer from financial difficulties due to its weak financial base. Supplier Communication Method We significantly contributed to the stabilization of suppliers’ management in 2014. We loaned 14.5 billion KRW for suppliers’ stability and technology development. Also, for the liquidity of suppliers, Communication Method Purpose and Main Contents we provided an emergency fund of 276.5 billion KRW to 250 suppliers with insufficient working capital. ∙ Operate on a monthly basis to secure fairness and transparency in managing suppliers To assist suppliers’ stable management, we make a full cash payment for subcontracts of under 100 million KRW Joint Cooperation Committee ∙ Register/cancel a supplier; Reward/impose sanction; Select excellent suppliers; within the average 14 days. We will continue to improve the financial stability of suppliers by developing various Deliberate on low bidding price financial support programs. ∙ Operate Autonomous Compliance Program for Fair Trade (CP) and Cyber Audit Office Ethical Management System ∙ Establish Code of Conduct and legal violation prevention system for Monopoly Regulation and Support for Technology Development of Suppliers We have actively helped suppliers to improve their Fair Trade Act and subcontracting act technology capability through the technology transfer, sharing and development. Through the Hyundai E&C Technical Forum that is an annual technology competition for the win-win management, we have identified ∙ Held four Shared Growth Seminars by work types for all suppliers in 2014 Win-win Growth Seminar ∙ Held 31 small meetings by work types for all suppliers in 2014 competent suppliers, provided funds for the patent application, and operated joint technology researches and technology escrow system for collaborative patent applications. Winners of the Technical Forum receive ∙ F ortify communications with suppliers and ascertain suppliers’ requests in a timely manner R&D funds and incentives if registered as new suppliers. In 2014, ten patents of Hyundai E&C were released Supplier Satisfaction Survey ∙ Develop plans at the corporate level to respond to suppliers’ requests for free and one patent was given to suppliers. Result of Supplier Satisfaction Survey ∙ Collect suppliers’ grievances and suggestions Win-win Growth Support Center (Unit: point / out of 100) ∙ Request for and respond to supplier satisfaction survey (biannual) Value Creation Case: 82.4 Supplier Satisfaction Survey We have aggressively sought for the win-win management by conducting Revenue Generations Since 2009, Hyundai E&C has operated the Overseas billion KRW in 2012. As a result of the Training Program 81.3 Expansion Training Program to help suppliers enter global for the last three years, the accumulated amount of overseas the supplier satisfaction survey and understanding suppliers’ requests since 2009. Hyundai E&C developed through Overseas Expansion markets. We have found that most of the 325 suppliers that orders is 749.5 billion KRW. Hyundai E&C will provide more the survey system using VOC and IPA methods and optimized it to understand and satisfy suppliers’ difficulties. Training Program for Suppliers received the training between 2012 and 2014 achieved opportunities for the Overseas Expansion Training Program and The supplier satisfaction survey is conducted semiannually and each supplier rates and gives opinions on their dream to enter the overseas markets. The total amount contribute to the capability development and sales increase the provided indexes by items which range from the selection process to the payment process. We will of their overseas orders approved in 2014 increased to 382.6 of our suppliers. First half of Second half of billion KRW which is a 49.9% increase compared to 255.1 2014 2014 continuously contribute to realizing the virtuous circle of the win-win management. 66. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67. AGENDA 05 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Strategic Social Contribution ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARY Hyundai E&C has always sought to grow with communities through strategic social contribution Enhancement of International Social Contribution Since 2013, we have implemented HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other activities based on characteristics of a global construction company. We are enhancing Expansion of a variety of social contribution activities for the society’s vulnerable class such as teenagers, WEB the corporate business capability and building the economic and social infrastructure Global Social Contribution multicultural families, and residents of impoverished areas. Also, we have expanded the international http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/social.asp of the society by identifying and implementing CSV businesses as the construction company social contribution activities in major overseas sites and countries where we have entered. In 2014, in Korea as well as in overseas countries where we operate business. Therefore, Hyundai E&C aims Breakdown of Donations we newly promoted public services cooperating with local communities and governments in Uzbekistan, to create a bright, harmonious future. (Unit : %) Uganda, Colombia, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka. Furthermore, we greatly increased the donation 3.3 1.8 budget to 6.15 billion KRW in 2014 from 4.55 billion KRW of 2013 thus have reinforced the base Strategy Hyundai E&C has sought to contribute to the community as a construction company and strived 4.9 for various social contribution activities. Social Contribution System to fulfill the corporate social responsibility. By founding Community Service Corps for the first in the construction 10.2 industry in 2009 as well as introducing the company-wide volunteer mileage program, we have been actively Leadership in Global CSV Business in Construction Industry Since established the sustainability promoting social contribution activities at which Hyundai E&C is best and which Hyundai E&C must do. 59.9 management strategy based on the CSV in 2014 for the first among all construction companies in the world, 19.9 We have established the three major social contribution activity areas: Sharing Love to provide the underprivileged Hyundai E&C has constantly sought for a measure to realize the shared growth of the company and society. with the happy living environment, Sharing Hope to support education of teenagers giving hope for the future, Thanks to our efforts, we promoted Vietnam Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center Project in 2015, the very first and Sharing Culture to introduce Korean history and culture and support art business. CSV business in the construction industry, and founded a Construction Technology School to provide safety Educational Support and Emergency and and technology education. It is expected to be a best practice of CSV business that cultivates local technicians, Academic Research Disaster Relief Three Major Social Contribution Activities improves the social infrastructure of the community, and enhances a base for businesses in the country. Hyundai Social Welfare Environmental Protection E&C will endeavor to create a world where a company and the society coexist by persistently identifying global International Aid and Others Exchange Activities CSV businesses suitable for characteristics of the construction industry. Sharing Love Sharing Hope Sharing Culture Social contribution Scholarship program Cultural Property Keeper for the underprivileged for teenagers & communities International Social Contribution Activities in 2015 · A ctivities for developing countries · Support of underfed children · Support for restoration work in local communities for cultural assets South-East Asia South-West Asia · Improvement of residential environment · M entoring activity · E stablishment of volunteer for local communities centers in national parks · C ollecting Coins of Love Vietnam Indonesia Sri Lanka (Hanoi) (Sumatra Island) (Colombo) Activities: E stablishing Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center Activities: Improving water quality Activities: Supporting to construct vocational school (Construction Technology School) and providing health education Period & Budget: 2 years (2015~2016); 0.2 billion KRW Organization & KPI Led by the Community Service Corps established in 2009, we have actively expanded Period & Budget: 3 years (2015~2017); 1.2 billion KRW Period & Budget: 3 years (2013~2015); 0.3 billion KRW Logo & Slogan of Hyundai E&C systematic social contribution activities not only in Korea but in foreign countries where we operate business. Family Community Service Group In addition, we are executing the volunteer mileage program to encourage the participation of all employees and the performance has been reflected to divisional KPI. In 2014, we achieved the corporate average of 11.7 miles exceeding the annual goal of average 10 miles. In 2015, we will further encourage the employee participation by conducting the social contribution KPI evaluation twice a year. Hyundai Motor Group’s Social Contribution System Hyundai E&C has participated the Four Moves with affiliates, which are the social contribution activities of Hyundai Motor Group. Central Asia Africa Latin America Four Moves Key Activities Hyundai E&C’s Participation Uzbekistan Uganda Colombia Promoting the support for social (Qarshi) (Jinja) (Bogota) Improving mobility and Easy Move : Social Enterprises enterprise and making donation for ease of transportation for the disabled the needy at the end of the year Activities: R enovating local elementary and middle schools; Activities: S upporting to construct schools Activities: Founding Happy Home School Providing educational material and to provide solar power flashlight Period & Budget: 2 years (2014~2015); 0.1 billion KRW Period & Budget: 2 years (2015~2016); 0.2 billion KRW Period & Budget: 2 years (2015~2016); 0.2 billion KRW Safe Move : Spreading a safe traffic culture Cultural CSR Implementing Home Repair Road Encouraging volunteerism Dispatching global volunteer corps, Happy Move : Global CSR and charity across the Group Happy Move Establishing volunteer centers Green Move : Environmental social contribution CSR Campaign in national parks 68. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69. AGENDA 05 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION 2014 Hyundai E&C Social Contribution Collecting Coins of Love ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION Highlights Since 2009, employees of Hyundai E&C has voluntarily collected part of their salaries every month and APPENDIX donated to the domestic and overseas underprivileged through Collecting Coins of Love campaign. In 2014, 3,203 employees participated and donated 345 million KRW. All donated funds were used for domestic and overseas social contribution activities for vulnerable class such as financial supports for medical operations of children with severe disabilities, house repair of low income households, and business to improve the quality of drinking water in underdeveloped countries. Sharing Love ‘Sharing Love’ activities are social contribution activities for the social welfare, which mainly focus on increasing Overseas Social Contribution Activities (Happy Move) the public interest of local communities and overseas underdeveloped countries as well as improving the residential To fulfill the social responsibility as a global company, we are implementing social contribution environment of low income families with the characteristics of the construction industry. activities in 18 regions of 13 countries around the world. In 2014, by participating in Happy Move, Since supported to establish a community center in Philippines in 2011, Hyundai E&C has been constantly a global volunteer corps of Hyundai Motor Group, we renovated local elementary schools and contributing to the education, environment, culture, improvement of the residential environment, and social welfare provided educations in Sri Lanka. Additionally, we have started new social contribution activities in in developing countries, especially where we operate business. In 2014, we initiated social contribution activities five additional countries such as Uganda and Colombia. We plan to further expand the scope of our social contribution activities. in Uzbekistan, Uganda, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, and Colombia thus are currently carrying out global social contribution activities in 18 regions of 13 countries. In 2015, we will further expand overseas CSR activities thus execute social contribution business focusing on developing countries. We will seek to further improve our corporate image and interact with communities by conducting social contribution activities cooperating with local governments. Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps Since September 2014, Hyundai E&C employees and college students have participated in ‘Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps’ organizing a team with teenagers to provide long-term mentoring programs. The Corps was launched for the first among domestic construction companies for the educational scholarship. Also, it is an extension of ‘Lunchboxes of Sharing Love’ initiated in 2009 and helps teenagers to find their dreams. Cooperating with a social welfare foundation, ‘Kids & Future Foundation,’ Sharing Hope to further improve our educational supports, we will develop the ‘Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps’ Through ‘Sharing Hope’ activities, we provide educational and emotional supports to domestic and overseas as our representative social contribution organization for educational scholarship. children and teenagers. In 2014, Hyundai E&C appropriated a budget of 3.7 billion KRW for the scholarship business and actively conducted activities. Since 2009, Hyundai E&C has visited undernourished children of low income families and delivered ‘Lunchboxes of Hope.’ It is a comprehensive mentoring program to provide emotional, educational, and cultural supports and about 4th Home Repair Road 340 children have received the help. Furthermore, we launched ‘Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps’ in 2014 to support By operating ‘Home Repair Road‚’ Hyundai E&C has supported houses in mountain regions with children of low income families in studying and finding their dreams through the talent donation of our employees. engineering major college students. In 2014, we repaired about 160 houses for a better residential Moreover, we have promoted the ‘Home Repair Road’ with college students majoring in engineering to fix houses environment and volunteered to draw mural and wash clothes and shoot portraits for seniors. We in mountain regions for the better protection against flood damage. We also implement various activities such will continuously promote the activities to improve the residential environment in order to enhance as house repair, laundry, mural drawing, and portrait shooting for seniors who live alone. In 2014, we improved the safety and preparation for natural disasters. the residential environment of about 160 houses. We will continue to develop our ‘Home Repair Road’ as a representative social welfare activities thus further contribute to the growth of community. 3rd Volunteer Center in Taean National Park In 2011, Hyundai E&C signed the ‘MOU for Conservation of National Parks and Mountain Ranges of the Korean Peninsula’ with the Ministry of Environment and the Korea National Park Service Sharing Culture to preserve natural treasure. Besides, we have been constantly supporting to construct volunteer ‘Sharing Culture’ activities focus on preserving our traditional buildings and inherent natural treasure as well as centers in national parks. In 2014, we completed the construction of the 3rd volunteer center in Taean National Park. Hyundai E&C will conduct various activities for our natural heritage backed by promoting arts for the culturally isolated group. Since signed the ‘One Keeper for Every Cultural Asset’ agreement with the characteristics of the construction industry. the Culture Heritage Administration in 2005, we have implemented various activities to preserve cultural assets. For the last 5 years, more than 2,000 employees have participated in restoration projects of ancient palaces and continued to support the restoration of Geumcheongyo (a bridge within Changdeok Palace, a UNESCO World Heritage Site). Furthermore, we have devoted to preserve the nature by the ‘Han River Ecology Protection Activity’ Restoration of Cultural Properties since 2013. In 2014, we completed the construction and opened the 3rd volunteer center in Taean National Park through a project to build a volunteer center in the Baekdudaegan National Parks. The 1st volunteer center is located Since signed ‘One Keeper for Every Cultural Asset’ agreement with the Culture Heritage Administration in 2005, we have strived to preserve the cultural assets in Korea. In 2014, Hyundai E&C employees in the Mt. Jiri National Park and the 2nd is located in Mt. Bukhan National Park. diligently implemented activities to restore ancient palaces. We will continue to preserve cultural properties through our outstanding capability in civil engineering and construction. 70. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71. HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE Financial Performance APPENDIX ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX [Condensed] Separate Statements of Income (Unit: million KRW) Financial Performance p.73 Description 2012 2013 2014 Third Party Assurance Report p.74 Sales 10,433,442 10,591,308 10,755,778 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement p.76 Cost of sales 9,604,835 9,762,976 9,896,527 GRI Index p.77 Gross profit 828,607 828,332 859,251 Major Awards and Accolades p.81 Operating income 415,634 475,744 477,971 Income before income tax expense 450,604 472,808 429,630 Net income 347,019 360,278 313,135 [Condensed] Separate Statements of Financial Position (Unit: million KRW) Description 2012 2013 2014 Current assets 7,404,995 8,297,022 8,546,297 Non-current assets 3,650,190 3,604,405 3,773,400 Total assets 11,055,185 11,901,427 12,319,697 Current liabilities 4,786,586 5,152,864 5,172,788 Non-current liabilities 1,752,414 2,064,737 2,200,525 Total liabilities 6,539,000 7,217,601 7,373,313 Capital stock 557,273 557,273 557,273 Other contributed capital 828,181 828,181 828,181 Components of other capital 96,528 (30,776) 2,204 Retained earnings 3,034,203 3,329,148 3,558,726 Total equity 4,516,185 4,683,826 4,946,384 Financial Stability (Based on Separate Data) (Unit: %) Description 2012 2013 2014 Current ratio 156.3 160.9 165.2 Debt ratio 168.0 183.2 164.7 Net worth ratio 37.3 35.3 37.8 Compliance Hyundai E&C strictly complies with tax laws and related regulations in all 58 countries where it operates business. In order to support the business operation and customer services more effectively, Hyundai E&C strives to pay tax efficiently within the legal limits by optimizing its domestic and overseas business structures. Hyundai E&C maintains an honest and positive relationship with the tax authorities of each country such as a National Tax Service, pays its tax faithfully in accordance with each country’s tax laws every year, and focuses on transparently disclosing all tax-related data. Every year, we specify the information of the corporate tax, deferred corporate tax, and effective tax rate on the audit report and disclose the information through the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (dart.fss.or.kr). In 2014, the effective tax rate was 26.91% which is a 1.67% increase from the previous year’s 25.24%. In 2014, Hyundai E&C paid a penalty of 30.4 billion KRW for the collusion while receiving orders of Honam High Speed Rail. Hyundai E&C will endeavor to prevent the reoccurrence not to impede the order of the free market as well as communicate with stakeholders in a transparent manner. 72. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73. HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE Third Party Assurance Report ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION To the Management of the 2015 Hyundai E&C Sustainability Report SOCIAL VALUE CREATION The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter Auditor ) was engaged to undertake a review of Hyundai E&C’s 2015 Sustainability Report (hereafter Report ) APPENDIX to provide independent third-party assurance on its contents. On the basis of the above, the Auditor presents the following third-party statement of assurance. Responsibility and Objective l Hyundai E&C is responsible for all information and claims contained in the Report regarding the establishment of its sustainability management [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and interests? goals, performance management etc. The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its assurance undertaking to the management of The Auditor found Hyundai E&C to be providing an adequate response to issues of concern and interest to its stakeholders. It has established various communication Hyundai E&C. The key objective of the assurance is to check whether there are any material bias or errors present in the Report; assess whether the channels specific to different stakeholder groups, while trying to reflect the Company’s response to engagement findings in its sustainability reporting. The Auditor also took note of the Company’s commitment to become more responsive to the voice of its customers through online customer quality satisfaction surveys across all underlying data collection system is in proper working order; while undertaking in an overall review of the Company’s process for identifying issues site locations, a consultative forum where business partners can share recommendations to enable a more proactive response, and effort to create a better workplace of material importance to sustainability management as well as the produced results so that the Auditor may deliver recommendations that can help where diverse input can be collected from executives and employees, allowing Hyundai E&C to provide a better response all in line with the principle of responsiveness. improve the quality of future reporting. [GRI In Accordance Criteria] Assurance Type and Level l The Report was reviewed against the following criteria and guidelines (1) AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008)*, (2) Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) The Auditor confirmed that the Report is in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines under the comprehensive option, as it reports on General Standard Disclosures and G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines** and (3) B.E.S.T Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.*** Additional Disclosures (materiality aspects, DMA, performance indicators) as indicated in the G4 Guidelines. Assurance Scope: Contents of the 2015 Sustainability Report by Hyundai E&C [Reliability of Performance Indicators] Assurance Type & Level: Type II, Moderate level After reviewing the performance data stated in the Report, the Auditor found the underlying data collection system to be adequate and failed to find any material errors Assurance Criteria: · IPS Assurance Manual to verify compliance against AA1000AS (2008) standard’s three core principles that may either bias the Company’s judgment or compromise the reliability of its data. The following performance indicators were reviewed for the purpose of this · IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria to assess the reliability of performance indicators assurance. · GRI Guideline’s in accordance options · B.E.S.T Guideline’s reporting level Sustainability Dimensions Core issues Performance indicators Creating economic performance Revenue 17.38 tn KRW Work Undertaken and Scope l The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of the reported content; 2) the reliability of the reported performance data; 3) Strategic management Implementing ethical business management No. of overseas hotlines 27 the Report’s level of compliance against GRI’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; and 4) the level of compliance relative to the B.E.S.T Reporting Environmental management Mitigation of environment impact GHG emissions 377,749 tCO2e Guidelines through the process outlined below. Securing source technologies No. of patent applications 75 Review of the Company’s processes for identifying material issues and outcomes Technological management Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction score 96.3 pt Review of the Company’s stakeholder engagement processes Safety management No. of on-site safety checks 1,691 Interviews with persons responsible for each performance dimension and the collection of performance data to determine the adequacy of the reported content On-site review (Hyundai E&C’s Head Office) to assess systems and processes in place for the collection and reporting of raw performance data (June 2015) HR management Annual education hours received HR fostering 115 hrs Review of underlying reference data on key economic, social, and environmental performance by full-time regular employees Sample testing of materiality issues to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of information contained in the Report No. of business partners to benefit Sustainability of business partners 122 Review of the Report’s compliance against GRI/ B.E.S.T reporting guidelines Win-win management from training on overseas advancement Social contributions Donations at headquarters 6.15 bn KRW Limitations l The scope of this undertaking was limited to: * The above table is a partial representation of all performance indicators reviewed covering the top 20 core issues identified via materiality assessment processes. Interviews with individuals responsible for different performance dimensions and the collection of performance data; review of the adequacy of the reported data On-site review of Hyundai E&C’s Head Office [Level of Compliance to B.E.S.T Reporting Guidelines] Assurance based on relevant data and information available for the relevant reporting period Review of the reliability of reported performance data In view of the coverage and reliability of the information provided, the Report fulfills 94.9% of requirements to qualify for a Level 4 (Levels 1 to 5) Report This undertaking does not include data on green-house gas emissions, which is subject to a separate review relative to the B.E.S.T Guidelines. Assurance Findings l The Auditor did not find any material misstatements or bias contained in the Report. Recommendations l The Auditor found the 2015 Sustainability Report by Hyundai E&C commendable in the following respects. The Report (1) provides an analysis of the [Inclusivity] Is the Company’s stakeholder engagement strategy-setting and related processes adequate? risks and opportunities inherent in the Company’s business environment, setting the overall direction for its sustainability management and value-creating It is the Auditor’s view that Hyundai E&C has put in place various stakeholder engagement processes to better reflect relevant findings in its management activities, in processes; (2) reflects input from new global frameworks and guidelines in terms of the composition of the Report and the Company’s processes for acknowledgement of the importance of stakeholder engagement in its sustainability management activities. identifying materiality issues; and provides a full account of action taken by Hyundai E&C to respond to the needs of its stakeholders including customers, Recognizing the need to better understand and communicate with its stakeholders, the Company has introduced diverse channels of stakeholder engagement; business partners, executives and employees, etc. primarily around six key stakeholder groups to better ascertain and collect their views. For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the following. Moreover, the Company adopted stakeholder-specific engagement policies to ensure that collected views and outcomes were better shared, while working to assess Provide a more detailed account of underlying mega trends and action taken in line with the Company’s CSV strategies as well as their outcomes stakeholder interests and expectations through surveys, to reflect those outcomes in defining the Company’s direction toward sustainability management all in line with Provide greater coverage on indicators outlined in global guidelines the principle of inclusivity. Manage and provide deeper analysis on key issues and trends reflecting changes in the business management environment Provide further disclosure on mid to long-term goals and level of achieved outcomes [Materiality] Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to Hyundai E&C stakeholders across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? Independence l Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, and has no commercial It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude any issues of material importance to the sustainability management activities of Hyundai E&C. The affiliation with Hyundai E&C that might compromise our independence. Company was found utilizing its three-step materiality assessment process of 1) identification, 2) prioritization, and 3) validation to identify key issues impacting its sustainability and better define the scope of its reporting for greater focus. Qualifications of the Auditor l Commissioned by Hyundai E&C as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies(IPS) was established in 1993 and has Notably, the Company’s adoption of systematic processes and internal reviews, as well as efforts to classify all materiality issues into three tiers in order of relevance and since developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business ethics, CSR, and sustainability management since 2002. adequacy vis a vis the Company’s management strategies top 20 core-most issues for focused reporting, top 30 key issues, and general issues were all found to be consistent with the principle of materiality. * AA1000AS is a sustainability assurance standard developed by the UK-based Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability (AccountAbility) in November 1999 to assure organization-wide sustainability performance and accountability by improving the quality of June 11, 2015 accounting, auditing and reporting practices in the social and business ethics domain. The revised 2008 version has been in effect since 2010. ** The GRI G4 Guideline was established by the GRI, convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. After the first universal GRI sustainability reporting guidelines for multinationals was released in 2000, the Chairman / Lee, Yoon-Cheol latest G4 version was introduced in May 2013, with enhancements in supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures. The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies *** The B.E.S.T Guideline was jointly developed by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Energy (MOCIE), the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 as a sustainability reporting and assurance guideline, and provides for five levels of reporting rigor (Level 1 ~ 5). 74. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75. HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement GRI Index ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◦ Not Reported Introduction l Korean Foundation for Quality (hereinafter ‘KFQ’) has been engaged in Hyundai Engineering & Construction (hereinafter ‘the Company’) Application G4 No. Indicators Level Page Remarks to independently verify its 2011~2014 Report on the quantity of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from entire places of business nationwide (hereinafter ‘Inventory Report’). General Standard Disclosures Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker ● 2-3 Analysis 04-2 2-3, 7-13 Verification Scope l KFQ’s verification was focused on all of the greenhouse gas emission sources nationawide Provides a description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● (direct emission and indirect emission) controlled by the Company. Organizational G4-3 Report the name of the organization ● 4-5 Profile G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services ● 4-5 G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters ● 4-5 Verification Criteria l The verification process was based on Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme (Notification No. 2014-186 of Ministry The number of countries where the organizaion operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations G4-6 ● 4-5 of Environment) (hereinafter ‘the Scheme’) for every applicable part. or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form ● 29 Verification Procedure l The Verification has been planned and conducted by the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme, and to reach G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) ● 4-5 G4-9 Scale of the organization ● 4-5, 25, 56, 73 reasonable level of assurance. Furthermore, the entire verification process underwent internal review to ensure its methodology and G4-10 Total workforce ● 56 effectiveness. G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 59 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain ● 63-65 Verification Limitation l In order to confirm the data and information provided by the Company, sampling method was applied in the Verification Plan. G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, sutructure, ownerhsip, or its supply chain ◐ About this report G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 32-33 Conclusion/Opinion l Based on verification process according to the Scheme, KFQ obtained reasonable basis to derive following conclusion on the greenhouse G4-15 List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses ● 81 gas emission data in the Inventory Report. Identified Material G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) ● 81 and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization Aspects and Boundaries A. All entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 1. The Company’s 2011~2014 Report on Quantity of emitted Greenhouse Gas was documented in accordance with Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target G4-17 B. Whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report ● 4-5 Management Scheme run by the government. A. The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. G4-18 B. How the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content. ● 20-21 2. According to materiality assessment on the quantity of greenhouse gas emitted from every Company’s places of business nationwide in 2011~2014, G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content ● 21 material discrepancy is less than the criteria of 5.0% for an organization that emits under 500,000 tCO2_eq in accordance with Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization ● 20-21 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization ● 20-21 3. Please  note that the Scheme does not concern Scope 3 emissions. The verification accuracy of Scope 3 emissions may be limited as it was conducted with G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements ● About this report the data calculated by the Company Guidelines. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries ● 46 Company Report Year Scope 1 Scope 2 TOTAL Scope 3 Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 19 Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ◐ 19 2011 27,357.544 44,168.535 71,521 385,961 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 19-20 Hyundai 2012 12,187.597 56,575.159 68,758 367,994 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and G4-27 ● 19-21 Engineering & concerns, including through its reporting Construction 2013 13,245.106 53,049.521 66,292 323,819 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided ● About this report 2014 13,232.207 52,923.674 66,153 311,596 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● 77 July, 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle such as annual, biannial) ● About this report (Unit : ton CO2_eq) G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● About this report 4. T hus, KFQ conclude that the Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Consumption of Hyundai Engineering & Construction in 2011~2014 is correctly G4-32 GRI Index (‘In accordance’ option, GRI Content index, and the external assurance report) ● 77-80 calculated and stated in accordance with Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme. A. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 C. Relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. ● 74-75 D. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of theorganization, including committees of the highest governance body ● 29 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental G4-35 and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees ◐ 18, 29 March 30, 2015 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, G4-36 and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body ◐ 29 CEO / Nam, Dae-hyun Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, G4-37 environmental and social topics If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body ◐ 29 G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees ● 28-29 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer G4-39 (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) ● 28 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, G4-40 and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members ● 28-29 G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed ● 28-29 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, G4-42 value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts ◐ 28-29 G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics ● 29 76. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77. HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE GRI Index ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE CREATION SOCIAL VALUE CREATION APPENDIX ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◦ Not Reported ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◦ Not Reported Application Application G4 No. Indicators Level Page Remarks G4 No. Indicators Level Page Remarks Governance A. P rocesses for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Boidiversity EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas ● 45 Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-44 B. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to ◐ 28 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Biodiversity ● 45 governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organisational practice. EN13 Habitats protected or restored ● 45 A. The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-45 B. W hether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management ◐ 29 EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas afected by operaions, by level of extinction risk ● 45 of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope ● 46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes G4-46 ◐ 29 for economic, environmental and social topics EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope ● 46 G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 77 Annual EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope ● 46 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity ● 46 G4-48 all material Aspects are covered ◐ 29 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions ● 46 G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body ● 29 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ● Not applicable G4-50 address and resolve them ◐ 59 EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions ● Not applicable G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives ◐ 28 Effluents and Waste EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ◐ 44, 46 Report the process for determining remuneration Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and G4-52 whether they are independent of management Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization ◐ 28 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ◐ 45-46 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ● Not applicable G4-53 proposals, if applicable ◐ 28 EN25 Weight of trnsported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous ● Not applicable Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the G4-54 median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country ● 77 4.98 times Identity, size, proteted status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and realted habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges EN26 of water and runoff ● 44-45 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-55 operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country ◐ 77 EN27 Extent of impact mitication of environmental impacts of products and services ● 40-46 Products and Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics ● 30 Services EN28 Percentage of porducts sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ◐ 46 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, Compliance EN29 Monetary value of significatn fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regluations ● 44 G4-57 such as helplines or advice lines ● 31 Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials ofr the organization’s operations, Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, EN30 ● 43 G4-58 such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines ● 30-31 and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 43-44 Supplier EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using enviromental criteria ● 43 Environmental Specific Standard Disclosures Assessment EN33 significant actual and potential engative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ◐ 43 Environmental Report why the Aspect is material 15, 23, 35, 47, 55, Grievance EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievnce mechanisms ● Not applicable DMA G4-DMA Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts ● Report the evaluation of the management approach 63 Mechanisms Social Economic Labor Practices and Decent Work Economic EC1 Direct econmic value generated and distributed ● 19, 25 Performance Employment LA1 Total number and rates of new empoyee hires and empoyee turnover by age group, gender, and region ◐ 56 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ● 8-9, 35 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation ● 59-60 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ◐ 60 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 60 EC4 Financial assistance received from government ● Not applicable Labor/Management Market Presence EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation ◦ LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements ◐ 59 Relations EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation ◦ Occupational Health Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and Indirect Economic EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ● 36-43 LA5 advise on occupational health and safety programs ◐ 38 and Safety Impacts EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● 19, 65, 69 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender ◐ 62 Procurement LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ◐ 61-62 EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ◐ Practices LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ◐ 61-62 Training and LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category ● 58 Environmental Education LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings ● 56-58 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 46 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category ● 58 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ◐ 45 Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 46 LA12 and other indicators of diversity ● 56-57 Equal Opportunity EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization ● 46 Equal remuneration EN5 Energy intensity ◦ LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation ● 58 for women and men EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 39, 46 Supplier Assessment LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria ◦ EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ● 46 for Labor Practices LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken ◦ Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 46 Labor Pracitces EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● 44-45 Grievance LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ● Not applicable EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 44-46 Mechanisms 78. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 79. GRI Index Major Awards and Accolades Membership ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◦ Not Reported Application 2015 Major Awards Association Memberships G4 No. Indicators Level Page Remarks Human Rights Award Description Host / Provider The Korea Railway Association Korea Road Association Investment Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or HR1 that underwent human rights screening ● 30-31, 64 2015 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Grand Prize Money Today Korean Society of Civil Engineers Korea National Commission on Large Dams Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, HR2 including the percentage of employees trained ● 30 Best of Best BCA Awards 2015 BCA Korean Geotechnical Society The Korea Institute of Building Construction (Quality Excellence Award category) and 4 others Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ◐ 31 Architectural Institute of Korea Korea Institute of Construction Engineering and Management Freedom of Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, Association and HR4 and measures taken to support these rights ● 30-31, 64-67 Korean Institute of Architectural Sustainable Environment and Collective Bargaining Korea Green Building Council Building Systems Child Labor HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition ● 57 2014 Major Awards of child labor International Contractors Association of Korea Korea Plant Industries Association Forced of Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination Award Description Host / Provider HR6 of all forms of forced or compulsory labor ● 57 Compulsory Labor Construction Association of Korea Korea Construction Quality Association Security Practices HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations ◦ Dow Jones Indices, 2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index Industry Leader, Construction & Engineering Industry RobecoSAM Construction Safety Manager Committee Fair Competition Federation Indigenous Rights HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken ◐ 31 Assessment HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments ◐ 64 2014 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Best of the Best Money Today ※ Partial list: 113 business/academic association memberships in total Supplier Human HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria ◐ 64 2014 Annual Asia Economy Apartment Brand Awards High-class category Asia Economy Rights Assessment HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ◦ Human Rights Grand Prize (Construction Productivity Award category) BCA Awards 2014 BCA Grievance HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ◐ 57 and one additional award Mechanisms 2014 Money Today Korea Residential Service Awards Best of Best Money Today Society Grand Prize Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs ● 68-71 2013/2014 LACP Spotlight Awards LACP (Global Communication category, Platinum Award) Anti-corruption SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities ● 44-45, 68-69 14th fn Housing Construction Power Brand Awards Best of Best Financial News SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified ● 32 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 30-31 Prize of Excellence 2014 MaeKyung Good Apartment for Living Awards MaeKyung SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ◦ (Large Contractors category) Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary ● Not applicable Acknowledgements 2014 First-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Apartment category) HanKyung Anti-competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes ● 73 Behavior 2014 HanKyung Business Well-being Apartment Awards Surface plan category HanKyung Business Kang Ki-Ho HSE Planning Team Park Sun-Kyung Housing Marketing Team Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations ● 73 2014 Asia Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize (Social Contribution category) Asia Economy Supplier Assessment SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society ● 64 Kang Sung-Soo CS Center Seo Sang-Beom Accounting Team for Impacts on 2014 Money Today Korea Luxury Housing Awards Grand Prize Money Today Society SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken ◐ 64 Kang Young-Min Green Environment Team Seo Young-Deok Domestic Marketing Planning Team Grievance 2014 Global Standard Management Awards Grand Prize (Sustainability Report category) KMA Kwon Sung-Jun Welfare Management Team Son Kyung-Ah Building Works Design Mechanisms Planning Team SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ◦ for Impacts on 2014 Asia Today Green Construction Awards MLTM Minister’s Prize Asia Today Building Works Management & Kwon Young-Pil Project Risk Management Team Song Jin-Guel Society Administration Team Plant Management & 6th Aju Economy Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize (Overseas Construction category) Aju Economy Kim Do-Hyung Ahn Yoo-Kyoum Accounting Team Administration Team Product Responsibility Power & Energy Management & Customer Health and PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement ● 36 10th Korea Civil Engineering & Construction Technology Awards Best of Best (Civil Engineering category) MaeKyung Kim Seon-Kyong Domestic Marketing Planning Team Yea Chang-Hae Administration Team Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and PR2 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes ● Not applicable 2014 Korea’s Representative Apartment Awards MLTM Minister’s Prize Hankook Economy TV Kim Se-Won Welfare Management Team Yun Seung-Hyeon Investor Relations Team Product and Service Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements ◐ 52-53 2014 Korea Jungang Daily Kim Su-Jung Corporate Brand PR Team Lee Kyung-Ho Building Works Mechanical Team Labeling Grand Prize (Well-being Apartment category) Joongang Daily Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, JoinsLand Eco-friendly Construction Industry Awards PR4 by type of outcomes ● Not applicable Kim Yoon Corporate Culture PR Team Lee Yo-Soo Business Strategy Team PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 53 3th eDaily Construction Industry Awards Overall Grand Prize (Overseas Construction category) eDaily Kim Hyung-Tae R&D Support Team Lee Jeong-Hui Procurement Planning Team Marketing PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products ● Not applicable 2014 Green Housing Awards Grand Prize (Green Design Category) Hankook Daily International Marketing Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, Noh Kyeong-Rae Jeong Da-Young Business Innovation Team Planning Team 1 PR7 promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes ● Not applicable 5th Korea Green Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize Seoul Newspaper Roh Bong-Kyun Quality Management Planning Team Jung Do-Hwan Infrastructure & Environment Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ● Not applicable Management & Administration Team Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services ● Not applicable 2014 Herald Economy Green Residence Awards Grand Prize (Design Category) Herald Economy No Tae-Sun Auditing Team 1 Choi Jung-Young Business Planning Team 2012 Second-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Apartment category) HanKyung Min Kyong-Hwan Business Policy Team Hwang Yun-Sub Human Resources Planning Team 80. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Index INTEGRATED REPORTING Major Awards and Accolades ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◦ Not Reported G4 No. Indicators Application Page Remarks 2015 Major Awards Integrated Reporting Level Hyundai E&C has been publishing its annual sustainability report in an integrated format since 2011 to disclose Human Rights Award Description Host / Provider the economic, environmental, and social values it created for the stakeholders in a faithful and balanced way. Investment Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or HR1 ● 30-31, 64 2015 Money Today OverseasHyundai Construction that underwent human rights screening E&CAwards Grand Prize of international standards by participating in contributed to the development the Today Money Integrated Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, HR2 including the percentage of employees trained ● 30 Reporting Pilot Program managed by the BestInternational of Best Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). BCA Awards 2015 BCA (Quality Excellence Award category) and 4 others Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ◐ 31 Freedom of INTEGRATED REPORTING Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, Association and HR4 ● 30-31, 64-67 STRATEGY and measures taken to support these rights FRAMEWORK Collective Bargaining Child Labor HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition ● 57 2014 Major Awards of child labor Forced of Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination Award Description Host / Provider HR6 of all forms of forced or compulsory labor ● 57 Compulsory Labor s n Su Security Practices HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations ◦ tio n Dow Jones Indices, 2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index 01 tai Industry Leader, Construction & Engineering Industry RobecoSAM wt eC . Risks/ Indigenous Rights HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken 31 . ◐ 02 Gro rea Opportunities 2014 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Best of the Best Money Today le Assessment HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments ◐ 64 Va ab lu Supplier Human HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria ◐ 64 INTEGRATED 2014 Annual Asia Economy Apartment Brand Awards High-class category h Asia Economy Rights Assessment HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ◦ Future REPORTING Resource Outlook Distribution Human Rights Grand Prize BCA Awards 2014 BCA Grievance HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ◐ 57 (Construction Productivity Award category) and another Performance Management Mechanisms 2014 Money Today Korea Residential FINANCIALS Service Awards Best of Best Money Today Society Grand Prize 03. NON-FINANCIALS Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs ● 68-71 2013/2014 LACP Spotlight Awards LACP (Global Communication category, Platinum Award) Integrated Value Anti-corruption SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities ● 44-45, 68-69 14th fn Housing Construction Power Brand Awards Best of Best Financial News SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified ● 32 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 30-31 Prize of Excellence 2014 MaeKyung Good Apartment for Living Awards MaeKyung SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ◦ (Large Contractors category) Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary ● Not applicable 01. 2014 First-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards 02. Prize (Apartment category) Grand 03. HanKyung Anti-competitive Value Creation Sustainable Growth Integrated Value SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes ● 73 Behavior 2014 HanKyung Business Well-being Apartment Awards Surface plan category HanKyung Business Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations ● 73 · Hyundai E&C’s value creation process · E stablishment of midto long-term · Connection between financial information 2014 Asia Construction Awards · Future outlook based on the analysis of Overall Grand strategies Prize (Social on sustainability Contribution category) management Asia Economy and non-financial information Supplier Assessment SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society ● 64 megatrends · Activities and accomplishments in economic, · Analysis on the efficiency of sustainability for Impacts on environmental, 2014 Money Today Korea Luxury · Strategies on aAwards Housing new growth business and Grand Prize and social sectors management activities Money Today Society SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken ◐ 64 new market entrance · Catalogue of sustainability management · Report  of the sales increase and cost Grievance 2014 Global Standard Management Awards targetsPrize Grand areas and KPIs Report category) of five(Sustainability reduction cases dueKMAto sustainability Mechanisms management SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ◦ for Impacts on 2014 Asia Today Green Construction Awards MLTM Minister’s Prize Asia Today Society 6th Aju Economy Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize (Overseas Construction category) Aju Economy Product Responsibility Customer Health and PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement ● 36 ConstructionUs 10th Korea Civil Engineering & Contact Technology Awards Best of Best (Civil Engineering category) MaeKyung Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and PR2 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes ● Not applicable 2014 Korea s Representative Apartment Awards MLTM Minister’s Prize Hankook Economy TV The Hyundai Engineering & Construction Sustainability Report is also available on our website (http://en.hdec.kr). Product and Service Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements ◐ 52-53 2014 Korea Jungang Daily Should you want more information or have any enquiries, please do not hesitate to contact us via the contact Labeling Grand Prize (Well-being Apartment category) Joongang Daily Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, information JoinsLand Eco-friendly Construction below. Industry We appreciate your feedback. Awards PR4 by type of outcomes ● Not applicable PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 53 3th eDaily Construction IndustryBusiness Awards Innovation Team, BusinessOverall Planning Group, Grand Prize (Overseas Division, Hyundai PlanningConstruction E&C Bldg.,eDaily category) 75 Yulgok-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea, 110-793 Marketing PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products ● Not applicable 2014 Green Housing Awards Tel/ 82-2-746-2893 Grand Prize (Green Design Category) Fax/ 82-2-746-4856 Hankook Daily Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, PR7 promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes ● Not applicable 5th Korea Green Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize Seoul Newspaper Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ● Not applicable Published: July 2015 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services ● Not applicable 2014 Herald Economy Green Residence Publisher:Awards Jung Soo-Hyun Grand Prize (Design Category) Herald Economy Publishing Entity: Business Innovation Team, Business Planning Group, Planning Division, Hyundai E&C 2012 Second-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Apartment category) HanKyung Planning & Design: Nstein Co., Ltd. 82-2-336-7865 80. 2015 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This report is printed on FSCTM certified paper using soy ink.
