Sustainability Report 2014 CONTENTS 1 Company profile 2 Letter from the CEO 3 Highlights 4 Stakeholder dialogs 5 Strategy 6 Sustainability organization and governance 6 Risk management 7 Objectives and achievements 8 Environmental stewardship 12 Continuous improvements on environmental a ­ spects 14 Committed employees 17 Influencing several local communities 18 Heritage 20 Sustainability performance Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 1 Global leader in forest, garden and construction products At Husqvarna Group we believe that lasting value for our customers and shareholders by integrating social and environmental responsibility into all aspects of our sustainability creates business opportunities business. for long-term strategic growth by driving Today, Husqvarna Group is a world leading producer of outdoor power products including chainsaws, trimmers, robotic lawn ­innovation, reducing costs and mitigating risks. mowers and garden tractors. The Group is also the European leader in watering products and one of the global leaders in cutting equipment and diamond tools for the construction and stone Who we are industries. Our customers are professionals and consumers in more Husqvarna Group has come up with innovations and identified than 100 countries. new opportunities for 325 years. Our passion has led to innovative Headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, the Group has more solutions in very different areas – from weapons, sewing machines, than 14,000 employees in over 40 countries. The Husqvarna kitchen equipment and motorcycles to lawn mowers, trimmers, share is l­isted on Nasdaq Stockholm. In 2014, net sales totaled chainsaws, construction equipment and much more. SEK 33 billion. Husqvarna Group is a company with great potential. We have leadership brands, excellent products and strong market positions. Vision Most importantly, we have a positive working culture – a team that is We envision a world where people can enjoy well-maintained gardens, open and communicative with a strong work ethic. parks and forests and experience refined buildings and roads. Our first ergonomic saw was produced in 1969 and since then, sustainability has become an increasingly important c­ onsideration Mission when we design our products. Today, besides outstanding We provide innovative quality products and solutions to make ­ergonomics, we have a strong focus on improving our products’ ­garden, park and forest care as well as construction easier for ­energy efficiency and emissions. And we believe in creating long­professionals and consumers around the world. l Major production facilities l Subsidiaries or distributors 2 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group Letter from the CEO A year of progress As we conclude 2014, we can look back on some of the key developments. Firstly, we completed the initial step in our profitability improvement program for 2016. Secondly, we widened our horizons and looked beyond current short-term improvement i­nitiatives. The result is a revised strategy and a new ­organizational structure t­ hat we implemented on J­ anuary 1, 2015. L et me begin with a few words about our financial performance in 2014. Operating income, excluding impairment of goodwill of SEK -767m, rose 47 percent to SEK 2,358m (1,608). Sales grew 6 (that collect user-data wirelessly) on outdoor power products to enable landscaping businesses and their operators to improve control of up-time, machine handling, vibration reports and service percent, adjusted for currency and the operating margin increased needs, resulting in safer, cleaner and more productive operations. by 1.9 percentage points to 7.2 percent. Honesty and fairness is part of our culture We believe that innovative products and profitable growth can be We have a long and successful history, with a culture characterized combined with respecting nature and caring for people. In 2020, by honesty and fairness, of which we are very proud. Since starting we aim to be a market leader in priority segments. As we see it, out in 1689, our goal has been to combine engineering skills with this means being in or competing for the number one market share our strong entrepreneurial spirit and innovative products to help our position, leading the evolution of the industry and exceeding the end-customers become more productive. market in terms of profitable growth. To be a market leader means Internally, we strive to have zero work-related accidents and achieving sustainable results with responsible use of resources – a workforce boosted with knowledge, prepared for a changing natural, human and capital – in everything we do. environment. We stay committed to the UN Global Compact, As part of the strategy process, we are currently incorporating a policy initiative for businesses that aligns their operations and sustainability in divisional strategies and processes. strategies with ten universally accepted principles for human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Product innovation is in our DNA Our fundamental for success has always been about adapting to our What to expect in 2015 customers’ needs through innovation and developing products that To summarize, we are building a pro-active Husqvarna Group will take our market presence to new levels. We continuously launch positioned for growth and market leadership. Through superior new products that are more productive, energy efficient, safer and products and services tailored to our different end-customer ergonomic. segments, we will earn market leadership. Take the example of our robotic lawn mowers. With superior products, we have pioneered this market since 1995, transforming Stockholm, March 2015 lawn care from traditional mowing into an automated service that also is energy efficient, silent and almost emissions-free during use. For professionals and consumers with as high demands as the professionals, we are continuing to extend the range of handheld battery products – chainsaws, trimmers and hedge trimmers. Kai Wärn Another example is Husqvarna Fleet Services™ that uses sensors President and CEO Husqvarna Group Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 3 Sustainable and Responsible Business Sustainability is high on the agenda At Husqvarna Group we believe that innovative products and profitable growth can go hand-­ in-hand with respecting nature and caring for ­people. HIGHLIGHTS 2014 • Husqvarna’s handheld battery range includes trimmers, hedge Closer to our suppliers trimmers and chainsaws. These products are free from direct • Husqvarna Group has established closer cooperation with its top emissions, have low vibration levels and are ergonomic and quiet. 150 suppliers. The program, called EXCITE, aims at excellence • Husqvarna Fleet services™ is a solution where sensors are used on through common initiatives and teamwork. outdoor power products and on the operators themselves, giving • Environmental, health and safety (EHS) training was conducted the landscaping businesses and their teams improved control of for selected suppliers in China. up-time, machine handling and vibration reports, thus creating safer, more sustainable and productive operations. During 2014, a beta version of the solution was launched in seven countries. Husqvarna Group participates in the UN Global • Gardena’s new garden hoses are free from phthalates. Compact’s initiative and supports the ten principles in • New Gardena watering computers make efficient watering even the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and easier. anti-corruption. These principles are closely aligned with the Group’s way of doing business. • Husqvarna flat saws were the first in the world to comply with both European and U.S. legislation regarding emission regulations. These saws were also developed with a clear focus on improved ergonomics. The Group is ranked on the 2014 Global 100 list of the world’s most sustainable companies. • A new product range of light and powerful electric equipment for handheld cutting, drilling and wall sawing was launched by Husqvarna. These high-frequency construction products have low The Group is listed in the FTSE4Good Index, which vibration levels and replace hydraulic products. brings together world-leading companies in terms of environmental, social and governance practices. Focus on health and safety • A new injury rate KPI for safety was implemented to establish a Member 2014/2015 baseline for less severe/more frequent injuries to increase focus The Group is part of the STOXX® Global ESG Leaders on corrective actions. indexes. 4 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group Together with our stakeholders Listening to stakeholders’ views and opinions is a ­privilege that enables us to do better and R egular dialogs are held on many levels with end-customers, trade partners and suppliers. The responsibility for maintaining dialogs with representatives from the local community is handled on the local improve long-term c­ onditions for successful level. Operations also cooperate with various non-governmental ­organizations, while shareholder dialogs take place on the Group business. level. Stakeholder Dialog in 2014 Key issues How Husqvarna Group addressed the issue in 2014 Shareholders, • Annual General Meeting • Long-term strategy • A thorough strategy process and a reorganization ­investors and • Capital Markets Day • Profitability • Code of Conduct further implemented in operations analysts • One-on-one meetings with • Corporate governance • Participated in seminars on human rights and corruption investors and analysts • Anti-corruption • Seminars with the investment • Sustainable operations community Employees • Management meetings • Strategy 2020 • Top Management Meeting focusing on the strategic roadmap • Annual employee team survey • Safe and healthy workplace and on strategic initiatives • Performance reviews • Fair compensation • Strengthened health and safety organization • Team meetings • Career opportunities • Structured incident reporting and corrective action processes • Unions and work councils • Talent attraction and • Strengthened focus on the process for annual performance retention review • Good environmental • Internal audits practices • Piloted new leadership training program • Held union negotiations • Code of Conduct training Potential • Career fairs and events • Career opportunities • Offered internships ­employees at selected universities • Safe and healthy • Offered internship to members of AIESEC • Trainee program ­workplace • Offered summer jobs • Summer internships • Second global trainee program • Internships • Social media Suppliers • Local supplier meetings and • Quality • Signed supplier agreements training • Fair compensation • New manual for supplier sustainability requirements • Global conferences • Environment, Health and • Updated Restricted Materials List • Audits at selected suppliers Safety (EHS) performance • Trained suppliers in the Business Code of Ethics • Trained internal quality auditors in Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) • Monitored and evaluated supplier EHS performance Trade partners • Regular meetings and • High-quality products • Revised policy for product safety ­conferences • Innovative products • Innovation of product performance • Training program for dealers • Delivery on time • New concept to guide c­ onsumers better when choosing (Husqvarna Academy) • Increased sales handheld products • Environmental • Roadshows focusing on robotics ­performance End-customers • End-consumer survey with • Top 5 criteria: Built to last • Continued focus on high quality more than 4,000 respondents for years, Value for money, • A new organization with even stronger focus on end-customer in 5 countries Safe, Comfortable to hold needs • Interviews with professionals and Robust • Launched more battery products • Focus groups • A common Customer Relationship Management system • Field tests covering several countries as well as Construction • Social media Society (non-­ • UN initiatives • Resource use • Signatory of UN Global Compact governmental • Trade and industry organizations • Human rights • Reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and • Local communities • Transparency • Participation in trade and industry organization forums such governmental • Community engagement • Risk and crisis management as UN Global Compact, Svenskt Näringsliv, Teknikföretagen, ­organizations), • Environmental performance SNS, EGMF (European Garden Machinery Federation) and media • Carbon footprint OPEI (Outdoor Power Equipment Institute) • Legal compliance • Meetings held with local communities around production • Profitability facilities • Involved in several local community engagement projects Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 5 Materiality analysis In 2014, a structured process was initiated where the VP Sustainability Affairs, Investor Relations Manager and Corporate Communications Manager met representatives of important stakeholder groups to complement other dialogs held in the organization. These meetings verified the picture obtained from other dialogs: our products should be innovative, safe and environmentally sound, our operations should be safe and energy efficient and our employees should be offered fair c­ ompensation, good working conditions and opportunities for competence growth. Equally important is to strive for ethical business practices in our supply chain, to fight corruption and bribery, have good community relations, be ­profitable and pay taxes. The Group prioritizes the issues that are most material to the Group and our stakeholders by assessing their impact on the financial situation of the company, the environment, the workplace, customers and on society. In our internal analysis, we concluded that we should concentrate our main efforts on improving the performance of our products, since that is where we have the most impact. In determining materiality, we also rely on the GRI’s sustainability reporting guidelines for guidance. The indicators analyzed and reported are considered relevant and material to the Group and its stakeholders. Strategy In 2020, we aim to be a market leader in our industry. Being a Developing a sustainable new strategy is also about connectmarket leader means being in or competing for the number one ing the future with our point of departure. Our 2020 strategy market share position, leading the evolution of the industry and ­leverages the strengths and pride created in our organization exceeding the market in terms of profitable growth. We believe over our 325-year history. We have analyzed our culture and that profitable growth goes hand-in-hand with environmental sustainability starting point to ensure that we can stretch our stewardship, social responsibility and good governance. ambitions to a market leadership level in 2020. We have come to the conclusion that we most likely will ­benefit long-term from global megatrends. For a number of D uring 2014, we developed a new Group strategy aiming at years, we have been focusing on innovative and resource-­ market leadership by 2020. Our starting point for the strategy efficient products using technologies that make petrol-driven development was our end-customers and their needs. products more energy-efficient and with fewer emissions, as well Understanding today’s and future expectations of different as inventing battery-driven products with high performance. end-customer segments is critical to develop a sustainable With a rising middle class moving into the cities, people’s long-term strategy. One important part in understanding future ­interest in caring for green spaces, either grooming public ­customer requirements has been to thoroughly assess the impact ­gardens or nurturing their own gardens, is expected to increase. of the megatrends shaping our world, like changing demoIn the short term, we are aware that demand for our prodgraphics, climate change and globalization. By understanding ucts is dependent on weather and that unexpected weather megatrends we can identify new opportunities and threats that conditions can affect sales adversely and positively, for example we need to address proactively to sustainably meet changing storms affect sales of chainsaws positively, while too much rain customer requirements and competitive landscapes. or drought affects sales of lawn mowers negatively. 6 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group Sustainability organization and governance The strategy process led to a new brand-based organization with strong divisions which was fully implemented in January 2015. Currently, sustainability is being integrated in the divisions’ ­strategies and processes. S ustainability is integrated in the divisions and is on the agenda at the divisional management meetings. At the monthly operational reviews of divisions attended by responsibility for issues relating to EHS rests with the production facility manager. Each production facility has one or more EHS ­coordinators. They drive the work with EHS at their facilities and the President and CEO, Group CFO, Division President, Division ­collect and report environmental and health and safety data in Finance Manager and other members of the Division’s Management Group-wide reporting systems. Team, the division’s business is discussed to ensure progress and to provide Group insight into each of the divisions’ activities (past and Control and monitoring planned). Sustainability is on the agenda of these meetings. The Group’s own control systems include segregation of duties in On the Group level, a VP Sustainability Affairs was appointed, critical processes and defined management responsibilities with responsible for shaping the Group’s sustainability agenda and faciliregard to internal control. The Group has a separate Internal Audit tating the divisions’ sustainability efforts, who reports to the Group’s Function that continually evaluates and improves the effectiveness General Counsel. of the governance processes, risk management and internal control. A Group EHS Manager (Environment, Health & Safety), responIn addition to the company’s auditors, the company’s operations sible for defining, ensuring implementation and following up on are subject to external reviews and monitoring by the Swedish the Group EHS strategy, developing global procedures/standards, Financial Supervisory Authority (Finansinspektionen) and Nasdaq coaching and challenging the divisional activities, reports to Senior Stockholm among others. Vice President Group Operations. At production facilities, the direct Risk management Taking sustainability issues into considerations in impact the productivity of the Group and unsatisfied employees operations increases the value of the company by may also not recommend Husqvarna Group as an employer. The leveraging opportunities and managing financial, social and Code of Conduct, policies and guidelines, as well as the People environmental risks. The Group applies the precautionary Process provide a foundation for a sound business environment. principle and takes action to prevent or mitigate injury or Having a broad supply chain increases the risk that products harm to human health or the environment. may contain components that are not produced sustainably. The Group and its suppliers must share the same high standards for O ur business is exposed to a number of risks, such as product development risks, production and supply chain risks, risks of corruption and fraud, reporting risks, the environment, labor and human rights. The risk of corruption and fraud exists in markets where Husqvarna Group conducts business. In regions with estimated environmental as well as health and safety risks. These can higher risks, Husqvarna Group strengthens its efforts (see page potentially have a greater or lesser material impact on the 17). Group. The responsibility for long-term material risks follows the Environmental risks related to the Group’s operations include Group’s delegation procedure and is imparted from the Board physical changes in climate and natural resources, changes in to the CEO and President, and from the CEO and President to customer or legal requirements for products, generating and the Divisional Presidents. handling emissions and waste, and potential environmental Risks related to human rights, health, safety and the liabilities in connection with the acquisition of land or production environment can arise in the entire supply chain, both at our facilities. In the case of acquisitions or cessation of operations, suppliers and at our own production facilities, and these risks environmental risk assessments are always conducted by can be followed by reputational risks for well-known brands qualified experts. owned by the Group. More information on risk management can be found in the Sick leave and issues related to wellness can negatively Annual Report. Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 7 Objectives and achievements The management of Husqvarna Group has identified both longand short-term o ­ bjectives to measure progress towards becoming a more sustainable company. New objectives will be developed during 2015. Long-term goals Objectives 2013–2015 Achievements 2014 Develop environmentally Develop and implement a roadmap for phasing out • Efforts to phase out hazardous chemicals are a priority. sound products hazardous chemicals and substances in products and Surveys were sent to suppliers to collect information about processes. chemical content in delivered components. Achievements have been made, e.g. phasing out DEHP, but work remains. Implement and apply the concept of environmental • Improvements are continually beeing made to reduce design in the product ­creation process. products’ environmental impact. Progress has been made, but work remains. More efficient use of Reduce energy consumption by 10 percent per produced • Reduction of 3.4 percent, thanks to energy conservation energy and input materials equivalent unit and/or added value at production initiatives. ­facilities. Reduce carbon dioxide emissions per tonnes kilometer • Increased by 11 percent due to larger shipments over from transportation of goods. longer distances. Implement and maintain ISO 14001 on production • 92 percent of production facilities with more than 100 facilities with more than 100 employees. The goal is employees were certified. 100 percent, baseline 2012: 88 percent. Select suppliers that Implement a unified program for risk mapping, supplier • Supplier Code of Business Ethics updated operate in a r­ esponsible evaluation and supplier selection based on Husqvarna • 10 supplier sustainability audits conducted in China manner Group’s Code of Conduct. • Training in Environmental, Health and Safety for selected suppliers in China Reduce workplace accidents Reduce the number of accidents (measured in lost days) • Improved to 3.8 (4.5). to zero per m­ illion hours worked. Baseline 2012: 5.1. Implement a unified health and safety management • Implemented at all production facilities and most system within the Group. ­supporting operations. Contribute to the ­ 80 percent of employees should undergo a performance • Increased to 69 percent (64). professional ­development review. Baseline 2012: 67 percent. of each employee Employee Satisfaction Index target 85, as measured in • Increased to 84 (79). the annual employee survey. Baseline 2012: 82. Ensure employee adherence 100 percent of managers in tier 1–3 to attend web-based • Web-based training rolled out to 100% of managers in tier to the Code of Conduct training in Husqvarna Group’s Code of Conduct, with 1-4, with 82% of these having completed the training in additional key roles, for instance within purchasing and 2014. sales, covered in tier 4 and below. Code of Conduct included in the induction program for • Included in induction programs. all new employees. Contribute to the developTwo community engagement projects per year at pro• A Group-wide cooperation with UNHCR was ­established. ment of c­ ommunities duction facilities with more than 100 employees. Some 500 chainsaws were donated to people in the ­Philippines to help them clear the ground and build houses after the typhoon in 2013. • Several local community engagement projects started. Information on community engagement projects and • Data and stories from biggest sites collected and shared. contributions to be gathered at Group level. 8 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group Environmental stewardship When designing, the Group improves ­ attery-driven products show better environmental performance B compared to petrol-powered, but since the market for petrol-­ its p ­ roducts and processes by i­ncluding powered products is much bigger, the Group also invests in ­environmental, safety and ergonomic ­improving the environmental performance of these products. ­considerations. Legal regulations The Group’s products are subject to international, national and regional restrictions and regulations, primarily in terms of materials, Product creation emissions and noise. The Group is working to ensure legal compliOur focus on product sustainability begins with the very first idea ance, to follow the development of new regulations and to make for a design and continues through procurement, manufacturing, adjustments to meet future requirements. transportation and disposal. It governs the materials we choose, The Group maintains lists of substances that are either p ­ rohibited emissions, ergonomics and safety, the ease and efficiency of service or restricted due to their potential negative impact on health or the as well as the product’s degree of recyclability. environment. The Group’s Restricted Materials List (RML) details Primary drivers of innovation for the Group are end-user hazardous chemical substances that are required to be either not ­demands, trends, lower production costs, safety, improved contained in, or restricted in, purchased articles and materials ­ergonomics, improved environmental impacts, recycling and based on legal requirements such as the EU directives REACH and ­efficient maintenance as well as laws and regulations. RoHS. Restricted substances are not yet legally excluded but should When we asked our end-customers in 2014, their top five criteria be replaced taking into account technical and financial aspects. for the ideal tools and equipment were: built to last for years, ­Regular dialogs are held with suppliers of materials and products, ­offering value for money, safe, comfortable to hold and robust. and chemical contents in products are monitored. Ergonomics in terms of minimizing aches and pains caused by physical task as well as creating as little pollution as possible were Conflict minerals other important criteria. In 2012, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted The environmental impact of the Group’s products is typically the final rule implementing Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, greatest during use. However, it is difficult to measure exactly how the Conflict Minerals Rule. Under the rule, SEC-reporting compabig this impact is for each product, as they are not used c­ ontinually. nies that manufacture products containing conflict minerals must Usage also differs greatly depending on the weather and on conduct due diligence related to sourcing of the applicable conflict whether a product is used by a professional or a consumer. minerals. The rule applies to all U.S. publicly traded companies – or Lately, there has been an increased focus on creating more foreign-owned companies – that are required to report to the SEC. energy-efficient products. A growing number of products are using Husqvarna Group is indirectly affected since conflict minerals are technology that reduces fuel consumption and carbon dioxide a concern for the Group’s SEC-reporting trade partners. The Group emissions, such as our handheld construction products and the is addressing the expected requirements regarding conflict minerals battery-driven range of lawn mowers, trimmers and chainsaws. by, among other things, conducting dialogs with suppliers. CUSTOMER-FOCUSED INNOVATION The list of Husqvarna Construction’s innovations during recent years includes a variety of products with a strong focus on user benefits. The new Husqvarna flat saws FS 7000D and FS 5000D are faster, cleaner and smarter than their predecessors. But what is unique is that their diesel engines with particle filtration are developed to be compliant with both European and U.S. legislation; Tier 4 and Stage IIIB (with 20 times fewer emissions than Tier 1). Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 9 GREATER PRODUCT EFFICIENCY Battery products have a significantly reduced environmental impact across the product life cycle compared to petrol-driven products and the Group is investing in developing more battery products. We are also improving our petrol-driven products. ­Husqvarna’s professional chainsaws have AutoTuneTM with a computer chip to regulate the flow of fuel to the engine, optimizing performance and minimizing exhaust emissions. The X-TORQ® engine technology developed by Husqvarna for twostroke engines reduces fuel consumption by up to 20 percent and exhaust emissions by up to 60 to 75 percent. Sourcing Human rights in the supply chain Purchasing of materials accounts for 50 (53) percent of sales, of Husqvarna Group is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and which 12 (12) percent is raw materials. The number of suppliers has ­supports its principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environdecreased by approximately 30 percent from 3,100 in 2008 to about ment and anti-corruption. The same standards for the environment, 2,300. labor and human rights should be met by Husqvarna Group and The Group emphasizes high standards of environmental and suppliers, sub-contractors and other business partners. The Group ­labor practices throughout the supply chain. Contracts with neither tolerates underage labor nor allows illegal or forced labor in ­suppliers incorporate Husqvarna Group’s Supplier Code of Business its own operations or in the operations of any supplier or other party Ethics. with whom the Group cooperates. The minimum employment age Suppliers of direct materials are evaluated for efficiency, quality, is 15 years or the legal working age in the country in question. delivery, price and reliability and they are required to adopt and No incidents involving underage, illegal or forced labor were follow the principles outlined in Husqvarna Group’s Supplier Code brought to the attention of Group Management during 2014. of Business Ethics and Husqvarna Group’s Restricted Materials List. The Group works closely with its business partners to set up action Manufacturing plans to help them meet the criteria. The most significant environmental aspects of Husqvarna Group’s Husqvarna Group has established closer cooperation with its top manufacturing include the use of raw materials, water and 150 suppliers, covering approximately 65 percent of the Group’s ­chemicals, energy consumption, emissions in air and water, and purchasing spend. The program, called EXCITE, aims at excellence waste recycling and disposal. through common initiatives and teamwork. Quality, cost-efficiency, supply chain flexibility and innovation have been key topics. There Carbon dioxide emissions from transportation are quarterly global communication activities with these suppliPercent CO2 emissions per mode, 2014 ers. As part of the program, a two-day supplier conference was held in Charlotte, U.S. with 116 of the largest suppliers attending. Husqvarna Group was awarded the 2014 Procurement Award from n Air, 26% (32) the global procurement association, Procurement Leaders, for this n Road, 18% (18) program, which was named the best supply chain initiative. Additionally, there is special focus on supporting suppliers’ susn Boat, 56% (50) tainability progress in China. A two-day training in Environmental, Health and Safety was held with 16 selected suppliers. Does not include domestic road During 2014, sustainability audits were conducted at 10 selected transportation. suppliers in China. 10 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group In 2014, the Group’s 33 (33) production facilities were based in 14 (14) countries with a majority in Europe and the U.S. We also have four facilities in China, one in Japan and one in Brazil. Production facilities are located in both industrial and rural areas and most require environmental operating permits depending on the ­jurisdiction. As a general internal requirement, all production facilities with more than 100 employees must maintain an environmental ­management system certified according to ISO 14001. In 2014, 92% of facilities with more than 100 employees and 85% of all facilities were ISO 14001 certified. Each production site works to improve environmental performance focusing on water and energy consumption. The majority of water consumption is from municipal water plants. Some sites are using surface water for cooling and ground water for production. Several locations are taking a systemic approach to energy reduction and the production site in Aycliffe, U.K, became ENVIRONMENTAL the first ISO 50001 (energy) certified site. Despite a production IMPROVEMENTS IN HUSKVARNA increase, the Group managed to reduce energy use and carbon dioxide emissions. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an independent nonAt the die casting plant in Huskvarna, Sweden, a project was profit organization that gathers carbon data from companies and run to improve environmental performance significantly. organizations. Its purpose is to drive transparency and promote prevention of climate change. Husqvarna Group has been reporting Waste Guidelines were introduced to improve waste handling. They describe all of the parts used and how each part should be Electricity purchased Emissions of green house gases (tonnes, CO² equivalents)1 sorted and labeled. As a result: 250 200 • Easier sorting of all kinds of waste fractions for the staff, which means cleaner and more appealing waste disposal 200 150 areas. 150 • Sludge from the cylinder treatment plant and honing 100 contains a small amount of nickel. Now, all parts containing 100 nickel are being sent for recycling. 50 50 • By recycling plastics from packaging, unsorted material has been reduced by 16 tons/year. 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Zero water emissions n GWh n Tonnes CO² equivalents • Investments in a new evaporator for handling wastewater 1) Including direct and indirect GHG have reduced chemical use by approximately 80 tons/year. e ­ missions from manufacturing sites and larger warehouses. This has led to a decrease in purchasing of chemicals. • A closed-loop system ensures that the water used in the plating process is reused, resulting in zero emissions. The Water consumption Energy use1 installation of the new evaporator has indirectly reduced CO2 emissions from the transportation of chemicals to the plant. 1,500 400 1,200 300 Phasing out hazardous chemicals • The tumbling process, pretreatment containing hexavalent 900 200 chromium (CR(VI)) and the powder painting system were 600 replaced with new blasting equipment and a spray-on 100 pretreatment was connected to the painting area for a 300 more efficient process. The new equipment, which has a 0 0 closed-loop system, has reduced the total amount of CR(VI) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 to zero. n m3 thousand n GWh 1) Stationary fuel for heating, district heating and purchased electricity. Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 11 to the CDP since 2008. Reporting of emissions of greenhouse gases Recycling and disposal complies with CDP recommendations and conversion factors taken Product analyses conducted on chainsaws show that components from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol are applied. Husqvarna Group could be recycled and used as raw materials where there is a wellscored 88 B in 2014, compared with 79 C in 2013. functioning system for recycling products. The Group participates in take-back schemes for recycling Sales ­packaging, electrical products (WEEE) and batteries in countries The Group’s products are sold to consumers and professional where these exist, such as the European Recycling Platform. end-customers via dealers and retailers in more than 100 countries. Products are marketed responsibly on the basis of quality, price and other legitimate attributes. Product safety Husqvarna Group’s power products should never be used when other people or animals are close by. Since children often are attracted to these machines, the operator is requested to keep children under supervision at all times. Warnings are published on websites and in user manuals. Children are never present in our marketing material promoting our power products. Customers are provided with easy-to-use manuals in several languages. Ensuring safety and quality involves preparing control plans with ENVIRONMENTAL PIONEER suppliers and performing quality reviews and revalidation audits of existing products. The Group applies a tool for identifying posHusqvarna Group was a pioneer when launching solar-­ sible risks of failures, evaluating their consequences and ranking powered robotic mowers in 1995. Robotic mowers are proposed measures to avoid failures. energy-efficient and produce almost no emissions during In 2014, Husqvarna Group’s Committee on Product Safety use. With a mindset of continually making improvements, the convened 19 times, treating 17 different cases related to potential electricity consumption for maintaining a 1,000m² lawn has product safety matters. Five of these resulted in preventative been reduced by approximately 70 percent between the 2nd reworking of these products in warehouses, and two resulted in and the 3rd generations of robotic mowers. product recalls from the market. Recycling and disposal of waste (tonnes) 2014 2013 2012 2011 Non-hazardous recycled waste 21,664 20,895 23,190 19,602 Hazardous waste, non-recycled 2,639 761 748 672 Hazardous waste, recycled 585 406 579 1,735 Non-hazardous non-recycled waste 5,244 4,844 5,525 7,248 The amount of hazardous waste increased after installing closed-loop systems in some of our production facilities. Key environmental ratios 2014 2013 2012 20111 Carbon dioxide emissions, tonnes 166,592 168,617 170,295 180,608 Employees’ air travel CO2 emissions, thousand tonnes 7.8 6.8 5.8 1.624 CO2 emissions (kg) per added value (kSEK) 36 41 391 37.9 Energy consumption (kWh) per added value (kSEK)2 84 96 87 92 Number of serious environmental incidents 2 3 2 1 Plants with Environmental Management System3, % 92 923 893 89 1) Environmental data is restated due to improved data quality. 2) Construction is not included. 3) Production facilities with more than 100 employees. 4) Personal air transport not completed due to a change of travel agents. 1 tonnes equals to 1,000 kg. Also referred to as metric ton. 12 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group Continuous improvements on environmental aspects Husqvarna Group strives to improve the e ­ nvironmental impact of its products and processes in every phase of the product life cycle, from raw material sourcing, manufacturing and distribution to u ­ se-of-­products and recycling of materials and disposal. ➊ Product development Ergonomics, ease-of-use, energy efficiency and high quality are ➐ Recycling important features when designing Agreements with external products. Product improvements parties regarding producer are continually made to reduce our responsibility and recycling have products’ environmental footprint. been developed further. ➋ Sourcing 7 1 Close connections have been established with the 150 largest suppliers covering about 65 ➏ Use percent of the Group’s p­ urchasing The largest part of a product’s spend. environmental impact is deThe Supplier Code of Business termined at the design stage. Ethics has been updated. It Approximately 70 percent of clarifies what Husqvarna Group 6 the carbon dioxide impact of 2 expects from suppliers in relation a petrol-powered product is to fairness in business relations, estimated to come from when human rights and workplace the product is being used. practice, the environment, health and safety and fire prevention. ➎ Sales 5 3 ➌ Manufacturing Husqvarna Group is increasing Manufacturing is located close to its efforts to sell more batend-customers mainly in North tery products, such as robotic America and in Europe but also in mowers and battery-powered 4 Asia. Each production facility works chainsaws, hedge trimmers and on continually improving its environtrimmers. mental performance, for example, These products have a conby reducing water and energy siderably lower carbon dioxide ➍ Logistics consumption through modernizing ­impact compared to petrol-­ Carbon emissions from transporheating, ventilation and air conditiopowered products. tation (air, ocean and outbound ning systems and changing to hightruck) have been tracked for a efficiency compressed air systems, number of years. as well as installing lighting systems with motion sensors. To improve skills and expertise in the environmental management ­system ISO 14001, a training course for ­environmental managers was ­carried out in the U.S. Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 13 HUSQVARNA’S HIPERFLOOR® BOOSTED HEATING N ew student housing was needed at the Pacific ­Northwest College of Art (PNCA) in Portland, Oregon. Daylight was the central architectural feature designers wanted to capture to awaken creativity, supply comfort and stoke interest in a sustainable, low-energy-use facility. Husqvarna HiPERFLOOR, one of the world’s greenest, cleanest, most durable floors, was specifically selected to satisfy green building requirements. The diamond-polished concrete was used to reflect daylight from windows to reduce electricity use in the facility and maximize a prized resource. The HiPERFLOOR concrete finish process transforms new or existing concrete into an extremely wear-resistant floor. It uses low VOC chemicals that react with natural calcium in the slab to create crystals that harden the floor and reflect light. The surface is then polished using Husqvarna’s ­patented Dual-Driven TechnologyTM. The result: a brilliant finish! The floor retains the original thermal mass needed to create a comfortable environment. At ArtHouse, thanks to HiPERFLOOR’s light-reflecting qualities, traditional heating and cooling systems were not required, drastically reducing the building’s energy needs. Even the stone was chosen with sustainability in mind and locally sourced in Portland. “One of the things I love about these types of floors is that they use aggregate from the surrounding areas,” says architect Thomas Robinson. The building has received LEED® Silver certification. LEED (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design) is a globally recognized certification that verifies best-in-class building practices. For ArtHouse, Husqvarna’s glossy concrete floors were an important part in achieving this milestone. 14 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group Committed employees It is through our people that we can make a difference. Our core values are Customers first, Professionalism, Personal leadership & Team spirit. A strong corporate culture As part of the strategy process, the Group’s culture was investigated through interviews with individuals and focus groups at various locations. These interviews confirmed that we have a strong c­ ommon culture, take great pride in our long history, and have passion for products and innovation. Our people are dedicated and have a strong work ethic, and the communication climate is open. All of this forms a strong foundation for the Group. During the interviews, employees asked for a higher degree of customer focus, strengthened collaboration and a winner attitude. Restructuring the Group was a way to focus more on end-customer needs as well as to speed up the decision-making process. Our workforce The Group has employees in 43 countries. During 2014, the average number of employees was 14,337 (14,156) and 14,554 (15,076) at year-end. The voluntary staff turnover for the Group was 7.1 percent (6.5). Providing products mainly for maintaining parks, gardens and ­forests involves seasonal variations in sales, which affects the are identified through a variety of talent management processes ­number of seasonal employees in our production facilities. The such as the annual performance planning and review process Group’s workforce starts growing at the end of the year and is and the talent review and succession planning. Together with generally higher during the first quarter and at the beginning of their ­managers, employees prioritize and plan their professional the second quarter when manufacturing of garden products is ­development activities. highest, before it is reduced mid-year. In a typical year, the average The management development program is being revised to ­proportion of temporary to permanent employees is slightly higher include two new programs piloted in 2014. The Practical Leaderthan 20 percent. ship program provides managers entering a people-management role or those wishing to refresh their skills and gain a more solid Attract, develop and retain platform for their leadership. The Global Leader program targets At Husqvarna Group, we want to continue being a world leader, and middle managers in, or preparing for, senior roles in an international we know that our future growth is closely related to how we succeed context. Two additional programs are planned for 2015, including an in being a good employer that is, how good we are in attracting, Early Career Talent program and a Future Executives program. developing, and keeping qualified and motivated people. Workshops covering various lean manufacturing topics are held Husqvarna Group has several structured programs to increase regularly at production facilities and warehouses. To encourage and employee attraction and build a pool of future talents. We have a motivate employees to increase their involvement in lean manufive-year partnership with the student organization AIESEC. Through facturing activities, the Group launched a certification program this organization, more than 70 talented young professionals have to recognize individual performance. The program is composed worked for the Group. Currently, 10 AIESEC interns are working in of five levels through which an employee can advance based on Canada, China, Germany and Sweden. knowledge and achievement. Depending on the level of certificaIn 2014, the second group with six trainees from Sweden, China, tion pursued, employees have the opportunity to complete a series the U.S. and Ukraine joined the Global Trainee Program. The of activities such as attending workshops, leading projects and program runs for two years and includes six rotations as well as a workshops, driving improvements and delivering cost savings. As number of courses designed to give participants a broad picture of of December 2014, 231 employees had achieved the first level of the Group. certification, 16 the second and one the third. The People Process is designed to support managers in selection The large number of seasonal employees means that a significant and recruitment, performance evaluation, career development and number of new employees are trained at the beginning of each new remuneration. The professional development needs of employees season. Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 15 Health and safety As stated in the Code, discrimination on the basis of individual The Group’s global approach to health and safety continued with characteristics such as gender, age, disability, sexual orientation or further development of internal standards, global networking and ethnic origin, and physical, psychological, religious, sexual or verbal reporting, as well as the implementation of a new injury rate KPI for harassment is not accepted. safety to establish a baseline for less severe/more frequent injuries. In addition, the global EHS team met for the first time in October Wages and benefits for a three-day summit to identify key strategic areas to synergize, As a principle, employment terms and wages shall be fair and focus on, and improve over the next three to five years. reasonable in line with industry standards to attract and retain highly Currently, three locations have a certified occupational safety skilled employees. The Group complies with applicable laws and and health management system with more expected as ISO 45001 industry standards on working hours. becomes the global health and safety system standard. Each operational unit is responsible for providing its employThe Group aims to reduce workplace accidents towards zero at ees with all mandatory benefits (i.e. pensions, medical and social all facilities. In 2014, there were 0 (0) fatalities and the lost workday insurance). In some countries or at some production facilities, the accident rate per million hours worked was 3.8 (4.5), which includes benefits offered are in excess of the mandatory provisions. For a 15 percent reduction year-on-year. Current figures includes all temporary employees, benefits provided are in line with local laws employees working in production facilities and most employees in and regulations. supporting operations. In 2014, wages totaled SEK 3,577m (3,758) while social security Safety milestone achievements continue to be reached: costs and pension plans amounted to SEK 888m (917). • Six manufacturing facilities without any injuries in 2014. • Seven manufacturing facilities without any lost workday injuries in Employee surveys 2014. Husqvarna Group conducts annual employee satisfaction surveys to – Nashville has worked 12 years without a lost workday injury. improve working conditions and Group efficiency. In 2014, approxi– Kawagoe has worked 6 years without a lost workday injury. mately 10,854 (11,332) employees were invited to take part in the – Xiamen has worked 2.5 years without a lost workday injury. survey, which was translated into 14 languages. The response rate of • 67% of manufacturing facilities met their lost workday incident rate 90 percent (89) together with input from our employees is proof that goals for 2014. we have a process that is credible and worthwhile when teams are analyzing, formulating and executing actions based on the previous Employer-employee relations year’s feedback. On an aggregated Group level, the results show: All employees are free to exercise the right to form, join or refrain • Significant increase in knowledge about and belief in the Group from joining unions or similar organizations, as well as to bargain strategy. The perception of how the Group is managed also collectively or individually. The Group estimates that four out of ten improved. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The • All questions related to communication improved, especially coverage differs from country to country. In Sweden, all employees timely information from managers. except Group management are covered by collective agreements. • Working climate improved. In accordance with Swedish law, two employee representatives • Areas that need further attention are the perception of respect and two deputies are members of the Board, providing employee from one’s manager and having a working group free from conflict. input to the Board’s decision-making. In countries where no independent labor unions exist, several Performance review ­forums for employer-employee relations have been established, The performance review covers the previous year’s work, defines such as consultations and environment and safety committees. new objectives and creates action plans for the employee’s development. A follow-up meeting six months later checks the progress Diversity and equality of the plan. Employees and managers are recruited mainly from within the The goal is for 80 percent of all employees to undergo a local communities. About 99 percent of the total workforce and performance review each year. In 2014, 69 percent (64) of all 93 percent of managers are employed locally reflecting several employees had a performance review, of which 87 percent (85) of nationalities and religions. A diverse workforce is strong, competiwhite-collar employees and 54 percent (47) of blue-collar employees tive, innovative and resilient and the Group focuses on diversity participated. from several perspectives. A particular effort has been made over Performance reviews correlate with higher satisfaction levels as the past few years to increase female representation in leadership measured in the employee survey follow-up. roles. When recruiting, the Group aims to present both female and male candidates for positions. The number of female employees reached 36 percent (36) and the proportion of female managers is 12 percent (15). 16 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group Internal implementation of the Code The Group has a global whistleblowing function called the AlertLine All employees are obliged to observe and comply with Husqvarna where potential violations of law and internal policies can be Group’s Code of Conduct, available on the corporate website in reported anonymously by employees and other people via email or English and in 13 languages on the intranet. Sub-guidelines explaintelephone in local languages internally and/or externally and to a ing some parts of the Code in detail are also available internally. third party. In 2014, 115 (101) cases were reported to the AlertLine. The objective is that 100 percent of managers in tier 1-3 with Of these, 15 (12) incidents involving discrimination or harassment ­additional key roles, for instance within purchasing and sales, should were reported to Husqvarna Group’s Management. Following attend the web-based training in Husqvarna Group’s Code of ­investigations, one case was substantiated, six partly substantiated, ­Conduct. The web-based training was rolled out to all managers in and eight cases were unsubstantiated. tier 1-4, with 82 percent of these having completed the training. 325 CELEBRATIONS ALL OVER THE WORLD Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 17 Influencing several local communities Husqvarna Group’s most important contribution to the c­ ommunities where it operates is to perform basic business activities as ­effectively as possible following the Code of Conduct. Distribution of economic value ing regular training for local management, employees and suppliers in With more than 14,000 employees in more than 40 countries, as well countries where the risk is deemed to be higher. as products sold through major retailer chains and 25,000 servicing The Group observes strict neutrality with regard to political parties dealers and directly to construction companies in more than 100 and candidates and, consequently, does not provide monetary or countries, the Group influences the economic and social developother contributions or resources to any political parties or institutions. ment of many communities. The economic value that the Group creates by selling products Community engagement and services benefits a number of stakeholders. These include emCommunity engagement projects are mainly delivered through ployees and their families in the form of wages and other benefits, local units and the Group has a long tradition of community suppliers in the form of payments for delivered goods and services, engagement. Support can be in the form of time, products or trade partners and end-customers in the form of high-quality prodmoney. Some of the initiatives are described below. ucts and services, society (state and municipalities) in the form of tax payments, and shareholders in the form of dividends and share apTransfer knowledge preciation. Husqvarna Group’s total added value in 2014 amounted The most common way of showing our engagement is by to SEK 8,231m (7,391). In 2014, the Group paid SEK 231m (394) to transferring knowledge and equipment to universities, forestry governments in taxes globally. schools, end-customers and NGOs, such as the University of When setting up a facility, the Group creates benefits such as new British Columbia (Canada), University of Lund (Sweden), technical jobs, technology and knowledge transfer, as well as improved social equipment to local mechanical schools (U.K.), Oregon State and environmental standards in local communities. When relocating University, Hocking College and University of Wisconsin (U.S.). or closing operations, the Group strives to handle such organizaChainsaws and supplies were also donated to the National Park tional changes responsibly. Service’s Arborist Incident Response (AIR) Program, Blue Ridge The providers of capital, that is shareholders and credit instituParkway in Asheville, N.C. (U.S.). tions, provide funds to finance the asset base used to create economic value. In turn, these stakeholders receive annual dividends Disaster relief and interest. Some 64 percent (72) of the capital is held by Swedish Given the Group’s product offering and operations, it is also shareholders. Husqvarna Group does not receive governmental relevant to help others preserve local environments and to support financial assistance on the Group level. However, the Swedish people in connection with natural disasters. This support is shortgovernment and other governments are present via shareholder term and often in the form of providing products. representation of state-owned pension funds. Costs for the provision of capital including dividends amounted A Group-common initiative was to donate 500 chainsaws via to SEK 1,184m (1,287). ­UNHCR to help people clear the ground and build houses after the huge earthquake that hit the Philippines at the end of 2013. Corruption and fraud Husqvarna Group has a long and prestigious history characterized In Germany, employees donated blood to the Red Cross d ­ uring by honesty and fairness in dealings with business partners and working time. They also made a product donation of 40 dirt stakeholders. The Group is determined to keep it that way and is water pumps to help manage flooding in Bosnia and donated 60 accordingly committed to supporting fair competition by prohibit­chainsaws to the disaster response organization @fire international. ing discussions or agreements with competitors concerning pricing or market sharing. There have been no legal actions for anti-comIn the United States, Husqvarna participated in the restoration of petitive behavior in 2014. the school-yard of a local school in Charlotte, SC, together with the Corruption and bribery exist in markets where the Group conducts Hornets (NBA basketball team). business, however, the majority of production and sales operations are located in countries with a lower risk for corruption, as defined by Other Transparency International. Corruption and bribery are not tolerated In Australia, a customer’s vehicle in a charity rally was sponsored to in any form. To strengthen the Group’s anti-corruption measures, the raise money for Variety Children’s Charity, and donations was made Group has close interaction with its suppliers, strengthened training to a local football team. China held winter classes for employees’ in the Code in general but also where deemed necessary, the Group kids. Swedish employee’s Christmas gifts were donated to the has translated the Code into applicable local languages, established a organizations “Save the Children” and “Min Stora Dag”. whistleblower function, appointed a Compliance Officer and is provid18 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group Heritage Passionate about innovation Ever since our start in 1689, our passion for ­innovation, development and precision has led to a long line of successful products and solutions in very different areas – from ­weapons, sewing machines and motorcycles to ­market-leading outdoor power products for customers around the globe. ­ Today, our commitment to increasing u ­ sability ­to fulfill end-customer needs, together with our respect for nature and caring for people, is guiding us to produce more ergonomic 1959 Chainsaws ­products with lower e ­ missions and better Husqvarna’s expertise in ­energy efficiency than ever before. engines leads to production of chainsaws. 1968 Power cutters Husqvarna’s first power cutter is a redesigned 1872–1997 chainsaw. Sewing ­machines 1903–1987 The machinery for Motorcycles producing rifles turns 1896–1962 Lightweight yet powerful out to be well suited Bicycles engines give Husqvarna for manufacturing Husqvarna bicycles a worldwide reputation in sewing machines. become very popular. motorcycles. 1689–1989 1918 1969 Rifle factory Lawn mowers Anti-vibration Swedish weapons producWhen Norrahammars Launch of the world’s tion takes off and a plant Ironworks in Sweden is first chainsaw with an is built in Huskvarna, ­acquired, the product ­integrated anti-vibration Sweden. range expands. system. Ergonomics has been important ever since. 1874–1978 1947 Kitchen ­equipment Powered lawn 1973 Production expands to mowers Automatic chain brake kitchen equipment in cast Husqvarna’s first motorThe first automatic chain iron such as meat mincers, ized lawn mower for brake followed by the Trio stoves and ovens. commercial use. Brake™ (1999) decreases the risk of injury for ­forestry workers. Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group 19 2002 2008 Diamond tools Expanded ­presence The construction business in China 1978 doubles in size through Expand production in Power products acquisition. China through acquisition in focus and a new production facility. Husqvarna is acquired by Electrolux and the 2005 outdoor product operaX-Torq® tions continue to expand 2009 New standard for two-stroke through acquisitions. engines increases gear Demolition robot ratio, while reducing fuel Husqvarna’s first remotecontrolled demolition 1980’s ­consumption and emissions. robot is launched. Strengthened ­positions in the U.S. Organic growth and 2006 2009 acquisitions expand On its own feet AutoTune™ Husqvarna’s operations in Husqvarna is listed on Automatic optimization of the U.S. Nasdaq Stockholm. fuel flow. 1995 2007 2012 Robotic l­awn mower Watering equipment Battery-powered World’s first commerand expansion in range cialized solar-powered Japan The same performance robotic mower. Acquisitions of Gardena, as that of petrol-powered Zenoah and Klippo bring machines, but without strong brands, complethe noise and direct mentary products and ­emissions. geographic expansion. 2013 All-wheel-drive lawnmower The world’s first AWD lawn mower is launched. 2014 Saw chain ­production A new production f­ acility for manufacturing chainsaw chains in Huskvarna, Sweden. 20 Sustainability Report 2014 Husqvarna Group Sustainability performance Summary GRI indicator1 Economic, SEKm 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 EC1 Group net sales 32,838 30,307 30,834 30,357 32,240 EC1 Operating costs (materials and services) 24,607 22,916 22,830 22,498 23,226 EC1 Employee salaries 4,157 3,758 4,016 3,904 4,080 EC1 Social security costs and pension plans 957 917 968 1,029 1,108 EC1 Payments to state and municipality (taxes) 231 394 431 413 503 EC1 Credit institutions (interest) 325 428 500 404 394 EC1 Shareholders (dividends) 859 859 859 859 574 EC1 Total economic value 8,231 7,391 8,004 7,859 9,014 EC1 Economic value retained 1,702 1,035 1,230 1,250 2,355 GRI indicator1 Environmental 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Production facilities with installed environmental management systems 92 92 89 88 81 ISO 14001, % 2 Serious environmental incidents, absolute number 2 3 2 1 1 EN1 Raw material3, steel, tonnes 104,613 101,081 108,100 103,139 104,561 EN1 Raw material3, plastic, tonnes 18,284 16,1334 15,3374 15,833 15,506 EN1 Raw material3, aluminum, tonnes 773 5704 6094 692 651 EN1 Raw material , magnesium, tonnes 3 1,146 842 1,220 1,160 832 EN3 Direct energy use5, MWh 122,271 122,3784 124,586 145,992 128,645 EN4 Indirect energy use, MWh 246,277 259,1654 254,7054 271,889 260,808 EN3+EN4 Energy use, MWh 368,548 381,5434 379,2914 417,882 389,453 EN8 Water consumed, m 3 1,318,148 1,262,018 4 1,346,433 1,384,789 1,498,576 EN16 CO2 emissions, tonnes (total energy) 166,592 168,617 4 170,295 4 180,459 168,995 – direct energy, tonnes 40,825 38,1624 44,141 43,033 40,411 – indirect energy, tonnes 125,767 130,455 4 126,154 4 137,426 128,584 EN17 CO2 emissions (personal air transport), thousand tonnes 7.8 6.84 5.84 1.626 5.85 EN22 Waste, tonnes 30,131 26,931 4 30,042 29,258 35,289 GRI indicator1 Social 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 LA1 Workforce (average number of employees) 14,337 14,156 15,429 15,698 14,954 LA7 Accidents per million hours worked 3.8 4.5 5.1 11.27 – LA7 Fatalities at production facilities, absolute number 0 0 0 0 0 LA12 Performance reviews, % 69 64 67 66 – – white collar, % 87 85 84 82 – – blue collar, % 54 47 53 52 – LA13 Proportion of women, % of employees 36 36 37 35 35 LA13 Proportion of women in management positions, tier 1–3, % managers 12 15 13 11 12 LA13 Proportion of women on the Board of Directors8, % 33 389 33 33 33 1) According to GRI guidelines, www.globalreporting.org. 2) Production facilities with more than 100 employees. 3) Raw material used in own production. 4) Adjusted due to better tracking. 5) Consists almost entirely of natural gas. 6) In 2011, personal air transport was not completely covered due to a change of travel agency. 7) Enhanced reporting procedures in 2012 revealed that this figure for 2011 is overstated. 8) Employee representatives excluded. With employee representatives included, the figure for 2014 reaches 54%. 9) As of July 2013. 1 tonnes equals to 1,000 kg. Also referred to as metric ton. ABOUT THIS REPORT This is Husqvarna Group’s fifth Sustainability Report. The report summarizes the Group’s 2014 sustainability ­initiatives and performance. The Sustainability Report has been prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version G3.0. This is a level C report. It has been approved by Group Management; however, it has not been subject to assurance by an external party. Husqvarna Group’s previous Sustainability Report ­covered the calendar year 2013 and was published in March 2014 in conjunction with the Annual Report. Husqvarna Group’s next Sustainability Report will be published at husqvarnagroup.com in Spring 2016. Contact: VP Sustainability Affairs: Jonas Willaredt Corporate Communications Manager: Cathrine Stjärnekull NARVA Head office Husqvarna AB (publ) | Mailing address: Box 7454, SE-103 92 Stockholm Visiting address: Regeringsgatan 28 | Telephone: +46 8 738 90 00 | www.husqvarnagroup.com Registered office Husqvarna AB (publ) Jönköping | Mailing address: SE-561 82 Huskvarna Visiting address: Drottninggatan 2 | Telephone: +46 36 14 65 00
