Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 Contents Message From Our CEO 3 PermaNet® WHO Supports PermaNet® 3.0 Claim 5 IR Mapper Adds CDC Data 5 Ghana Vector Research Lab Celebrates 3rd Anniversary 6 Donations 6 Making an Impact at a Kenyan School for Deaf Children 7 LifeStraw® LifeStraw® Follow the Liters Program Targets Kenyan Schools 9 Guinea Worm Disease Nears Eradication 10 Vestergaard Water Lab Receives Quality Accreditation 10 Donations 10 ZeroFly® ZeroFly Enhances Food Security 12 Donations 12 UN Global Compact Update 13 Compliance/Anti-corruption 13 Responsible Supply Chain Management 13 Environmental Stewardship 14 Workplace Safety 15 Message As one of a few private companies innovating products for people in developing countries, Vestergaard often finds itself in unchartered territory. But we’re in this for the long haul, and we know that to survive and thrive From Our in a space dominated by public health entities, we have to push ourselves to work harder and smarter. We’ve also challenged the status quo when we believed in a better way forward. In 2014, our efforts were rewarded by CEO several milestones. • The World Health Organization’s Vector Control Advisory Group approved our PermaNet® 3.0 claim that, as a “first in class” product, it has enhanced efficacy in areas where resistance to the traditional insecticide used in bed nets is high. This gives malaria fighters globally a technologically advanced option to combat the growing problem of insecticide resistance. • The Carter Center announced that Guinea worm disease is on track to be the second human disease ever eradicated. In 1986, 3.5 million people suffered from Guinea worm disease; in 2014 only 126 cases were reported. The cornerstone of this eradication program is a water filter. Vestergaard has supplied more than 37 million Guinea worm water filters to the Carter Center’s eradication program, which has contributed to this enormous feat. • We distributed over 1,600 LifeStraw® Community water purifiers to provide 157,000 students in Kenya with safe water as a result of our LifeStraw® Follow the Liters program. Through this initiative, for each consumer purchase of a LifeStraw® product, one school child in a developing country receives clean water for an entire year. With strong consumer sales, we now have the foundation to expand the program to more schools in Kenya, China, India and Mexico in the future. To survive and thrive in • Our new food security product line, which includes ZeroFly® Screens and ZeroFly® Storage Bags, received national regulatory approval for sales in a space dominated by countries throughout Africa. Both of these products offer new and improved ways to protect livestock and post-harvest crops from harmful public health entities, insects which will enhance food security in developing countries. we’ve had to work smart • We continued to strengthen our compliance profile and responsible supply chain. Policies and procedures were intensified and extensive training was conducted to ensure that employees and partners understand and are committed to enforcing these policies. Likewise, we’ve conducted training for our manufacturer and its suppliers regarding workplace safety and environmental stewardship. I remain in awe of the talented and dedicated Vestergaard staff and the high caliber organizations we work with to achieve these meaningful milestones. Together, we will continue on our journey, regardless of how smooth or bumpy the road may be, because along the way we continue to improve the lives of the most vulnerable people on our planet. Mikkel Vestergaard Frandsen Owner and Chief Executive Officer 3 PermaNet® serves vector control programmes with leading solutions at scale with reduced need for repeat interventions. WHO Supports PermaNet® 3.0 Claim In a major milestone for malaria prevention globally, the World Health Organization’s Vector Control Advisory PermaNet® 3.0 has increased Group formally announced support for the PermaNet® 3.0 product claim; specifically that “relative to the efficacy against malaria currently used pyrethroid–only LLINs [long-lasting insecticidal nets], PermaNet® 3.0 has increased efficacy against malaria vectors with metabolic pyrethroid vectors with metabolic resistance.” The WHO report went on to recognize PermaNet® 3.0 as a “first in class” product aimed pyrethroid resistance. (WHO) primarily at pyrethroid-resistant vector populations. In 2012, WHO reported concern about the degree to which insecticide resistance may reduce the efficacy of LLINs, and the possibility that it will induce control failure. IR Mapper Adds CDC Data In-depth information about insecticide resistance mechanisms across Africa from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) was added to IR Mapper, an online tool that maps insecticide resistance. The newly added CDC bottle assay data supports WHO susceptibility test data currently featured on IR Mapper. The publicly available online tool remains as the most up-to-date and comprehensive collection of information on insecticide resistance in malaria vectors available today. IR Mapper is the most comprehensive tool for mapping resistance available 5 Vestergaard – NMIMR Vector Labs Celebrates 3rd Anniversary Vestergaard’s state-of-the-art vector research laboratory in Ghana was officially named Vestergaard-NMIMR Vector Labs in 2014 to reflect its partnership with the Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research where it resides. The high capacity insectary rears about 600,000 mosquitos each year. It enables testing of Vestergaard’s vector products and research by NMIMR’s Department of Parasitology, and collaborates with partners on projects ranging from mosquito biology to insecticide resistance. PermaNet® Donations PermaNet® 3.0 bed nets 70,814 PermaNet® 2.0 Vestergaard employees were given to Kingsley bed nets were donated to donated time as active Holgate Rift Valley Expeditions ChildFund to help fight malaria members of advisory groups for distribution to remote in the context of the ebola including Roll Back Malaria's tribes who may not receive epidemics in Liberia and Sierra Malaria Advocacy Group and nets as part of a countrywide Leone. CropLife International. mass campaign. 45,050 PermaNet® 2.0 bed nets were given to World Vision Kenya and the Kenya Ministry of Health for distribution through health clinics in April. 6 Making an Impact at a Kenyan School for Deaf Children While in rural Kenya in October for implementation of the LifeStraw® Follow the Liters Program, Vestergaard staff visited one of the recipient schools, the Kakamega School for the Deaf. The school serves over 80 elementary aged children with special disabilities, including deafness, from the surrounding region. It serves as a boarding school since many of the children are from far distances and some have been orphaned or neglected due to their disabilities. Many parents don’t have money to support boarding costs and government funds are limited so the children often don’t have enough food and their living conditions are sub-standard. Walls and ceilings are cracked, thin foam mattresses are badly torn and soiled, and their old and torn bed nets are not adequately preventing the children from mosquito bites when they sleep. The Vestergaard team wanted to do something in addition to providing safe water through LifeStraw® Community to help these children…so we did. Staff on the ground and from various global offices pooled our personal money to buy large sacks of beans, maize and other food. We also bought new foam mattresses to replace the disintegrating mattresses the children were currently sleeping on. The company donated PermaNet® 3.0 bed nets, and twelve of us spent from early afternoon until late at night hanging bed nets in the dormitories and stocking the food we’d bought. We played with the children and laughed with them. They taught us some basic sign language and gave us special sign names. We were heart struck by their wide-eyed expressions of joy and their hand signed “thank yous” when we handed out milk and cookies and when they saw the new mattresses and nets in their rooms. We left the school that night hot, tired and feeling more fulfilled than we had felt in a very long time. 7 LifeStraw® prevents waterborne diseases by converting microbiologically contaminated water into safe drinking water. Or some impressive statistic on white text over full page photo LifeStraw® Follow the Liters Program Targets Kenyan Schools Now, more than 157,000 school children in Kenya have access to safe water. The first recipients of the LifeStraw® Follow the Liters program were students in rural schools in western Kenya. In October, 1,646 high-volume LifeStraw® Community water purifiers were distributed to 301 schools where students and teachers were also taught about safe behaviors associated with water consumption, hygiene and sanitation. Now, over 157,000 school children throughout The LifeStraw® Follow the Liters program Kenya’s western province have access to more than 23 enables Vestergaard to continue to connect million liters of safe water per year. its humanitarian mission with consumer sales. And it enables a growing population of The distribution was made possible through the LifeStraw® socially minded consumers to become an Follow the Liters program which harnesses the collective active part of an important solution. Kenya power of individuals to help solve one of the world’s most is just the beginning: Vestergaard expects pressing issues – lack of access to safe drinking water. consumer sales to continue to support When a consumer purchases any LifeStraw® product, a expansion of the LifeStraw® Follow the Liters portion of the funds are used to provide one school child in program into developing communities in a developing country with safe drinking water for an entire Kenya, China, India and Mexico. school year. 301 752 4,872 schools reached hours of safe water teachers received in total in and health education technical training western Kenya provided at schools to maintain the units 157,975 1,646 students have now units of Lifestraw® access to 123,450 liters Community distributed of safe water a day 9 Guinea Worm Disease Nears Eradication Water filters are essential to decrease Guinea worm disease, and Vestergaard has supplied more than 37 million LifeStraw® pipe and cloth water filters to The Carter Center’s Guinea Worm Eradication Programme. The debilitating disease has experienced a dramatic decrease. In 1986, an estimated 3.5 million people in 21 countries in Africa and Asia were afflicted with Guinea worm disease. In 2014, there were 126 cases in four African countries: South Sudan, Guinea worm Chad, Mali and Ethiopia. has been reduced by more than As of December 2012, the World Health Organization had certified 192 countries and territories around the world 99.9% as being free of the disease. It is likely that Guinea worm disease will be the second human disease in history (after 3.5 million When eradicated, it smallpox) to be completely eradicated and the first to be will be the first disease eradicated without the use of a vaccine. Vestergaard is cases 126 cases to be eradicated proud to play an important role in providing the technology without the use of vaccines or drugs to fight this disease. 1986 2014 Vestergaard Water Lab Receives Quality Accreditation In May, Vestergaard’s water laboratory in Vietnam received ISO/IEC 17025 accreditation from the Bureau of Accreditation of Vietnam. This certifies that Vestergaard meets the highest standards of quality assurance in laboratory testing and product development. It also provides global recognition of the water lab and high acceptance of its test data and results. Donations Vestergaard pledged a donation of LifeStraw® More than 2,200 LifeStraw® Family 1.0 Guinea Worm filters to The Carter Center valued water purifiers were donated to Plan at $365,900, to be given throughout 2015 and 2016. International for distribution to families With this pledge, Vestergaard has provided in-kind displaced by the typhoon that struck the gifts and pledges valued at $1.56 million to the Philippines toward the end of 2013. Center's health programs from 1999-2016. 10 Zero Fly® offers a novel approach to promote food security through reduction of pests in livestock and crops. ZeroFly® Enhances Food Security ZeroFly® is Vestergaard’s newest line of products designed to promote food security by protecting livestock and postharvest crops from harmful insect pests. Both products offer novel approaches to tough problems and have undergone extensive testing with superior results. Flies, ranging from annoying biting flies to more Post-harvest loss is a major contributor to deadly tsetse flies, are highly debilitating to food insecurity. ZeroFly® Storage Bag tackles livestock and farmers who depend on animals this problem. It is the first available insecticide for food and draught power. ZeroFly® Screen is an incorporated storage bag that prevents damaging advanced insecticide-incorporated screen that pest infestations. At the end of 2014, ZeroFly® helps farmers protect livestock from flies in a Storage Bag had received national regulatory sustained and effective way. In 2014 it had national approval for sale in seven countries. regulatory approval for sale in 14 countries. Donations More than 100,000 square meters of ZeroFly® Storage Bags were donated ZeroFly® Screen were donated through to the USAID’s “Feed the Future Innovation PATTEC (Pan African Tsetse and Lab for the Reduction of Post-Harvest Loss” Trypanosomiasis Eradication Campaign) for program which aims to reduce post-harvest use in countries throughout Africa including loss and food waste of durable staple crops. Sudan, Niger, Chad, North Sudan, Ivory Coast and DRC. 12 UN Global Compact Update As a company fully aligned with the principles set forth by the UN Global Compact, Vestergaard places the Vestergaard places the highest priority on ensuring that we act as a socially and environmentally responsible organization. In highest priority on acting 2014 we initiated several measures to strengthen our compliance profile and our responsible supply chain. This 360-degree initiative included integration of with integrity and social systems, rules and regulations and intensive training for employees and partners. responsibility. Compliance /Anti-corruption Vestergaard strengthened organizational standards interactive presentation was shared with virtually all regarding compliance and made sure that there was a staff on five continents (Europe, North America, Africa, clear understanding of these standards and behavioral Asia and South America). At the conclusion of the expectations internally and across the supply chain. training sessions, a republished Responsible Supply Activities toward this end goal included the following: Chain Policies document was circulated to the staff. It included specific guidelines regarding interactions with Expanded the Business Code of Conduct and divided it distributors and consultants. External partners were into two separate documents: Business Code of Conduct taken through a similar presentation. and Anti-Bribery. These two documents present a specific outline of Vestergaard 's policy regarding acceptable Selected one of the most respected global ethical practices. management firms, Ernst & Young, to assess our compliance systems. E&Y conducted comprehensive Developed a thorough, interactive presentation audits in June and December and their detailing our compliance and anti-corruption rules and recommendations were incorporated into existing expectations for employees and partners. This operational guidelines. Responsible Supply Chain Management The framework of Vestergaard's Responsible Supply manufacturer of PermaNet® to assure successful Chain (RSC) and operational processes have been implementation of the designated improvements in RSC enhanced over the past several years. As part of this and EHS (Environmental Health and Safety). effort, a separate RSC department has been created and a new RSC Manager is joining the company Key RSC tasks in 2014 have been aimed at sustaining in January 2015. He reports to the Chief Supply manufacturing scale while assuring the highest product Chain Officer and the company's CEO, and works quality, the greatest efficiency, and environmental health closely with other key team members as well as the and safety throughout the supply chain. 15 13 Environmental Stewardship Vestergaard continued to implement measures that reduce the environmental impact of our operations. This is accomplished through initiatives we set into Vestergaard implements motion in 2014 and the considerable amount of time and resources we’ve used to plan for future programs that will reduce our carbon foot print. Here are some initiatives to reduce examples. the carbon foot print Initiated development of a new process at our insecticide impregnation workshops on how Applied the 5S system which is a to collect the waste water (effluent) and treat methodology for organizing, cleaning, it with a technology that allows the insecticide developing and sustaining a productive to sediment with the “sand,” then be work environment that increases safely incinerated. All workshop workers will effectiveness and staff enthusiasm while be trained on how to safely implement this reducing dead time and waste. The 5S procedure. system along with green practices were implemented at the Water Lab to enhance Developing a system to extract fumes in the environmental protection, reduce impregnation shops and to clean the collected operational costs and establish a more gas in a scrubber. professional working environment with greater ownership by lab employees about Built a Mobile Lab for environmental protecting the environment. More than ten monitoring which contains measurements green ideas were generated and applied in for aspects of the working environment such daily working. For example: as light, noise, temperature, humidity and chemical concentration. The Mobile Lab will be helping to detect any points that are outside of changing the setup of the artificial the acceptable norm so that we can take quick raining system in product durability action to correct them. testing is helping save runoff water 12 times more than the old system reusing the cooling water in the distilling system for cleaning the glassware is helping save 200300 liters of water per batch and increasing the quality of cleaning 14 Workplace Safety Train... Retrain…Sustain This has been our mantra regarding workplace program and it appears to have been very successful safety. A significant amount of training was so far in identifying the gaps and development of conducted in 2014 to make sure workers at activities to close these gaps. Vestergaard and at our manufacturer understand the importance of workplace safety and are Facilitated chemical safety training for manufacturer implementing practices to contribute to it. We could personnel involved in impregnation and cut & sew see a clear paradigm shift toward understanding processes, when the material contains the insecticide. the importance of wearing face masks and protective clothing where necessary, and following Facilitated fire safety training for 230 personnel from environmental and workplace safety protocol. the manufacturer. Major initiatives in 2014 included: Conducted RSC audits at 44 Tier 2 cut & sew workshops. Sponsored a key manufacturer to join Better Work, a joint program between ILO and IFC. The program Improved ventilation and cooling in impregnation offers regular workshops on specific problems (e.g., and heat-set workshops. child labor, fire safety in textiles, etc.), conducts audits to ensure adherence to topics learned Implemented improved PPE (personal protective in workshops and provides ongoing technical equipment) regulations and trained employees in consultation to factory personnel. Vestergaard’s proper and sustainable usage. manufacturer was required to share progress of the www.vestergaard.com
