UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Contents Statement of continuing support 1 Fung Group of companies: Who we are 2 Our approach to sustainability 4 The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact 5 2014 at a glance 6 Human rights & labour 7 Environment 12 Anti-corruption 22 Statement of continuing support The Fung Group of companies (the “Group”), is pleased to publish its Communication on Progress for the year 2014. This report outlines the steps that we have taken to promote the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles within our Group companies, as well as throughout our supply chains and among our stakeholders. The Fung Group has always sought to operate in line with the principles of the Global Compact. We strive to run sustainable businesses that provide useful goods and services, create jobs, use resources efficiently, care for the environment, and operate with a high degree of integrity. We aim to contribute to the economic and social well-being of the communities in which we operate and thus reflect the Global Compact’s principles. As the Group approaches the 110th anniversary of its founding, we remain committed to the Global Compact’s principles and seek to instill the principles wherever we operate. In an increasingly complex world and with the ever-present challenge of sustainable inclusive development, we continue to see the Global Compact as a useful platform for collective action and engagement between business, government and civil society. In laying out our actions and efforts to continue to improve our performance under the UNGC framework, we share our experiences and invite others to join us in partnership. Victor Fung Group Chairman UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 1 Fung Group of companies: Who we are The Fung Group is a multinational group headquartered in Hong Kong whose companies are engaged in trading, logistics, distribution and retailing of consumer products. The Group’s Trading and Logistics operations are under Li & Fung Limited, which is the leading consumer goods design, development, sourcing, and logistics company for major retailers and brands around the world. Li & Fung Limited specializes in responsibly managing supply chains of high-volume time-sensitive goods, providing sophisticated one-stop-shop solutions to meet customers’ specific needs. The company’s end-to-end logistics solution spans the time a product leaves a factory to the time it reaches the end consumer. Li & Fung Limited’s distribution business for brands and licensing was listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 9 July 2014 as a separately operating business called Global Brands Group Holding Limited (Global Brands), which remains an operating entity of the Fung Group. Global Brands designs, develops, markets and sells products under a diverse Current structure of the Fung Group Fung Holdings (1937) Limited A privately-held entity and major shareholder of the Fung Group Trading / Logistics Distribution Retailing Li & Fung Limited Global Brands Group Fung Retailing Limited Listed on SEHK Holding Limited Privately-held entity Listed on SEHK Trinity Limited Convenience Retail Branded Lifestyle Holdings Listed on SEHK Asia Limited Limited Listed on SEHK Fung Kids (Holdings) Limited Suhyang Networks Toys “R” Us (Asia) † UCCAL Fashion Group Privately-held entities † Minority interest 2 Fung Group array of controlled and licensed brands. Its customers are primarily Total employees retailers, including department stores, specialty retailers, and e-commerce channels, in the Americas, Europe and Asia. 46,800 Fung Retailing Limited operates the Group’s retailing operations with two Economies we operate in publicly-listed entities: Convenience Retail Asia Limited, which operates convenience stores and bakeries; and Trinity Limited which sells high-end menswear. The Group also has a number of privately held retail businesses 40 including Branded Lifestyle Holdings Limited, Fung Kids (Holding) Limited, Total revenue in 2014 (billions) 24.65 Suhyang Networks, UCCAL Fashion Group and Toys“R”Us (Asia). In sum, the Fung Group employs approximately 46,800 men and women across 40 economies, with total revenue of over US$24.65 billion as of December 2014. This report covers primarily the four publicly-listed entities of the Group: Li & Fung Limited, Global Brands Group Holding Limited, Convenience Retail Asia Limited and Trinity Limited. UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 3 Our approach to sustainability Our operating companies share a common set of values and an approach to sustainability, which reflect the belief that we should contribute to the economic, social and environmental well being of the communities in which we operate. Each of our operating companies has a corporate sustainability function comprised of Employment practices managers across key functions and geographies to set strategies, coordinate actions and drive the sustainability agenda forward. These task forces are typically headed by a senior executive responsible for sustainability, who reports directly to the CEO, who is then accountable to Operating the Board of Directors. For Li & Fung Limited, with integrity this process is reinforced by the additional governance structure of a Risk Management and Community Environment Sustainability Committee within the Board of outreach Directors. At the Group level, a Sustainability Working Group convenes the sustainability heads from each of the operating companies, plus other key functions such as communications, IT, corporate governance, properties and philanthropy, to coordinate actions and strategies and facilitate best practices and resource sharing. Many of our Group sustainability and leadership programs are housed within the Fung Academy, which seeks to accelerate learning and develop future capabilities of the Group. The Academy has a dedicated unit focused on the sustainability of the supply chain that will be described later in the report. Affiliated with the Group are also two charitable foundations: the Fung (1906) Foundation, which supports Fung Group colleagues to engage in and contribute to communities worldwide; and the Victor and William Fung Foundation, which funds scholarships and thought leadership within think tanks and other organizations. In this report, we highlight our policies and progress over the past year on actions to carry out the United Nations Global Compact principles, and invite anyone with further interest to explore the public disclosures and websites of our respective group companies. These may all be accessed through our Group website: www.funggroup.com. 4 Fung Group The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Human rights and labour 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 5 2014 at a glance The number of members in Li & Fung Limited’s The number of training sessions aimed at LEED/BREEAM certified offices Vendor Compliance & Sustainability team preventing human trafficking and the use of child and facilities around the world working to ensure supplier compliance with the labor, at improving workplace conditions, and at Supplier Code of Conduct with announced and unannounced audits, monitoring, and other tools raising awareness about occupational health and safety, among other human rights issues in 2014 13 230 634 Trinity Limited’s combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions (year-on-year) Participating factory representatives -7% 12,000+ CO2 equivalent in 2013 Participating Li & Fung Limited employees 3,039 tons CO2 equivalent in 2014 3,000+ 2,824 tons 100 factories from the Li & Fung Limited supplier The Fung Academy developed programs and New targets set by Li & Fung network in Bangladesh, Vietnam, Cambodia and tools for sustainable operations and breakthrough Limited for 2016 (with 2014 as India will participate in the HERProject by the performance. It trained in 2014: baseline) aiming for: end of 2015, giving workers knowledge and skills to improve their health and quality of life. -10% GHG emissions and Factories by electricity intensity end-2015: 100 -5% Water intensity 1,000+ -10% Workers reached: 200+ 100,000+ Senior level managers Employees Group-wide Paper intensity 6 Fung Group Human rights and labor Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Actions to promote the principles Employees are encouraged to report any violations to their manager, or as an alternative, The Fung Group of companies is committed directly and confidentially to the Group Chief to upholding internationally-recognized human Compliance Officer. The Chief Compliance rights and labor standards in our own operations Officer audits compliance to the Code and externally in our supply chains and relations throughout the Group and reports any material with key stakeholder groups. non-compliance independently to the Chairman and for our listed companies, to the relevant code of conduct and business ethics Board of Directors. Each of our companies has in place a Code of Conduct and Business Ethics which covers the The Group operates in over 40 economies UN Global Compact Principles, the Code binds worldwide, including many developing all employees to upholding and specifically refers countries and countries where the rule of law to these principles in our operations. The Group may not be strong. In doing business, we are upholds the International Labour Organization’s conscious of our dual obligation to comply core conventions for the elimination of forced, with local legislation as well as to respect and compulsory or underage labor, elimination of follow international norms of behavior with discrimination in respect of employment, and regards to human rights and labor principles. respect for the freedom of association and Therefore, Li & Fung Limited, Trinity Limited collective bargaining. For instance, guidance and Global Brands, for example, base their is provided in relation to recruitment, training, human rights commitments and policy on the review, promotion and remuneration. In International Labour Organization’s Declaration support of these principles, we strive to create on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work a workplace and working environment that (ILO), and support the UN Declaration of promotes diversity, respect, collaboration and equal opportunity. Each new hire is briefed on the Code and must In doing business, we are conscious agree to abide by it before starting employment. of our dual obligation to comply with The Code is published on employee intranets local legislation as well as to respect and in employment handbooks. Employees are given training and provided resources to allow and follow international norms of them to continually upgrade their knowledge behavior with regards to human and practices for carrying out these principles in rights and labor principles. their work. UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 7 Human Rights as a necessary foundation for Compliance & Sustainability team of more than social development and economic progress. 230 people assures supplier compliance with This is outlined on each company’s website: the Code using announced and unannounced Our sustainability strategy – Li & Fung Limited, audits, monitoring, and other tools. Li & Fung Our approach – Trinity Limited, and Corporate Limited holds training seminars, workshops and Responsibility – Global Brands Group Holding sessions in order to ensure understanding of the Limited. principles contained in the Code and the benefits of sustainable compliance. When violations Supplier code of conduct occur, our staff will work with the supplier Our commitment to human rights and labor concerned to address the problem and improve standards is also reflected throughout our supply performance. chain. We recognize that our responsibility extends to our key stakeholders, and each Capacity building and training operating company has put in place a Supplier The Group recognizes that compliance with the Code of Conduct. The Code makes clear the Supplier Code of Conduct is only the first step standards to which we expect our suppliers in a process of building sustainable compliance. to adhere, and requires suppliers to respect Compliance backed by audits should be tied to and uphold local legal requirements and capacity building and training to ensure that internationally-proclaimed human rights. It suppliers have the tools and incentive to raise addresses the principles that cover freedom their performance while improving working of association and recognition of the right conditions. to collective bargaining, voluntary labor and working age. Any supplier wishing to do business For example, Li & Fung Limited has published with us must accept the Code and remains guidance materials and practical tools covering contractually bound by it. issues and risks associated with business operations, human rights and labor, health and Compliance with the Code is assessed by safety, social, environmental, governance and verification processes within each company. For security practices. They include: Li & Fung Limited, a trained, in-house Vendor A chemical safety digital learning module was released in 2014. 8 Fung Group • The Sustainability Resource Center website for industry. As part of our service offering we aim suppliers to access training schedules and a to help our suppliers better manage production suite of resources to assist them to improve shifts, innovate for systematic and sustainable performance. change, improve operational efficiencies, enhance factory and worker safety and raise • Supplier Compliance Manual that outlines how compliance standards in the global supply chain. to meet Li & Fung Limited’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The Group recognizes that compliance • Critical and Major Issues Tutorial and Zero Tolerance Issues Tutorial that provide detailed with the Supplier Code of Conduct guidance on how to address issues and what is only the first step in a process of is required to demonstrate compliance with the building sustainable compliance. Group’s Standards. • Comprehensive Occupational Safety & Health Toolkit to help suppliers to adopt safe and Engaging business partners healthy systems and practices within their To further sustainability in the supply chain, workplaces. Li & Fung Limited significantly expanded the implementation of its standards and processes • Digital Learning Units for Managers and Workers, to engage business partners to improve working a series of short, user-friendly and practical conditions. Over the course of 2014, it focused videos developed with the support of the Fung on enhancing its capacity-building tools and Academy. The first in the series, on fire safety, resources for suppliers and factories, including was launched in late 2012 with over six topics their translation into local languages. These developed to date. cover issues and risks associated with business operations, and social and environmental Li & Fung Limited is also involved in key multisustainability. Furthermore, awareness raising stakeholder industry initiatives to set standards and training was held for employees and and effect change. Examples of these are in the suppliers on the requirements of new legislation, following section. such as the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act to combat human trafficking and the Progress and outcomes trading of conflict minerals. The Fung Group recognizes the importance In all, the Group organized over 634 training of respecting and promoting human rights sessions for over 12,000 factory representatives. and labor standards globally. In 2014, Li & More than 3,000 Li & Fung employees also Fung Limited conducted audits to assess attended. Capacity-building activities were compliance of third-party suppliers with the delivered through the following: Supplier Code of Conduct, and audits for Global Brands’ suppliers were also conducted by Li • Training modules on the prevention of human & Fung Limited’s compliance staff. Under the trafficking, improving workplace conditions, Fung Retailing Limited, Trinity Limited and human resource management, meeting local Convenience Retail Asia Limited also conducted legal standards and export security supplier audits. In addition, Li & Fung Limited requirements are available for suppliers and announced the creation of a new business unit, factories; Vendor Support Services (VSS), to focus more intensely on the needs of our global supplier • Sustainable Suggestions for our Partners base as it addresses the challenges facing the provide “how to get started” modules on UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 9 Partnership with Care International to empower women who work in Jordanian garment sector. energy and water efficiency, GHG reduction, their involvement with several key industry sustainable buildings, waste management, lean initiatives that bring customers, industry manufacturing, human resource management associations and non-governmental organizations and occupational health and safety; together to work collectively to set standards and effect change, including: • Digital Learning Units for Managers and Workers are a series of short, user-friendly and practical • As You Sow — through which we engage with videos developed with the support of the Fung our suppliers to not knowingly source cotton Academy. New modules added include chemical from Uzbekistan where forced and child labor is safety and underage labor to complement the a significant concern. existing suite on fire safety, electricity safety, managing working hours and manufacturing • International Labour Organization’s Better Work excellence. program — as an ILO-recognized Better Work partner, Li & Fung Limited continued to support In 2014, monthly meetings of the Sustainability factories in Cambodia, Haiti, Indonesia, Jordan Working Group discussed human rights and and Vietnam to improve labor conditions. labor issues to enhance the sustainability knowledge of our executives and to provide • Care International — working in four factories guidance on how to ensure that our operations, on the three-year Hemaya Project to empower supply chains and stakeholder relations continue women who work in the Jordanian garment to promote human rights and labor principles. sector, improve workplace relations, reduce poverty and improve livelihood options for local Supporting industry initiatives women and families. In 2014 the Group companies also expanded 10 Fung Group HERProject program empowering women with knowledge and skills to improve their health, living conditions and livelihoods. • Global Social Compliance Programme — Indeed, the effort to provide factories with the supporting its efforts to improve working and framework and support they need to improve environmental conditions in the global supply safety and working conditions in Bangladesh chain through our participation on working and other key, emerging-market producer committees and input to the development of countries continues. Li & Fung Limited is actively GSCP’s resource materials. supporting the multi-stakeholder initiatives of the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety • The HERProject of the Business for Social and the Accord on Fire and Building Safety, Responsibility (BSR), which empowers women and the efforts of the ILO and the Bangladeshi with the knowledge and skills to improve Government to implement the National Tripartite their health, living conditions and livelihoods. Plan of Action on Fire Safety and Structural During the course of 2014 and 2015, the Fung Integrity in the garment sector. These initiatives (1906) Foundation, the Fung Academy and Li & are standard setters for improvements in safety Fung Limited are rolling out HERProject in 100 and workplace conditions globally that will bring factories in Bangladesh, Cambodia, India and increased development and economic stability to Vietnam, in the process reaching over 100,000 emerging economies. workers. While we have made progress in integrating human rights and labor standards in our own operations and our supply chain, we recognize the journey is long and the challenge bigger than any single organization can address. UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 11 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Actions to promote the principles Within the Fung Group’s own operations: We measure our energy consumption, Our companies have always endeavored to greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption protect the environment and use natural and certain waste streams throughout our own resources efficiently. In recent years, those facilities and offices, and make targeted annual priorities have taken on added importance and intensity reductions across all these areas. Such are now fundamental to how we manage risk measures are being implemented across the and the rising expectations of our customers, Group with Global Brands Group Holding Limited investors and the public. to build these capabilities progressively over the course of 2015. Climate change and population growth are two significant challenges we face in the world today. We endeavor progressively to build and operate Changes in weather patterns and the increased sustainable offices and facilities, and have severity of storms and drought are being felt achieved recognized industry standards or all around the world. The combined impacts certifications in these areas, including: of these challenges will place even greater pressure on natural resources, such as energy, • Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design water and raw materials. As part of our Group (LEED) or Building Research Establishment sustainability strategy, we aim to responsibly Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) manage the environmental footprint of our certification for buildings and offices; as well as own operations and enable suppliers to act to local systems such as the Green Building reduce their environmental impact. Addressing certification for Li & Fung Limited’s Rui Fang these risks as our operations expand globally distribution center in Taiwan. is challenging; we therefore continually seek opportunities to be more efficient, and to source • The Wastewi$e scheme run by the Hong Kong and use environmentally-responsible materials, Environmental Protection Department. equipment, building materials, and services. • In the United States, the Environmental As a baseline of each of our companies, the Protection Agency’s Climate Leaders’ program. Code of Conduct and Business Ethics requires all employees to protect the environment in In view of concerns over natural resource line with the precautionary principle, in our scarcity and environmental stewardship, Li & operations and supply chain. This message is Fung Limited has developed and implemented reinforced through a system-based approach Green Meeting Guidelines designed for internal including organizational strategy, internal and external company meetings. Other Group meetings and town halls, training, staff companies are adopting these measures communication, engagement activities, and wherever possible. other events such as participation in Earth Hour. 12 Fung Group In our supply chains and stakeholder relationships, we expect our suppliers to abide While we have made noticeable by all local environmental legislation, and where progress since our last COP, our relevant we require that they avoid the use of challenge is to ensure that our ozone-depleting chemicals and certain toxic approach is comprehensive, materials in production processes, and the trade in endangered species. We also encourage and harmonized and focused. provide technical support to suppliers on energy and water efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions, sustainable building, lean manufacturing, health to ensure that our approach is comprehensive, and safety and human resource management, harmonized and focused. Some of our progress both directly and through recognized industry indicators are outlined on the following pages. programs. We also facilitate the sharing of best practices across our supplier network, both Energy, Water & Waste directly through our own programs and through In 2014, the group measured and managed its industry groups. energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and various waste streams throughout its In keeping with our role as a responsible operations. The table below establishes an initial employer and corporate citizen, we have also baseline for the reporting of each operating introduced programs to raise and encourage company for the Group as a whole after the greater environmental awareness amongst Global Brands spin-off. Going forward, we will employees and the community at large. For include Global Brands in the Group’s baseline. example, lunch and share sessions, community clean-ups and tree-planting activities are Throughout our global offices, stores and regularly organized by our offices. facilities, the Group expanded energy-saving initiatives which involved capital investment and Progress and outcomes promoting behavioral change, including: As outlined above, the Group has initiated • Adopting an enterprise-wide environmental diverse streams of action in support of our management and accounting software system; commitment to implement the principles on the environment. While we have made noticeable • Progressively retrofitting T-8 and halogen progress since our last COP, our challenge is lighting with energy-efficient LED, T-5 and CFL Fung Group 2014 Sustainability Data Intensity Reduction Li & Fung Limited Target for 2016 Trinity Limited1 CRA Limited2 2014 Group Total GHG Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e) 6,686 52 1,252 7,990 -10% GHG Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 86,323 2,772 36,832 125,927 Electricity (kWh) 148,045,108 -10% 4,291,848 57,550,996 209,887,952 Water (m3) 1,606,833 -5% 5,483 133,766 1,746,082 Paper (reams) 205,765 -10% 3,180 17,481 226,426 1 Trinity Limited figures are for Hong Kong operations only. 2 Convenience Retail Asia Limited figures are for Hong Kong and Shenzhen only. UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 13 Employees and their families join together and participate in Save the Forest program in Thailand, and other environmental initiatives around the world. alternatives and maintaining appropriate lux while maintaining optimal use; levels; • Installing recycling bins for paper, bottles • Optimizing performance and energy-efficient and cans, and contracting with relevant waste retrofits of chillers and ventilation systems; handlers for recycling; • Turning off electronic equipment and systems • Using renewable energy where feasible; for when not in use; instance, photovoltaic panels generate a portion of Li & Fung Limited’s Istanbul office’s • Implementing an automatic computer and electricity demand; lighting shutdown policy outside of working hours; • Implementing our Green Meeting Guidelines to reduce energy use, consumption and wastage • Consolidating and installing energy-efficient during internal and external meetings, and servers, photocopiers, printers and other increasing our use of video conferencing to equipment; reduce our overall travel; • Maintaining office and server room • Progressively converting our vehicle fleet to temperatures at levels that minimize energy Euro IV standard or better, and abiding by fuel 14 Fung Group efficiency guidelines in vehicle procurement; 2010, it has been implementing best practices throughout its global offices taking specific • Implementing environmental management actions in its distribution centers (DCs) and systems (EMS) that are certified to the ISO manufacturing plants to review consumption 14001 EMS standard at Li & Fung Limited’s and invest in energy-efficient building systems, manufacturing facilities in Bangkok, Dongguan, equipment, lighting and fuel-efficient transport. Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur; All facilities operated in compliance with relevant regulatory requirements in 2014. • Li & Fung Limited’s manufacturing facility in Thailand had a comprehensive program in place to raise employee awareness and Li & Fung Limited has set a new engagement on sustainability since 2011. The intensity reduction target on GHG facility has been awarded a number of awards and certificates from the Thai government in emission, electricity, water and paper recognition of its achievement, including the waste by 2016. Good Environmental Governance Award and the Green Industry Certificate by the Ministry of Industry (Thailand); new baseline & three-year plan The spin-off of Global Brands Group Holding • With support from the Department of Limited in July 2014 brought a change to the Alternative Energy Development and year-on-year disclosure for the Group and a new Efficiency of the Thai Ministry of Energy, our baseline for the Fung Group’s reporting. 2014 manufacturing facility in Thailand has also marks the first year of Li & Fung Limited’s implemented a solar thermal project that uses new Three-Year Plan and a new baseline for a hybrid system to combine energy from solar measuring its environmental performance. With thermal collections with waste heat from an this new baseline in 2014, Li & Fung Limited economizer unit to generate hot water for the attributes reductions in absolute electricity boiler to produce steam for use in the consumption and GHG emissions within its production process. The benefits of adopting Trading business to the conversion of six this efficient technology include reduced factories in Shanghai and Shenzhen to offices consumption of energy and water and the or sample rooms, and the spin-off of 24 offices elimination of the need to consume liquid that consumed natural gas for heating to Global petroleum gas (LPG) for the boiler, resulting in Brands (which remains part of the Group’s reduced air and GHG emissions while baseline). Absolute electricity consumption minimizing fuel costs; and and GHG emissions increased slightly for the Logistics business, reflecting the addition of • Li & Fung Limited’s manufacturing facility in new distribution centers and warehouses in Trowbridge in the United Kingdom, which is Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan, and audited to both Soil Association and Ecocert increased consumption of petrol and diesel by organic standards, has been recognized as a an expanded vehicle fleet. Marks & Spencer ECO Factory since 2011 and as a Sedex member since 2004. The facility is Despite water consumption increasing in also annually audited to meet the requirements absolute terms as Li & Fung Limited’s operations of the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit expanded with increasing business volume (SMETA). within facilities in Malaysia and Indonesia, the overall water consumption intensity reduced Li & Fung Limited has made progress in its by 5% per person within the Trading network. energy, water and waste reduction initiatives. Finally, the absolute reduction achieved in 2014 Since an Investment Grade Audit (IGA) in in paper consumption is primarily attributed UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 15 Environmental initiatives in selected locations we operate from london Office awarded BREEAM Pass certification new york Trowbridge LEED Platinum (1), Li & Fung Limited’s Trowbridge Gold (3), Silver (2) manufacturing facility is audited united states to Soil Association and Ecocert Participation in the organic standards, recognized as Environmental Protection a Marks & Spencer ECO Factory, Agency’s Climate Leaders’ and is also a Sedex member program Glossary BREEAM: Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology EEWH: Ecology, Energy Saving, Waste Reduction and Health LEED: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design 16 Fung Group istanbul shanghai Li & Fung Limited’s LEED LEED Silver-certified office Silver-certified office has its electricity demand partially met taiwan by photovoltaic panels Li & Fung Limited’s Rui Fang distribution center in New Taipei City was the first such facility to be certified a Silver Class Green Building under the Taiwan dhaka Green Building (EEWH system) LEED Gold-certified office program Hong kong LEED Gold (1), Silver (1), Certified (1) Benchmarks have been set in thailand accordance to the Wastewi$e Li & Fung Limited’s scheme run by the Hong Kong manufacturing facility in Environmental Protection Thailand has a comprehensive Department program in place to raise employee awareness and Bangkok engagement on sustainability Dongguan Jakarta It has also implemented a Kuala Lumpur solar thermal project that uses Implementing environmental a hybrid system to combine management systems (EMS) energy from solar thermal that are certified to the ISO collections with waste heat to 14001 EMS standard produce energy for use in the production process UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 17 to Global Brands spin-off therefore not directly or minimize the impact of waste produced by comparable to the company’s 2013 results but its operations on the environment. For the full part of the Group’s overall consumption. year of 2014, waste generated by Saint Honore factories has been sorted and measured, which new targets for Li & Fung Limited has facilitated recycling and waste reduction. Building on the significant progress previously achieved, Li & Fung Limited has set a new Convenience Retail Asia Limited continued to target to reduce the intensity of both its GHG emphasize the “4Rs” – Reduce, Reuse, Recycle emissions and electricity usage by 10% by 2016, and Refrain – throughout its store operations against its baseline of 2014. Li & Fung Limited and customer communications. Internal is also aiming to reduce water intensity by 5% communication platforms included “Green and paper waste intensity by 10% by 2016 over Day” every Tuesday, featuring educational this new baseline. To achieve these targets, email messages nurturing eco-awareness the company will continue to evaluate and and promoting useful tips for environmental implement measures and support its people to sustainability. Interactive workshops were use resources efficiently and responsibly and to organized to provide a platform for sharing reduce the impact to global climate change. and engagement about topics related to the management of natural resources as well as trinity limited environmental disaster alerts and information on In 2014, Trinity Limited recorded total electricity climate change. consumption of 4,291,848 kWh in its Hong Kong operations. The combined Scope 1 and Scope Green Building 2 greenhouse gas emissions were 2,824 tons With regards to sustainable offices and buildings, of CO2 equivalent, slightly lower compared with Li & Fung Limited continued to implement 3,039 tons in the previous year. Scope 1 GHG its own Sustainable Design, Construction and emissions were reduced by 11% while Scope 2 Renovation Guidelines for New Construction, GHG emissions are also lower by 10%, based Major Renovation and Commercial Interiors and on 2012 baseline. Electricity consumption has created a tailored version for distribution centers reduced 9% since the 2012 baseline as the and factories. These guidelines support offices efficiency program kicked-in. The company’s and facilities around the world to adopt LEED water consumption has decreased by 36% from elements wherever feasible. its 2012 baseline of 8,523 m3 to 5,483 m3 in LEED/BREEAM certification 2014. Finally, in comparison with 2012, Trinity Limited has reduced its absolute A4 paper use Territory Certification by 13.6% from 3,680 to 3,180 reams in 2014. United States 1 Platinum, 3 Golds, 2 Silvers Hong Kong 1 Gold, 1 Silver, 1 Certified Convenience Retail Asia Limited Bangladesh 1 Gold Convenience Retail Asia Limited saw increases in China 1 Silver its energy and waste due to further expansion of Turkey 1 Silver its operations. In 2014, Convenience Retail Asia United Kingdom 1 Pass (BREEAM) Limited recorded total electricity consumption of 57,550,996 kWh. Its combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions were 38,084 The Group now has a total of 13 certified offices tons of CO2 equivalent. The company’s water and facilities under LEED or BREEAM. consumption has reduced slightly by 0.6% from 134,643 m3 in 2013 to 133,766 m3 in green logistics 2014. Finally, total paper waste for Saint Honore In the area of transport, Li & Fung Limited’s factory operations was 17,481 reams for 2014. Logistics Network continued to implement The company has introduced practices to prevent its Lean Transport initiative. The initiative 18 Fung Group focuses on: improving route planning to reduce • Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) fuel consumption and carbon emissions; and the Fung Academy – launched Water maximizing vehicle loads, minimizing truck Management Guidelines for Suppliers, which mileage, reducing empty vehicle returns provide practical guidance on effective and consolidating customer deliveries; and water and wastewater management to both optimizing the proximity of DC facilities to mitigate risk and to identify opportunities for suppliers and customer locations. Convenience improvement in factories. Retail Asia Limited and Trinity Limited are also progressively converting their vehicle fleet to the • Sustainable Apparel Coalition – as a founding Euro IV standard or better, and abiding by fuel member, Li & Fung Limited has been actively efficiency guidelines in vehicle procurement. involved in the development of the Higg Index, a suite of sustainability tools designed to Stakeholder Engagement standardize the measurement of environmental The Group actively promotes environmental performance of apparel products across the awareness amongst employees through supply chain at the brand, product and facility our internal intranet site, formal training, levels. Li & Fung Limited assisted in the pilot a sustainability speaker series and regular testing of the footwear and the social and labor engagement activities. modules and collaborated with key customers to develop related training materials. To promote the Environmental Principles in our supply chains and relations with stakeholders, • Sustainable Fashion Business Consortium – to Group companies are active in a number of work with the industry to increase sustainable non-governmental organizations, industry practices across the supply chain. associations, foundations, and academic organizations, including: • The Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) – to promote environmental awareness amongst Expanded sustainable workplace initiatives across the Group. UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 19 Tree planting in Indonesia is one of many activities to raise and encourage greater environmental awareness of employees and within the community. our employees, through activities such as both our own organization and in our supply beach cleanup days in collaboration with chains, the Fung Academy continued to develop Coastal Watch. programs and tools for sustainable operations and breakthrough performance. Through its • Business Environmental Council of Hong Kong partnership with three renowned educational and Environmental Sustainability Committee of institutions, approximately 200 senior level the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, managers and over 1,000 Group-wide employees both of which aim to raise awareness of completed training on the subject of supply environmental issues in Hong Kong as well as chain sustainability. share best practices amongst companies; and The Fung Manufacturing Excellence Program • Green Economy Task Force and Energy and equips suppliers with best manufacturing Environment Commission of the International concepts to promote efficiency and Chamber of Commerce, which provide business sustainability. This innovative series of tools and input on environmental issues to global policy programs focusing on health and safety, energy, and multilateral groups. water and lean manufacturing were developed and made available through online learning Fung academy modules to help suppliers enhance efficiencies Recognizing the importance of learning in and the sustainability of their operations. 20 Fung Group supporting our customers The Group also supports its customers’ environmental purchasing policies with respect to environmentally-responsible material sourcing and usage, packaging waste minimization and product stewardship. For example, Li & Fung Limited sources garments made of cotton from certified organic sources or cotton that meets the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) standard; garments comprising recycled yarn, polymers, leather and shearing; household items, furniture and packaging made from materials that are Forest Stewardship Council TM (FSC TM) 1 or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC)-certified; and beauty products that are biodegradable, not tested on animals and free of silicones, sulphates, parabens and colorants. The company also manufactures beauty products that meet industry standards and incorporate ingredients such as community trade organic olive oil, community trade shea butter and organic fine sugar, soya bean oil and rosehip oil in formulation design. 1 FSC License numbers FSC-C110207, FSC-C113132, FSC-C114681 and FSC-C116575. UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 21 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Actions to promote the principle these Guidelines, executive management and Corporate Governance division will undertake We recognize that corruption and bribery are an investigation. Furthermore, our Group Chief serious threats to the integrity of markets and Compliance Officer reports any concerns raised the rule of law, and undermine fair competition. under these Guidelines, which have significant We thus support a strict anti-corruption and impact on the Group’s business, to the operating anti-bribery policy as part of our employee Code company’s audit committees on a semi-annual of Conduct and Business Ethics, in line with basis. The Group Corporate Governance division our continual effort to operate according to the audits compliance performance and reports highest principles of accountability, transparency any material non-compliance directly to the and good governance. operating company boards. Each Group company’s Code contains strict supplier code of conduct guidelines on corruption, bribery, gift-giving, Suppliers to Group companies are required to gratuities, kick-backs and other favors, and all comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct, employees must sign and abide by the Code. which includes principles addressing anti-bribery Section 4 of the Code of Conduct and Business and corruption. Ethics emphasizes the prohibition of bribery and corruption practices by all staff in the countries compliance training where the Group operates. Compliance training for newly joined and existing staff, and internal audits by the Corporate Li & Fung Limited has also developed the Governance division, are conducted on a periodic Anti-Bribery Policy and Guidelines on Gifts, basis to reinforce staff conformance and an Entertainment and Hospitality, and Guidelines ethical culture within the Group. Furthermore, on Whistleblowing/Reporting of Concerns, in Trinity Limited has adopted the Hong Kong ICAC support of the Code. Corruption Prevention self-education materials as part of its education and awareness efforts All staff are expected to adhere to anti-bribery on the prevention of corruption, which has and anti-corruption practices. Executive been further strengthened this year to ensure management and our Corporate Governance excellence in business ethics. Li & Fung Limited division jointly monitor compliance and support devised “The Ethical Zone”, an internal platform the Code’s implementation. for sharing practical examples and solutions on how to respond to potential ethical dilemmas. whistle-blowing New employees are also advised of the Our Guidelines on Whistleblowing/Reporting requirements of the Code during orientation and of Concerns enable staff to report actual provided with their own copy. or potential bribery activities to their direct line manager or directly and confidentially In 2014, there were no material cases of to the Group Chief Compliance Officer. Upon corruption across the Group. The Group receipt of any concerns or reports under employees continued to demonstrate integrity 22 Fung Group and good ethical behavior across all operations Convenience Retail Asia Limited in 40 economies. • Asia’s Most Promising Company on Corporate awards & Indexes Governance 2014, by Corporate Governance Our Group companies have been recognized for Asia Magazine their achievements in environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. A few examples of In recognition of achievements in all areas such recognition include the following: reflected in the ten UNGC Principles, and based on a rigorous third-party environmental, social Li & Fung Limited and governance analysis, Li & Fung Limited was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia • “Platinum award in financial performance, Pacific Index and FTSE4GOOD Index Series, corporate governance, social responsibility, while both Trinity Limited and Li & Fung Limited environmental responsibility and investor were included in the Hang Seng Corporate relations” by The Asset Magazine, 2009-2014 Sustainability Index Series in Hong Kong. • “Best CSR” at the Asian Excellence Recognition Awards by Corporate Governance Asia, 20122014 • Ranked #8 in “Asia’s Best Companies – Best Corporate Social Responsibility” by FinanceAsia, 2014 • “Caring Company” by The Hong Kong Council of Social Service, 2002-2014 Compliance training and workshop for newly joined and existing staff. UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 23 Fung Group 11th Floor, LiFung Tower 888 Cheung Sha Wan Road Kowloon, Hong Kong www.funggroup.com
