SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 For Scania, ensuring profitability for our customers depends on close dialogue and partnership to find solutions throughout the logistics value chain. By succeeding in this ambition, we strengthen our own competitiveness, profitability and future success. On the journey to a more sustainable future, we are guided by our core values and a strong focus on continuous improvement. Dedicated employees, flexible production, the modular system, a strong quality focus, an extensive service network, and cutting-edge R&D comprise our strengths. Together, these qualities make Scania resilient and give us a strong leadership position in a world increasingly dependent on safe, sustainable and efficient transport systems. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 CONTENTS 1 OUR CORE VALUES IN THIS REPORT Scania’s core values define our company Scania at a glance 2 culture. Closely linked, they guide our CEO Statement: Leading for the long term 4 actions and create value for Scania’s stakeholders. With a common way of OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION 6 thinking and working, every individual contributes by strengthening and Integrating sustainability 8 improving how our company operates Working along the value chain 10 with a strong focus on continuous Creating stakeholder value 12 improvement. Mapping what matters 14 The most relevant areas 15 CUSTOMER FIRST Understanding our customers’ business OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 16 leads to solutions that enhance customer profitability by means of high earning Path to sustainable transport 18 capacity and low operating cost, while Driving efficiency in logistics 20 promoting sustainability. The customer’s For cities, sustainable mobility 21 operations and resource efficiency are at the centre of the value chain: from Retaining the innovation edge 22 research and development, sourcing and NILE links every part of the flow 24 production to delivery and financing of Power electrification enters the scene 25 vehicles, engines and services. Offering value-added services 26 Triggering the shift to alternatives 27 RESPECT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL Assisting drivers at the wheel 28 Safety watch 29 From drivers of vehicles to our employees on the production line, the individual stands at the centre in all HOW SCANIA WORKS 30 that we do. We seek to capture the Governance for accountability 32 knowledge, experience and ambition of each individual to continuously improve Operating efficiently 34 and develop our working methods. CO2 reductions in transport 36 Inspiration and new ideas emerging from Capturing skills for success 38 our daily work lead to higher quality, Well-being and safety 40 efficiency and job satisfaction. Human rights across the value chain 42 Supporting economic growth 44 QUALITY Strong stance on anti-corruption 45 Making a difference on the ground 46 High-quality solutions are essential for About this report 48 our customers’ profitability. Knowledge of our customers’ needs and requirements ensures that our products and services meet the highest demands. Deviations from targets and standards are used as a valuable source of continuous improvement. We seize every opportunity to eliminate waste and inefficiencies. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 2 SCANIA IN BRIEF SCANIA AT A GLANCE With the aim to be the leader in sustainable transport, at Scania we are building our business while creating value for our customers, employees and society. Delivering customised heavy trucks, buses, engines and services, our focus is on efficient, low-carbon solutions that enhance customer profitability. With 42,000 employees in 100 countries, we are strategically With parts supply facilities, located in Opglabbeek, Belgium, placed where our customers need us, wherever they operate. Singapore and Vinhedo, Brazil, we are able to be closer to our Scania’s head office, with 5,000 employees, is located in customers and thereby improve their vehicle uptime. Södertälje, Sweden. We take a coordinated approach to our supply chain with an R&D operations are mainly located in Södertälje, Sweden, emphasis on high quality and increased focus on sustainability. with some 3,500 employees. Our aim is to develop high-quality Central purchasing is based in Södertälje, with local offices in products and solutions for the specific customer demand with Latin America, India, Russia and China. short lead times from idea to launch. About 18,400 employees work with sales and services globalAbout 12,400 people work at production units in seven ly. Our network and mobile service solutions enable us to be close countries in Europe and Latin America. The modular product to the customer in order to provide support on site where the system and the global interchange of both components and products are used. vehicles create flexibility. Some 760 employees work with Financial Services, supportWe strengthen our position in emerging markets through ing customers in many markets worldwide by providing finance Regional Product Centres located in six emerging markets, solutions and vehicle insurance. By offering financing on good with about 640 employees. These employees work with terms together with an efficient claims management service and assembly, body-work, and fitting out locally-adapted rapid repairs, with access to Scania’s entire service network, we vehicles. minimise downtime and lost revenue for our customers. SALES AND DELIVERIES, 2014 Trucks Buses and Coaches Scania truck deliveries Scania bus and coach amounted to 73,015 units Asia, 18% Latin America, deliveries amounted to Asia, 24% Latin America, in 2014. The deliveries 22% 6,767 units in 2014. In 38% in Europe increased due Europe deliveries rose to higher market share. Eurasia, 8% from a low level and Deliveries in Asia rose deliveries in Eurasia Eurasia, 1% Africa and sharply due to increased decreased due to one Oceania, 5% Africa and demand in the Middle large order in 2013. Oceania, 17% East, whereas deliveries Deliveries increased decreased in Latin America. in Asia and Africa and Europe, 47% Europe, 20% Oceania. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 SCANIA IN BRIEF 3 A GLOBAL PRESENCE LULEÅ SÖDERTÄLJE LATHIS OSKARSHAMN ST. PETERSBURG SŁUPSK MEPPEL ZWOLLE ANGERS BUSAN TAIPEI BENGALURU KUALA LUMPUR TUCUMÁN SÃO PAULO JOHANNESBURG SALES AND SERVICES PRODUCTION UNITS REGIONAL PRODUCT CENTRES RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Engines Services Asia, 8% Asia, 21% America, Eurasia, 4% America, Scania engines deliveries 38% Service revenue totalled 14% Africa and rose to an all-time high SEK 18.8 billion in 2014, Oceania, 6% level of 8,287 units. Eurasia, 2% which was a record high. Deliveries increased Africa and Revenue increased in all strongly in Asia. Oceania, 5% regions. Europe, 34% Europe, 68% SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 4 STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO LEADING FOR THE LONG TERM Long-term business success depends on delivering greater profitability along with efficiency, CO2 reductions and social and ethical responsibility. Scania aims to take the lead in the shift towards a sustainable transport system, and we want to do it together with our customers. Globally, mobility of goods and people will continue to be needed 6 launch is also one reason why we achieved a historic 15 percent – and expand – due to greater flow of goods around the world, market share in Europe in 2014. urbanisation and a growing middle class. But pollution, climate This is all encouraging, but sustainable innovation does not change and resource scarcity mean we cannot continue to grow stop at fuels, engines and transmission. Sustainability in the as we have in the past. We need sustainable transport solutions. transport sector is closely linked to connectivity. Through better This is not a trend but a must. Meeting society’s demand for everyday communication with the vehicle, transport systems can transport and mobility with a much smaller footprint means rebe optimised, which is of value to both society and our customers. ducing waste and emissions, boosting efficiency, and switching to Society benefits through better transport flows, and customers renewable fuels. As a major global contributor of CO2 emissions, benefit through safer driving, and information on fuel consumption, our industry must cut carbon. In combination with CO2-cutting maintenance needs, and driving behaviour. The potential is already technologies, the way to do this is by optimising the transport evident. By end-2014, 100,000 Scania trucks were connected. system to improve flow and thereby reduce transport activities. We see huge opportunities to help customers in the transition to sustainable transport – especially in urban areas. We invest In our daily work and beyond significantly in research and development (R&D) to reach our goals. I see no conflict between logistical efficiency, CO2 reductions, In 2014, SEK 6 billion of our sales income was invested in R&D – social and ethical responsibility and strong financial performance; mostly focused on solving sustainable transport challenges, not to me, they are prerequisites. That’s the recipe for sustainability – least through connectivity. being able to combine all the factors successfully. Our aim is to be the leader in the shift towards sustainable A new mindset transport systems, an ambition we strive to realise in our daily We are working to engage the entire logistical chain from transwork. We are part of a value network. That is why leadership is port producers to suppliers and to users. We want to bring a new also about driving the discussion with customers and other stakeway of thinking about transport – one that is innovation-driven, holders to improve together and explore future business models. systems-based and founded on collaboration. By partnering with For Scania, this is an exciting challenge. our customers and other stakeholders, we build real understanding of what is needed to transform transport systems and embed Connecting with opportunity efficiency throughout the value chain. We are already a recognised market leader in quality, efficient I want Scania to be a catalyst in this changing mindset. Customengines and vehicles: we received the Green Truck Award 2014 er First is our core value; adding value is our key focus. Given the for our Scania G 410 Euro 6 and its record low fuel consumption. long lifecycle of our equipment, this requires not only high-quality We took the lead in the transition to Euro 6, a platform which products, but convenient, reliable service 24/7 to boost efficiencies provides substantial reductions of particle emissions compared – an overall solution. We partner with customers to lower total cost to Euro 5. Our Euro 6 offering is unique on two fronts; it does not of ownership and ensure profitability over the full product lifecycle compromise on fuel efficiency and can be adapted to every type by optimising flow. Since our biggest impacts occur when Scania of available biofuel. Thanks to our early introduction of Euro 6, trucks and buses are on the road, working according to an integratwe are strong in renewable fuels, especially biodiesel. The Euro ed approach with our stakeholders helps reduce the total footprint. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO 5 Meeting society’s demand for transport and mobility with a much smaller footprint means reducing waste and emissions, boosting efficiency, and switching to renewable fuels. Martin Lundstedt President and CEO Ecolution by Scania – a package of value-added customOn the product front, our main focus going forward will be on er services throughout the product lifecycle – illustrates this integrated transport, alternative fuels and hybridisation with approach. By understanding customer needs, we can jointly drive stronger emphasis on the battery electric vehicle and zero continuous improvement in fuel consumption, safety and logistics emissions in the powertrain. We are also actively looking for efficiency – and jointly share the rewards. The market is respondways to cut our inbound logistics footprint by continuing oning to this win-win business model. Since 2011, we have sold road testing of longer trailers. In 2016, we will put our wirelessly 4,000 Ecolution by Scania contracts in 18 markets. Average fuel charged hybrid electric bus to the test in Södertälje, Sweden consumption has decreased by 11 percent – a fantastic outcome. where Scania is headquartered. Our business goal is for Ecolution by Scania to represent 50 percent of sales in the medium term. A shared journey We still have a long way to go, but I am confident these ongoing A trusted partner efforts will put us in a good position to deliver on our strategy and In order to be able to create long-term customer value, we need help bring about the change needed in our industry. Scania’s to be a responsible business partner. Our vision is to show by strategy and fundamental values are based on balanced, longexample through global operational excellence. term value creation for all stakeholders. From this year, as a Scania is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. wholly-owned subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group, sharing We are embedding its 10 principles in our operations as well technology and knowhow will help Scania deliver even better as in our supplier standards via a new sustainable sourcing solutions. standard and global rollout of the Responsible Sourcing The journey has already begun and I am truly excited about Programme. We are also working with other companies through Scania’s future. Through partnerships we are building long-term the business organisation CSR Europe to improve traceability bonds of loyalty and trust – from our suppliers to our customers’ in the automotive supply chain – a complex challenge for our customers. This is a world based on interdependence – where industry. real improvement can happen. It is only through working in While our top priority remains our greatest impact – the CO2 partnership that we can achieve real change. Working together produced when our vehicles are in use – we must continue efforts with respect, and improving things together, I am convinced we to embed sustainability across the company. Maintaining high really will transform our industry. social, ethical and environmental standards and being responsive to stakeholder expectations for accountability and transparency is critical. As we grow our global presence and enter new markets and segments, we need to be aware of, and work to minimise, evolving risks to our business. I want Scania to be engaged and have the right skill-sets for the challenges ahead. We will build on this in 2015 by sharing best practice among managers and rolling out our ‘Doing Things Right’ Martin Lundstedt ethics e-learning. President and CEO SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 6 STRATEGIC DIRECTION THE CUSTOMER AT OUR CORE With customer profitability as our starting point, we want to be the leading provider of sustainable transport. This means integrating sustainability fully into the business and working with others to tackle impacts, transform our industry and create lasting value. COMMITTED TO We want to harness our skills, knowhow and proven systems to meet HIGH PRINCIPLES the need for sustainable transport. Sustainability as a way of thinking is fundamental to our business success, aligned with our core values, our From our core values to global management systems business strategy and our way of working. In short, it is an approach and the way we conduct our business, Scania is we are working to integrate into every aspect of our business. To be a committed to upholding the ten principles of the credible and trusted partner, we must meet high standards of social, UN Global Compact (UNGC). UNGC is an initiative for ethical and environmental responsibility. companies to align their operations with universally Meeting society’s need for transport and mobility with a much accepted principles of doing business in the areas smaller footprint means driving down waste and emissions, and of human rights, labour, the environment, and boosting efficiency right along the value chain. In reaching for this goal, anti-corruption. Scania’s commitment is one way we are not alone. Change on this scale demands collective action, in we express our support for practices that reduce partnership with our customers and other key stakeholders. negative impacts on the environment and people Realising our sustainability ambitions means we have to rethink the and enhance positive ones. It applies just as much system — inside and beyond Scania. This is a huge undertaking, and to how Scania is managed, as it does to production this journey has only begun. But our deep understanding of the transand supply chain and other relationships along the port sector, and the key trends driving change, enables us to better value chain. understand our impacts and focus on reducing waste. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC DIRECTION 7 GROWTH STRATEGY Scania’s ambitions for 2020 are to achieve sales of 120,000 trucks, 15,000 buses and 20,000 engines. The share of service revenue will increase to 25–30 percent of total revenues. The modular system, efficient and flexible production and a stronger service business will safeguard profitability and the ability to meet short-term volatility in demand. The growth strategy rests on five pillars. 1. Increasing sales of services per vehicle There are several drivers behind the increasing demand for services. Transport companies are focusing more on logistics services, which means a growing need to outsource servicing of vehicles. Tailored packages can increase fuel efficiency and uptime. 2. Grow with the market Scania’s ability to maintain market share depends on understanding customers’ needs, so that we can support their growth and profitability by providing the right solutions. We are flexible and resilient in relation to regional differences and changing market and economic conditions. 3. Increase market share In selected markets and segments, Scania targets a higher market share. Short lead times are important in bringing new products to market that improve customer efficiency and uptime. A flexible production system means quick adjustments to demand volatility and potential to increase market share when the opportunity arises. Gaining a deeper understanding Through close dialogue with our customers and other partners 4. New markets in the logistics chain, and other stakeholders, we see significant potential to reduce environmental impacts and build a transport Scania has ambitions to further strengthen our presence system that is able to meet future demands and provide value for in new markets. There is a growing need globally for society. cost-efficient sustainable transport solutions. We underAs a member of the Volkswagen Group, we generate shared stand local conditions and are gradually increasing local benefits by working with other Group-affiliated brands, particularly sourcing. in areas such as R&D and supply chain management. To explore what the future as a leader in sustainable transport 5. New customer segments means for Scania, our Executive Board has pulled together ten Scania has a systematic approach to judging the potenemployees, chosen for their ability to think holistically, and for the tial in each segment and assess if the modular system influence they carry within their own organisations. They will deliver can be applied to suit that segment´s specific demands. a roadmap in 2015 on how to realize our sustainability ambitions, This ensures that Scania’s revenue potential in each segincluding suggested priorities, areas for target-setting and other ment will compensate for the cost of adapting products initiatives. and services. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 8 STRATEGIC DIRECTION INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Integrating sustainability into the business means we have to leverage innovative thinking, develop partnerships and work more extensively within the logistics flow to capture efficiencies. By combining three approaches to integrating sustainability, Creating an innovative organisation Scania’s objective is to pioneer and scale sustainable transport We cannot solve tomorrow’s challenges with yesterday’s thinking. solutions that deliver value for all stakeholders. We do this by Being at the forefront of innovation is essential to deliver sustainharnessing innovative thinking, developing partnerships with able transport solutions. customers as well as others and working more extensively within To deliver innovative thinking, Scania strives to be a learning the logistics flow to capture efficiencies. organisation. This means we have to continuously challenge ourselves to think differently and push technology frontiers. It is this mindset that has led to Scania being a recognised market leader in high-efficiency engines and transmission, as well as use of renewable fuels such as biogas. Our inclusive way of working – the Scania Production System (SPS) – is grounded in the idea of empowering individuals to drive Understanding needs Providing efficient, continuous improvement, take ownership and find a better way of transport service safe, reliable services, Buyers of to do things. By applying flow thinking we are eliminating waste, buyers, and sharing maximising customer transport that knowledge with satisfaction. enhancing value and improving efficiency. services transport companies. In 2015, we will launch leadership training that will strengthen our culture of diverse thinking, personal initiative and innovation s tan tic din gis and better prepare us to capture necessary future skills. g Lo de rs rv Un se ices LOGISTICS SOLUTIONS Building partnerships Changing the transport system as a whole is complex and requires all the stakeholders in the transport value chain to work Transport together to achieve shared goals. SCANIA Transport solutions companies To make sure the right frameworks are in place for innovative, sustainable solutions to gain traction, we must collaborate more Building strong relationships to gain with academia, governments and other stakeholders to push insights into customer needs, and the envelope, and spread best practice. The newly established, developing transport solutions to meet them. multidisciplinary Integrated Transport Research Lab (ITRL) at Stockholm’s Royal Institute of Technology, which Scania co-founded, is one example of how Scania is collaborating to We identify shared objectives by working within the ‘Triangle’, in close dialogue with our customers – the transport companies – and their test and trial new ideas for the transport of goods and people. customers, the buyers of transport services. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC DIRECTION 9 Delivering solutions As well as being a manufacturer of heavy trucks and buses, Scania is increasingly developing new ways of delivering customer value based on a full service offering that delivers lifecycle profitability. Especially in emerging markets, we see that solutions built on innovation and partnerships with customers can have a positive impact, spurring the ability to leapfrog to sustainable transport solutions such as Bus Rapid Transit (BRT). To make the shift towards sustainable transport systems, the entire transport value chain needs to change. This means Martin Lundstedt, President and CEO, Scania with Peter Gudmundson, doing business differently. One step in this direction is Ecolution President, KTH Royal Institute of Technology. by Scania – a full service offering to purchasers of our vehicles. Through this package, we supply ongoing maintenance and In the future we expect many new types of collaboration, and training throughout the entire lifecycle of our products. This new cross-fertilisation between industries and disciplines will be approach creates real opportunities to reduce the impacts of needed. Working within what we call the ‘Triangle’ in close diatrucks and buses during use. These services have a proven track logue with our customers – the transport companies – and their record in helping customers improve efficiency and cut costs by customers – the buyers of transport services – we identify shared optimising the vehicle, driving and service. objectives. This includes retailers’ need to reduce CO2 emissions Connectivity is another very promising avenue, opening up from logistics, the transporter’s imperative to reduce fuel costs, new possibilities for efficiency gains through remote diagnostics and for Scania, to tailor solutions for different industries as valueand new ways of working. added services. The outcome is a win-win-win – for Scania, for the customers and for the environment. In line with broader stakeholder expectations for greater transActively engaging with a parency, we are also working with industry peers and organisawide range of stakeholders tions like CSR Europe to improve supply chain management and enhance traceability. helps guide our strategy. INSIGHTS FROM STAKEHOLDERS Close dialogue and working relationships with stakeholders Policy makers help us partner on shared interests and common goals. We work with national governments on sustainable transport issues at the regional, national and international levels. Employees Our key policy themes are: decarbonisation, competiScania promotes interactive relationships with employees tiveness and access to competence. Scania’s biennial and we engage widely. Employees meet regularly to identify Sustainable Transport Conference is an example of our improvements to production systems within the Scania commitment to evolving sustainable transport. Production System (SPS) model, and two employee representatives contribute to corporate strategy at Board level. Customers We gather employee opinions through our company-wide We focus on building long-term relationships with our employee barometer and exit interviews. customers. Through close dialogue and partnership, we develop a better understanding of their business and their Suppliers role in the logistics flow. This enables Scania to tailor the In 2014, we held supplier training sessions in Brazil and right solution for their needs. To gain further insight, we conArgentina to share best practice. In 2015, we plan similar duct deep-dive interviews to understand their sustainability events in India and China with the European business and business priorities. network CSR Europe, as well as for the logistics sector in Europe. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 10 STRATEGIC DIRECTION WORKING ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN Our biggest impacts – positive and negative – take place beyond Scania’s own operations. It is when trucks and buses are on the road that our products and services create benefits for customers and major environmental effects arise. By seeing the big picture, identifying key impacts, working with others, and applying our knowledge and innovative solutions, Scania aims to find ways to drive improvement along our value chain. Research and Development During 2014 we: A more efficient transport system is at ■ Directed 6 percent of sales income to the heart of our R&D activities. Improving innovation. R&D fuel efficiency, use of renewable fuels, ■ Stepped up partnership with the connectivity, and driver safety are among Volkswagen Group. our key focus areas. Supported by 3,500 ■ Road tested power-electrified vehicles. engineers. End-of-life Raw material Made mainly out of high recovery value END-OF-LIFE Others 393 kg materials like cast iron and steel, our trucks Plastic 519 kg are 95 percent commercially recyclable. Only components like glass panes and Non-ferrous metals 522 kg plastic parts go to landfill. We continually try Rubber 568 kg to reduce non-recyclable components and provide guidelines for end-of-life treatment Materials used in and dismantling. the manufacture of Ferrous 5,212 kg an R 420 truck. SERVICES Services During 2014 we: Our global sales and service operations work ■ Piloted new risk assessment methods and hand-in-hand with customers to meet their tools to safeguard the integrity of our sales sustainability goal, find efficiencies and deliver and services operations. high value-added services like driver training ■ Trained 20,000 drivers. and Ecolution by Scania across the full vehicle ■ Reached 100,000 connected vehicles. lifecycle. By 2020, we will have increased our service offering by 6 – 8 percent per year. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC DIRECTION 11 Suppliers During 2014 we: Scania has a growing presence in emerging markets, such as India ■ Launched our Responsible Sourcing and China. This makes proactively managing our labour, human Program, founded on UNGC’s 10 rights and environmental risks through responsible sourcing of principles. components and raw materials a stakeholder priority. The automotive ■ Completed the first of three phases of pursupply chain is complex and improving traceability beyond our direct chaser training in key emerging markets. – or Tier 1 – suppliers presents a challenge. We start by raising aware■ Set expectations among transport supness on the importance of transparency and impacts, and putting pliers to reduce their CO2 emissions by at systems for responsible sourcing in place. We are taking measures to least 3 percent per year and use at least tackle the carbon emitted from inbound logistics. Euro 5 standard vehicles. Production During 2014 we: The Scania Production System’s (SPS) strong ethos of continuous ■ SPS global role model workshops are in improvement drives us to find new ways to reduce waste and thereby every market. our environmental footprint, delivering better energy and materials ■ Piloted NILE (New Inbound Logistics), a use and lower emissions. Healthy attendance, employee well being, program to increase efficiencies in Scania’s competence and engagement as well as global commitment to labour inbound logistics in Europe, achieving a standards are at the heart of our efforts to create a good working 16 percent reduction of CO2 in inbound environment. transport. Sales During 2014 we: SUPPLIERS ■ Sold Africa’s first Euro 6 buses We aim to grow the market for vehicles optimised both for their task and for their environin South Africa. mental impacts. We are bringing our Euro 6 ■ Improved sales of biofuel driven offering to new markets and aim to increase vehicles. sales of non-fossil fuel driven vehicles. To ensure ■ Introduced a process for evaluating high ethical standards downstream, we are non-financial risks. launching an evaluation process for non-financial risks in sales. PRODUCTION On the road Our 2020 ambition of halving the climate impact of transported goods compared with 2000 relies on the right use of cutting-edge technology, good maintenance, better driving skills, smart logistics, and renewable fuels. Logistics During 2014 we: Logistics thinking is shifting from a focus on ■ Engaged in dialogue with the EU and transport method to a wider take on how to Danish governments on the use of longer make the system flow more efficient. By applying trailers. SALES connectivity and focusing on lifecycle optimisa■ Trialed double semi-trailers (32 metres) on tion, we can help customers improve operational specially designated Scania routes. efficiencies, reduce noise, impacts and costs, and improve road safety and security. Mobility During 2014 we: Tomorrow’s sustainable cities require new infra■ Achieved bus sales of 6,700 buses, structure and a shift in behaviour and attitude. increasing share in Asia, Africa and Through our Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems, Oceania. we are working with customers, local government ■ Partnered with municipality of Accra, ON THE ROAD and others to create low-carbon public transport Ghana to supply 245 buses and equipsolutions that help cities deal with congestion ment for the BRT. and create a better mobility flow. ■ Launched Scania Citywide LE. This new Euro 6 powertrain, can run on up to 100 percent biodiesel. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 12 STRATEGIC DIRECTION CREATING STAKEHOLDER VALUE Value creation is the essential aim of our business and it links Scania and our key stakeholder groups. Scania has been consistent in delivering benefits to customers, suppliers, owners and lenders, society and employees. Scania takes a long-term view regarding investments in innovation, production and service capacity as well as in education and training of our employees, in order to ensure continued value creation for our stakeholders. This creates the stage for Scania to be a leading company on the path towards more sustainable transport and to achieve long-term growth and profitability. Scania The business model has generated a strong, thriving and profitable business. A portion of these profits are reinvested in the company, creating the right conditions for continued growth. Investments in R&D SEK m. 6,000 5,000 4,000 A high level of investments 3,000 in R&D will strengthen the 2,000 product portfolio over the 1,000 coming years. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC DIRECTION 13 Employees Healthy attendance Total global healthy attendance Healthy attendance has Employee turnover Employee turnover The employee turnbeen stable for several The employee over rate has varied Value resides in a healthy, motivated % 100 96.7 96.8 96.7 96.6 96.6 years, creating the right % 12 between 8rate turnover and has 10 and dedicated workforce. Scania conditions for employees 10 percent, signalling 80 to reach their full potential. varied between that Scania is a benefits through higher levels of 60 8 8 and employer. 10 percent, stable 6 productivity and employee retention. 40 signalling that 4 20 2 Scania is a stable 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 employer. Customers Sales of Ecolution by Scania The number of sold Driver training In 2014, Scania Ecolution by Scania trained 20,000 Scania provides value to customers Accumulated contracts exceeds drivers in safe and Drivers Volume through high-quality products and 5,000 4,000. On average, the 25,000 efficient driving. fuel saving for a customer 20,000 services that enhance customer 4,000 is 11 percent, enhancing 15,000 profitability and in return, Scania’s 3,000 customer profitability. 10,000 brand and customer loyalty are 2,000 5,000 strengthened. 1,000 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Suppliers Cost of goods The volume of goods from suppliers is closely linked SEK m. Providing business opportunities 50,000 to Scania’s production volume. and shared technology with expec40,000 tations for high environmental and 30,000 social requirements, creates value 20,000 for our suppliers (and society at 10,000 large). In return, Scania benefits 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 through higher supplier quality and productivity. Owner and lenders ROCE Despite a higher investment level and a sluggish % Scania provides value to our owner 50 business climate, ROCE and lenders by continuing to deliver has been stable around 40 20 percent in recent years. growth with profitability and gener30 ating cash flow. 20 10 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Society Tax expenses Scania’s tax expense rose Euro 6 Euro 6 became mandaslightly during 2014 as tory in Europe in 2014, SEK m. Collaborating with universities and 4,000 the tax rate for the group Nitrogen oxides, NOx g/kWh resulting in significantly schools and contributing to local increased to 27.8 percent. lower emissions, a top 3,000 Taxes paid help contribute 2 concern, especially for communities boosts the talent pool to building necessary Euro 5 cities. 2,000 while supporting Scania’s business infrastructure and vibrant 1 societies. environment. 1,000 Particulate Euro 6 matter, g/kWh 0 0.01 0.02 0.03 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 14 STRATEGIC DIRECTION MAPPING WHAT MATTERS Adopting an outside-in perspective helps us identify and understand the sustainability aspects most material to achieving our business aims. To identify sustainability issues most relevant to Scania and our stakeholders, our materiality process evolved further during 2014. STAKEHOLDER SNAPSHOT: COOP Points of reference With its ambitious targets to reduce CO2 emissions, the Our materiality approach builds on procedures aligned with Global supermarket chain Coop in Switzerland illustrates inReporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. It incorporates insights from creasing retailer focus on transport impacts. In a deepresearch, industry impacts, competitor priorities, targeted stakedive materiality interview, they shared their expectations holder groups and sustainability and business strategy experts. As on Scania. its foundation, a universe of 35 topics were identified as having a potential impact on Scania’s business to 2020. What is Scania’s role in helping you reach the goal to become carbon neutral by 2023? Stakeholder insights The transportation of goods emits one third of our CO2 A selected group of managers from ten Scania functions analysed emissions – the largest share of any activity. So we are 35 topics. First, each topic was mapped against the degree of their focusing on shifting from road to rail, purchasing efficient importance to our ability to respond to identified megatrends. and electric trucks and using biofuels made from waste. The topics were then analysed against expectations of four key Scania’s trucks can use 100 percent biodiesel and this stakeholder groups, weighted according to their influence on – and naturally helps reduce CO2 emissions further. importance to – the business. Stakeholders included existing and In terms of sustainable logistics systems, what potential employees, financial actors (owners, lenders and analysts), more can Scania do to address climate change society (regulators, NGOs and media), and commercial actors (cusand congestion? tomers and transport buyers). The topics were also gauged on how they influence our ability to create value for these groups. To build Scania can help achieve political acceptance of 60 on this stakeholder insight, Scania conducted deep-dive interviews tonne trucks between large centres to minimise trips that enable us to track dialogue and expectations over time. and encourage the combination of large and small vehicles. This could include using large trucks to bring Business relevance containers to the edge of cities and electric vehicles The topics were also analysed by looking through the lens of to distribute goods. Scania can also help promote Scania’s 2020 business strategy and corporate culture, brand hydrogen engines. values, and environmental and social footprint, and our ability to create value. Which technologies do you consider will be the most important in protecting the environment in These combined scores provide a composite view of the most the next 3–5 years? material sustainability issues for Scania from a business and stakeFrom the point of view of Coop, important technologies holder perspective, captured in the diagram. include the electrification of roads, charging through In this more future-focused approach to materiality, we see a induction, driverless vehicles, intelligent road signs and rise in the importance of access to talent, road safety, end-of-life traffic lights that communicate with the vehicle. Electric management, lifecycle optimisation and energy use in operations. vehicles and renewable fuels are also important. Other issues were similar to last year’s materiality process. Using this outcome, we clustered the topics into 14 key business-relevant areas. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC DIRECTION 15 Our approach to materiality includes: mapping our understanding of how the world is changing; exploring the expectations of RELEVANCE TO 2020 groups most influential for business strategy and culture; and assessing these findings against our ability to create value across The most the value chain. Through this approach, we 14 relevant topics areas are clusterad. arrived at 14 sustainability areas. We weight the impact of topics on Scania’s ability Map impacts along to create value. the value chain Relevance to strategy, culture, brand and sustainability Conduct deep-dive interviews with representatives from targeted stakeholders We weight how Scania creates value for stakeholders. Explore and weight expectations of customers, labour market, and society A universe of 35 topics is analysed against relevant megatrends. Identify and analyse relevant drivers and megatrends THE MOST RELEVANT AREAS Scania has identified 14 sustainability areas we think are essential to create decreased environmental impacts by designing lasting value for our stakeholders and to ensure our business thrives. for recyclability and remanufacture at endof-life. Sustainable logistics systems Safety, health and work environment Operational efficiency Drive down the transport sector’s carbon Optimise safe and sound work environments footprint and ensure customer profitability, by across operations through the Scania ProducMeasure, manage and reduce upstream and optimising the logistics flow, including vehicle, tion System and the Scania Retail System. direct impacts of operations, including raw carrier, modality and routing. materials and suppliers, energy, waste and Community impacts and contributions hazardous substances. Sustainable mobility systems Maintain good relations and contribute to local Address growing urbanisation and congestion Long-term financial viability communities by monitoring impacts, engaging challenges through increased use of public with stakeholders, and investing in training, Integrate sustainability into Scania’s strategy, transport. education, and health initiatives. management and operations as a prerequisite for long-term financial success. Road safety and security Intelligent transport technologies Prioritise safety of drivers, passengers, and road Design solutions for road electrification, intelliAttraction and retention of users and secure that goods are delivered intact. gent transport systems, platooning, connected competence services as part tomorrow’s transport systems. Capture the right skill-sets, attitudes and Human rights culture to address future challenges and Low-emissions technologies meet targets. Maintain high standards and uphold good human rights practices, both upstream and downstream. Pioneer technologies that reduce carbon and other emissions. Integrity and compliance Emerging markets strategy Maintain ethical business practices to earn Build a stronger presence in emerging markets, Lifecycle optimisation trust and credibility in the marketplace and contribute to a better society. with new products and services and business Take responsibility for Scania products throughmodels, to transform our industry and shape the out their lifecycle, with focus on improved market for low-carbon transport. product and service quality and uptime and SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 16 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SHIFTING GEARS The transport industry is undergoing a paradigm shift. In line with Delivering the goods GDP growth and set to grow 40 percent by 2030 compared to Logistics is the backbone of international trade and an essential 2012, global freight transport has to deliver almost double its outpart of a healthy economy. It delivers the benefits of raw materials, put.1 At the same time, we need to halve our impacts. This means food, medicine and consumer goods to where they are needed. we need to decouple growth in transport from carbon emissions. Road freight meets this need reliably, cost-effectively and flexibly With global population increasing and more people moving into and its role is expected to grow, particularly in emerging markets. already congested cities, reliable and accessible mobility systems To ensure this growth is sustainable, it has to be done differare critical. ently. At Scania, we have an ambition to contribute to the shift Our ambition is to work towards halving the climate impact towards a sustainable transport system. Our own project NILE, of transported goods by 2020 compared with 2000. Achieving aimed at creating more efficient inbound logistics and thereby this rides on a combination of cutting-edge technology, good reducing carbon emissions, shows how significant improvements maintenance, better driving skills, smart logistics and renewable can be achieved on a system level. fuels. We are working on both sides of the sustainable transport equation – logistics and mobility – to lower our sector’s impacts Moving people and increase its value to society. At the same time, it requires Urbanisation is driving the search for solutions to make mobility concerted efforts to engage in the transport agenda, among more sustainable. Over half the world’s population currently policymakers and other stakeholders. resides in cities, which are responsible for well over 70 percent of global CO2 emissions. Almost a quarter of this is due to transportation.2 1 Internatlonal Energy Agency, Global Transport Outlook to 2050, 2012. 2 WWF, Reinventing the City, 2012. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 17 SPARKING IDEAS FOR FUTURE TRANSPORT Putting their combined strengths to the challenging task of sustainable transport, Scania and the KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Sweden began collaboration in 2014 on the Integrated Transport Research Lab (ITRL) – a new research centre at KTH that will focus on future transport systems and developing innovative low-carbon solutions. The aim is to help shape world-class logistics flows to address the challenges posed by growing cities and increased transport requirements. The lab will contribute technology and systems-based solutions that allow for significant and concrete reductions in transport sector carbon emissions to levels below the EU’s 2020 CO2-reduction target from 1990 levels. Self-driving buses for use in the public transport system, electric roads, new passenger car concepts, night-time goods transport, and better tools for avoiding congestion and traffic jams in rush hour are a few examples of the concepts to be further developed within the ITRL framework. Through the ITRL, Scania and KTH are also aiming to create a bridge between academic research and the needs of society and the transport industry’s business models and development processes. Scania will benefit by further developing our strengths and expertise within those areas of technology important for society and the industry’s future development. Importantly, Scania’s investment in ITRL reflects the partnership approach that is vital to tackling the complex challenge of sustainable transport, through the cooperation of industry, academics and authorities. Much of this growth will occur in smaller cities that typically have limited resources available to support infrastructure planning. With a population of less than 1 million, they already account for than 60 percent of urban dwellers globally. This is raising concern about congestion, local emissions, road safety and climate impact. According to the World Health Organisation3, the number of deaths globally related to road accidents is expected to reach nearly 2 million a year by 2030, up from 1.3 million now. Confirming this trend, we see increasing focus among customers on the importance of road safety. A low-carbon vision To scale low-carbon innovation in the transport sector, we have committed with industry peers to ‘Vision 20–20’ to reduce fuel consumption from new vehicles by 20 percent over the period 2005–2020, related to fuel consumption per tonne km. With our CEO, Martin Lundstedt, serving as President of the Commercial Vehicle Board of Directors of the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA), we intend to take these efforts to the next level. 3 World Health Organisation, Media Center, 2014. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 18 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT In a world dependent on safe, sustainable and efficient transport, a holistic view of the logistics flow is required. Our solutions are shaping this path by boosting efficiencies and eliminating waste. Platooning Timber applications INDUSTRY-TAILORED SOLUTIONS Scania is leading a three-year Fuel comprises about one third Scania works with an application focus. This allows us to meet European research project to of the total operating cost for a develop a system for implementtimber haulier. Robustness and specific demands of a range of industries, from mining, forestry, ing road-based truck platooning. high-performance engines are manufacturing, bus systems (BRT), to distribution. With Scania’s Heavy vehicles are able to drive in needed to meet the demands. modular system as our starting point, we optimise trucks, buses close formation with gaps of just 0.5 to 1 second in order to reduce and engines for a range of applications. This is complemented air drag. with services adapted to each transport need. Scania can also contribute specialist logistics expertise to further improve flows, efficiency and reduce waste. Scania Engine Scania Field Workshop Service Demanding transport sectors – such as the mining industry – require high productivity Mining applications and high uptime for the entire fleet to remain efficient. With In mining, large volumes of heavy preventive maintenance and material must be moved in tough confast repairs on-site, Scania ditions, at the lowest cost per tonne. Field Workshops get vehicles This requires equipment with high up and running again. uptime and low fuel consumption. Scania Genset SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 19 CITIES ON THE MOVE Cities will be one of the testing grounds for sustainable transport, demanding efficient, high-capacity transport solutions with Engine applications low environmental impact. Scania works Scania gensets used as back-up power systematically to gain more insight into the in hospitals and in other tasks need to entire logistics flow, and to develop and be highly reliable. Other applications for offer more sustainable solutions both in Scania Engines include construction and mining equipment. and around cities. Bus systems Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) offers a sustainable, practical and appealing form of urban transport. Our Distribution segment solutions for city buses operating Retail distribution and waste management on Compressed Natural Gas are essential to city life. Our solutions (CNG) or biogas offer a comsave fuel and contribute to greater transbination of high capacity, fuel Alternative fuels port efficency. economy and low environmental Alternative fuels play a large role impact. in reducing the environmental impact of transport services. Scania offers one of the market’s broadest Euro 6 engine ranges for alternative fuels, such as biodiesel and biogas that can be used in city buses and trucks. Marine applications Whether a fast patrol craft or heavy river barge, outstanding operating economy and low Electrification emissions are important features of Scania’s marine solutions, based on our marine engine Scania will participate in field tests for a wirelessly range. Solutions are tailored to offer flexible charged hybrid electric bus. Using inductive charging, options for ratings, equipment, transmissions the vehicle receives power wirelessly from the road. and instrumentation. This opens up the possibility of entirely electrified roads. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 20 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT DRIVING EFFICIENCY IN LOGISTICS With demand for goods transport on the rise, our industry will be challenged to manage that growth while reducing emissions. Optimisation starts with efficient vehicles. With truck sales reprein Sweden. The trials, with permission from the Swedish Transport senting 65 percent of our business, and sales of 73,000 vehicles Agency, will continue in 2015. Scania is also engaged in dialogue in 2014, supplying efficient and safe trucks is the foundation of with the EU and the Danish governments to open opportunities Scania’s future. for double trailers from today’s 18.75 or 25.25 m standard. Our approach to grow our market share and create greater efficiencies is increasingly illustrated through Ecolution by Challenges in emerging markets Scania, emphasising vehicles optimised to the customers’ needs, In the coming decades, most global oil demand will come from driving skills, and use of alternative fuel wherever possible. Active the transport sector in non-OECD countries. We need to find Predication – Scania’s cruise control system that uses GPS and ways to transfer our logistics expertise to Asia, Africa and Latin topographical map data to regulate cruising speeds – boosts fuel America, building demand for efficient and sustainable vehicles. efficiency up to 5-10 percent compared with vehicles without this In emerging markets, the transport sector’s efficiency rates function. are lagging and levels of emissions are high. One of the results is Logistics is often highly complex and involves many actors, the severe air pollution in some major cities. Our Euro 6 offering which increases inefficiencies in the flow. For example, a standard promises to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulates European long-haul truck can fill 26 tonnes of goods, but in by about 80 percent compared with the EU’s pre-2014 regulatory Europe today, trucks travel at around half that fill rate, or 14 standards. Uniquely, it does so without compromising on fuel tonnes. efficiency. Although not yet legislated, Scania’s Euro 6 engines will Higher payloads, longer trailers, and platooning can yield be launched in 2015 in some key markets in Asia. greater optimisation, which Scania’s R&D aims to tackle. We are currently devoting resources to further explore smarter logistics Co-modality brings big benefits planning. Among the fastest-growing segments in the transport sector, co-modality – a combination of road, rail and ship – leverages the Long trailers maximise efficiency benefits of each mode, while better overcoming disadvantages. Scania is advocating longer vehicle combinations in order to carry Our own experience with our internal transport supports this more goods and thus improve efficiency. In 2014, Scania began approach. testing tractors with two full-length trailers resulting in 31.5 m rigs Low-carbon vision 1. Logistics 2. Driver 3. Vehicle Scania’s cruise control technology 4. Biofuel system boosts fuel efficiency up to 5–10 -50% percent. 2000 2020 SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 21 FOR CITIES, SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY Through our bus, coach and services offering, we aim to drive sustainable mobility in rapidly growing cities with clever, cost-efficient bus systems. Efficient public transport is essential for sustainable cities. Future mobility requires an understanding of the complexity of urban planning; including solutions that increase bus use and decrease operating costs. For public transport, our services and solutions are tailored for all urban centres, including emerging markets and fast-growing smaller to medium-sized cities, just developing their infrastructure. Typically less expensive than a tram or subway, our approach is to prioritise cost and CO2 efficiency, as well as user-friendly, quiet and safe mobility. Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems are the most cost-effective way of serving growing populations. Our Bus Systems by Scania includes a toolbox offering of biofuel-ready engines, power electriBus Rapid Transit (BRT) helps address the challenges of growing fication and bus systems. We can provide full-scale BRT solutions cities. This express bus system offers mobility for large numbers of transporting 50,000 passengers per hour and direction, as well as people and with manageable investment costs. systems for lower capacities. Our turnkey solutions include vehicles, Automatic Fare CollecIn collaboration tion Systems, fleet management systems, and consultancy serOur collaborative approach includes working with city planners to vices for improving traffic flow and development of infrastructure better understand the traffic flow and how to shift bus systems. investments as well as vehicle service and maintenance. Starting Importantly, public transport needs to be appealing, and we are in 2015, Accra, Ghana will launch its BRT system, fully supported engaged in discussions of how to trigger a societal shift to public by Scania, including approximately 250 buses. transport and how to make it more attractive to bus riders. In our growth strategy, Scania aims to almost double sales of Buses on the road buses by 2020. Sales of buses currently represent 8 percent of Scania offers a range of buses for public transport and intercity net sales. transport; from the double-articulated vehicle which can take up to 260 passengers, prevalent in Latin America, to traditional lowfloor buses and luxury coaches. In 2014, and in cooperation with Belgian bus builder, Van Hool, STOCKHOLM’S GOLDEN ARCH we introduced the high-end gas-propelled Exqui.City. We also In Stockholm, a large infrastructure project, Förbifart, is aimed at the city’s growing traffic jam. Together with construction supplied gas and Euro 6 buses to South Africa and the UK. In engineering firms Skanska and WSP, Scania has proposed Brazil, a pilot of buses running on biogas was launched. The year leading-edge public transport solutions that would extend also marked the launch of Scania Citywide LE. This new Euro 6 original plans to link suburbs to the north and south of the city via an extended arch. powertrain can run on up to 100 percent biodiesel. The concept would contribute to Sweden’s 2030 ambition of a fossil-free vehicle fleet and promote sustainable transport solutions. Smart super-bus systems – primarily double deckers More than 4,000 Scania buses that can be connected as a train on wheels, transporting over 250 passengers – are a strong feature. operate in bus systems all An on-going information campaign targets city planners, national politicians and the general public. over the world. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 22 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT RETAINING THE INNOVATION EDGE Maintaining our technology leadership is a precondition for being a catalyst for sustainable transport. Fuel efficiency and safety remain R&D focus areas, increasingly enabled by connectivity. More than 3,500 research and development engineers, and SEK leverage GPS, and control stop/start functionality of engines offer 6 billion was invested in R&D work in 2014. The majority of this real opportunity for efficiency, while adding complexity and new was applied to solving the challenges of sustainable transport. challenges for extending the life cycle. Power electrification – or Our success rate will be judged first and foremost by how we hybrid technologies – are also taking a larger share of our R&D deliver on three areas: spend for both bus and trucks. • Developing technologies and solutions to reduce fuel consumpAdapted to every type of available biofuel, our Euro 6 engines tion and emissions and enhance road safety. meet the toughest emission levels in the world. At the same time, • Developing first and second-generation driver assistance prowe continue to lower CO2 emissions. Our efforts have earned us grammes to reduce impacts on the road. the Green Truck Award 2014 for the Scania G 410 Euro 6, which • Leverage connectivity technologies to improve transport flow, has record-low fuel consumption of 23.3 litres per 100 km. deliver performance data, improve functionality and enhance Moving forward, challenges lie in finding solutions in a number safety. of complex but essential areas for sustainable transport. These include integrating battery technologies that will realise power Stepping up fuel efficiency electrification for heavy trucks, and developing viable business Our approach to fuel efficiency focuses on consumption, models to host platooning solutions. This is an approach for increased functionality and biofuel-adapted vehicles. Aerodynamclose-formation heavy vehicle transport to further raise the ics, combustion efficiency, waste heat recovery technologies and efficiency bar. software control all play an important role. Control systems that Investment in R&D Patent applications Connected vehicles SEK m. 1,000 Units 6,000 Invention proposals 120,000 Patent applications 800 5,000 100,000 4,000 600 80,000 3,000 60,000 400 2,000 40,000 200 1,000 20,000 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 y2012 y2013 y2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 A high level of investments in R&D We set a new patent record in There has been strong growth in will strengthen the product portfo2014 with close to 350 patent deliveries of connected vehicles, lio over the coming years. applications, an increase of enabling lower impact driving. almost 35 percent from 2012. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 23 CONNECTIVITY YIELDS INSIGHTS Connectivity provides crucial insight into improvement of driver performance. other things. By 2020, the aim is that the how our vehicles are used – in real time. Vehicle data is used in coaching sessions majority of Scania vehicles in operation It provides a wealth of knowledge that and to customise a maintenance program. will be connected. amplifies Scania’s capacity to deliver safe, Over 100,000 Scania vehicles on the While still evolving, connectivity shows efficient transport. road today are fully connected, up from potential today to enhance road safety. In Scania began to systematically leveraround 8,000 in 2011, which means that the near future, buses and trucks will be age data on vehicle performance early one-sixth of the 10-year rolling fleet of able to communicate with other vehicles in the decade. This proved to be a great Scania vehicles are now connected. This as well as road infrastructure such as advantage in developing Ecolution by provides valuable insights into operatsigns and traffic lights. Scania. This solution is highly dependent ing conditions as well as the necessary on information that enables continuous intelligence to support R&D work among AVAILABLE TODAY FUTURE APPLICATIONS Smart features Autonomous (self-driving) vehicles – Lane Departure Warning. – Suited for vehicles operating in mines and – Active Cruise Control, other challenging working environments. Scania Active Prediction. – Sensors take in the surrounding – Autonomous Emergency Braking. environment with no need for continual adjustment. New services – Follow-up of drivers and vehicles. Big Data – Condition-based maintenance: service intervals based on – Provides an overview of transport actual need. activity and transport flows. – Preventive maintenance: The vehicle sends a warning when a – Optimises flows. certain component is about to fail. Planned replacement minimises – Eliminates waiting times and other waste. repair-related downtime and eliminates unplanned stops. – Data on mileage and filling rates provides – Platooning: Heavy vehicles use inter-vehicle communication to a view of the business climate, an indicator form fuel-efficient, aerodynamic formations on motorways. for short-term changes in demand. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 24 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT NILE LINKS EVERY PART OF THE FLOW Optimising flows require a deep understanding of the entire logistics system. Learning from our own operations will help us deliver this thinking to customers. Since mid-2013, 80 percent of Scania’s inbound transport flow across Europe and Latin America is organised through NILE (New Inbound Logistics), a Scania-unique approach to increase our logistics efficiencies. The initiative reflects overall goals to optimise transport by balancing four considerations – finding the right equipment, the right carrier, the right modality and the right routing. Strategically placed hubs help NILE balances four considerations – finding the right equipment, consolidate volume and increase the filling rate of each truck. the right carrier, the right modality and the right routing. Environment savvy, cost efficient Through this mindset we have demonstrated greater asset close partnership with transport suppliers. The approach is utilisation and reduced stock levels, greater alignment to underpinned by guiding principles of the Scania Production production and less volatility in deliveries. Most importantly, it System – standardisation, normalising our way of working has also resulted in a 17 percent reduction in CO2 emissions and continuous improvement. since we adopted the approach. With a 27 percent relative improvement in the fill rate compared to year-end 2012, NILE Spreading the word demonstrates that cost and environmental efficiencies go With our focus on eliminating waste, shared goals and an hand in hand. articulated process, NILE helps us formulate expectations NILE is built on the principle of taking larger responsibilon results, interlinking every phase of the flow from fill rates, ity as a transport buyer and engaging on a more granular loading and unloading, transport mode and the receiving level in designing logistics flows and transport routes, in process. PRODUCT LIFECYCLE APPROACH A product lifecycle approach helps us understand and minimise our impacts at every phase of the vehicle’s life, while investing our greatest effort in addressing areas of highest potential impact. The lifecycle of a heavy vehicle begins with materials supply and ends at recovery. But the lion’s share of the impact – almost 90 percent – occurs when the vehicle is on the road. Energy use and emissions of CO2 and other substances are key focus areas in every phase. See more information on our product lifecycle at scania.com/sustainability Approximately 5 percent of a vehicle’s CO2 lifecycle impact derives from raw materials and manufacturing, compared to 90 percent that occurs when the vehicle is on the road. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 25 STAKEHOLDER SNAPSHOT: HAVI LOGISTICS We carry out deep-dive interviews with investors, customers, transport buyers and government representatives to better understand their priorities and Scania’s role in addressing them. In this snapshot of a conversation with global HAVI Logistics, they underline their expectations on Scania. Which technologies do you consider will be the most important in protecting the environment in the next 3–5 years? Intelligent transport technologies are increasingly important as they will open new opportunities for greater efficiency, leading to cost savings. They will also help us be POWER ELECTRIFICATION safer on the road. Currently, we believe that compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquified natural gas (LNG) are the ENTERS SCENE best technologies to support our sustainability strategy, Key to building sustainable cities, urban planners from especially when blended with bio methane to further Amsterdam to Shanghai seek silent, emissions-free buses, reduce carbon emissions. We will consider further techequipped to operate 24/7 without disturbing local residents. nologies, such as electric vehicles, once they are mature We aim to meet that demand. Scania delivered its first series enough to be useful in daily operations. of vehicles featuring power electrification technologies with What responsibility do you think Scania should have the Scania Citywide LE Hybrid bus, soon on the road in for lifecycle optimisation? Norway and Sweden. Scania has the key responsibility as it puts the truck into Though requiring high levels of investment, powerthe lifecycle in the first instance, and is involved in technolelectrification technologies promise to significantly improve ogy, development, components and sourcing. Scania is functionality and cost efficiency with the right energy mix. also in contact with customers in the use phase, particuWith a fleet of 2,000 buses, a city can save up to 50 million larly through servicing, and its global after sales network. litres of fuel per year. This can decrease fuel costs by up to 90 percent. Which top three areas would you say are most imporOur hybrid powertrain includes the Scania 9.3-litre tant for sustainability and business performance? engine, fuelled by up to 100 percent with biodiesel. ComRoad safety and security; efficient, low emissions bined with biofuel driven engines, the Scania Citywide LE technology; and lifecycle optimisation. Hybrid promises 60-65 percent savings in CO2. Hybrid technologies will be applied to a range of urban solutions such as city distribution and waste handling, but buses will remain the most common application in the short term. Together with the Royal Swedish Institute of Technology, Scania will be field testing buses in 2016 that wirelessly recharge their batteries through static charging via electrified roads. By leveraging our modular system to either replace or complement combustion engines, Scania expects that even long-distance transportation will soon benefit from the technology. In partnership with Siemens, we are testing electrification of our powertrains in trucks running on an electric highway in Germany. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 26 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT OFFERING VALUE-ADDED SERVICES Ecolution by Scania pushes the limits of fuel reduction. By combining vehicles with services, we maximise performance and uptime. Ecolution by Scania is an example of a different mindset – from simply selling vehicles to offering value-added services that reduce impacts and increase efficiency throughout the product lifecycle. Fuel costs top of mind Our customers are driven by economic factors. With 35 percent of the operating costs consumed by fuel for a typical Scania customer, efficiency is top of mind. Ecolution by Scania combines our most tailored vehicle with services and continuous customer dialogue – all to tackle greater cost and CO2 efficiency. Through performance diagnostics, quarterly follow-ups and driver training, our results show an average 11 percent reduction in fuel consumption. Ecolution by Scania combines the benefit of both increased efficiency and the specific biofuel, to create a savings potential of as much as 90 percent CO2 savings, depending GROWING MARKET SHARE IN on the type and production path of the biofuel. CZECH REPUBLIC Listening and learning With over 30 percent of vehicle sales through Ecolution by Scania, the Czech Republic demonstrates how a new business Customer dialogue and feedback is built around the Ecolution model can be ramped up and make a major impact on Scania’s Analyser, which calculates the potential fuel and CO2 – savings, business in just a year. based on information about the existing vehicle specification, For a Czech logistics supplier, the choice of vehicle is predominently driven by economic factors. By using the Ecolution operation and driver efficiency. Improving fuel economy always Analyser, we are able to show how a holistic approach, combinbegins with the vehicle specification. Through modularisation, we ing all our services, offers real economic savings for the customer that resonates with the Czech market. are able to deliver the truck or bus, tailored for its intended use. The typical Ecolution by Scania vehicle includes air deflectors and other aerodynamic features, lightweight components, and driver support systems such as the Scania Opticruise and Scania Active Prediction. Also crucial to the concept are driver training, coaching and Maintenance+, which includes checks on tyre pressure and condition, axle alignment and air deflector adjustment – checkpoints that are not always included in a regular maintenance Fast growing market programme. Since its launch, Scania has sold more than 4,000 Ecolution Our revenue model for the customer takes into account the by Scania solutions, of which 1,300 were sold in 2014. Our potential efficiencies that we can deliver. During operation and in medium-term objective for relevant markets is that this solution quarterly meetings with customers, we review results and prepare captures half of all vehicles sold by Scania. In 2014 Ecolution by common improvement lists, which ensures utilisation of the deScania represented more than 15 percent of sales in Denmark, fined potential and helps continuously challenge fuel consumption Czech Republic, Slovakia, Italy and Romania. and costs. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 27 TRIGGERING THE SHIFT TO ALTERNATIVES We aim to play a definitive role in the growth of renewable fuels. With the broadest range of alternative fuel-ready vehicles, Scania is market leader in biofuel-adapted engines – a segment where we see substantial growth potential. Together with efficiency, sustainably-produced renewable fuels Shifting the market from fossil fuels is no easy task, and it is imare essential to our toolbox for low-carbon transport. Our strategy pacted largely by availability, cost and ensuring that supply is susis to offer engines that run on all commercially available alternatainable. Concerted efforts through market incentives, creating a tives, including biogas, biodiesel, ethanol and liquid natural gas push within the transport value chain and increased transparency (LNG). Five engines in our range adapted for biodiesel have a are all necessary for triggering that shift. power span of 320-580 hp. This includes the Scania 16-litre Globally, 2014 saw growing interest in biofuels in countries 580 hp V8 engine, a second-generation Euro 6 engine with lower such as India – where ethanol is gaining ground and Scania sold fuel consumption, which can operate on up to 100 percent bioits first adapted buses – as well as South Africa. We are also endiesel. We are also developing transport technologies to further gaged in some pilots that help secure supply for our customers. optimise their use. Our strategy requires an inclusive approach to gain insights In Sweden, ethanol (ED95) offers a potential CO2 savings of and we need to further engage with stakeholders, respond to 68 percent compared to diesel fuel, according to a 2014 study viewpoints, and learn from others from across the biofuel value conducted by Stockholm City’s Clean Truck project. Furthermore, chain. This includes responding to concerns that growing marthe Swedish Energy Agency estimates that biodiesel from rapekets for biofuels could negatively affect food production, and their seed offers CO2 savings of approximately 45 percent. impact on climate change. The market also needs to address improved harmonisation of standards for biofuel and fossil fuel. Drivers along the value chain Fossil fuels still dominate the global vehicle park’s energy supply. The International Energy Agency predicts that while biofuels currently account for around 2 percent of total transport fuel, new technologies are broadening their applications. Commercially viable alternative fuels Fuel type Source Application Potential CO2 savings For heavy transport over Biodiesel RME Oil-crop-based 43% long distances Locally Biogas For short distances 73% produced waste Bioethanol Sugarand Short-to-medium 68% ED95 starch-based distances For heavy trucks Oil-crop or forestry HVO and long distances 81% residue based (added to ordinary diesel) Liquid and compressed India’s first ever ethanol-powered bus will be servicing the city of natural gases Natural gas For long distances 20% Nagpur’s population of 2.5 million people. Using locally produced fuel, (LNG and CNG) Scania’s solution is a cost-effective way of reducing several of the city’s environmental challenges. Source: Swedish Department of Energy SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 28 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT ASSISTING DRIVERS AT THE WHEEL Driver training and coaching help pinpoint new ways to improve efficiency and safety for drivers and other road users. In first-generation drivers assistant systems, we are developing technology, it will be possible for trucks and buses to communifunctionality that allows drivers and their offices to increase efficate with other vehicles on the road, and also with infrastructure ciency and safety and provide feedback on driving performance. such as road signs and traffic lights, helping drivers avoid dangerAll new long-haulage trucks are equipped with Scania Driver ous situations and traffic jams. Support. Visible to the driver, the system gives real-time feedback on driving performance and makes an accumulated assessment Driver training of driving style. Tips and scores are displayed in four categories in During 2014, Scania provided training to some 20,000 drivers the instrument cluster, including factors that influence safety, such across multiple markets. Improved driving techniques can raise as braking and anticipation. fuel-efficiency levels by about 10 percent, save costs, reduce Scania was first to offer a personal coaching programme, emissions, cut wear and tear on tyres and parts and help the Scania Driver Coaching, to raise drivers’ skills based on their own powertrain consume less lubricating oil. Research also shows that driving performance. Vehicle performance data is not only used in driver fatigue can account for up to one in five serious accidents coaching sessions; it also helps us customise a maintenance proon motorways. Training goes a long way towards raising awaregram. The coaching is based on monthly reports and one-on-one ness and reducing these risks. dialogue between driver and coach. During 2014, 25,000 driver While most providers of driver training focus on the technical coaching sessions were completed. aspects of improved efficiency and road safety in Europe, our programme offering is global. Scania’s training also addresses Look to the future behaviour and attitudes, aimed at influencing their choices and Empowered by connectivity, second-generation drivers assistant responsibilities on health and safety – spanning from ergonomics systems offer even greater opportunities. Via this breakthrough to HIV/Aids – and the environment. Driver training 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Scania trained 20,000 drivers in safe and efficient driving this year. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 OUR ROLE IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 29 SAFETY WATCH We understand the huge responsibility that lies with the driver to ensure that roads are kept safe. Our approach to road safety is built on three pillars: the vehicle, the infrastructure and, above all, the driver. Design for safety helps protect drivers and occupants of other vehicles in case of accidents. Our focus is on improving robustness, instrument panel positioning and dispersion of impact forces. Smart design creates an effective buffer around each driver to protect against the risks and consequences of accidents. Some examples of our approach include Scania’s Autonomous Emergency Braking Scania Driver Support provides onDrivers may fall asleep behind the System, which helps avoid accidents by going communications between vehicle wheel, inadvertently letting trucks drift prompting the driver to take action and, and drivers. It helps monitor drivers’ from their lanes. Scania is piloting a if necessary, initiating evasive moves. It behaviour and informs about potential lane-keeping assistance function to help uses long-distance radar technology and risks on the road ahead. drivers steer and prevent vehicles from a forward-facing camera to alert drivers to Tired, long-distance chauffeurs leaving their lanes. potential collision dangers. are also a key cause of human error. ON THE HORIZON Imagine a vehicle that can’t crash and that works in sync with other vehicles to adjust the traffic flow. This is possible with sensors that detect surrounding traffic and that can foresee obstacles that lie ahead. Acting as a co-driver, Advanced Driver Assistance Systems will help drivers reduce the risk of mistakes, stay safely in their lanes to avoid lane-change accidents. In start-and-stop queue driving, the systems will even automatically control acceleration, braking and steering. Via wireless communication between vehicles, the systems will help align a series of vehicles into a platoon, thereby Scania was first to offer a personal coaching ensuring reduced air drag, steady and programme, Scania Driver Coaching, to raise drivers’ predictable speed and an increase in fuel efficiency. These systems are being develskills based on their own driving performance. oped in cooperation with universities and are co-financed by Swedish authorities. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 30 HOW SCANIA WORKS AN INCLUSIVE APPROACH Our way of working is founded on good governance frameworks and systems, clear aims and direction, and a committed workforce that can deliver our vision. Scania is a global company with production and sales and service and culture of continuous improvement. The Scania Production organisations in 100 countries. Of our approximately 42,000 System challenges us to continually find new ways to do things employees, around 18,000 work with sales and services in subbetter – an important attribute for sustainability. sidiaries worldwide. Our production units are located in Europe Our commitment to the UN Global Compact ensures these and Latin America as well as in India. Scania also offers financial efforts are in line with global standards and stakeholder expecservices in many markets. tations. As we become increasingly global and enter new geograAlong with our core values and corporate governance framephies, a key challenge is to ensure that the same high standards work, this provides a strong foundation for building our brand and and processes are in place wherever we operate. An important reputation as a trusted partner. A particular priority going forward step towards this is our current global rollout of e-learning for our will be to integrate data collection from all our operations into our ethics program, ‘Doing things right’, for all employees, which will reporting. take place during 2015. Particularly in our global network of sales Additionally, Scania plays a part in the Volkswagen Group’s and services and its extensive market presence, we also need to sustainability efforts through our representation in the CSR and make sure the opportunities and non-financial risks presented by Sustainability Steering Group as well as by coordinating specific different markets are fully understood. issues on Group functions level. Towards continuous improvement Cutting CO2 in internal logistics Striving for high social, ethical, and environmental standards is As well as our broader efforts to help move our sector towards a natural fit with Scania’s longstanding commitment to quality sustainable, low-carbon transport through innovative products SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 HOW SCANIA WORKS 31 THE SHE STANDARD We take a systematic approach to safety, health and the environment (SHE), all to encourage a culture of continuous improvement to eliminate waste and respect each individual. Within the Scania Production System and the Scania Retail System (covering our sales and services operations), employees are encouraged to identify areas for improvement and innovate together to achieve common goals. Locally owned, globally supported Although our standardised approach to SHE underlines overall objectives, local managing directors and line management have responsibility for defining priorities, setting targets, implementation and evaluation. Each Business Area Board reviews performance. These help drive improvements on all levels in an integrated and cross-functional approach. Monitoring and assessments The SHE Blue Rating monitors safety, health, environment and diversity performance. This tool for both internal audits and self-assessments helps ensure that Scania facilities continuously improve their operations, as well as gauge their ability to avoid related risks. Blue Rating audits are conducted among global units within industrial operations and in R&D. Performance is reported quarterly in the line organisation and annually to top management. and partnerships, we are also tackling our sector’s biggest impact – CO2 emissions – within our own operations. Scania has targets in place to halve energy use in industrial operations by 2020 compared to 2010, and reduce CO2 emissions in transport by 25 percent by 2020, compared to 2012. We have increased the use of virtual meetings by 63 percent in one year, from some 206,000 to 335,000 meetings. At the same time, we reduced air travel spend during the period by SEK 17 m. Our efforts to encourage virtual meetings were recognized in 2014 by the Global Business Travel Association’s Project ICARUS. On the social side, Scania understands that a qualified, dedicated and diverse workforce is vital for the success of our global organisation and delivering long-term growth with profitability. For this reason, we are developing a program to make sure we have the right skills, build on the competencies of existing employees, and attract new talent. A key goal is to maintain healthy attendance levels at 97 percent, and reduce work-related injuries to 5 per million hours worked. SCANIA SUSTAINABLE REPORT 2014 32 HOW SCANIA WORKS – GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FOR ACCOUNTABILITY Transparent governance based on law, policies and Scania’s values helps us anticipate risks and opportunities, and embed ethical business practices for shared benefit. Good governance brings value to our business by clarifying roles Monitoring risks and responsibilities. Group Internal Audit carries out yearly risk-assessments. A risk universe is developed and circulated for both top-down and Values guide actions bottom-up feedback regarding impact and probability against Scania promotes clarity in governance for sustainability and ethithese risks. This provides important input to the annual Internal cal business practices. Our core values of customer first, respect Audit Plan. for the individual and quality emphasise the importance of taking The Audit Plan is designed to check how well companies personal responsibility in all situations. throughout the Scania Group manage identified risks. It is flexible year-on-year, taking into account key messages from Corporate Policies and guidance Unit heads and responding to the changing operating environOur Annual Report describes how we address financial reporting, ment. In 2015 our audits will continue to focus on compliance, transparency, auditing, remuneration of directors and conflicts of particularly in emerging markets where our presence is growing. interest. It also describes Scania’s board structure and directors’ In 2014 we performed around 45 percent of our audits in counresponsibilities. tries with a Transparency International index below 50, compared Scania’s core document “How Scania Is Managed” gives to around 35 percent in 2013. guidance on integrating sustainability into our business model Throughout the year we will be working closely with the and is supported by the Corporate Governance Manual (CGM) Volkswagen Group to learn from each other, identify differences and the Financial Manual. Our standard on Safety, Health and and similarities in our corporate governance systems, and develop Environment and policies on environment, health and safety, a joint approach. communications and competition law are available companywide. Our employee guide, ‘Doing things right’, is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The Dealer Operating Standard ensures that Scania’s values are shared with 1,000 dealerships and workshops, which are audited regularly. Identifying risks Business strategies are reviewed continuously, timed to coincide with Executive Board meetings. In addition, an annual Corporate Strategy Process provides an overview for decision-making about the long-term strategic direction of the Scania Group. The Corporate Governance Board ensures that Scania complies with the corporate governance framework. Group Internal How Scania Is Managed’ gives Audit conducts audits based on the content of the CGM to guidance on integrating sustainability maximise alignment among all Scania entities. into our business model. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 HOW SCANIA WORKS – GOVERNANCE 33 DOING Employees are encouraged THINGS RIGHT to raise ethical concerns. Growing our business globally is a critical part of Scania’s strategy, an ambition we’ll deliver with our values intact. Scania’s commitment to ethics is the responsibility of each and every individual. To further support employees in living up to that expectation, we are rolling out a global programme to provide hands-on ethical business guidance for all employees. The aim is to provide the understanding and tools for handling situations which may present ethical challenges. Scenario-based learning The employee guide, ‘Doing things right’, and our related e-training programme uses scenarios to provide clarity on ethical business practice to employees across our global operations. Topics include gifts and entertainment, competition and antitrust, bribery, fraud and conflicts of interest. To illustrate possible approaches, we present a possible scenario around a set of dilemmas and pose questions to help guide actions. Our aim is to ensure that people know where to look for guidance and feel comfortable about openly addressing concerns with their manager or another appropriate individual within the organisation. During 2014 we completed training for our purchasing organisation and in 2015 we will roll out the programme globally. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 34 HOW SCANIA WORKS – ENVIRONMENT OPERATING EFFICIENTLY For Scania, continuously reducing our environmental impacts is a central aspect of how we work. Priorities and objectives uring 2014 for two reasons. The Oskarshamn factory, representing Although energy efficiency and the responsible use of chemicals 13.5 percent of our energy consumption, has been operating two continued to be particular focus areas in 2014, Scania-wide, our production lines in the installation of a new paintshop. Increased long-standing priorities within environmental performance lie in: engine testing at R&D facilities is also the source of added emis1. Efficient use of water and energy in facilities and operations. sions compared to 2013; to 83,100 (81,700) tonnes. 2. Reducing use of raw materials and chemicals. 3. Reducing air and wastewater emissions. Greenhouse gases 4. Eliminating waste and increasing reuse. Almost all greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted by our operations is 5. Reducing risks for accidents and spills and effectively CO2, derived from direct and indirect energy use. Scania does not managing them if they occur. use landfills that risk methane leakage, nor does it have any other types of methane-deriving operations. For those facilities that use Production and logistics operations defined a 2020 target to halve F-gases for cooling, the F-gas is regularly maintained and refilled energy use across Scania’s global operations per manufactured if necessary. In 2014, 68 kg HCFC and 661 kg HFC was refilled, vehicle, using 2010 as the baseline and encompassing both faciliresulting in GHG emissions of 733 tonnes CO2, accounting for ties and production processes. their respective GHG factor. Two thirds of our total energy use derives from electricity Use of fossil fuels (excluding vehicle testing) accounts for 23 consumption, of which production and logistics are responsible (22) percent of total energy use. Direct emissions have increased for 84 percent. R&D activities are responsible for the remaining more than 3 percent compared to 2013. Indirect emissions 16 percent. Although meeting the target is primarily dependent (electricity, district heating) have decreased with 2.5 percent. on efficiency gains that emerge from increased production rates, it also requires an increased focus on behavioural change and Flouroand hydroflourocarbons some investments in equipment that optimises energy use. We Although hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) are only used in small are on track to meeting the target. amounts, they have high global warming potential. HFCs are used in air-conditioning units in truck cabs and in facilities for cooling Monitoring and certifications plants. Refrigeration trailers lie outside the scope of our product All Scania production facilities are certified according to ISO offering. No CFC is used at any of Scania’s production facilities 14001 and ISO 9001. All these units report on indicators for and no new investments in HCFC-based equipment are being energy, waste and water consumption and costs on an annumade. al basis. Environmental training is available to all employees, including specialised training tailored to specific operations and Water functions. Production facilities have been mapped to identify our impacts in water-scarce areas. With the exception of some regions in Energy use South America, Scania does not manufacture in areas with water Consuming 658 GWh of energy this year, Scania used almost the constraints, nor is Scania regarded as having water-intensive same amount of energy in 2014 as in 2013 (657 GWh). This is an operations: close to 80 percent of our water use derives from staff increase of 0.5 percent in a year, and a reduction of 0.7 percent consumption, in our restaurants and restrooms. over five years, even with a production volume increase of 21.6 percent. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 HOW SCANIA WORKS – ENVIRONMENT 35 In 2014, Scania used about 534,000 (576,000) cubic meters of way for identifying and substituting prohibited and restricted water or 6.5 m3/vehicle, a reduction of 7 percent in a year and substances in our products. of 49 percent as measured per vehicle produced over five years. About half of our total water use derives from groundwater. Use of solvents and other emissions With increased awareness of constraints, our challenge conPainting operations are both costand resource-intensive, and tinues to be to map our impacts on water in Regional Product new technological solutions enable us to improve performance Centres and the 1,600 sales and service workshops. on both counts. Since 2004, all new investments in painting systems are adapted to waterborne paints. However, there are Responsible chemicals use specific applications where the switch to waterborne paints is not Hazardous substances are used to meet complex technical possible. Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) per performance requirements of today’s vehicles, but their use vehicle produced in 2014 amounted to 3.8 (4.0) kilograms, or 314 must be carefully managed. Scania’s exposure to chemicals tonnes. Investments in new painting technologies continued with use exists both during production and when the vehicle is being installations in Sweden and in Brazil, which are expected to result serviced. The Environmental Policy underlines the importance in long-term reductions in VOCs. of the Precautionary Principle, which is particularly relevant for handling chemicals. In turn, the SHE standard defines criteria for Managing waste managing them. Over the past 10 years our recycling rate has remained stable. Material reuse in 2014 was 62,000 tonnes and waste sent for Material procurement energy recovery was 7,000 tonnes. During 2014, 13,000 (12,000) As part of the Production Parts Approval process, it is mantonnes of hazardous waste were sent for off-site disposal. In datory to report to the International Material Data System (IMDS). 2011, waste was redefined in data collection, affecting comparaThe IMDS is primarily intended to meet EU’s REACH legislation bility. and to provide transparency on materials used. This reporting For more information on our environmental performance, visit simplifies the due diligence process and enables a structured scania.com/sustainability CO2 and other emissions In 2014, Scania produced some 82,000 vehicles, a decrease of 0,6 percent in one year and 21.6 percent since 2010. All Scania performance indicators are set in this context. Performance data covers all industrial operations. Energy use and CO2 emissions for Emissions of CO2 CO2 emissions per tonne/km goods Emissions to air and water industrial operations tonne/vehicle transported (grams) Total, MWh MWh/vehicle Total, ktonnes Tonnes/vehicle Total, m3 m3/vehicle 800 20 100 5 800 20 80 4 Distribution of parts 600 15 600 15 in the EU and Brazil, 8% 60 3 Airfreight Europe, 400 10 400 10 global, 52% 40 2 20% 200 5 200 5 Vehicle 20 1 deliveries, 20% 0 0 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total energy use was at the same In 2014, Scania’s CO2 emissions Most production processes have In 2014, Scania’s goods transportlevels as 2013, to 657,000 MWh, from industrial operations totalled closed systems and consumed related emissions totalled 158,000 with the same production volume. 83,100 (81,700) tonnes, a two industrial wastewater is treated tonnes (179,000). The changes Energy use per vehicle produced percent increase compared with before drain off. Only minor drain from year to year follow production was also at the same levels as 2013 2010, and a 16.1 percent reduction off is made directly to the sewage volume and country of delivery. (8.0 MWh). per vehicle. Total emissions have system, such as wastewater from increased by 1.7 percent (8.4) in cooling towers. one year. On a per-vehicle basis they increased by 2.4 percent. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 36 HOW SCANIA WORKS – ENVIRONMENT CO2 REDUCTIONS IN TRANSPORT Within our inbound transport, we are improving our logistics flow and developing stricter standards for suppliers. In 2014, Scania set a target to achieve a 25 percent CO2 reduction Co-modality yields results for inbound logistics in Europe by 2020, with 2012 as the baseline.1 Truck, rail or boat (and in exceptional cases, air cargo) comprise We are on track to achieving this goal. Scania’s inbound transport mix. In total, 74 percent of our global transport spend is incorpoA share of our goods is currently being transported by rail rated in the target. The target is approached by improving the between Sweden and the Netherlands, France and Italy. Truck logistics flow and stricter standards for suppliers of inbound transto rail co-modal transport has generated significant cost savings port. Through NILE, our inbound logistics operations in Europe, 16 and a 26 percent reduction in CO2, or 1,540 tonnes per year. percent more goods are now transported per tonne CO2 and CO2 Backup road transport helps ensure that reliability risks with rail emissions deriving from goods transported have decreased by 12 do not disrupt supply. Although we have a long-term objective percent. Lower production volumes in 2014 substantially impacted to increase use of rail and ship, challenges around capacity and this outcome. reliability inhibit extensive use. Streamlined logistics Meeting rising expectations Double trailers allowing for an increased fill rate enable greater Our ambition is to raise the bar on transport suppliers’ vehicle efficiency. Some Nordic countries allow 25.25 metre-long vehicles, fleet. All new contracts must meet or exceed Euro 5 criteria acconsiderably longer than in other European countries. In a trial cording to our sustainable sourcing standard. Today, 80 percent launched in 2014, we began transporting cargo in Sweden using of our transport is conducted via Euro 5 trucks or higher, a 15 double semi-trailers 32 metres long and weighing 78 tonnes on percent rise from 2013. All carriers must demonstrate an annual 3 specially designated routes. Tests will continue in 2015. percent reduction in CO2 and are required to report on performance. Additionally, all transporters must be ISO 14001 certified, 1 The target as reported last year was revised in order to apply a have safe, fuel-efficient driver training, and follow the UNGC’s 10 more robust methodology for measuring performance. principles or equivalent. Euro 5 and Euro 6 are EU emissions limits set for heavy commercial vehicles that are the world’s toughest Transport-related direct CO2 emissions emissions standards. Scania was the first to introduce Euro 6 technology in early 2011, ahead of legislation. Distribution of parts in the EU and Brazil, 8% Our laboratory is on the road Scania Transport Laboratory, a Scania subsidiary that supplies Airfreight global, 20% 10 percent of our inbound transport, was established with the aim Vehicles deliveries, 20% of providing insight into our customers’ challenges. Their input allows us to test and evaluate vehicle properties and performance Transport to and from Scania’s production units, 52% on the road. Through concerted efforts to reduce CO2 through driver training, and a focus on fill rate and efficient vehicles, the Scania’s transport-related CO2 emissions Laboratory reduced its CO2 emissions by 50 percent between include transporting goods to production and 2008 and 2014, calculated per tonne of goods transported. between production units, as well as vehicle We believe this is an approach that can also be used by our and spare parts delivery. Scania emits about as much carbon dioxide through its logistics customers. system as through energy use in facilities. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 HOW SCANIA WORKS – ENVIRONMENT 37 SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 38 HOW SCANIA WORKS – LABOUR CAPTURING SKILLS FOR SUCCESS As we expand globally, we focus on securing the right skills base, anchoring our core values wherever we operate, and seizing the opportunities of global mobility. To succeed as a business and be a leader in sustainable transport means understanding the competencies we need today, in 2020 and beyond. That’s why we focus our efforts on finding and developing employees with the right skills and motivation and a diverse range of backgrounds. Global talent focus In 2014 we set up a new group called Labour Affairs Development to focus on Scania’s role as an employer worldwide. Our aim in 2015 is to hold workshops with management teams throughout Scania to promote approaches that successfully capture skills from all types of people. Our emphasis is on equal opportunity regardless of gender, background or geography. With two thirds of our employees outside Sweden, our outlook is global. Scania’s Graduate Trainee Programme employs students for a 14-month period. It includes a six-week introduction, practical experience and work abroad. Scania Academy We identify competency needs and ensure that the right skill sets are developed for every part of our business. We administer In 2014 some 300 people from all regions chose to gain intereach role description centrally to avoid duplication and promote national experience through expatriate contracts, up from 250 in synergy between business units. Scania Academy, our learning 2013. The trend will continue as we work more closely with the hub, is trialling new methods to ensure gaps in competence Volkswagen Group. requirements are accurately identified. The staff of nearly 100 in Södertälje and 40 in São Bernardo do Campo, Brazil and regional Employee engagement academies in the Benelux countries, Russia, India and Poland Scania receives feedback on staff experiences via the annual provide hundreds of thousands of hours of training each year for employee survey, tailored surveys, employee planning and employees at all levels. Increasingly, training is conducted using development conversations and exit interviews for managers. e-learning and blended learning techniques. Training during 2014 In 2015 we will launch a global employee barometer. It includes was 23 hours per employee compared to 19 hours in 2013 and 25 12 employee satisfaction questions on topics such as pride in hours in 2010. Scania and adequacy of training. It will allow us to compare and communicate employee opinion and provide a tool for improveA world of opportunities ment at Scania and throughout the Volkswagen Group. As we expand globally, it is essential that we anchor and share our core values and learn from each other. This cross-fertilisation is growing as more employees take advantage of global mobility More employees are taking advantage of opportunities every year – to the benefit of both Scania and the global mobility opportunities every year. employees themselves. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 HOW SCANIA WORKS – LABOUR 39 A DEDICATED AND STRENGTH MOTIVATED WORKFORCE THROUGH DIVERSITY Scania employs about 42,000 (41,000) people in 100 countries. Ensuring that Scania’s workforce features a good balance In 2014 our internal employee turnover rate was 5 percent (5) of gender, ages, backgrounds and experience is crucial to our and our external employee turnover rate 9 percent (10). on-going success. Mutual understanding Expanding the talent pool We work with unions in countries where we operate. In Sweden, Diversity strengthens our company and supports our strategies representing one-third of Scania’s workforce, all our blue and towards 2020. By capturing skills from a diverse pool, we hope to white-collar employees, both permanent and flexible, are covboost our ability to attract and retain talent and be recognised as ered by collective bargaining agreements. Scania holds regular an employer of choice. As one sign of moving towards this goal, information and co-determinations meetings with all unions. In in 2014, of the more than 970 people who applied for 24 places Brazil, representing a further 10 percent of our workforce, 90 in our graduate training scheme, 32 percent were women, and percent (92) of blueand white-collar workers are covered by 52 percent of successful applicants were female. union agreements. The slight change is due to a higher share Employees with a range of backgrounds and experiences of managers in the workforce. This employment category lies increase our knowledge base, improve our ability to address outside union agreements. customer needs and strengthen our market position. In 2015 we initiated a network of Swedish companies called the ‘Diversity European perspective Practice and Workforce Sustainability Learning Hub’. Our first Our flexible workforce strengthens our response to changing meeting, in February 2015, gathered a range of companies market demands. As we globalise, so does our workforce. from different industry sectors. We will share best practice and Since 1988 Scania’s European Committee has been a forum challenge each other in the area of sustainability. for exchange between employee representatives across Europe and Scania management. The full European Committee met View from the top twice in 2014. In 2015 Scania and union representatives will Our successful gender diversity programme helped boost strengthen and broaden its responsibilities to include compeprogress on female representation. Today 1.5 percent more tence from the larger units globally. women are in management positions than in 2010. Two years ago only one nationality was represented among the 26 most senior members of management; now there are six. Diversity figures are reported to the Board every quarter and in Sweden our Diversity Plan is updated annually. Employment Employee turnover Employee turnover Number ofofemployees Number employees Share Female managers of female managers Employee data encompasses % % 12 50,000 25 all operations within Scania, Sweden Global 10 including industrial and R&D 40,000 20 operations, as well as sales 8 30,000 15 and services. 6 20,000 10 4 10,000 5 2 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2014 2010 2014 The external employee The number of employees A number of projects have been turnover rate has remained has increased as Scania has initiated to increase the share of between 8 and 10 percent, invested for future growth. women among executive officers. signalling that Scania is a During 2014, Scania employed This is one important parameter stable employer. more people in marketing, sales of diversity. and services and research and development. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 40 HOW SCANIA WORKS – LABOUR WELLBEING AND SAFETY AT THE CORE Strong focus on health and safety is critical in a business that carries a number of safety risks. High productivity hinges on employee well being. Core to our value Respect for the individual, we aim to have Joint management-worker meetings help monitor and advise on active and engaged personnel, with high healthy attendance. progress, addressing all issues relating to the working environThe strategic plan for Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) ment and worker well being. This dialogue is outlined as mandaaddresses issues such as ergonomics, safety equipment, tory in our management procedures and in the policy for working chemicals handling, mental and social wellbeing, first aid and environment. Although committees cover the entire workforce in crisis support, rehabilitation and road safety. some geographic areas, most represent production staff. Taking individual responsibility Along the value chain Shared ownership is our approach. Our commitment to the well As reported last year, Scania expects our suppliers to live up to being of our employees is reflected in our support organisation, high health and safety standards and communicate the same which continually raises the safety bar. Launched in 2014, this priorities to their suppliers. new safety & health organisation incorporates both industrial and Scania also helps promote the health of our customers’ sales and services operations and is responsible for training and drivers. Scania Driver Care is a programme that has been develawareness raising, data collection and sharing best practice. oped to provide drivers with advice on health, diet, exercise At the same time, every Scania manager must monitor progress and working environment. against objectives and indicators as well as benchmark performance. But our approach is only successful if it visibly impacts the behaviour of every employee. Each individual has to take responsibility for his or her own workplace. A Scania-wide approach Expansion in emerging markets poses new challenges around safety. Sales and services operations have 18,000 employees whose workplaces are in workshops and vulnerable situations alongside highways. For this group of employees, we have broadened priorities, including roadside safety, proper risk assessments and revising safety and logistics procedures. To address these, we have sharper focus on SHE training of sales and services managers. Since 2012 some 2,500 of their managers underwent training, including 1,200 in 2014. All Scania employees must undergo regular healthand safety-related training, comprising both e-learning modules and workshops. With sales and services operations, and in 2014, we conducted on-the-job training for service technicians. Some 1,900 employees, primarily technicians, have undergone ergonomics training. Supported by a management system and training, each individual has responsibility for safety within his or her own workplace. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 HOW SCANIA WORKS – LABOUR 41 SAFELY ON THE ROAD Scania Assistance is available in some the right equipment and support, good To raise awareness among service tech50 countries around the world, in some judgement, and above all, a safety-first nicians, our new roadside safety model of the world’s most dangerous traffic mentality. will be highlighted in the 2015 Scania Top environments. As one of five priority Health and Team Competitions, where regional finalOur service technicians’ job is to come Safety areas for our sales and services ists from 62 countries will be introduced to the aid of drivers facing roadside operations, Scania Assistance launched to our safety procedures. breakdowns. On a daily basis, they a strengthened, global policy for roadScania Top Team encourages the have to contend with heavy traffic, side assistance procedures in 2014. development of personnel as both accident-prone stretches of road or Rolled out to all business units, we individuals and members of a team. In difficult weather conditions. To ensure have also developed a model for assisthis way, the program contributes to their own, our customers’ and other tance on the road and a communications increased professionalism; proficiency road users’ wellbeing, they must rely on plan to visualise its key components. and teamwork. Health and safety Scania-wide, we measure progress within health and safety based on industry standards and tailored measurements. During 2014, one serious accident was reported at a workshop in Luxembourg. No fatalities occurred within Scania during the year. Our target is to achieve 97 percent Work-related injuries within industrial Healthy attendance healthy attendance. We have consistAccidents per million hours worked* operations have steadily declined over ently attained over 96 percent since the past few years – from close to 18 % 96.7 96.8 96.7 96.6 96.6 2008. Number of injuries/million worked hours per million hours worked in 2010 to 12 100 30 per million hours in 2014. The target for industrial operations is five per mil80 lion hours, considered best practice in 20 the industry. 60 40 10 20 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * Occupational accidents leading to sick leave. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 42 HOW SCANIA WORKS – HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN Proactive relationships with suppliers and collaboration in sector-wide initiatives are all tools that help minimise risks of human rights issues. In an increasingly transparent marketplace, our suppliers must detailed tracking and due diligence. Suppliers are expected to meet the same standards we demand of ourselves. With over communicate our standards to their own suppliers and sub1,500 direct, and 10,000 indirect suppliers, robust and comprecontractors. hensive management of human rights risk is a challenge, but essential. Audits In 2014, we launched our Responsible Sourcing programme Our quality checks and supplier assessments have long included a in line with the UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles, which cover sustainability element, and in future we plan to strengthen existing non-complicity in human rights abuses as well as labour pracsustainability assessments and conduct third-party sustainability tices, freedom of association and discrimination. Our updated audits. In partnership with the Volkswagen Group, we will pilot Sustainability in the Supply Chain Standard is a core component. third-party audits of suppliers in Brazil, Poland, and India in 2015. Purchasing strategy Talking the walk We focus our purchasing spend – some 70 percent – on Sweden, We also trained all purchasing staff in our business ethics proGermany and other Western European countries to keep quality gramme ‘Doing things right’, and the new Sustainable Sourcing high and business risk low. Therefore our exposure to human Standard. In 2015 we will continue to train our buyers and supplier rights risk is low or medium by most measures, including quality analysts to further embed our approach. In 2014, together Maplecroft’s Human Rights Index. But we remain vigilant and with the Volkswagen Group, we held training sessions in Brazil ensure that robust processes are in place globally. The proportion and Argentina with suppliers to share best practice and outline of spending in India and China is increasing. the Volkswagen Group’s expectations. In 2015 we plan to hold similar events in India and China as well as for the logistics sector Stronger together in Europe. In April 2014, Scania joined the European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain Sustainability, facilitated by CSR Europe. Assessing downstream non-financial risks One of its outcomes is a shared approach to supplier selfScania initiated a process to evaluate non-financial risks downassessment. Together with a Tier 1 supplier, we are developing stream regarding sales of vehicles to organisations that, through a programme on platinum sourcing. their activities, may pose human rights risks. The process was developed in dialogue with other Swedish exporting companies Supplier requirements and includes a toolbox for Scania’s sales organisation to assess All new suppliers are screened using human rights criteria. risks, and a forum for evaluating these risks and taking necessary Without exception, all suppliers must agree to our Supply Chain actions. In 2015, Scania will launch the process and intensify Standard which includes achieving ISO 14001 certification. efforts with other Swedish export companies and Swedish credit We also require information on material composition to enable export institutions. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 HOW SCANIA WORKS – HUMAN RIGHTS 43 WORKING TOGETHER ON PARTNERSHIP APPROACH SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY FOR PLATINUM In the automotive sector, a deep and complex supplier base is The rare metal platinum is a key element of catalytic converters, typical, and many suppliers provide components and services for essential in reducing harmful vehicle emissions of hydrocarbons multiple companies. and oxides of nitrogen. Rather than buying platinum directly from With a mutual desire for a responsible, shared approach to mining companies, Scania obtains catalytic converters from a Tier sustainability performance throughout their value chains, nine 1 supplier whose contract with us requires it to uphold the Global automotive companies formed the European Automotive Working Compact’s ten principles, including respect for human rights, Group (EAWG) on supply chain sustainability. Scania joined in throughout its supply chain. 2014. Facilitated by CSR Europe, the EAWG built the Guiding Platinum mining concerns Principles, guidelines outlining expectations of suppliers on In October 2013, research by the Swedish NGO Swedwatch key responsibility issues. Working collaboratively saves time identified safety concerns at platinum mines in Africa and revealed and money and ensures that strong common messages reach dissatisfaction among local communities, who felt their concerns suppliers. around the right to adequate housing, wages and clean water were not dealt with properly. Self-assessment Building on the Principles, the EAWG developed a common Proactive response Self-Assessment Questionaire (SAQ) for suppliers covering social As well as requiring our supplier to address the Swedwatch and environmental impacts, business conduct and compliance, concerns, we engaged proactively, for example introducing them and supplier management. The SAQ benefits both manufacturers to the European Automotive Working Group guidelines on supply and suppliers by streamlining information flow – one set of shared chain sustainability and following up the outcomes of their ISO core questions saves time on both sides – and manufacturers can 26000 gap analysis. We schedule quarterly meetings focused add further requests as needed. on sustainability to give further inputs to their initiatives. At our request the supplier, a member of the IPA (International Platinum Building supplier capacity Group Metals Association), initiated a dialogue to develop a The EAWG runs supplier training sessions in countries chosen by harmonised sustainability auditing standard for the platinum members. Capacity building is a key objective with the further aim industry as a whole. of encouraging local supplier learning networks. In 2014, training and events were organised in Poland and Turkey and in 2015 joint visits are planned for China, South Africa and India. In 2014, we launched our Responsible Sourcing programme in line with the UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 44 HOW SCANIA WORKS – ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE SUPPORTING ECONOMIC GROWTH By delivering people and goods with efficient, low-carbon transport, Scania can help spur economic growth, especially in fast-growing cities. Economic growth depends on better and more efficient transport Scania Transport Academy in Iraq, China Dragon School and an for goods and people. Scania vehicles, products and low-carbon upcoming Vocational Training Centre in Ghana. solutions can make an important contribution to tackling this Wherever we work, partnership with governments, businesses challenge in an expanding global economy. and local communities is essential to our success in promoting Sustainable transport solutions for cities enhance the mobility sustainable transport and economic efficiency. that is the lifeblood of urban economies. Our solutions and services span the globe. From Johannesburg, South Africa to Guayaquil in Ecuador and Jiangsu Province in China, BRT systems use dedicated lanes with priority over other traffic and MODERNISING TRANSPORT combine comfort and reliability with cost-efficient transport and low emissions. IN CHINA China’s 2014-2020 Logistics Development Plan, together Innovative customer-focus with market reforms, is expected to bring economic and To promote sustainable transport and help customers get the environmental benefits to transport in China. This is part maximum benefit from our products and services, we tailor of China’s stated aim to redefine the role of government, solutions and packages to suit their business needs. open markets to competition, improve efficiency and • Our service solutions to maximise uptime and efficiency create a level playing field by enforcing legislation. are gaining traction especially in South Africa, Hong Kong, With a share of 18 percent of GDP, China’s transport Australia, Malaysia, Thailand and Korea. costs are twice that of Europe. In 2014, China announced • On-premises maintenance workshops to bus and coach the plan to modernise transport and reduce costs to 16 companies help keep their own service offering smooth, percent of GDP by 2020. reliable and efficient. Lending industry insight • Enhancing customers’ understanding of Total Operating EconReports and other inputs to the Plan provided by Scania omy – the cost and revenue per kilometre, taking into account through the European Automobile Manufacturers Assouptime and distance capability of vehicles – helps increase ciation, the European Chamber of Commerce and the recognition of the value of premium Scania vehicles to their Swedish Embassy provided important reference points. business. This is especially important in China. The ambition to create fair competition has given mo• We offer rental solutions through which lifetime cost is divided mentum to the mass and dimensions standard, the sointo monthly payments to include repairs and maintenance. called GB1589. Due for launch in 2016, the new standard sets physical compliance limits for logistics operators’ Global and local economic impact vehicles to maximise efficiency and safety, modelled on Our operations located in emerging markets provide customer the 96/53 EU Directive. Flexible modular trailer systems, insights as well as local employment. a sustainable logistics solution promoted by Scania To ensure we have skilled staff wherever we operate, Scania to be piloted during 2015, may be included in the new collaborates with universities such as the Stockholm Royal standard. Institute of Technology and builds education centres such as SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 HOW SCANIA WORKS – SOCIETY 45 STRONG STANCE ON ANTI-CORRUPTION Scania’s commitment to ethical business is essential to earning stakeholder trust. We aim to combine an open culture with a systematic approach to mitigating ethics-related risks. Scania has zero tolerance for corruption and bribery, and our Local responsibility first priority is to ensure we are in compliance with all relevant Local management is responsible for ensuring employees’ underlaws and regulations wherever we do business. As a signatory standing of ethical business practices. The local board checks to the UN Global Compact, Scania adheres to its ten principles, that all contracts with agents are formal. Our controllers are including anti-corruption. Our manuals on Corporate Governance aware of all big contracts such as significant bus sales to a and How Scania is Managed provide clear guidance on topics municipality. Payments to agents must be accurately docusuch as gifts, entertainment, contracts and working with agents. mented, with a written contract specifying services carried out To engage employees around potential ethical dilemmas and and the corresponding compensation. give further guidance, we provide e-learning around a range of The standard audit process starts with assessing, planning, business scenarios, described in our employee guide, ‘Doing scoping and fieldwork and continues with reporting and follow-up. things right’. The Executive Board carries ultimate responsibility In at-risk countries, auditors interview local management about for anti-corruption at Scania. how they approach and address business ethics issues. Based on the auditor’s report, local business units develop action plans Assessing risk to correct any deviations identified. We assess bribery and corruption risk carefully using assessIn 2014 we carried out corruption awareness audits within ments from Transparency International among others. Global Purchasing. Following a risk assessment, these may Group Internal Audit follows the risk assessment approach become standard for at-risk countries. In 2015 our audits in outlined by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the at-risk countries will include a strong anti-corruption focus. Treadway Commission. This is a joint initiative of five privatesector organisations dedicated to providing thought leadership Whistle-blowing and guidance on enterprise risk management. Everyone at Scania has access to the Volkswagen Group’s In at-risk countries, we ensure that either the chief financial whistle-blowing procedures. In addition, Scania has its own officer or the managing director of the local business unit established channels for reporting on suspicions of nonis a carrier of Scania values, typically due to having years of compliances. These channels are available to the entire experience working with Scania in Sweden. We avoid “tandem organisation through the global intranet. relocations” of a managing director and chief financial officer partnership to avert the possibility of complicity. Scania has zero tolerance for corruption and bribery. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 46 HOW SCANIA WORKS – SOCIETY MAKING A DIFFERENCE ON THE GROUND As a major employer in all the places where we operate, we support local communities in a variety of ways, from vocational training to education and health initiatives. COMMUNITY ON BOARD IN ACCRA At first sight, it seems the technical challenges of implementing Accra’s new Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system – including cashless ticketing and service workshops – would be Scania’s overriding concern. But it is also clear that nurturing the social relationships around the project is just as important to its long-term success. During 2015 Scania West Africa will employ 40 people in Ghana and is partnering with government, business and education stakeholders to ensure that benefits from the BRT, and the knowledge transfer to keep it running, are felt throughout the community. In South Africa, Scania supports the Soweto Kliptown Youth Centre Vocational training centre (SKY), a non-profit organisation focused on at-risk children. Skilled technicians and well-trained drivers are essential for an efficient, fully functioning BRT. Scania is working with a local technical training centre to provide places for At Scania headquarters in Södertälje, Sweden, we employ 10,500 80 student technicians per year, some of whom we will people in a diverse community of 90,000 people, in which 45 peremploy when they graduate. In parallel we are training all cent are from countries outside Sweden. Among the activities, we future BRT bus drivers. In the first stage, we will be worksupport local sports teams in which athletes spend two or three ing with about 600 drivers from the minibus companies evenings a year promoting diversity and integration by befriending currently operating in Accra. young people in the city. With local businesses playing an essential role, Accra We partner with the Swedish Workplace HIV/AIDS programme can look forward to a clean, fast BRT by the end of 2015 in a regional approach to HIV/AIDS across Southern Africa. – which aims to help end to their unbearable 2–3 hour Prevention, treatment and care strategies are aimed at protecting cross-city traffic jams. employee rights, creating a productive working environment and maintaining healthy workforces for the companies involved. In South Africa we support the Soweto Kliptown Youth Centre (SKY), a non-profit organisation focused on at-risk children. It offers residential care to 45 children, and for many more acts as a second home where children can do homework, practise dancing and sport, and enjoy a nutritious meal. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 HOW SCANIA WORKS – SOCIETY 47 ADDRESSING LOCAL CONCERNS IN INDIA Building supportive relationships with the communities where we operate helps build support for our operations, encourages a healthy workforce and long term, builds our talent pool. That’s why, when Scania set up the factory A pupil pours safe in the Narasapura area near Bangalore, India in 2012, we drinking water, provided on a daily basis at the organised a baseline study to find out how best to work school. with nearby villages. In 2014 the research we carried out included interviews with local politicians, journalists, doctors, teachers and village residents around our factory. They revealed the key issues of concern to the community: access to drinking In 2014 Scania: water, education, unemployment, women’s health and domestic violence. • Provided spoken We are already working with the fresh water supply English lessons in schools near our factory to promote better health in the local population and with • Renovated toilets and installed rain water harvesting primary level education, hoping to reduce the number of for hand washing at Jodikrishnapura early drop-outs. To further develop our recruitment base, • Tested water for pollution – and educated children we also aim to support secondary and vocational schools on this topic in the near future. Women’s wellbeing and safety is also a • Distributed safe drinking water to schools daily. topic on our agenda. SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 48 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT The aim of this report is to provide transparency on how we operations with the exception of Tucumán, Argentina. The CO2 measure and manage our sustainability priorities. We also wish emissions from transport are calculated using the methodology to engage others in our journey towards greater sustainability by developed by NTM (Network for Transport and Environment). giving insight into the challenges and opportunities Scania faces Scania is involved in developing tools for emission calculations, going forward. including cooperation with NTM. Information gathering for certain labour indicators is decentralised, and reporting is functionor How Scania reports country-specific. Data collection for these indicators is becoming Scania has two primary channels to report sustainability informore co-ordinated and we expect to increase our global reporting mation. To highlight how central sustainability is to our business, next year. in 2014 our Annual Report addresses sustainability issues and Where possible, performance data were compared over a how it impacts our business, long-term organisational strategy, five-year period – from 2010 to 2014. Scania’s latest report was risks, and opportunities. Content is written for business partners, published in April 2014. employees and other organisational stakeholders. There is no requirement for Scania to complete an additional More in-depth sustainability performance reporting is provided sector supplement. in this Sustainability Report. By containing Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Reporting GuideGRI Index lines, we aim to fulfil the “In accordance – Core” criteria of its 4.0 The GRI Index leads readers to information about GRI’s Standard framework. Written for employees, partners, CSR specialists and Disclosures with reference to G4 categories, aspects and indicaother engaged stakeholders, the report is also aligned with the tors. The index refers to pages where these issues are addressed Volkswagen Group guidelines on sustainability reporting, and is in our annual and sustainability reporting or other channels of self-declared. information within the public sphere. The GRI index is available online at: scania.com/Sustainability/ Report scope, indicators and boundaries gri-index-2014.aspx By building this report on the 14 areas most relevant to our business, as defined by our materiality process, our report is designed External assurance to reflect Scania’s significant economic, environmental and social This report is not third-party assured. Key performance indicators impacts and the issues that substantively influence the assessrelating to energy, water, carbon, and other emissions, healthy ments and decisions of stakeholders. attendance, sales and production-related data have also been Unless otherwise indicated, the report covers all operations published in the 2014 Annual Report. All facilities that comply with that can affect Scania’s performance and our employees, ISO 14001 are certified by a third party. wholly owned subsidiaries globally during our financial year from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. For more detailed inforContacts mation about reporting boundary, limitations and changes, see Andreas Follér, Sustainability Manager, Corporate Relations, the Annual Report. Unless stated, franchise operations are not csr@scania.com included. A list of Scania’s operations and where they are located Per Hillström, Head of Investor Relations, contact@scania.com is available on p. 3. Environmental data for transport includes all transport relating This report was produced and written by Scania Corporate to production units as well as delivery to sales and services Relations in cooperation with One Stone. Photos: Shutterstock, Scania Image Bank SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 SCANIA SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014 Scania AB, SE-151 87 Södertälje, Sweden Telephone: +46 8 55 38 10 00. Fax: +46 8 55 38 10 37 www.scania.com EN / One Stone / Kreab / 2015
