UN Global Compact Communication on Progress -----------------------------------------------Period covered 8 December 2014 to 8 December 2015 -----------------------------------------------------TODAY Group of Companies Myanmar Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact To our clients and stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that TODAY Group of Companies reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. TODAY Group is proud to have participated in the Global Compact and will continue to make an ongoing commitment to integrate the initiatives ten principles into our working strategies and operations. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe the practical actions taken towards implementing and measuring the four areas mentioned above. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication including Global Compact website www.unglobalcompact.org. Sincerely yours, Tha Tun Oo CEO TODAY Group of Companies today@today.com.mm todaygroup@gmail.com Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make that they sure are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals TODAY actively support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We employ over 300 employees including foreign expatriates and upon employment each individual is presented with a contract which provides direction to the company policies, culture and staff handbook. These documents cover relevant information on our equal opportunities and non-harassment policy. As part of the nature of the business we occasionally work with overseas stakeholders, however, we will not carry out business with any companies or countries which do not adhere to fair human rights. Since 2012 we have worked together with Ogilvy & Mather and now we recruit more than 20 foreign expats. We always respect the rights of those working with us in line with the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. These include: Freedom from discrimination in the workplace, through equal opportunities Freedom from forced labour and The abolition of child labour. We aim to create a workplace that encourages people to make best use of their talents and provides them with flexible working conditions to meet their individual needs. Implementation We have made our employees aware of our human rights policy by carrying out training and disseminating information via our employee handbook. We encourage our employees to communicate with us whenever any concerns or suggestions arise. We have corporate social responsibility team, TODAY Foundation, and our team undertakes many activities to improve the quality of the lives of Myanmar people. We frequently hold seminars and workshops to educate our people from all walks of life. We donate cash, food and drinking-water to those who are in need. Occasionally we donate food and provide clothes for the deaf and the blind. Measurement of outcomes Over the past twelve months we have reviewed and updated the existing processes and practices with consideration for the human rights principles. We hold management meetings on a biannual basis to review our labour policies and all suggestions made are logged on a register. We also put in place to ensure that we continually improve our processes and examples of this were to provide all our employees with medical allowance twice a year, and educational allowance for their kids twice a year too. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour: and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals We actively monitor and comply with Health & safety regulations, environmental regulations, employment law and information security regulations, news law, acceptable usage policy covering IT access, including internet and email usage from the workplace. We will not tolerate sexual, nor racial harassment, nor bullying. Any disciplinary issue will be handled through proper procedures. We commit to create a diverse workplace where differing perspectives, experiences, lifestyles and cultures are embraced and respected, the differences among individuals are valued and diversity within our workforce is welcomed. Implementation Our employees are entitled to all applicable rights under Myanmar law and International Standards. We have special fund for staff's loan and also a staff discounts for our products. Employees have the right to leave the company and their contract outlines clear requirements related to this resignation from employment. We review the workloads of each individual on a monthly basis to ensure tasks are equally assigned between roles. Employees are encouraged to speak with the senior members of the team if they feel overworked or treated unfairly. Measurement of outcomes We review our staff benefits on a regular basis to make sure that we offer a fair deal to all of our employees. Our team is open to a range of ages, ethnicities and genders. We never employ anyone under the age of 18. We seriously check these points weekly. We work with regular suppliers therefore w have strong working relationships. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principles 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals We always ensure that waste paper within the organization is re-used wherever possible. All employees are educated on the importance of contributing towards environmental protection and recycling of paper and other materials that can be reused. In particular, we will: Reduce harmful emissions whenever possible Control the use of electricity Seek to reduce consumption of materials in our operations and promote recycling and the use of recycled materials Manage energy and water usage wisely in all our operations Manage to print documents only when necessary , recycle, use public transport Use the most environmental laptops Implementation During the last year we have taken the following steps to protect the environment: Creating TODAY Foundation and raising funds for environmentally affected flooded-areas Signage to remind the staff to be aware of turning off all electronics when they are not in use, think before they print Growing flower plants and other trees around office area to reduce the heat in Use of cleaning products Reducing the use of air-conditioner Measurement of Outcomes We manage a waste disposal system to measure that it is sorted to enable recycling of paper and other organic wastes. In this concern, employees are required to segregate waste material such as paper and other organic materials before throwing on the garbage disposal bins. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Whoever we may deal with, and wherever we may operate, we are committed to doing so lawfully, ethically and with integrity. All forms of bribery and corruption by our directors or employees, regardless of their position in our organization, or business partners, are unacceptable and will not be tolerated. We never give undue advantage to any person, whether a public official or a private employee, in order to influence that person to act in an improper manner. Our employees will be required to confirm that they have read and understood the policy and that they comply with its term as part of their ongoing employment assessment progress. Failure to comply with this policy, whether or not this is intentional, may lead to disciplinary action which shall be proportionate to the degree of the breach. Implementation We strictly ensure that our staff practices our policies and expectations. Bribery is also covered in our employee handbook. We have a comprehensive gifs, hospitality and expenses policy to ensure that our employees are not receiving undue advantages. With due diligence we review our clients, our suppliers and our business partners and ensure that they also commit to work with our staff against corruption. Measurement of Outcomes Our management team and finance team regularly regularly check all transactions for signs of any unusual payments and expenses. They also monitor whether gifts received from outside are proper. We continue to pride ourselves on a clean record.
