Sustainability report. Contents About Axis This report covers the most important Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter sustainability aspects of our business and safer world. As the global market leader in network video, and how we are managing these in Axis is driving the industry by continually launching innovative order to live up to the expectations of our stakeholders, and to further network products based on an open platform – delivering high strengthen Axis as a brand and as a value to customers through a global partner network. corporate partner. The report covers the fiscal year 2014. About Axis 2 Highlights President’s message > As part of Axis’ work to raise environmental and quality awareness 4 among our suppliers, we began to offer online webinars through the Axis Supplier Academy program. Existing Sustainable webinars cover, for example, legal requirements and governance product material declarations. 6 Solutions to global > Axis has removed PVC from several product series challenges and continues to work toward only offering PVC8 free cameras. As of 2014, about 65% of Axis network cameras and encoders are PVC free. Case studies 10 > Since 2011, Axis has reduced its transport-related CO2 emissions Responsibility along considerably. CO2-emissions per tonkm from freight transport have our value chain been reduced by 20% compared to when the goal was set in 2011. The 12 decrease can be explained by better planning of our logistics flow and individual changes of suppliers. Axis way of working 14 > During 2014, we have continued to optimize Axis’ product packaging Business Conduct in order to reduce material use, reduce freight volume and optimize for 16 material disposal. This effort includes reducing size of the packaging as well as addressing which types of materials are used for packaging of Axis cameras. Environmental Responsibility > Axis continues to implement the anti-corruption program set in place 2013. 20 Responsibility in the > In 2014, Axis participated in an employee survey, Great Place to Work®, in Sweden, supply chain USA and Germany. Great Place to Work® is a workplace study in which we as 28 participants receive company-specific results as well as a benchmark. Social > 96% of suppliers which are deemed to have a significant impact on Axis’ Responsibility environmental and sustainability aspects have been approved through an Axis audit 30 or are certified according to ISO14001. This is in line with Axis’ auditing target. GRI references 38 > Axis established presence in 5 new countries and opened 9 new offices. > With this report, we have made a transition to the fourth generation of guidelines Further information can also be from the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI G4. found in Axis’ Annual Report 2014 and Corporate Governance Report 2014, both available in English at www.axis.com PAGE 3 Axis has long-term relationships with with its partners and provides them with knowledge and ground-breaking network products in existing and new markets. Founded in 1984, Axis is a Sweden-based company listed on NASDAQ Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit our website www.axis.com. Number of countries HQ 49 with Number of countries Axis employees Regional offices 179 with partners 5,450 SEK million in sales More than 75,000 Number of employees 1,941 in the Axis group partners PAGE 4 Finding new to do business – continuing o sustainability path In recent years, we have contributed to many significant changes in the closer to our customers, we have made our logistics flow more efficient industry by continuously launching innovative network video products and thereby been able to reduce transport emissions. This represents a that help to create a smarter and safer world. During the past few large part of the reductions we have made in CO2 emissions, a decrease years, we have been on a tremendous journey – a journey which we which in total amounted to 13% in 2014. want to continue by delivering sustainable products and solutions to our customers across the globe, helping them to optimize their business. 30 years of Axis – giving back Our corporate culture – characterized by an entrpreneurial spirit, New ways to grow our business innovation, openness and development – is very important to us. During As global market leader, Axis acts as a role model. We have good the past year, we continued our high rate of recruitment and every new opportunities to influence those around us in relation to sustainability employee completed our introduction program at the headquarters in issues, to set standards and promote sustainability. Meanwhile, we Lund. The program offers new employees a chance to get to know more continuously take the opportunity to change. Last year we introduced about our corporate culture. an anti-corruption program for employees and distributors and this year we have launched a network camera with recyclable plastic, thereby During 2014, we also celebrated 30 years as a company. As part of reducing the carbon footprint of this product series. our celebrations, many colleagues at our sales companies marked the anniversary under the theme “Giving back”, in which our employees have Long-term perspective shown great commitment to different projects across the globe. Just We work with sustainability issues by building long-term relationships to give a few examples, our employees in China raised funds for school throughout our value chain, all the way from sourcing to network video libraries; in the Czech Republic, they contributed to a storybook for products in operation. During the year, our sustainability work also children in hospital; in Spain, they supported an educational foundation became an integrated part of the company´s business and a natural by installing cameras at a school for children with autism; and in the part of our day-to-day operations. This way we can build trust, reduce US, employees made donations through the Ice Bucket Challenge – one risks and deliver products with an added value. By building trust with of the big Internet memes of 2014. I see these initiatives – and all the our suppliers, partners and customers, we can all justify long-term other Giving Back projects that our employees have been involved investments to improve our collective sustainability performance. in during the year – as proof of how Axis’ people are embracing the company’s core values. In this sustainability report, we have made a transition to the new G4 sustainability reporting guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative Continued commitments (GRI). During the transition, we have initiated a stakeholder dialogue that At Axis, we aim to take sustainability into consideration in all business has given us very valuable insights and is helping us to focus further on processes as well as throughout the entire value chain. We have a three the most important areas in our value chain. pillar strategy, which is based on sound corporate governance. The pillars consist of: environmental consideration, social responsibility (social and Climate footprint – doing more with less labor rights) and business ethics (anti-corruption). This strategy supports I am especially proud to see that we in 2014 could see the results of our and embraces the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. previous efforts to reduce our climate footprint. By locating production ways n our “At Axis, we apply a proactive approach to the way we run our business and to how we address sustainability.” Ray Mauritsson President Sustainable governance Axis is a global company with employees in almost 50 countries and partners in 179 countries. Axis thereby influences the lives of many people including customers, employees, suppliers and others. Axis intends to create value for its stakeholders, build relations and take responsibility in financial, social, business and environmental matters. At Axis, we focus on three areas when it comes to This strategy supports and embraces the ten principles sustainability: environmental consideration, social of the UN Global Compact. Axis became a member responsibility (human and labor rights), and business of the UN Global Compact initiative in 2007 and ethics (anti-corruption). These areas are based on continuously strives to improve our performance in sound corporate governance. relation to sustainability. Employees Distribution and partners Surveys and performance reviews, Meetings and partner trainings, G -TERM R focusing on health and safety, S LON ESP focusing on Code of Conduct and anticareer and development and our KE ON corruption policy Code of Conduct TA ees Distribu IS SI AX loy part tio BI End customers p ne LIT Suppliers m usiness conduc t r n Deliver network video eb E Y ibl & Audits and trainings, s products with lower energy focus on supplier Res and possibility to reduce po E d ironmental resp c u stn ns S u p p lie rs Code of Conduct Axis values: carbon footprint with Env o m er s Act as one. remote monitoring Always open. Think big. ility on Society sib on Public authorities, e.g. y Investors Socia ilit Lund Municipality and l re sp sib Dialogue regarding Region Skåne regarding So r investor expectations to s cie es public transport planning ty Inv on our sustainability performance. Continuously University student fairs and activities deliver coherent and to inform of axis as a future employer. correct financial and nonCo-operations with universities, to financial information contribute to gender diversity within technical professions. Other local community dialogues and engagement SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE PAGE 7 Policies and organization Code of Conduct Axis’ Code of Conduct defines the approach, values and guidelines that the company and its staff shall apply in matters of business conduct, business relations, human rights, workplace practices and environmental considerations. The Code of Conduct is based on the following international principles: > The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights > The UN Global Compact initiative > The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work As a company listed on the NASDAQ Stockholm Exchange, Axis also applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (for details, see www.corporategovernanceboard.se). We at Axis aim to make sustainability an integrated part of our business strategy and operations, where continuous improvements are made at all levels. To support this process, our environmental and sustainabilityrelated work follows an organizational framework: > Axis Sustainability Council has the overall responsibility for sustainability matters. Responsibilities include, for example, implementation of Axis’ Code of Conduct and related policies, as well as monitoring company activities. The council is mainly composed of representatives from the Axis Management team. > Axis Sustainability Project Group is made up of representatives from the corporate functions of Human Resources, Global Sales, Quality & Environment, and Communications. The group is responsible for the development of sustainability efforts in different areas and for extending the reporting to cover additional areas within the framework of the UN Global Compact initiative. > Axis Environmental Council contains representatives from R&D, Product Management, Communications, and Operations, as well as members of the Management team. The Council works with general environmental issues and initiates projects aimed at minimizing Axis’ environmental impact. > The Ethics Council is composed of representatives from the Management team. The council handles ethical issues and consults, discusses and decides on matters related to Axis’ business conduct. Solutions to global Axis operates globally and our business is linked to political, social, environmental and economic macro trends. We see that many of these trends drive an increasing need for intelligent solutions that enable smarter use of technology and contribute to a safer world. Provider of intelligent solutions Protecting and improving societal functions We at Axis are represented as a provider of network video products Intelligent digital video solutions serve – and have the potential to and solutions in more than 40 countries. Adding our network of sales serve – many different purposes. A range of important functions in our partners – today more than 75,000 – we cover 179 countries worldwide. societies are vulnerable, such as energy production, healthcare services, educational systems, important industrial production sites and so on. In We have the world’s largest base of installed network video products large parts of the world, these functions are subject to different types and solutions and are equipped and well-positioned to continue to of threats, creating a need for security solutions. In other regions, the provide solutions that meet the needs of the future. main driver is to improve the performance of these societal functions by finding more intelligent solutions. The global market for surveillance cameras is expected to grow, and the different types of applications for Axis’ products is evolving. Their Our products and markets potential to not only contribute to safety, but also to smarter solutions, Axis offers a wide portfolio of products for professional IP video is becoming more and more evident. The demand is growing globally, surveillance. Our security cameras, video encoders, accessories and both in mature markets, such as North America and Europe, and, even access control products are based on open industry standards. The more clearly, in emerging markets. products integrate easily with Axis’ video management software, or with a partner product, to build a complete security or surveillance Smarter and more sustainable cities solution. Axis products are sold to end customers in more than 179 Urbanization is one of the most distinct geographical macro trends countries, our largest region is Americas, followed by EMEA (Europe, globally. Urban populations are growing rapidly, especially in emerging Middle East and Africa) and Asia. economies, and much effort is directed toward making cities attractive and liveable. With fast urbanization comes challenges, such as being able to provide well-functioning transport services, energy supply and other aspects of living conditions. In dense urban areas, there is often a distinct need for the provision of safe environments for its inhabitants. This increases the demand for all types of security-related solutions, such as lighting och surveillance systems. PAGE 9 challenges In focus Implications for personal integrity The increasing use of cameras, for surveillance as well as for other purposes, naturally results in a discussion about the positive and negative potential impacts that the use of these technologies can have on personal integrity and on human rights. Surveillance cameras contribute to crime prevention and help law enforcement to solve criminal cases. The perceived effectiveness of surveillance cameras in deterring crime is a major reason why public opinion polls show an increasingly positive attitude toward the use of cameras in public places. Axis’ network-based cameras and surveillance solutions are important components in security systems. End customers are responsible for how surveillance cameras are used and how video material is stored, which are the two most important aspects of privacy. Axis urges its partners to ensure, to the extent possible, that its network cameras and solutions are installed and used appropriately and that video material is protected and safely stored. By complying with Axis’ user guidelines, in addition to national and international regulations, end-users can reduce the risk of Axis’ cameras being operated inappropriately. In addition, innovations in network video technology enable the use of anonymization and limitation functionalities to provide additional protection of personal privacy. Axis and its partners have developed advanced software solutions that, when implemented in surveillance systems, can be used to ensure that cameras only record what is necessary. Examples of privacy protection functions include privacy masks that automatically blur faces in video material, access level restrictions, and configurable pan, tilt and zoom limits. Axis’ products and solutions also support encryption, IP address filtering and other data protection capabilities. Many countries have legal restrictions on the use of surveillance technologies. There are also international trade restrictions, such as sanctions and embargoes, which influence exports or restrict different types of products to be sold to certain countries. Should any concerns need to be raised, Axis have a whistle blower function protecting those who wish to come forward. Any issues raised through this or other channels will be handled immediately by representatives of Axis management and reported back to concerned parties. Read more about how Axis works with business ethics on www.axis.com/corporate/sustainability/index.htm Case studies Stories contributing to a smarter and Axis products can be found all over the globe; in cities as well as remote areas, in fixed safer world as well as mobile applications. This section presents a selection of stories showing some smart solutions in which our technologies are being used. Improved cheese quality Wyke Farms has been producing the finest English cheddar cheese and butter since 1861 in the heart of the Somerset countryside. The company has a 100% green strategy and aims to be one of the greenest grocery brands in the UK. The existing security system at Wyke Farm’s main dairy needed an upgrade, including installment of additional cameras at its newlybuilt biogas plant site. Axis’ cameras provide quality surveillance both inside and outside the farm’s buildings. In addition to an inbuilt tampering alert, which signals any vandalism attempts to the management system, the cameras only record when they detect movement, which has significant energy saving benefits. “IP video impacts less negatively on the environment than traditional analog systems and so was a natural choice. The Axis-based system has given us a sustainable, intuitive solution that will be able to support us as we grow,” says the engineering manager at Wyke Farms. PAGE 11 Traffic surveillance The state of Alagoas in Eastern Brazil has installed Axis network cameras for both fixed and mobile use. One of the project’s purposes is to monitor traffic to ensure an even traffic flow and to keep an eye out for accidents and other disturbances. Cameras operate along the main roads in and out of the city with the support of radio operators, and the images are monitored at the Municipal Transport and Traffic Division headquarters. These cameras are ideal for reading license plates, also enabling cross-checking vehicles against databases of stolen vehicles. A safer place to work and to shop The welfare of customers and colleagues is taken seriously at The Co-operative Food stores in the UK. The retailer is UK’s fifth largest. In order to enhance the safety and security of its stores, the retailer undertook a review of its current surveillance system and decided that it needed to improve. Installer and Axis partner, Kings Security, developed an interactive security solution that utilized Axis network cameras to measurably increase the personal well-being of Co-operative colleagues, and improve loss prevention across the supermarket estate. For example, when locking-up, colleagues can now request that operators assess the area, using the cameras to scan and identify any potential threats. Forest fire prevention Every year, Russia experiences billions of dollars’ worth of economic losses due to forest fires. These fires also result in loss of natural resource and biodiversity. At the Nizhny Novogorod Forest Center, a Forest Watch system has been installed using the AXIS Q60 Network Cameras with an efficient panoramic surveillance. With the Forest Watch intelligent monitoring system in place, fires in 33 regions of the Russian Federation has been detected in time. “Boosted with Axis IP cameras, our Forest Watch fire monitoring and surveillance system has become more efficient as operators are able to detect fire at early stages. We have already achieved great cost savings and protected many hectares of forest in our area,” says Konurin Anton G., Deputy Director, Nizhny Novgorod Forest Fire Center. Responsibility along our value chai Career and development, equal opportunities and non-discrimination Occupational Health & Safety, Labor Rights Contract manufactures Axis Resellers System integrato CLCs Distributors Sub-suppliers Materials in products and their energy performance Supplier environmental performance Carbon footprint Anti-corruption Human Rights Customer privacy Our success and rapid growth can be attributed to our efficient business model, from sourcing through to end customers, via our large distribution and partner network. With a high rate of innovation and global expansion we have a good n basis for continued growth. Axis’ contracted product manufacturers, close suppliers and our distribution partners, such as resellers and system integrators, are key stakeholders throughout our value chain. These are also important partners in terms of responsible business conduct. Through long-term relationships we can minimize our risks and focus on the opportunities ahead. Economic End customers r performance Meeting our financial targets and showing overall good financial performance is the basis for us to meet the expectations of our stakeholders in terms of sustainability. Stable finances enable us to continue to make long-term investments in line with our strategic plans. As market leader, we also have a good chance to raise the environmental consideration and sustainability standards across the entire sector. This leadership rs requires continued sound and well-managed finances. Total average annual Profit margin growth of at least of at least 20% 10% Axis operates in a rapidly expanding Over a business cycle, Axis shall display market and the goal is to grow a profit margin of at least 10%. The faster, or in line with, the market in goal is formulated on the basis of the the long term. Growth is generated market trend in the longer term. The by underlying demand for networkprofit margin was 13% in 2014. based security solutions and Axis is driving the shift from analog to digital video surveillance. Growth was 16% in 2014. PAGE 14 What matters With this report, we have started our journey to align our Sustainability Reporting with the latest generation of the Global Reporting Initiative’s Guidelines, G4. In preparation of a full transition from G3.1 to G4 by 2015, we have gone through a first phase of our materiality analysis. We have also begun to improve our disclosures of our management approach to fit those aspects that have been identified as material. During 2014, we held a series of internal workshops with our a material aspect in itself. We will therefore report on our customer Sustainability Project Group in order to identify relevant aspects, as satifaction surveys when discussing Business Conduct. well as to plan the involvement of external stakeholders. In-depth interviews have been conducted with private owners and funds, Customer privacy is also of great importance. In order to ensure suppliers and customers. Furthermore, previous dialogue, such as their and our partners’ integrity and confidentiality, Axis gathers all with local authorities (Lund), results of employee surveys and industry information about partners and end customers in a CRM system. The benchmarks, have been used as input in the analysis. A compilation system is a highly protected IT system with passwords and firewalls. of the results was thereafter discussed in the Sustainability Council. As Axis is also a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact We have now identified a set of material issues – presented here to initiative, this report serves as our communication of progress toward the right – under each of our main sustainability areas: Environmental the ten core principles of Global Compact. This has also affected the Responsibility, Social Responsibility and Business Conduct. coverage of sustainability issues in this report. As for legal compliance, which concerns a number of the G4 aspects, Further information regarding our G4 transition can be found together we at Axis see this as the minimum requirement and the aim of our with our GRI-index on page 38-39. sustainability work is to raise the bar. We will continue to report on any legal compliance issues in our sustainability report, but in terms During 2015, we will complete our materiality analysis with a more of materiality we will focus on our work beyond legal requirements. thorough coverage of our stakeholders and by using this first G4based report as a basis for dialogue. Customer satisfaction is of course important to our business, and we believe that it is an outcome of our sustainability work rather than Business Conduct The most important ingredient in our Business Conduct is long-term relationships. As our suppliers and partners are a central part of our business model, we need to work closely with them, as well as with others along our value chain, in order to ensure compliance with our expectations on business conduct. We need to ensure that all our Business relations are handled in a responsible, transparent and consistent way. Our most important aspects: >> Anti-corruption >> Human rights and personal integrity related to end-use of our products Read more on page 16-19, 28-29 Environmental Responsibility Axis environmental responsibility ranges from a local and direct responsibility to a global, more indirect, responsibility. Based on knowledge derived from our Life Cycle Analysis and Carbon Footprint reporting, we work with our environmental impacts along our value chain, focusing our efforts where we have a chance to make the most difference. Our most important aspects: >> Our carbon footprint >> Material used in our products and our products energy performance >> Environmental performance of our suppliers Read more on page 20-27, 28-29 Social Responsibility For us at Axis, Social Responsibility means an overall positive contribution to society as well as the safe-guarding of human values, such as safety and overall well-being. We aim to take long-term responsibility for how our operations impact our employees, suppliers and partners. Although not identified among our most important aspects of Social Responsibility, we are also involved in different initiatives to benefit the respective local societies and end customers of our products in the countries in which we operate. Our most important aspects: >> Equal opportunities and non-discrimination >> Occupational health and safety >> Labor practices and human rights in the supply chain >> Employee career and development Read more on page 28-29, 30-37 Business Conduct The role as global market leader gives Axis great influence on where the industry is heading in terms of innovative and intelligent security solutions. It also gives the company great responsibility to ensure that production, manufacturing and distribution is conducted according to internationally agreed principles and sound business ethics. Axis’ indirect sales model therefore requires close, transparent and long-term relationships with partners throughout the value chain. A loyal partner for the future With over 75,000 international partners, Axis places great value in fostering close and long-term relationships. For example, Axis has programs encouraging skillsand knowledge-sharing, such as the Application Development Partner program, the Channel Partner program, the Architecture & Engineering program and the Technology Partner program. Since 2005, Axis has also run the Axis Communications’ Academy where more than 50,000 people have participated in classroom trainings in the advantages of network video. As was illustrated on page 12 Axis has an indirect sales model with limited insight into upand downstream activities. This structure leaves the direct responsibility for production, distribution and installation with suppliers, distributors, resellers and system integrators. It is therefore a main characteristic of Axis’ partner engagement to work with these actors and carefully inform about the company’s sustainability values and about Axis’ Code of Conduct. These efforts are important in order to take responsibility where Axis has limited direct impact. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 BUSINESS CONDUCT PAGE 17 Business ethics throughout the value chain Transparency is at the heart of Axis’ corporate culture – a result of Axis’ Code of Conduct for Axis’ suppliers determination to maintain the mind of a small company with a close Axis is collaborating with contract manufacturers and strategic dialogue with partners. All Axis’ business relationships are characterized component suppliers for the production and assembly of our products. by an ethical approach, guided by the company’s Business Ethics Council This manufacturing model makes a close dialogue with suppliers crucial, policy. Axis has a business ethics council that takes decisions on ethical in order to ensure that Axis’ business ethics requirements are respected issues, and an export control policy ensuring compliance with export and complied with. These requirements are established in Axis’ Supplier control regulations. Axis is also a signatory of the United Nations Global Code of Conduct, which all Axis’ suppliers are required to sign. Compact initiative since 2007. Axis’ engagement upstream begins already when selecting which Code of Conduct for Axis’ business relationships suppliers and subcontractors to work with. Apart from price, the The UN Global Compact initiatives’ principles form the foundation selection criteria also includes quality, ethics and flexibility. Once of Axis’ Code of Conduct, which all Axis’ employees are required to a new partner relationship is established and the Code of Conduct sign, and expected to act in accordance with. The Code of Conduct is signed, Axis conducts recurring audits of its suppliers to ensure instructs Axis’ employees on how to act in their respective operating compliance. Read more about how Axis works with supplier audits on environments and in all business relationships, for example with pages 28-29. regard to issues related to human rights, labor, environment and Axis’ anti-corruption policy. These guidelines are also based on the UN A Helping hand in the value chain Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the International Labour In the fall of 2014, Axis’ commitment to our partners was put to the Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights test following an unfortunate event. One of our suppliers in Thailand at Work. The Code of Conduct is an important part of our annual suffered a fire that completely destroyed one of their production inroductory program for new employees. facilities. In order to help our partner get back to full operation as soon as possible, Axis offered full collaboration. We worked closely with the supplier; for example providing financial assistance to replace The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for lost equipment, ensuring the quality of other premises and production businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and processes, and by jointly ensuring to source critical components. strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption Axis signed the agreement in 2007 and has since conducted and published its sustainability report annually sent to the UN Global Compact. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAGE 18 BUSINESS CONDUCT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Axis says no to corruption Axis has zero tolerance for corruption, and as market leader, we work Anti-corruption has, in our dialogue with our stakeholders, been proactively to prevent and counter corruption in the entire industry. confirmed as our most important sustainability aspect. We at Axis also In 2014, we continued to run Axis’ anti-corruption program targeting clearly see how this strengthens our relationships with our partners employees and distributors. and customers. “A common ground regarding business ethics builds a sound foundation for a responsible business practice. Securitas and The aim with Axis’ anti-corruption program is to counter all types Axis share the view on having a competent and educated work force of corruption, bribes and conflicts of interest. The program includes who stand behind zero tolerance for corruption,” says Cecilia Alenius, Axis’ anti-corruption policy, training for all employees as well as a Group CSR Officer, Securitas. supplementary agreement for all distributors. The program is an important part of our proactive and long-term social sustainability Since 2013, Axis also has a whistleblower function. This consists of work and helps to clarify Axis’ approach both internally and externally. an e-mail address to which employees can send an e-mail if they The initiative to the program was taken by people in Axis’ sales discover or suspect anything improper. Employees can also use it to department who wanted to develop clearer support and guidelines on ask questions about how they should handle specific situations. The these issues in everyday commercial situations. e-mail is sent to a group of people, including representatives from the company management. Anti-corruption – employee program Axis’ employees throughout the world have participated in the anti-corruption training program and have consequently signed an agreement confirming that they have understood and will comply with Axis’ anti-corruption policy. The employee program is a way for Axis to ensure that our employees are aware of rules and regulations, as well as Axis’ own values, and that they are able to use and practice these values in everyday situations. Anti-corruption – distributor agreement supplement “Securitas and Axis share the All Axis’ more than 100 distributors have undertaken to comply with Axis’ zero tolerance against view on having a competent and corruption policy by signing a supplement to the distribution agreement. In the supplement, distributors commit to comply educated workforce who stand with applicable legislation against corruption and bribes. behind zero tolerance for corruption.” Customer satisfaction As all close relationships require two-way communication to be is highly valued. Scores were strong in all categories (including order, sustainable, we conduct recurring customer satisfaction surveys delivery, products, etc.). When asked to elaborate on their opinions, with our distributors and partner program members. Our most recent respondents mentioned, for example, Axis‘ high product quality, the survey was conducted in 2013, with over 7,000 respondents from 43 large product range, an unbeatable customer service and support, and countries. The survey explored their overall satisfaction with Axis as the reliable, honest and human relationships with customers. Respondents a sales partner, whether or not they would recommend Axis to others, also expressed appreciation for Axis’ “professional and impactful” training and any suggested points of improvement for Axis to address. offers and that the company “does not simply sell products”, but offers an open culture and high integrity. The survey covered the entire sales chain from order and delivery, product performance through to after-sales and technical support. Naturally, the survey also brought areas for improvement to our attention, and we are continually following up in order to address these. Axis The 2013 customer satisfaction survey revealed encouraging results is always forward-looking. We are therefore launching our next and positive development since 2010, illustrating that our ambition to customer satisfaction survey in 2015 in order to ensure long-term create close, “more-than-just-sales” relationships with our customers mutual success. PAGE 19 High standards by being proactive What needs did the anti-corruption program identify? Axis’ global sales organization has been growing very rapidly over the years, especially in emerging markets such as North Asia. Through our channel development initiative, we have been successfully expanding the number of channel partners via recruitment and education initiatives. As global market leader in network video, we need to be more proactive in communicating the high standards in our anti-corruption policy to all key stakeholders. We need to educate the market about our zero-tolerance against all forms of bribes and corruption in order to support our long-term sustainable growth in Fan Look the global market. Regional Director North Asia How have your customers and distributors reacted to your clearer guidelines? “We believe that openness and Our customers and partners have been very receptive and positive about our proactive transparency can help to build approach to share our clear guidelines with them. There were many questions and answers during the process which have further improved the clarity and stronger mutual trust and transparency of our strong position against corruption. We believe that openness and transparency can help understanding with all our partners.” to build stronger mutual trust and understanding with all our partners. What are the greatest benefits of the How have your employees reacted to anti-corruption program? the program? As global market leader, we need to be very clear about the high We have almost doubled the size of our sales team in recent years. standards in our anti-corruption policy everywhere around the world. Integrity has always been one of the most important factors in our This will put both Axis and our key internal and external stakeholders hiring process. Under this program, 100% of our employees attended in a stronger position to achieve long-term sustainable growth in the the internal briefing and training. There was a need for clear guidelines coming years. and collaborative efforts on the best ways to respond and act in various situations that may arise in our daily working environments. Another key benefit is that it will further strengthen our mutual trust As a result, the feedback from our employees has been very positive. and understanding with all our key partners by taking a more proactive approach to sharing our core values and anti-corruption policy. Overall satisfaction (survey 2013) 80% Highly satisfied with Axis (2010 74%) 58% NPS* (2010 48%) * NetPromoter Score (NPS) is a common method used to measure customer loyalty. It is calculated: NPS = % of Promoters % Detractors. The index ranges from -100 to 100, meaning that any figure above 0% is positive, and results above 50% are very good. Environm Responsibil Targets Fulfillment status 2014 Products: Improve the environmental performance of the products > AXIS Q604X Series shall be PVC-free by Q1 2015 The new PVC-free AXIS Q60 Series is currently carefully scrutinized and tested, to be released on the market in 2015 Freights: Reducing CO2emissions per tonkm from freight transport by 20% 2016 Since 2011, emissions of CO2 decreased by 15% compared to year 2011 >> Decrease an average of 5% of CO2 emissions (for Axis-controlled 3.6% reduction since 2012 outbound transport) per tonkm to the customer, compared to the average CO2 emissions for 2012 > Increase ocean and road transport in relation to air transport. Use ocean and Share of transports by mode: road freight more than 60% (tonkm) Ocean/truck 76% (2013: 57%) Air freight 24% (2013: 43%) Facilities: Reducing electricity per employee at headquarters in Lund, Some of our regional offices have managed to reduce, CLC1 and Axis regional sales offices including South Asia Pacific, USA and Eastern Europe > Reducing electricity by 5% per employee at headquarters in Lund 2.6 (2.8) MWH/employee HQ, reduction 7% > Reducing electricity per employee at CLC1 and Axis regional sales offices 5.3 (6.2) MWH/employee CLC1, reduction 14% Supply chain: 95% of all suppliers with high sustainability impact shall 96% of all suppliers have an environmental/CSR management have an environmental/CSR management system approved by Axis or be certified system in place SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 21 ental ity Axis’ environmental responsibility stretches along the value chain and focuses on the products’ entire life cycle. Considering that most of our environmental impacts are indirect, related to subcontracted production, logistics and energy consumption in the use-phase, we at Axis find it important to contribute to improvements even at these stages. Ensuring systematics to minimize impact Axis’ rapid and high growth rate has enabled us to expand our operations, but has meanwhile posed a challenge in terms of systematic overview of environmental impacts generated throughout the value chain and the product life cycle. We have taken different measures in order to identify these impacts, evaluate their magnitude and to address them systematically. Life cycle analyses have, for example, been carried out on a number of selected camera models, and emissions of greenhouse gases have been monitored throughout our operations to estimate Axis’ “carbon footprint”. From this foundation, we are working to ensure that design, product development, material choice, material origin, choice of components and packaging all meet Axis’ strict requirements in respect of quality and functionality, while also minimizing environmental impacts. We have been inventorying and reporting emissions of greenhouse gases produced by Axis’ business activities and operations since 2009, in accordance with the international Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The results are presented annually in Axis’ Carbon Footprint Reports (see the following pages). PAGE 22 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Addressing our carbon footprint Several activities related to Axis’ operations generate carbon dioxide tons CO2e, a decrease of 8.6%. We have also included a number of emissions which have an impact on the global climate. Therefore, offices in the Eastern Europe region in the 2014 footprint report. The Axis aims to take responsibility in these areas, as well as in the reporting scope has a significant impact on the total carbon footprint manufacturing and design of our products. Part of this work is to and related key performance indicators (KPIs). reduce our overall carbon footprint and to put stringent demands on our suppliers. By annually monitoring and reporting our carbon At the same time, Axis has grown, including considerable increases dioxide emissions, we get an idea of which processes generate the in product sales, number of employees, and in terms of extension of most emissions and where we need to focus our attention to reduce our facilities. Despite of this growth and expansion, total emissions our impact. per employee have decreased considerably from 10.4 ton CO2e, to 6.9 ton CO2e (CO2e incl. third party deliveries). Emissions generated by The 2014 Carbon Footprint report focuses on emissions related to Axis employees, such as energy use and business travel (all activities transports, energy consumption of premises, company cars, business included except third party deliveries), have also decreased slightly, travel and paper consumption. New for our 2014 report is that it is from 2.7 CO2e to 2.3 tons CO2e. Emissions relative to sales have not only based on data collected from the headquarters in Lund, but decreased from 3.99 tons CO2 to 3.20 ton CO2 per SEK 100M. also from Axis’ largest regional offices and all our Configuration and Logistics Centers (CLC) not only in Lund but also other regions located Although Axis has increased the reporting scope, KPIs from 2014 clearly worldwide. According to the GHG Protocol, a company is accountable show a positive trend with regards to carbon emissions, as mentioned for emissions resulting from operations over which it has control, in mainly due to measures taken in focus areas such as freight transports. either financial or operational terms. The report also includes emissions Efforts include, for example, better planning of logistic flows. from all outbound and inbound freights controlled by Axis. Transports The choice of system boundaries has an impact on the results of the Axis’ has a target to reduce transport-related CO2 emissions with analysis, which needs to be taken into consideration when comparing 20% by 2016 in comparison to 2011. During the past three years, Axis’ results with those of other Carbon Footprint reports. emissions of CO2 decreased by 15%. Efforts made in 2013 to reduce transport emissions have had effect during 2014. One example is Axis’ A reduction of our total footprint efforts to ensure that the company’s products are manufactured as Compared to 2013, Axis’ carbon footprint 2014 decreased from 18,829 close to the market as possible, in order to streamline logistics flows. to 16,369 tons CO2e, a decrease by 13%. The decrease is mainly The same approach is applied for choice of suppliers. This strategy explained by a drastic decrease of greenhouse gas emissions caused by not only improves supply chain flexibility and reduces lead times and freight transports – a decrease of 20%. However, accounting for the delivery costs, it also shortens transport distances and reduces the CO2 fact that five Configuration and Logistics Centers have been added to emissions generated from product transports. our reporting scope, emissions have decreased from 18,829 to 17,209 Ton CO2e per Sales Kg CO2e per employee Ton CO2e 5 5 20,000 4 4 16,000 3 3 12,000 tCO2e per SEK 100 M kgCO2e per employee 2 2 8,000 Ton CO2e 1 1 4,000 Scope 3 Scope 2 0 0 0 Scope 1 tCO 2e per 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 SEK 100 M 3.3 3.9 3.2 kgCO 2e 3.2 2.7 2.3 tCO 2e 13,732 18,829 17,209 Our total direct and indirect emissions (i.e. Our own emissions from offices and business During 2014, approximately 66% of including third party deliveries) in CO2e is travel (i.e. excluding third party deliveries) Axis’ operation-related greenhouse gas followed up in relation to sales. are measured in CO2e per employee. We can emissions were caused by freight transports, here see a positive trend in reductions of our constituting the largest part of our carbon direct footprint. footprint. Business travel is the second largest contributor, representing 17% of emissions. PAGE 23 Another important example is that we constantly Emissions from Axis’ business travel aim to optimize our product packaging, for Corporate business travel is the second largest source of greenhouse example using lighter materials, which gas emissions in Axis operations, accounting for 17% of total has positive impact on our transport emissions. To address this, Axis is working to reduce the amount of emissions. business trips. We have, for example, conducted tens of thousands of webinar trainings and virtual meetings around the world, which is Axis has both inand outbound one way to create a working environment where unnecessary physical transports. Inbound transports travel is minimized. represent transports from contract manufacturers to Configuration and Energy consumption in Axis’ premises Logistics Centers (CLCs), whereas outbound As Axis’ third largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, the transport represent transports from CLCs to company is working actively to reduce energy use in its offices and distributors. Since the reduction target was other operational units. Energy efficiency guidelines were distributed set in 2011, Axis has reduced its CO2 emissions to regional offices in 2013 (Brazil, USA, Northern Asia, Southern Asia, considerably in outbound transports. CO2 emissions from Southern Europe, the UK, Eastern Europe, Middle East/Africa, Middle inbound transports have fluctuated during the years with an increase Europe), with the aim to reinforce environmental consideration through in 2013 as a result of a situation with one particular supplier. Inbound the operations. The different regions have had different development transport emissions fell during 2014, with a reduction over the year by in energy consumption over the year, with some managing to reduce 38%. The decrease can be explained by better planning of our logistic their consumption whereas the challenge remains for others, for flows and by the fact that Axis has switched to a new supplier for the various reasons. component in question. This effort is positive and brings us closer to Axis’ overall target to reduce transport related CO2 emissions. At our headquarters in Lund, we had a target for 2014 to reduce electricity consumption by 5% per employee compared to previous Meanwhile, Axis continues to find new areas for improvement of year. The electricity consumption has decreased from 2.8 MWh to improvement. As an example, all South America shipments are 2.6 MWh per employee despite the expansion of our premises. The consolidated in two hubs in Sao Paulo and Miami where they are headquarters, where 76% of all Axis’ employees are based, receives transferred further to distributors in Brazil and the rest of South America electricity from external providers, and the energy mix varies between respectively. Sea transport is prioritized from suppliers to CLCs around the different facilities in Lund. the world, while air and land transportation is used for transportation of Axis’ products to distributors and resellers. As illustrated on page 20, we have reduced our air frieght in 2014 compared to the previous year, In focus and increased use of ocean and road transport. Packaging Offsetting emissions of During 2014, Axis has continued its work to optimize its product packaging in order to reduce material use, reduce freight volume and CO2 to reduce impact optimize for material disposal. This effort includes reducing size of As of 2014, Axis is offsetting part of its CO2 emissions from outthe packaging as well as addressing which types of materials are used bound transport within the Europe, the Middle East and Africa for packaging of Axis’ cameras. One example is to ensure that the (EMEA) regions through UPS and the CarbonNeutral Protocol. materials used for packaging are made of recycled material and that The Protocol is an independently verified international offsetting they are easily recyclable when entering the waste stream. scheme that guarantees that each ton of CO2-equivalent sold is offset by reducing one ton of CO2-equivalent emitted in an During 2013, Axis initiated a phase-out of the material Stratocell in offset project. The Protocol invests in a wide range of projects, product packaging. Stratocell is a plastic foam material that, for example, from nature conservation in Uganda and Borneo, to fuel-efficient requires significant space when stored and handled. In 2014, Axis shifted stoves in Mongolia. During 2014, Axis offset 505 tons of CO2 from Stratocell to corrugated paper in the packaging of the bestselling through the CarbonNeutral Protocol. AXIS P33XX-VE, reducing the packaging volume by 20%. Given the outcome of the AXIS P33XX-VE-project, Axis sees great potential in As more of Axis’ service providers begin to offer an offsetting changing to corrugated paper for other product series, and especially alternative, it is Axis’ intention to progressively offset more new products. Reducing the use of Stratocell can both save on physical of the emissions generated. Axis keeps a continuous dialogue space and the need for transport, and ultimately reduces costs. with service providers to find solutions for more effective and optimized transports. PAGE 24 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Material choice and product safety Another way in which Axis can work to reduce our impact on the environment is to review the energy performance and material components of our products, making sure that they do not contain substances harmful to human health or to the environment. Apart from making strategic environmental choices in terms of material input, the choice of materials is also a means for Axis to ensure that our products are manufactured according to our ethical values, for example by ensuring that no minerals from conflict areas are used in production. Energy consumption of Axis products “Axis’ ambitious environmental Axis has conducted life cycle analyses of a number of products in order to identify the types and main sources of environmental goals help to ensure that we impacts throughout the product value chain. The analyses scrutinized processes ranging from the design stage of the camera models and choice continually challenge and evaluate of material, the user phase when the camera is in operation at the customer, to the disposal of the product at end of life. The results of the analyses ourselves as well as our suppliers.” indicate that between 60% and 80% of the total environmental impacts of the studied network cameras are related to Carl Trotzig, responsible for environmental issues the electricity consumption during use. As a result, we have begun to focus more efforts to address the energy efficiency of our products. Axis has an ambition to be perceived as an industry leader in environmental and sustainability issues. As global market leader, Axis has a responsibility to The reason for improving camera energy efficiency is not only related drive these questions in order to increase awareness amongst all players. This to environmental performance, but but is also a way to ensure means that these perspectives must be a natural part of everything we do. product functionality and quality from a temperature perspective. Heat exposure reduces the image quality of the cameras, implying Carl Trotzig, responsible for environmental issues, says: “Axis’ ambitious on the one hand that low energy use is positive in terms of less heat environmental goals help to ensure that we continually challenge and generation. Some cameras intended for use in hot environments evaluate ourselves as well as our suppliers. The environmental aspect should require, on the other hand, an integrated cooling system, which may pervade commercial decisions relating to product development as well as lead to a higher overall energy use to ensure optimal functionality. choice of suppliers and transport. But they should also inform how we It is therefore a constant challenge and balancing act for Axis to manage the operations at our offices where demands are imposed for green pursue reduced energy use of our products, while maintaining optimal electricity from renewable energy sources, for example.” product functionality. A large part of Axis’ environmental impact is related to the products’ energy We have also started to introduce environmental consideration at consumption. Reducing energy consumption is therefore a critical part in the design stage of our products. This includes material selection, the development work of new products. As environmental issues become for example using recycled plastics instead of virgin material; increasingly important, more customers are also imposing demands for more optimizing product parts, for example selecting components of as environmentally friendly and recyclable products. Axis continually works to low weight as possible; optimizing design for manufacturing, for phase out hazardous substances before they are classified as harmful to the example minimizing material spill; and optimizing product disposal, environment from a legal standpoint, in order to effectively manage processes for example optimizing disassembly. and achieve the best results. During 2014, Axis placed additional PVC-free cameras on the market, for example AXIS P32XX, AXIS M1145 Series, AXIS P14 Series, as well as a network camera manufactured using recycled material. PAGE 25 Steel PMMA Zinc PA Polyurethane PC Aluminum Rubber Thermoplastic PC/ABS elastomer Silicone Phasing out hazardous materials to more easily adjust according to new legislation and research, but Axis’ cameras consist of several different components and materials, also to implement its own, more comprehensive phase-out of different including aluminum, zinc, steel, stainless steel, PC/ABS (Polycarbonate/ harmful materials. The system, which will be fully launched during Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene), PC (polycarbonate), PA (polyamide 2015, enables systematics and scalability as Axis continues to grow. polymer), PMMA (polymethyl methacrylate), polyurethane, silicone, thermoplastic elastomer and rubber (measured by weight). Axis has a long-term goal to offer halogen-free products, a commitment initiated already in 2009. Products are deemed “halogenfree”, according As Axis operations have grown rapidly over the last years, so has the to the Electrochemical Commissions (IEC) definition, if the material company’s number and complexity of products and number of product contains less than 900 ppm of the halogens chlorine or bromine, two components. In order to ensure an effective and comprehensive common elements of electronic products. Chlorine is mainly found in overview of materials used in Axis’ products, the company made a Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and chrolinated flame retardants. Bromine is significant effort in 2014 to improve and systematize the overview mainly found in brominated flame retardants. of product components and materials. This effort has enabled Axis PAGE 26 Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) released on the market in 2015. Learning from the process of phasing The plastic PVC is a common component in many produced goods, but out PVC in this complex product series, Axis sees great potential to contains elements damaging both to the environment and to human reuse this technical knowledge when developing existing and new health. During its life cycle, PVC can release potentially harmful product lines. The success with the AXIS Q60 Series is an important substances to the surroundings. step in complete phase-out of the hazardous PVC. Axis has removed PVC from several product series and continues Bromine to work toward offering only PVC-free cameras. As of 2014, about Bromine is an element belonging to the halogen group, and is, for 65% of Axis network cameras and encoders are PVC-free. For example, found in brominated flame retardants. In line with Axis’ longinstance, the following cameras are PVC-free: AXIS P13XX indoor term target of being able to offer halogen-free products, Axis is working and outdoor, AXIS P33XX indoor and outdoor, AXIS M30XX indoor, to phase out bromine from its products. Axis started addressing this AXIS M32XX, AXIS M31XX and AXIS M70XX Video Encoder. During challenge in 2013, by carrying out a comprehensive survey of bromine in 2014, Axis placed additional PVC-free cameras on the market, for product components. The results showed that bromine and brominated example AXIS P32XX, AXIS M1145 Series, and AXIS P14 Series. flame retardants are mainly found in circuit boards, in electronic components including circuits, transistors and connectors. None of Interestingly, Axis has managed to replace PVC in one of its Axis’ plastic materials contain brominated flame retardants. largest and most complex products, despite initial doubts that this complicated upgrade would be successful. The new PVC-free AXIS Q60 Series is currently carefully scrutinized and tested, to be In focus Introducing recycled materials Exchanging virgin raw material in the production process for a recycled equivalent can be an effective way to reduce use of natural resources and environmental impacts associated with resource extraction. It may also help cut costs. In 2014, Axis began experimenting with a camera manufactured using the recycled plastic Lexan EXL 8454 in some of its components. The results are the AXIS M1145 (42% Lexan EXL 8454) and the AXIS M1145-L (39% Lexan EXL 8454). Lexan EXL 8454 is made out of polycarbonate waste and polycarbonate bottle waste, which reduces the need to produce new PC materials, using finite carbon resources such as petroleum and natural gas, as well as the energy required to manufacture new plastics. Using recycled plastics also reduces the amount of plastic waste going to landfill in Axis’ country of production. It is currently not deemed possible to use only recycled plastics, since certain plastic components in Axis cameras are too technically demanding to allow recycled quality plastics. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 27 In focus Conflict minerals In 2013, we at Axis began our work to ensure that no rare earth Following 2014, about 80% of Axis’ suppliers have reported the minerals used in our products originate from conflict areas, in support origins of their minerals through the trade organization Electronic of the electronics industry’s initiative to prevent trade in these Industry Citizenship Coalition’s (EICC) reporting tool, based on the minerals. The minerals tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten are called EICC recommendations and guidelines. conflict minerals in cases where they originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and nearby countries, and when they Sourcing activities contributing to armed conflicts are unacceptable. have been mined under conditions of armed conflict. While Axis will not accept, tolerate or engage in any sourcing activities which may finance conflict or any form of human rights Axis expects its suppliers to comply with Section 1502 of the abuse or forced labor, Axis will not ban materials originating from Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the DRC altogether. Sourcing of conflict-free minerals in the DRC when applicable. It is also expected that suppliers have policies supports the economy and provides employment and income for and due diligence measures in place that will enable Axis to many workers. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and reasonably ensure that products and components supplied to Axis Development (OECD) and others have noted that a ban on mining in are conflict-free and do not originate from sourcing activities the region could damage the country’s stability and economy. which may finance conflict or human rights abuses. Suppliers are expected to report their status with regard to conflict minerals to Axis, using the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) Conflict Minerals Reporting Template. PAGE 28 Extending our responsibility a focus on the supply chain – All Axis’ suppliers, subcontractors and contract manufacturers are expected to comply with Axis Supplier Code of Conduct and other relevant policies and requirements. In 2014, we have continued to audit our suppliers and are starting to draw conclusions from our audit experiences. As a result, we are now also contributing to filling identified knowledge gaps by offering our suppliers webinar training. At the start of our long and complex supply chain, raw materials are fire safety, measurements of emissions and noise levels, and reviews mined (metals and minerals), pumped (oil for plastics), or harvested processes to ensure that the operations are conducted ethically. In (biomaterials, wood), and chemicals are produced. Energy and other conjunction with the audit, Axis’ environmental and quality engineers resources are consumed at the different production sites all along conduct interviews with both management and workers. this chain, with accompanying risks of pollution and generation of hazardous waste. Many processes in the supply chain involve heavy and hazardous work, requiring a close focus on workers’ occupational Supplier Code of Conduct health and safety. Once on board, our suppliers sign our Supplier Code of Conduct as a part of the contract. This code establishes requirements with regards to In the 1st tier of our supply chain, we find six contract manufacturers environmental protection, occupational health and safety, human rights (located in China, Mexico, Poland, Thailand, Slovakia and South Korea). of employees, prohibition of child labor and of corruption and bribery. Here is where our circuit boards are produced and our products are Suppliers also need to comply with applicable laws and regulations. assembled. In the 2nd tier, we have more than 100 strategic component suppliers all over the world. Examples of processes conducted here are In practice, this means that suppliers are required to, among other moulding and pressure casting. things, control energy consumption, emissions, and chemical and waste handling, and to make sure that they have well-functioning Careful selection water and air purification systems. Most importantly, we at Axis work to ensure close relationships with a Responsible sourcing of minerals is also part of our Supplier Code of selection of strategic suppliers and subcontractors. Strategic and longConduct, enforcing necessary due diligence activities in order to avoid term relationships are central in our work to minimize risks associated conflict minerals , as discussed on the previous page. Suppliers whose with how and from where our products are produced. It is a sound products contain the minerals in question are also required to report approach from several perspectives, including product quality, security via the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). This includes of supply, ethics, environmental impact and social responsibility. declaring the origin of the minerals together with a documented routine showing how suppliers and their subcontractors work to ensure Before contracting a new supplier, Axis’ quality and environmental that sourced minerals are conflict-free. Suppliers are also responsible engineers visit the factory together with a local representative (if for keeping Axis updated on the status regarding conflict minerals. there is one). Inspections usually take one or two days. Among other things, Axis audits the supplier’s production process from acceptance In addition, we have supplements to our supplier contracts when tests to final delivery and inspects the factory’s environmental impacts relevant, such as our list of banned and restricted substances, and working conditions, including the physical working environment, listing hazardous substances which we do not allow or want to working hours and routines, and chemical management. Axis examines have in our products. Audits Our follow-up of our Supplier Code of Conduct focuses on legal decided to leave two existing suppliers and turn to other sources, due to compliance and overall management of environmental and social non-compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct. Despite given time performance, and of business conduct. Our aim is to see these factors and encouragement to improve the poor environmental conditions onimprove over time. Our audit plan is based on risk assessments and site, the suppliers did not make sufficient efforts to improve. therefore includes audits of both 1st and 2nd tier suppliers. Over time, we can see that audits and action plans have given results, At Axis, we have a team of 18 auditors who perform supplier audits. for example regarding reduced emissions of chemicals in wastewater, New auditors are trained by accompanying senior auditors. The reduced risks of accidents and improved occupational health and suppliers are classified based on risk level according to country, safety conditions. To further progress this important work, Axis hired industry, trustworthiness and previous experience. several new engineers in 2014, who have participated in ISO14001 auditing training. Another four will be brought in during 2015. Axis has 219 current suppliers (2014) of which 60 are located in China, 58 are in the rest of Asia, 83 in Europe and 18 in North and Central America. 68 of our suppliers are deemed to have significant impact on Supplier webinar training environmental and sustainability aspects. 82% of our suppliers have By implementing the Supplier Code of Conduct and conducting regular been audited on site and shown improvements based on action plans. audits, Axis has managed to raise awareness among its suppliers. Nevertheless, increasing awareness among suppliers is still our main 96% of suppliers which are deemed to have a significant impact on challenge looking ahead. In order to bridge the knowledge gap, in 2014, Axis’ environmental and sustainability aspects have been approved Axis began to offer online webinars for our suppliers. The overall aim of through an Axis audit or are certified to ISO14001. This is in line with Axis Supplier Academy program is to raise environmental and quality Axis’ auditing target. awareness among suppliers and to help them better understand Axis’ demands. Different webinars are distributed, instructing suppliers Axis conducts regular repeat visits and follows up on previous on issues ranging from occupational health and safety to legal audits. If there are deficiencies at a supplier, the parties involved requirements and product material declarations. The practical results will together draw up an action plan, which is followed up within a of the environmental training will be continually assessed through the certain time period. Based on previous audit results, we can conclude ordinary supplier audits. that the most common areas of non-compliance are waste handling, chemical storage, fire safety and deficiencies in the environmental “These webinars have helped us better understand the Axis Code of management system. Conduct requirements, for sure. They are well summarized and easy to understand. This is also a good channel for us to receive any news If a supplier is not taking the required measures to improve, Axis may regarding relevant legislation in the future.” Tamron, supplier of ultimately discontinue cooperation with the supplier. In 2014, Axis has camera lenses. Social Responsib what it means f 2014 was an eventful year, celebrating Axis’ 30th anniversary as a pioneer in intelligent security solutions. Axis has grown from a small company into a global market leader over a relatively short period of time and we now have almost 2,000 employees. We continue to invest in our far-reaching social and ethical engagements, both within and beyond our own operations, taking responsibility for how Axis impacts employees, suppliers, partners and their respective local societies and the end customers of our products. Axis as a workplace Since the start 30 years ago, Axis’ dedicated employees have been key to the company’s successful growth. While growing fast with many new employees every year can be a challenge, Axis sees it as a great opportunity. During this on-going growth, we at Axis are placing great value in safeguarding our unique corporate culture and the ideals associated with the smaller company, continuing to foster innovation and enabling employees to meet and develop. This is a fundamental strategy that has been applied from the start. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 31 ility – Axis in figures or Axis Number of employees: 1,941 Men/women ratio: 73/27 (73/27) Employee turnover: 6.85% (5.8%) Workplace accidents: 9 (4), of which no fatal accidents Average age: 38 (38) Employees with university degree: 81% (80%) Management Team: 2 women, 7 men (2 women, 7 men) Composition of Board of Directors: 1 woman, 5 men (1 woman, 5 men) Welcoming new employees Axis welcomes all new employees, independent of where in the As another part of our university engagement work, Axis is engaging world they have been hired, to participate in an introductory course and investing in the Swedish project Transfer. Transfer works to invite at the headquarters in Lund. Welcoming and enabling colleagues professionals to come and lecture about their occupation to university to meet and network face to face, Axis focuses this introduction students. The lectures are free of charge for the schools and involve program on implementing and strengthening the core values and engaged and competent professionals from a range of industries. Axis our business strategy. has several representatives participating in Transfer, contributing with their time, inspiration and knowledge, encouraging the students to It is also important for us at Axis to contribute in different ways to take own initiatives and active career choices. Quality assurance is schools and universities, as this is where our future employees can be ensured through continuous evaluations by teachers and students. found. Each year, we offer some 65 students opportunities to do their Taking our commitment a step further, Axis also invites university thesis work with us. teachers to the company to help them inspire their students. PAGE 32 Highly ranked by our employees Axis aims to not allow size to overshadow our unique corporate values, we need to continue to develop systematic and preventative approaches to occupational health and safety as our workforce is growing. Managers throughout the global operations have the responsibility to ensure a safe workplace. During 2014, work has started in Lund to improve our occupational risk assessment methodology. Axis complies with the national industrial relations legislation in the countries where we operate, and we impose the same requirements on subcontractors and partners. Axis’ Code of Conduct stipulates that all employees are expected to promote, contribute to and uphold the company’s values, integrity and responsibility. We as a company have an ongoing dialogue with our employees through yearly individual reviews and appraisals. This is our most important dialogue since it gives each of us the possibility to discuss our views of Axis as a workplace and our own future development. Great Place to Work® Also for the company as a whole, we value gaining an objective overall understanding of the status of our workplaces from our employees’ perspective. In 2014, Axis therefore took part in the Great Place to Work® surveys in Sweden, USA and Germany. Great Place to Work® is a workplace study in which we as participants receive company-specific results as well as a benchmark. It is with great pride that we now see the effects of our long-term investments in our staff and our corporate culture. In Sweden, we were among the top five workplaces in the study and 94% of respondents stated that they were proud to work at Axis. In USA, we were placed in the top 16 among small-and medium-size workplaces. ”This recognition is both an honor and humbling, as we remain committed to hiring the right people and fostering a fun and challenging work place environment,” says Fredrik Nilsson, General Manager at Axis Communications Inc. Each participating team at Axis will receive more detailed results from the study and will work with the areas identified as having potential for improvement. Overall, we see potential in communicating our goals and expectations to individual employees more clearly, as well as better showing opportunities and development possibilities. With employees that clearly look forward to going to work in the morning, we have good opportunities to continue Axis’ high rate of new recruitments and provide these new employees with a positive and engaging working environment. The results from the German survey are due in April 2015. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 33 In focus South America region – Quality of Life program Improving Quality of Life for Axis employees in the South America region. Interview with Maria Angelica Moro, HR manager, Axis South American Office. When some of the employees at the South American Office asked Axis to finance their football training, it was the start of something bigger. “It all started when a group of employees asked me to rent a place where they could play football once a week,” says Angelica. The request was granted, which set Angelica off on the idea of introducing a Quality of Life program. Today, the program consists of two parts. One part is raising Angelica Moro, awareness among the employees about the importance of a HR manager, balanced lifestyle, for example by having lectures at the office about Axis South American Office health and stress management. The second part comprises different activities. The football team still meets up to play and there is the possibility to get a massage “Many of our activities at the office, partly financed by Axis. A dance class is about to start at the request of other employees. are based on the wishes of our All employees in the South American offices take part in the program, one way or another. At the Sao Paolo office, there are employees, who are very 40 employees engaging in the various activities. The other offices in the region are small, and for now they take part in the activities when they occur in connection to conferences. committed to the program.” What is the next step? “Right now we are preparing a physical check-up of how healthy Have the results been promising? we are at Axis,” says Angelica. “Based on the results we will decide “Many of our activities are based on the wishes of our employees, who on an action plan to improve further. We will also start a nutrition are very committed to the program,” Angelica continues. “The program program, offering healthier alternatives in our kitchen,” she says. promotes better health, as well as our team spirit. It is important to connect Axis to a Quality of Life program.” Axis enjoys a very good image in South America, according to Angelica. It is also important that Axis is known as a great place to work in order to attract new employees and new business partners. Taking care of the staff will in the end ensure that Axis supports its customers in the best possible ways. Opposite page; At close to 50 offices around the world, Axis is striving to offer all employees a good working environment permeated by the open corporate culture of the Axis brand, which is a strong characteristic of Scandinavian design. PAGE 34 A place of opportunities As a fast growing global company, Axis is able to offer great Axis aims to offer all employees competitive salaries, and the company opportunities for its employees to pursue an international career operates a bonus program. All employees have annual salary reviews. within the company. The corporate company They should also have a performance culture is characterized by an entrepreneurial review involving an appraisal of the spirit and we have many professionals ready to Axis corporate work contribution during the year and pursue a career with our company. culture is built on a discussion about future development opportunities. Meeting and collaborating is at the heart of the company’s Axis and a natural component of everyday core values: On a global basis, 75% of Axis’ employees work. Axis has an Open Door policy throughout covered by collective agreements. In its operations which creates avenues for Sweden, all employees are covered. Most personal development. ACT AS ONE importantly, we at Axis do not tolerate any form infringement of the employees’ At Axis’ Brown Bag lunches, employees are ALWAYS OPEN rights to freedom of association and invited to jointly discuss different topics, such collective bargaining. All employees as sustainability and industry segments. THINK BIG have the right to join trade unions and if desired to negotiate collective Our International Program for New Leaders agreements in accordance with local (IPNL) is designed to further develop new managers. The latest batch regulations and applicable conventions. finalized their ten-month program during 2014. Welcoming diversity ”IPNL has given me a good theoretical ground to stand on but maybe, Thirty years ago, Axis begun its journey in Lund, a southern Swedish most importantly, also great practical tools to work with and use in my city known for its university and its vibrant mix of international professional daily life. The IPNL program has been an amazing experistudents and professionals. Naturally, the growing company has since ence; it has been challenging but still fun and rewarding and of course employed professionals with a range of different backgrounds and an opportunity to meet and work with many wonderful colleagues nationalities – diversity therefore comes natural to us and English is from across the Axis regions!” Elisabeth Åkerlund, Manager Technical used throughout the company. Information Management. In 2014, Axis invested in the Swedish project Flickor på Teknis (Girls Axis also encourages international exchange within the company. at the Institute of Technology), where female engineers from Axis With the program IP@Axis, employees have over the years been helped to give college girls a better idea about a career as an engineer, given opportunities to work on a fixed-term project at an Axis office encouraging them to apply to technical higher education. The project somewhere else in the world. IP@Axis promotes cross-functional aims to, in the long run, see more female students enrolled in technical learning and strengthens the overall company culture as well as degrees at university. personal networks. As part of the 30-year jubilee celebrations, Axis organized a Tour de Axis throughout Lund, where the company’s employees took the chance to also illustrate their competitive spirit. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 35 In focus As another measure toward Axis’ aim for equal opportunities, the company initiated in 2014 the Q Network in Lund, Sweden, with Travel Security Portal almost 200 members to date. The Q Network is a women’s network in Lund coordinated by a group of employees. The Q Network meets for all employees for different kinds of activities to provide the opportunity to exchange experiences and ideas. including healthcare Many of our professionals travel across the Anti-discrimination globe as a part of their job. It is of course a At Axis we show diversity and we have a focus on anti-discrimination great opportunity, but can also comprise some at work. We strive to maintain a work environment free from unlawful occupational health and safety risks. In 2014, harassment based on gender, sexual orientation, race, color, religious Axis signed a new travel insurance agreement beliefs, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, disability, and covering all our employees, globally. On our any other category protected by law. This ambition is enforced in Axis’ website, the Travel Security Portal has updated Harassment Policy, the Code of Conduct and we also have a system information on all potential destinations. for reporting of any incidents of harassment. The policy applies to all When traveling, via a mobile phone app, our Axis employees, managers and board members (Head office and all employees have access to important medical Subsidiaries) and is valid at all activities connected to Axis. The policy and safety information in the area they are stipulates in detail the responsibilities of managers, supervisors and traveling, and can call for assistance 24-7. individual employees. Models of diverse workplaces In South Africa, Axis has about 20 people employed, working with technical support, sales, marketing and administration. Our offices in Cape Town and Johannesburg can truly serve as models of diverse workplaces. Here we find 9 women and 10 male employees and the employees have a great variety of ethnical backgrounds. Throughout Axis’ South African sales force, 50% are women. ”Recruiting the right person with the right energy is more important than anything. That way we automatically get a more diverse workplace, both genderwise and in terms of cultural and ethnical backgrounds,” says Jason McGregor, Sales Manager at the South Africa hub. ”In each region we reflect the Axis corporate culture and a part of that culture is a belief to be open to people with the right profile and spirit,” he continues. “Recruiting the right person with the right energy is more important than anything. That way we automatically get a more diverse workplace, both genderwise and in terms of cultural and ethnical backgrounds.” Jason McGregor, Sales Manager at the South Africa hub Axis in society – social responsibility going beyond Axis’ business and our products influence the lives of people across the world, as our whole business idea is to contribute to a smarter and safer world. But our company’s social responsibility also includes different types of social engagements, ranging from charity and sponsorships to more direct engagements in local communities. This includes acitivies supporting education, environmental engagements and more. Spain Axis’ Spanish team supported the New Horizon Foundation by donating and installing refurbished cameras at a school for children with autism operated by the foundation. Canada and USA Axis was one of the main sponsors of non-profit organization Mission 500’s charity race and walk. A group of employees participated in the Security 5k charity race at the trade convention ISC West in Las Vegas, contributing money to helping vulnerable children and families in crisis. Many Axis employees in the United States and Canada also participated in the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge, supporting the ALS association, and Axis matched their individual donations. Tanzania Education for all is one of the world’s large challenges and a focus area in UN millenium goals. It is one of the issues that engages Axis employees in their local communities in many parts of the world. For example in 2014, Axis delivered and installed a complete computer classroom to the Hekima Girls Secondary School in Tanzania. A team of Axis employees helped install the computers and IT system, which had been purchased locally. The team also provided IT training and helped secure day-to-day IT support for the school. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 37 Charity Giving back – 30 years with Axis Axis’ engagement in charity and other forms of direct sponsoring is Our celebration of 30 years as a company was something that is initiated locally, in our offices. It therefore varies marked in many ways at our offices across the depending on the societal challenges facing each country or region. globe. Many teams took the opportunity Besides contributing to the local communities where Axis operates, to mark this event by engaging in local these projects are beneficial for Axis and Axis employees. The projects community initiatives and through offer a chance for Axis’ employees to work together for a greater cause, charity donations. Giving Back became which builds loyalty and pride as well as giving them an enriching and an umbrella for various actitivities. engaging experience to remember. China In China, Axis employees helped advance literacy in poor rural areas by donating money used to create libraries at elementary schools and giving impoverished children access to books. Axis employees in China have raised enough funding to support four school libraries in Guangdong, Hebei and Anhiu provinces. Hong Kong Our products often play a part in the local community projects in which we get involved. It is engaging for our employees to see the cameras in use and it is also a way for us to demonstrate the various applications and the value that they can have. A great example are those projects in which we take back used cameras, refurbish them, and then donate and install them. In Hong Kong, Axis donated and installed 10 refurbished network cameras to the Hong Kong Student Aid Society. The user-friendly installation, which includes AXIS Camera Companion, will help improve staffing efficiency and help guarantee the children’s safety. Cambodia At the ASEAN-Indochina Partner Summit event in Siem Reap, Cambodia, A xis Germany employees, including the company CEO Ray Mauritsson, together In Germany, Axis employees at the Munich with partners, participated office gave their support to the local street in a program to assemble newsmagazine BISS, which focuses on bicycles for schoolchildren. issues of homelessness and poverty. Axis donated 32 bikes, which In addition to a generous donation to will make it easier for children the publication, Axis and employees of to get to and from school. a local partner will join the newspaper staff for a BISS city tour to explore social issues affecting the city in order to de-stigmatize the issue of poverty. About this report This report has been based on the the Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines for Sustainability Reporting, G4. We report in accordance with the Core option. This report also serves as our Communication on Progress Report to Global Compact. This is Axis’s fourth sustainability report and it covers the fiscal year 2014. We publish our sustainability report annually. GRI Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicator Description Page Indicator Description Page STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous N/A G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4-5 reports, and the reasons for such restatements. about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and 14-15 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Aspect Boundaries. G4-3 Name of the organization. backcover STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 8 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6, 14-15 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters. 3 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 2-3 to engage. 6, 14-15 countries where either the organization has significant operations G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 6, 14-15 in the report. G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 14-15 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 3 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 8 topics and concerns, including through its reporting. and types of customers/beneficiaries). REPORT PROFILE G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization. 2-3 G4-28 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 2, 38 G4-10 Report information about employees, workforce, by whom the 31 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 38 organization’s work is performed and significant variations in Comment: April 29, 2014 employment number. G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 38 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining 34 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 39 agreements. G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen, GRI Content 38 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain. 12-13, 28-29 Index for the chosen option and reference to the External Assurance G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2-3 Report, if the report has been externally assured. structure, or ownership. G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking 38 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 38 external assurance for the report, scope and basis of any external addressed by the organization. assurance provided, relationship between the organization and Comment: The precautionary principles is a part of the Swedish the assurance providers and the highest governance body or senior Environmental Legislations. For Axis the principles is mainly addressed executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s when selecting product materials. sustainability report. G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 6,17 Comment: Axis has not seeked external assurance for the report. The principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or report has been prepared with guidance from external consultants which it endorses. with GRI-expertise. G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy N/A GOVERNANCE organizations. G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees 7 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES of the highest governance body and committees responsible for G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial 2 decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. statements or equivalent documents and whether any entity inETHICS AND INTEGRITY cluded in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of 7 equivalent documents is not covered by the report. behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-18 Process for defining the report content, the Aspect Boundaries and 14 how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 14-15 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for each Material Aspect. 12-13 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each Material Aspect. 12-13 C ECOL A DI NO L R BE 3041 0425 PAGE 39 Global Compact SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES reference table Indicator Description Page Principle Page ENVIRONMENT HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Energy performance of products (DMA) 24 Principle 1 Businesses should support 7,9 EN 7 No indicator data available for 2014. and respect the protection of Aspect: Emissions climate footprint (DMA) 22-23 internationally proclaimed human EN 15 EN 15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). 22 rights; and EN 16 EN 16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). 22 Principle 2 make sure that they are not 9, EN 17 EN 17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). 22 complicit in human rights abuses. 28-29 EN 18 EN 18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. 22 LABOUR EN 19 EN 19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 22 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the 28-29, 34 Aspect: Materials used in products (DMA) 24-27 freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to EN27 No indicator data available for 2014. collective bargaining; Aspect: Supplier environmental performance (DMA) 27-29 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced 28-29 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. 28 and compulsory labor; EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 28-29 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; 28-29 and actions taken. and SOCIAL Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination 28-29, 34-35 Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety 32-33 in respect of employment and LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury , occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and 31 occupation. total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. ENVIRONMENT Comment: Injury and absenteeism data were not found to be relevant to break down Principle 7 Businesses should support a 20-29 further. precautionary approach to Aspect: Employee career and development 34-35 environmental challenges; LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 34 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote 20-29 reviews, by gender and by employment category. greater environmental responsibility; Comment: Exact percentage for 2014 has not been obtained. All employees are to and receive annual reviews. Principle 9 encourage the development and 20-29 Aspect: Equal opportunities and non-discrimination of employees 34-35 diffusion of environmentally friendly LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 31 technologies. category according to gender, age group, minority group etc. ANTI-CORRUPTION Comment: Only gender has been found relevant for breakdown of data. Average age Principle 10 Businesses should work against 17-19, 28-29 is reported. corruption in all its forms, including HR 3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 39 extortion and bribery. Comment: No incidents of discrimination in 2014. Aspect: Human rights and labor practices in the supply chain(DMA) 28-29 LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. 28-29 LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply 28-29 chain and actions taken. HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. 28-29 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain 28-29 and actions taken. Aspect: Human rights and personal integrity in the use-phase (DMA) 9 No indicator available. Aspect: Anti-corruption (DMA) 17-18 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 17-18, 31 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 39 Comment: No incidents in 2014. Aspect: Customer privacy (DMA) 14 Contact for the report: PR8 Total number of satisfaction substantiated complaints regarding breaches of cus39 tomer privacy and losses of customer data. Comment: No complaints in 2014 Margareta Lantz Corporate Communications Manager Phone: +46 46 272 18 92 The report and the reported indicators therein have not been subjected to external auditing. E-mail: margareta.lantz@axis.com About Axis Communications Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter, safer world. As the global market leader in network video, Axis is driving the industry by continually launching innovative network products based on an open platform delivering high value to customers through a global partner network. Axis has long-term relationships with partners and provides them with knowledge and ground-breaking network products in existing and new markets. Axis has more than 1,900 dedicated employees in more than 40 countries around the world, supported by a network of over 75,000 partners across 179 countries. Founded in 1984, Axis is a Sweden-based company listed on NASDAQ Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit our website www.axis.com. Corporate identity no. 556241-1065 Axis AB Emdalavägen 14, 223 69 LUND Phone: +46 46 272 18 00 www.axis.com ©2015 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, ETRAX, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. We reserve the right to introduce modifications without notice.
