Communication on Progress Participant  4points Group Time period  August 2016 – August 2016 We, at 4points Group, would like to express our support and ongoing commitment for UN Global Compact. We support all that Global Compact stands for and look forward to working within its standards and principles, during the coming year. Tania Khaled Nigh President, 4points Group Iraq Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  4points Group (4points) wholeheartedly supports the UN Declaration of Human Rights and will continue to do so in the following year.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  At 4points, we ensure that our employees are free to openly express themselves politically, socially, and religiously without fear of persecution. Additionally, we provide paid holidays, vacation, and overtime compensation, and 62 days of paid maternity leave (in accordance with Iraqi Labor Law). We strive to accommodate employees who are attempting to further their education by providing flexible scheduling. We have also posted copies of the Declaration on Human Rights in high-traffic areas of the office in English and Arabic.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Employees are aware of the Declaration on Human Rights and are free to voice concerns or ask questions. Labor  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  4points is an Iraqi-owned company and ensures that the large majority of the staff is made up of local Iraqis. We recognize that employees are important to the success of our company and we place a great deal of importance on ensuring that employees are happy and content with their working conditions and circumstances. 4points does not force employment in any way, shape, or form and all employees are paid. Employees are free to resign at any point, for any reason, with a 30-day notice.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  Contracts are utilized to ensure that employees and 4points understand and agree what is expected of both parties during an employment agreement. 4points complies with the Iraqi Labor Law (1987) to ensure that employees’ are given the proper rights afforded to them that law. Employees are paid competitive local wages and are given overtime compensation when extra work is performed. The 4points human resources department properly manages hours-worked to ensure proper payment is made to employees and that they are on time. Management at 4points maintains an “open door” policy with all employees so that, should an employee wish to make a complaint, or raise a concern, they can do so; without fear of negative repercussion. This policy is expected of all management personnel in 4points headquarters and field offices. 4points is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate on the basis of age, gender, sex, religion, marital status, or any other factor when filling positions.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  As mentioned above, our competent human resources team ensures that the administrative side of employee compensation is handled in a professional manner while the “open door” policy of the management ensures that employees feel cared for and are kept happy. This increases workplace moral and ensures that 4points runs in a smooth and efficient manner. We have employees from diverse religious and socioeconomic backgrounds and almost 43% of our headquarter employees are women. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  4points is committed to the continued general development of Iraq during this trying time in the country’s history. As such, 4points is concerned with all forms of development and the factors that affect it. We believe that promoting environmental responsibility is important and that encouraging practices which are beneficial to the environment can only help to improve long-term development in Iraq. We will strive to continue improving our environmental footprint and contributing to overall environmental improvement.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  4points already has a very small economic footprint; as we are not in the industrial, oil, mechanical, etc. fields. The majority of our economic impact is a result of electricity needs associated with running an office and guest house for employees. Since Iraq presents interesting challenges with regards to energy availability and reliability we, like most residents and businesses, require the use of a generator. We attempt to use gasrun generator as little as possible and take advantage of the environmentally lessharmful National Power whenever possible. Additionally, we strive to ensure that lights, as well as other amenities, are switched off when a room, or building, is not in use and we discourage the use of practices which result in the overuse of water resources.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  Several factors in Iraq contribute to high overhead costs for companies operating in the country. In addition to the aforementioned concern with all factors affecting development, there is a monetary benefit for ensuring that 4points maintain a small economic footprint. We are able to track our energy and resource consumption by our energy costs; for example, the high fuel costs for running our generator from month to month. In effect, we are able to monitor our environmental impact through the direct monetary costs to us; which has the added effect of providing further incentive to decrease consumption. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  4points supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and strives to ensure that all forms of corruption and nepotism are absent from the organization and its affiliates. As stated above, 4points is committed to development of all forms in Iraq. Corruption can have a negative impact on economic, civic, and social growth and is therefore detrimental to the overall goals that 4points strives to achieve.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents.  We believe that corruption facilitates developmental and moral corrosion and, therefore, corrupt practices would inhibit the company’s core objectives. Besides the idealistic aversion to corruption, 4points cannot pragmatically take part in such activity. Our company works on a range of development projects for several international development organizations and, as such, we are subject to audits at any time. We work closely with organizations, such as the US Embassy, which have zero-tolerance policies regarding corruption. We ensure that there is no conflict of interest when hiring employees and fully disclose the reasons for any hire that could be construed as such. We will continue to be vigilant in the upcoming year to ensure that we do not take part, or work with organizations that do, in any corrupt practices. 4points also requires that the procurement committee sign “Conflict of Interest Prevention Forms” during the procurement process of any materials for projects.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  We have been audited by both Iraqi companies and several of the international organizations that we work with. We also provide an overhead audit to each company every time we are awarded a new project. We will continue to vigilantly avoid all aspects of corruption in the coming year.
