CSR Activity Report Gentle care for life 2015 Overview of Unicharm Group Company proﬁle Primary Consolidated Subsidiaries and Aﬃliates Corporate Name Unicharm Corporation UNICHARM CORPORATION Japan Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. Date of Establishment February 10, 1961 Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. Cosmotec Corporation Capital 15,992 million yen (as of December 31, 2014) Unicharm Mölnlycke K.K. Number of Shares 620,834,319 (as of December 31, 2014) Overseas United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) Issued (post share-split) Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Head Oﬃce Sumitomo Fudosan Mita Twin Bldg. West Wing, LG Unicharm Co., Ltd. (Korea) 3-5-27 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan PT Uni-Charm Indonesia (Indonesia) Registered Company 182 Shimobun, Kinsei-cho, Shikokuchuo-City, Uni.Charm Molnlycke B.V. (Netherlands) Oﬃce Ehime, Japan Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Number of employees 13,901 (on a consolidated basis as of Unicharm Consumer Products (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. December 31, 2014) Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. (Saudi Arabia) Unicharm India Private Ltd. (India) Listed Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Unicharm Australasia Pty Ltd. (Australia) Business Lines Manufacture and sales of: Diana Joint Stock Company（Vietnam） Baby and child care products The Hartz Mountain Corporation (United States) Feminine care products Other 34 companies (as of December 31, 2014) Health care products Clean & fresh products Pet care products URL http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/index.html Production and Sales Areas Unicharm has a business presence Netherlands in about 80 countries and Korea regions around the world. Russia China Japan United States Myanmar Egypt India Taiwan Thailand Philippines Vietnam Saudi Arabia Malaysia Singapore ■ Sales Areas Brazil Indonesia Australia Production and Sales Bases Sales Bases *As of December, 2014 Main Business Indicators ■ Consolidated net sales ■ Consolidated operating income ■ Number of group employees (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: person) 5,994 13,901 6,000 5,536 700 672 14,000 12,795 4,957 594 613 2,289 5,000 600 12,000 10,855 2,027 Other 4,283 519 10,287 3,769 3,459 500 465 10,000 2,120 4,000 2,064 3,563 2,606 8,000 7,317 2,009 0verseas 400 8,618 3,000 1,596 1,410 7,774 300 6,000 5,196 5,726 Asia 2,000 2,887 200 4,000 2,275 2,352 2,536 1,000 2,173 1,973 Japan 100 2,000 3,020 3,027 3,009 2,994 2,994 Japan 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) * FY2014 was an irregular nine-month period due to a change in the companyʼs ﬁscal year 2 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Contents Editorial Policy In preparation for the CSR Activity Report 2015 This document has been prepared as Unicharm Groupʼs Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. This report reaﬃrms that our CSR is the fulﬁllment of our corporate philosophy “NOLA Overview of the Unicharm Group .............. 2 & DOLA“*, and presents how we practice CSR through our business activities. This year, in addition to social issues such as Editorial Policy/Contents ............................. 3 “super-aging society“ and “making life better for people living in Asia by reducing the burden of their daily life“, the progress of Message from the President ....................... 4 our initiatives for the “environment“ was reported in detail. Unicharm Group’s CSR ................................ 8 Furthermore, as for our global report, we refer to the UN Global Compact, the UN Millennium Development Goals, Introduction of Business Activities .......... 10 ISO26000 and GRI Guidelines throughout the whole report. Feature We will continue to accommodate the requests of our Topic 1 Making Life Better for People Living stakeholders to the greatest extent possible. Therefore, we ask in Asia by Reducing the Burden of that you go through our “Integrated Report 2015“ as well as Daily Life ...................................... 12 Feature the newly published update summary, and provide whatever Topic 2 Responding to a Super-Aging any frank opinions and comments you may have. Society ......................................... 16 * NOLA&DOLA: “Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities“. From Feature Topic 3 Environmentally Friendly newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that Manufacturing ............................. 20 provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams. Continuing to Provide Reconstruction Support to the Disaster-affected Areas from Contents the Great East Japan Earthquake ............ 22 Areas Covered Business operations, CSR vision, activity goals, organizational Unicharm Group’s Primary CSR Themes structure, business performance, accounting data, etc. and Major Indicators (KPI) ....................... 24 This report presents details of results for FY2014 as well as the latest information for the early part of FY2015. Along with Our Customers ...................... 28 Organizations Unicharm Group companies are shown on a consolidated basis. Along with the Environment ................... 32 Details of companies mentioned in the environmental activity report can be found on the Unicharm website. Along with Our Employees ...................... 36 Intended Audience All Unicharm stakeholders inclusive of customers, employees, Along with the Society ............................ 40 business partners, shareholders, and society in general Period Along with Our Business Partners ........... 42 April 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 (including some activities prior to and after the above period, as well as future targets) Along with Shareholders and Investors .. 43 Reference Guidelines ● GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 Management ............................................ 44 ● 2012 Environmental Reporting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment ● ISO26000 Third Party Assurance Report .................. 46 Date of issue List of Contents/ May 31, 2015. Next date of issue: May 2016 List of Awards and Commendations Available at ● CSR & Environmental Information on the Unicharm website Received in Fiscal 2014 ........................... 47 Role of this activity report For more information about our CSR activities, CSR Activity Report Interest of stakeholders please contact: Corporate Social Responsibility Division (CSR Division) TEL: +81-3-6722-1041 (Direct Line) FAX: +81-3-6722-1018 PDF version Web version For general corporate information, please contact: Public Relations Group, Corporate Planning Division Importance to Unicharm Group TEL: +81-3-6722-1019 (Direct Line) This activity report focuses on topics of concern that the company ・For investor relations, please visit: would like to particularly share with its readers and stakeholders in http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ir/index.html this yearʼs edition. http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/ir/index.html Please refer to our website for the full report. Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 3 Message from the President We constantly provide the world’ s No.1 and unprecedented products and services to everybody around the globe, and deliver comfort, impression and satisfaction. Another year of record sales and operating income In the ﬁscal period ended December 31, 2014, regionʼs share of net sales. As a result, overseas sales Unicharm reported net sales of ¥553.6 billion and now account for 64.4% of consolidated net sales, up operating income of ¥61.3 billion. The period under 6.7 percentage points year on year. review was a nine-month transitional period due to Earnings in Japan were solid, supported by strong a change in our ﬁscal year-end, but in real terms, it demand for high value-added products in the personal marked the 13th straight year of record net sales and care and pet care businesses, as well as eﬀorts to the eighth successive year of record operating income. improve proﬁtability. Overseas, we implemented aggressive marketing For ﬁscal 2015 ending December 31, 2015, the entire campaigns with a focus on China, Indonesia and other Unicharm Group will continue to work on delivering markets in Asia. This drove steady growth in the Asia another year of record net sales and operating income. Takahisa Takahara President and CEO 4 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Working toward the goals in our ninth Medium-Term Management Plan and G20 Plan We see the potential for continued strong growth in those targets, the ninth Medium-Term Management target business ﬁelds worldwide in both advanced Plan calls for net sales of ¥913.1 billion in ﬁscal 2016, and emerging markets. Supported by these ending December 31, 2016. As a stepping stone conditions, we aim to accelerate the globalization toward these goals, we forecast consolidated net of our business to drive rapid growth. This objective sales of ¥760 billion and operating income of ¥86 is incorporated into our ninth Medium-Term billion in ﬁscal 2015, ending December 31, 2015. That Management Plan and our long-term vision, the G20 means we are aiming for double-digit growth in net Plan, both released in April 2014. Under the G20 Plan, sales and proﬁts in both Japan and overseas. we are targeting consolidated net sales of ¥1.6 trillion, We will continue to strengthen strategy average annual sales growth of 15%, an operating implementation in our core business areas and margin of 15% and ROE of 15% by 2020. To achieve regions in order to attain our management targets. Eighth Medium-Term Management Plan Eighth Plan Ninth Plan G20 Plan (April 2011 ‒ March 2014) 16.7% 15.0% ¥1.6 tn CAGR CAGR Initial sales target: ¥566.9 billion (ﬁscal year ended March 2014) ¥913.1 bn Actual net sales: ¥599.4 billion ¥599.4 Other (5.7% higher than target) bn Other Asia ¥495.7 Indonesia ¥428.3 bn bn China Ninth Medium-Term Management Plan (April 2014 ‒ December 2016) Japan Sales target: ¥913.1 billion (ﬁscal year ending December 2016) G20 Plan targets: ¥1.6 trillion in consolidated net sales in 2020 Performance targets Growth potential Proﬁtability Capital eﬃciency Sales growth Operating margin ROE Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 5 Message from the President Responding rapidly to changing markets through close contact with consumers In emerging markets, demand for disposable diapers In autumn 2014, in the key Chinese market, we and feminine care products is expanding rapidly due launched new high-quality disposable diapers that to rising incomes. Against this backdrop, our goal is oﬀer even higher levels of peace of mind and safety. to build a dominant market share in the fast-growing These new products have proven to be very popular Asia market. In Asia, where there are still low levels of with consumers. market uptake and usage for disposable baby diapers, By continuing to create close links with customers, feminine care products and adult incontinence care we plan to quickly identify changes in the market and products, we are expanding our supply framework use that information to rapidly launch and promote to prepare for further growth in demand. Two years new products that address those changes. Leveraging ago, we opened a factory in Surabaya, Indonesia, last strengths built up in Asia, we aim to increase our year we opened another in Yangzhou, China, and presence in the global market by extending our sales we are currently building our second factory in India, reach into Africa, South America and other areas with a country with a vast population. The new factory, the potential for growth in demand. located in the south of the country, is scheduled to In advanced markets and some countries in Asia start production in the ﬁrst half of ﬁscal 2015. where populations are also aging, we will reinforce In Japan, as part of ongoing eﬀorts to oﬀer new our pet care and health care businesses, two areas value propositions, we launched smaller diaper sizes where demand is likely to expand over the medium for new-born infants in response to rising numbers of and long term. babies with low birth weights. Our mission is to help improve quality of life for people worldwide All the products we supply are vital to making everyday company in the industry to encourage wider uptake and life cleaner and more hygienic. Our mission is to provide greater awareness of products such as light incontinence these products to people worldwide to help raise quality products, as part of eﬀorts to extend the healthy life of life. In 2006, we declared our support for the United expectancy of elderly people. Nations Global Compact and we have also given our In Asia, where population aging is also becoming a backing to the United Nations Millennium Development challenge, we plan to actively raise awareness of related Goals. We are now striving to achieve the principles of issues by transferring our Japanese care model to other both programs. Asian markets. In countries with diﬀerent values to Japan, Many people in emerging markets still live in this will mean actively communicating the merits of unhygienic conditions, as they are unable to buy our care model, such as the positive economic impact disposable diapers or feminine care products. Using the of giving the elderly greater independence, rather than expertise we have accumulated through our operations restricting them to bed, and the hygienic and economic in Japan, we are providing products and services tailored beneﬁts of using adult incontinence care products. Our to conditions in each country and region. These products approach also reduces the burden on carers and the are supplied to consumers from local factories, which we people receiving incontinence care, help０ing to resolve also use to actively provide employment opportunities for issues that prevent elderly people in society today from local women. Together with various Unicharm-sponsored leading independent, comfortable lives. awareness programs, these eﬀorts are aimed at raising As part of ongoing eﬀorts to extend the healthy life living standards for women in emerging markets, helping expectancy of elderly people, we will continue to create them to take a more active role in society. In advanced new products and address the issue of aging in pets ‒ markets, societies are expected to age rapidly. In Japan, which are now often regarded as members of the family where population aging is more advanced than in ‒ in order to create a symbiotic society where people can other countries, we have used our position as a leading live long and rich lives with their pets. 6 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Paying stable returns to shareholder At Unicharm, one of our top priorities is to return an In ﬁscal 2015, in accordance with our shareholder appropriate level of proﬁts to shareholders. We believe return policy, we will put priority on business it is important to pay stable returns while at the same investment to deliver sustained growth, while time strengthening the Company to boost earnings continuing to pay a stable and sustained dividend in and actively investing in our business to drive growth. line with mediumto long-term growth in consolidated For the ﬁscal period ended December 31, 2014, we earnings. Where necessary, we also intend to increase plan to pay a year-end dividend of ¥6.40 per share, the total shareholder return ratio by conducting share after taking into account the stock split conducted last buybacks on a ﬂexible basis. We intend to pay a fullyear. year dividend of ¥14.80 per share for ﬁscal 2015. Building a stronger more global business structure We are striving to make our business more global oversight and executive functions, but we intend by giving overseas subsidiaries more power. To to build on this progress by adopting a committeesupport this move, we need people who understand based system of corporate governance (company Unicharmʼs DNA, corporate culture and business with audit and supervisory committee) on May 1, strategies. We are actively sending our best people, 2015. This new system will strengthen oversight of who often have over 20 years of experience working the executive functions of the Board of Directors and for Unicharm, to overseas business sites to ensure our bring outside directors into the management process corporate DNA takes root. to increase transparency and eﬃciency. Our main We have already made progress in strengthening objective is to ensure we satisfy the expectations of corporate governance, such as introducing an all our stakeholders in Japan and overseas from a executive oﬃcer system to separate management global perspective. Targeting sustained growth by responding accurately to changes in our markets One of our goals is to help improve quality of life for competitors. This will help us to make decisions on people everywhere, but to do this, we also need to the best time to launch products and reinforce our maximize earnings. It is vital that we respond ﬂexibly manufacturing framework. Using this approach, we to changes in population trends and consumer aim to continue delivering record proﬁts and achieve lifestyles from a long-term perspective, to ensure the goals in our ninth Medium-Term Management we remain successful in an increasingly competitive Plan and G20 Plan. global market. By integrating closely with local markets, we will be able to rapidly identify changes I look forward to the continued support of all our in the operating environment and trends at our stakeholders as we take on the challenges ahead. March 2015 President and CEO Takahisa Takahara Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 7 Unicharm Group’ s CSR Unicharm Group’ s CSR is to Implement Integrating CSR with Our Businesses Unicharmʼs corporate philosophy is “NOLA & DOLA“. Our concept of NOLA & DOLA: Necessities of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities, contains our hope that “from newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams.“ Our CSR is embodied by our commitment to achieve this aspiration through our business activities and to help resolve social issues in the process. ◆ Unicharm s Corporate Philosophy System From newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with Corporate Philosophy products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle NOLA& DOLA care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams. The Unicharm Ideals 1. We contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone by oﬀering only the ﬁnest products and services to the market and customers, both at home in Japan and abroad. 1. We strive to pursue proper corporate management principles which combine corporate growth, associate well-being and the fulﬁllment of our social responsibilities. 1. We bring forth the fruits of cooperation based on integrity and harmony, by respecting the independence of the individual and striving to promote the Five Great Pillars. (Established in 1974) “Beliefs and Pledges“ and Corporate Principles of Action “Five Great Pillars“ and Associate Principles of Action CSR Promotional Structure ● Established cross-organizational ◆ Cross-organizational structure to support and promote Unicharm s CSR CSR structure Chairman of the CSR committee: President Takahara Unicharm has established a structure to implement and promote smooth Committeeʼs secretariat: CSR Division CSR activities in order to meet our Organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the stakeholdersʼ expectations. Our “CSR ISO26000 environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, community Core Subjects Committee“ is a cross-organizational involvement and development structure for the support of CSR, chaired Compliance, risk management, respect for human rights, employee-friendly by our president. The committee meets workplaces, occupational health and safety, human resource utilization, CSR Core Themes procurement, environmentally-friendly product development, environmental four times a year to discuss and share management, product quality improvement, customer satisfaction improvement, CSR-related activities. social contribution activities Reference Framework for Unicharm s CSR Strategy At Unicharm, we operate our global business activities in awareness of the voices of our stakeholders and by referring to various international guidelines. We support the ten principles of the “UN Global Compact“, and have participated in the compact since May 2006. UN Global Compact UN Millennium Development Goals Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; Human human rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Rights Environment Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Antiof the right to collective bargaining; in all its forms, including extortion and ISO26000 GRI Guidelines Corruption Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and bribery. Labour compulsory labour; Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and ISO26000 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. GRI Guidelines UN Global Compactʼs 10 Principles 8 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 the Unicharm Philosophy Eiji Ishikawa General Manager, CSR and Global R&D Divisions Director, Managing Executive Oﬃcer Unicharm Corporation Representative Director and President ● Contribution to super-aging Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. society ● Decreasing everyday burdens Unicharm is a multinational corporation that supplies Resolving of people in Asia disposable diapers and feminine hygiene products to more Social Issues than 80 countries and regions around the world. Through our business activities of manufacturing, marketing, and supplying products to consumers locally, we are making a diﬀerence in Management the lives of children, women and the elderly living in these Organizational governance, countries and regions by delivering added peace of mind, Compliance, comfort and health. Iʼm also proud of the fact that Unicharmʼs Foundational Quality and Product safety, CSR business activities contribute a great deal both directly and Environmental management, Social activities, Customer satisfaction, indirectly to employment opportunities in these areas. CSR procurement, Work safety, and etc. Going forward, Unicharm will continue to carry out activities through its businesses that will help society grow sustainably. This includes solving various social issues such as womenʼs Management with Resonance* advancement in society, declining birthrates and aging Organizational climate and Culture of Pride populations in developed countries, worldwide environmental issues as well as poverty and hygiene issues in emerging countries all of which are deemed to be global issues. * Management with Resonance: To realize our corporate philosophy of “NOLA & DOLA“, we practice business management in which each employee can be a focal point of Unicharm will continue to work hard to gain the trust and innovation through her or his own labors, each and every movement more greatly support of its stakeholders as it continually fulﬁlls its mission as resonates and inﬂuences others company-wide, and each employeeʼs vision can be a company indispensable in society. actualized. This is the type of corporate culture we foster. Relationship with Stakeholders Unicharm pledges to undertake honest and trustworthy corporate activities toward its customers, shareholders, business partners and society under its “Beliefs and Pledges“ and Corporate Principles of Action, and encourages two-way communication with its stakeholders by providing a wide range of dialogue opportunities. Customers We pledge to earn the full support of customers Pledge by always doing everything we can. Primary communication methods ● Information dissemination using the Internet and ● Miscellaneous exhibitions and events the media ● Group interviews ● Customer service center ● Consumer monitoring surveys Society Shareholders We pledge to contribute to the Pledge economic and emotional fulﬁllment We pledge to distribute industryPledge of the entire population through our leading returns to shareholders. corporate activities. Primary communication methods Primary communication methods Unicharm ● General shareholdersʼ meetings ● Disaster assistance ● Small meetings ● Contribution activities in the local community ● Financial presentations (factory tours and events, etc.) ● Information dissemination using the Internet and investor ● Collaboration with NPOs and NGOs relations tools ● Activities in industry organizations ● Dialogue with stakeholders ● Company visits by students Business Partners Employees We pledge to achieve mutual growth by We pledge to achieve the happiness of Pledge Pledge associates and their family members by ﬁlling maintaining a fair and equitable relationship. each of them with conﬁdence and pride. Primary communication methods Primary communication methods ● Quality Policy Brieﬁng Session ● Unicharm Kyoshinkan (Resonance Hall) ● CSR procurement (self-checks and investigations of actual conditions) ● Information dissemination using in-house intranet and in-house newsletter ● Quality and environmental audits ● Employee questionnaires ● New product presentation conference ● Employee Satisfaction Survey ● Miscellaneous exhibitions and events ● Employee Consultation and Counseling Hotline ● Family visit day at factories Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 9 Introduction of Business Activities Comfort and Aﬄuence for People All Unicharm’ s ﬁve business divisions deliver gentleness We hope that people lead sound and healthy lives from the day they born into this world. To realize this hope, Unicharm’ s ﬁve business divisions of Baby and Child Care, Feminine Care, Health Care, Clean & Fresh, and Pet Care deliver a wide range of products and services for various generations by utilizing the technologies we have developed in the manufacturing of non-woven fabrics and absorbent materials. Baby and Child Care Business Best lineup of products for fast growing babies and children Business Child-rearing life Product philosophy improvement company lineups Launch of Moony the business 1981 ©DISNEY Our Baby and Child Care Businessʼ philosophy is MamyPoko to make social contributions by improving our ©DISNEY customersʼ child-rearing experiences through deep understanding of parent-child relationships and to continue to provide products with new value. In Japan, we receive wide support for two brands: “Moony,“ with functional innovations to accommodate growth, and “Mamy Poko,“ focused on fun. We also provide diapers of our global brand “Mamy Poko“ for babies overseas from East/ Southeast Asia to Middle Eastern countries. MamyPoko Feminine Care Business We support women’ s positive activities Business We make womenʼs comfort Product philosophy a science, so that we may lineups create freedom for women Launch of the business 1963 Charm-nap Center-in Our business philosophy is “making a womenʼs comfort a science so that we may create freedom for women.“ Our Feminine Care Business always identiﬁes womenʼs needs of each era from womenʼs Sofy standpoint, and continues to oﬀer high-value hygiene products and services incorporating advanced technology and ideas. In Japan, we produce feminine products with an understanding of womenʼs minds and bodies under the brand names of “Sofy,“ “Center-in,“ and “Charm-nap.“ We actively develop “Sofy“ as a global brand overseas, which has received high evaluations from women in various countries including East and Southeast Asia. Sofy 10 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Over the World Health Care Business For a society of joyful living, for the elderly and for everyone Business Product philosophy Pursuing the joy of living lineups Launch of Lifree for the business 1987 institutional use Lifree Our Health Care Business includes two business areas: the AI (Adult Incontinence) Business and the mask & medical business. Our AI business respects the dignity and independence of people who experience incontinence, and oﬀers the best products and care system services under the “Lifree “ brand in order to improve the QOL (Quality of life) of all people involved in nursing care, whether at home or in a hospital/nursing home. Our mask & medical business oﬀers products with nonwoven fabric as the core technology to protect peopleʼs health and contribute to public hygiene, from household use to hospital/nursing home and Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask and Lifree industrial use. Chokaiteki UltraComfort Mask Clean & Fresh Business Creating a comfortable environment for people, things, and places Business Creating a comfortable Product philosophy environment for people, lineups Silcot things, and places Launch of Wave the business 1974 Our Clean & Fresh Business oﬀers cleanliness, hygiene, and a fresh feeling, and creates a comfortable environment with non-woven fabric processing technology as our core technology. Wave is a surprisingly easy cleaning sheet for living rooms, the “Silcot“ brand features highly functional pre-moistened wipes and high quality makeup puﬀs, and “Fresh Master“ is a freshness CookUp maintaining sheet used for commercial trays and Fresh Master for mats. Our products are loved by many for their commercial use functions and quality. Pet Care Business Making people’ s life with their pets more comfortable Business Making your petsʼ life Product philosophy comfortable through health lineups and cleanliness Launch of the business 1986 So that your pet can live a long, healthy and active life in a clean environment, among the numerous pet-related businesses Unicharm Pet care focuses especially on “pet food for good health“ and “pet Deo-Toilet Manner Wear toilet products for a clean living environment“. Aiken (Dog) Deo-Sheet We aim to provide new satisfaction for dogs and Genki cats. We provide various products to contribute to your comfortable life with pets, including pet Hartz foods with good taste and nutrition, “Aiken Genki “ and “Neko Genki“, and pet toilet care sheets and pet disposable diapers utilizing our nonwoven Gin no (Silver) Deodorant cloth and absorbent material technologies. Spoon Beads Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 11 Making Life Better for People Living in Feature Topic 1 Here at Unicharm, we hope to realize each personʼs dream by providing products that physically and mentally relieve various burdens, for everyone from babies to the elderly. We hope to make contributions to the realization of comfortable and abundant lives for Asian women, who will become increasingly active and vibrant in their respective societies. Unicharm seeks to develop and implement a variety of measures to support women in their Unicharm continues to support countries and communities. women s social involvement ↖Women workers wearing abaya (black over-garments) for the photo shoot. Background activities in Japan. In 2012, our activities were oﬃcially recognized as We are committed to addressing various a project responding to the Business Call to Action issues surrounding Asian women one by (BCtA) initiative of the UNDP to contribute to the one and seeking solutions through our main achievement of Millennium Development Goals business activities. (MDGs), which aimed at solving various issues all over There is a variety of problems surrounding economic the world by 2015. situations and living conditions for women all over Unicharm will consistently continue to seek out Asia. In South Asia, including India, and the Middle and implement the ways in which we can contribute East and North Africa, including Saudi Arabia, the one by one. diﬃculty in ﬁnding employment opportunities is a reality for women. Unicharm has been working to realize better lives for women by providing products and services, creating working opportunities and engaging in educational activities, in consideration of the characteristics of each country and region, based on the know-how established through our business UN Millennium Development Our Activities Goals (MDGs) Support womenʼs social involvement in 8 Goals Saudi Arabia Goal 1 Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger In the past 50 years, since the launching of our business in the production and sales of feminine napkins, we Goal 2 Achieve universal primary education have never wavered in our goal of “transforming Goal 3 Promote gender equality and empower womenʼs discomfort to comfort.“ We have also been women supporting the social advancement of women in Asia Goal 4 Reduce child mortality through our business activities throughout Asia, as has been done in Japan during the same period. Goal 5 Improve maternal health In Saudi culture, women are not supposed to talk to or even be in the same room with men outside the Goal 6 Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases family, which makes it especially diﬃcult for women Goal 7 Ensure environmental sustainability to work. We therefore came up with an idea that by establishing a women-only plant where women could Goal 8 Develop a global partnership for development work without coming into contact with men, Unicharm 12 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life Thailand: Production line where women work Vietnam: Womenʼs sales and delivery team Saudi Arabia: Staﬀ at our women-only plant Indonesia: Female operators could provide job opportunities for Saudi women, just Support Asian womenʼs social involvement at as Thailand and Indonesia, and built a new production production sites and storefronts. site exclusively designed and reserved for female In Indonesia, Unicharm has been working to provide employees in Saudi Arabia in May 2012. The eﬀorts we clean and safe living environments through our main made were not limited to making the production areas business activities. Most Indonesian mothers usually where women work oﬀ-limits to men, but included use cloth diapers for their newborn babies. In order the creation of a delivery location that is separated to educate new mothers on hygienic child rearing by shutters, to accommodate the situations in which by using disposable diapers immediately after the female employees need to interact with men, such as birth of their babies, our female staﬀ members make delivering documents and products. repeated home visits one after another. In 2014, in addition to increasing the number In Vietnam, many female staﬀ members are of woman workers, we strived to improve their active in the combined roles of sales and delivery. productivity by clarifying the objectives of each At the factories that produce disposable diapers woman worker. To improve product quality, female and sanitary napkins in Thailand and Indonesia, leaders trained their junior staﬀ on quality control and many female staﬀ members work as packagers and skills improvement. Furthermore, we created a working equipment operators. environment for women with disabilities. Our activities in Saudi Arabia have been highly regarded by Saudi government oﬃcials and business circles. Our activities to support the social advancement of Saudi women have also been recognized in Japan, and Unicharm received the corporate category award, a new division created in 2014, of the Nikkei Social Evayanti Initiative Award, an award to recognize companies Supervisor and organizations engaged in noteworthy initiatives to PT Uni-Charm Indonesia develop socially-responsible business practices. We get together as a solid team to engage in educational activities Unicharm Indonesia has been engaged in educational activities to encourage raising babies in a hygienic environment. Our staﬀ make home visits to educate Ameena AI Shamari individual consumers on hygienic child rearing by using Supervisor disposable diapers immediately after the birth of their Unicharm Gulf Hygienic babies. They use motorbikes as their main means of Industries Ltd. transportation, but during the rainy season the heavy rain worsens the conditions of streets, making their job harder. I realize the value of working Nevertheless, they encourage each other to work together In Saudi Arabia, many women still struggle to ﬁnd job to spread hygiene education to as many child-raising opportunities. I myself never would have dreamed about mothers as possible. working until very recently. I didnʼt realize the beauty of working until I actually started working. I feel thrilled when I see the products that we produced on the shelves and people actually buying them, and excited when my friends and family appreciate the products. I appreciate the opportunity to work and I feel proud to be a member of Unicharm. Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 13 Feature Topic 1 Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life To realize social advancement and more active lives for women “First menstruation education“ in India In India, superstitions restricting the activities of women during their menstrual periods still strongly continue to exist. In 2013, Unicharm started its “ﬁrst menstruation education“ program in India, in which we provide accurate information about the physical realities and proper care during menstruation, in cooperation with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and local NGOs. Through this program, we aim to realize the goal that female students can comfortably and hygienically go about their regular activities with conﬁdence during their menstrual periods. During the past two years, since the launch of this program, now known as “Managing Menstruation ‒ My Pride,“ our menstruation education has reached about 30,000 female students around Delhi. It was essential to earn the trust of each school in order to promote this program, and cooperation with local NGOs was a big help. Medical doctors and healthcare professionals from NGOs also participated in the program to answer various questions that students usually hesitated to ask even to their parents. Gummaluri Anuradha This program has been highly appreciated by Unicharm India Private Ltd. many school oﬃcials. Some feedback from schools Assistant manager, CSR division includes: “it was a valuable program respecting interactive communication“ and “students could Through the “Managing Menstruation－My Pride“ program enjoy the comprehensive and easily understandable in India, students came to think about how they spend lecture.“ “I understood how sanitary napkins work their time during menstruation periods and became able to properly deal with their menstruation, including going to see and the importance of using them during my the school nurse as appropriate. We received a lot of favorable menstrual periods,“ said one of the participating feedback from participating school teachers and students, female students. including the remark that “the workshop was carried out with Unicharm would like to support womenʼs social scientiﬁc and easily understandable words in order to clear advancement, allowing them to hold their heads away the superstitions and doubts about the sensitive issue.“ high without being held back by menstruation. The goals of the program are to change womenʼs attitudes The attitudes of the Indian female students who so that they become able to go about their regular activities completed the “Managing Menstruation ‒ My Pride“ regardless of their menstruation periods, and the promotion program, giving full attention to their bodies, became of ﬁnancial independence for women in India. We hope a bright hope for us. that more women in India will be able to lead hygienic and healthy lives by properly using sanitary napkins. 14 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Introducing disposable diapers that gently care for low birth-weight infants, which are increasing year by year “Moony Air Fit® 4S“ “Moony Air Fit® 5S“ While Japanʼs birthrate continues to decline, Protection of small babies is the number of low birth-weight infants the mission of Unicharm continues to increase In medical practice, low birth-weight infants are taken care of The number of childbirths in Japan has continued to in keeping with the mandate that “it is important to minimize decline with womenʼs increased participation in the their stress in order to stimulate the development and growth workforce and an increase in the number of dualof preterm infants.“* However, even changing the posture earner households. Meanwhile, the rate of low birthof infants for diaper changing can be a risk for infants in the weight infants who weigh less than 2,500g at birth acute stage. Conventional disposable diapers are too big and has been increasing and is expected to continue to not soft enough for them, requiring various eﬀorts on the increase. Extremely low birth-weight infants who part of medical staﬀ to provide proper care, such as cutting weigh less than 1,000g require extra-cautious care due diapers to ﬁt and softening the diapers by kneading them. to their underdeveloped organs, including their skin. With this situation in mind, Unicharm developed a new diaper that can be changed without moving the infants. ● Changes in birth rate of low birth-weight infants (<2,500g) “Moony Air Fit®“, particularly designed for low birth-weight (unit: %) 10.0 9.6% infants, was launched ﬁrst for use in maternity hospitals in Japan in November 2014. The perforated side opening 8.0 enables the changing of diapers without disturbing the babyʼs position, even the “fetal position“ similar to a 6.0 babyʼs position in the womb. The contoured diaper shape ensures that the diaper will ﬁt the round body shape of 5.1% 4.0 infants, and avoids tightening. We developed the product in consideration of both babiesʼ comfort and medical 2.0 requirements. * “Minimal Handling“ recommended by Japan Association of Research 0 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2012 (year) on Developmental Care (DC) * Vital Statistics of Japan by Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Perforated opening Three-dimensional ﬁt conforms to Dr. Hiroshi Nishida employed on the side an infantʼs body shape Chairman of Japan Association of Research on Developmental Care Honorary Professor of Tokyo Womenʼs Medical University Yuji Ishii General Manager, Baby Care SBU Newborn infants vary in terms of birth weight: some Global Marketing Division babies are 4 times as large as others, with newborns Unicharm Corporation weighing from less than 1,000g to more than 4,000g. Even newborns will feel comfortable and less stress The rate of low birth-weight infants has been increasing when wearing properly-ﬁtting clothes, just like adults do. not only in Japan but also worldwide, and low birth A recent study of neuroscience has shown that giving weight can be fatal in underdeveloped countries. We, as stress to newborns, especially premature infants, may a disposable diaper manufacturer, were shocked to learn create long-term adverse results in brain development, that diaper-changing had been an obstacle to the “minimal and comfortable, stress-free child-care environments handling“ required for neonatal care. We decided that are desired. Using proper diapers is an important factor this problem could not be left unsolved and put together in providing stress-free care for infants, because diapers an organization to develop a new product requiring no directly contact an infantʼs skin for long hours and position changes when changing a newbornʼs diaper. also aﬀect their movements. As a person involved in We at Unicharm will continue to support the precious developmental care, I have high hopes for Unicharmʼs life of each newborn by making products that contribute new, unprecedented diapers for premature infants. to the advancement of premature infant care worldwide. Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 15 Responding to a Super-Aging Society Feature Topic 2 Realization of “Normalization“ Maintaining life in society Recovery and maintenance of independent continence “Social continence“ “Care that encourages independence while protecting dignity“ 3 foundations of continence-care Mild Moderate Severe Quality-of-Life Making the most of Support for nursing improvement remaining capabilities care improvement Enjoy social outings without Reducing the burdens We support independence of mind and body being bothered by urinary incontinence Support for using the toilet on their own on both care-givers and care-receivers for seniors, and contribute to the realization Desire and Independent Getting a good nightʼs sleep, getting up of a society vibrant with health and longevity motivation to leave the home continence during the day, skincare* Unicharmʼs goal is to realize “normalization“— a society in which everyone can live their own life in their own way, for as long as possible. We identiﬁed our 3 foundations of continence care in response to the various physical conditions and lifestyles of seniors, and we develop and oﬀer products in order to support continence care for the attainment of independence and active social lives for seniors. * Seeking skin comfort while wearing Background ● Changes in the population over The total 65 years of age by country (Asia) 2010 2030 increase in 20 years Realization of a society vibrant with health and All of 279 524 245 Asia longevity: spreading from Japan throughout Asia China 110 229 119 Japan has had the worldʼs highest life expectancy for a long time, with life expectancies of over 80 years India 60 126 66 for both males and females, and Japanese society Japan 29 36 7 is expected to continue to age.* However, “the Indonesia ■ 2010 13 29 16 healthy life expectancy,“ or the remaining years that ■ 2020 a person of a certain age is expected to live without Thailand ■ 2030 6 13 7 restrictions caused by health-related problems, is Korea 5 12 7 now 9 years shorter than the average life expectancy * Research by Unicharm 0 200 400 600 (million for men and 12 years shorter for women. people) * Cabinet Oﬃceʼs “White paper on aging society 2014“ Aging of Caregivers ● Gap between “life expectancy“ and “healthy life expectancy“ In Japanʼs “super aging society“, the percentage of those over 65 years of age has surpassed 21% of the 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 (age) population, and already in more than 50% of family80.21 caregiver households both the care-giver and careMale 71.19 9.02 years receiver are over 65 years of age. The care burden can be especially heavy for senior care-givers, themselves 86.61 aging and experiencing a decline physical strength, and Female 74.21 12.40 years the worry of falling together can become an additional burden. As Japanʼs baby-boomers are aging and families ■Life expectancy ■Healthy life expectancy (remaining period of daily life without restrictions) Gap between life expectancy and healthy life expectancy are becoming more nuclear, the number of households * Data from the Health Promotion Nutrition Group of the Health Science with aged caregivers is expected to increase even more. Council for Community Health, the 2nd Healthy Japan 21 (second-order) Unicharm continues to work to solve social issues Promotion Technical Committee by reducing the burdens on elderly people as much as Having a rapidly aging society is not a unique problem possible, to help them live comfortably on their own for Japan. In other Asian countries such as China and and in their own style. India, the population of those over 65 years of age has ● Age distribution of caregivers been increasing, and those countries, too, will soon Under 39 years Over 80 years be facing the inevitable problems of an aging society. of age 2.0％ of age 12.9％ 40-49 years How do we deal with the numerous issues resulting of age 8.0％ from this globally unprecedented “super aging 50-59 years of age 70-79 years society“? Here at Unicharm, we are committed to 21.4％ of age 24.8％ realizing a “society vibrant with health and longevity“ 60-69 years * The Ministry of Health, of age Labor and Welfare not only in Japan, but all across Asia, by using the 31.0％ “Summary of National best of our existing technologies and know-how. Livelihood Survey 2013“ 16 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Our Activities Hearing and making use of the voices of caregivers and care-receivers Since the introduction of “Lifree“ adult diapers in 1987, Unicharm has provided pant-type adult diapers Lifree Thin & Light EZ-toLifree Comfortable and services to support independent continence for Wear Incontinence Pants Pads for Men the health and longevity of the elderly. While as many as 86% of caregivers hope for their Introduction of mild incontinence pads for men care-receivers to use the toilet on their own, careOne third of women in their 40s are said to experience givers still tend to provide care-receivers with support. “mild“ incontinence. 20% of men in their 50s also One of the main reasons why assistance is needed is experience such mild incontinence, due to the body that pant-type diapers tend to become stuck on the structure that leads to post-urination dripping and buttocks when pulling them up. Unicharm introduced age-related prostate problems. Not an insigniﬁcant “Lifree Thin & Light EZ-to-Wear Incontinence Pants“ in number of men suﬀer by themselves due to a lack October 2014. The new features include an improved of general recognition of the problem and lack of gathering that is easier to pull up, helping to available products to help. encourage independent continence and thus also With this situation in mind, in April 2014, Unicharm improving the psychological state of mind of the introduced “Lifree Comfortable Pads for Men,“ which care-receivers who feel that the product is “easy to accommodates the male body structure so that spots put on“ and “easy to use without help.“ wonʼt appear on the front of trousers or spots wonʼt be visible. We will continue to help men improve their The biggest challenge in adult diaper-changing is “pulling up“ quality of life by providing products that facilitate the continuation of active lives, even with incontinence. Getting Standing Pulling the diaper the feet up up while standing Leak-free design Imperceptible design Front Wider front shape that extensively 4mm thin, visually imperceptible in 100 covers the front of 141 the body from the outside * at the center Actions which are burdensome for care-receivers Hold gathering to prevent Fitted line [Asked adult disposable diaper users ‒ * Research by Unicharm crowding Cup shape to enclose multiple answers] important areas Gray back sheet End guard to hold a larger Back We also paid attention to the issue of “swelling amount of urine Polymeric deodorant* to trap odors * proven eﬀective against ammonia odor if needed around the waist with a shift in posture.“ “Lifree Stretch Fit Thin & Light Tape Type,“ a new diaper product employing elastic tape that conforms to body movement, was introduced to respond to complaints such as “the ﬁxed tape on the diaper Kaiyo Nakajima squeezes the waist every time Product Development Department the wearer sits up.“ Global R & D Division “Lifree Stretch Fit Thin & Unicharm Corporation Light Tape Type“ Lifree Comfortable Pads for Men was developed with ● The rate of swelling around the waist, by position and sex a hope for men to comfortably go about their regular ■ Standing position ■ Sitting position activities without refraining from outings due to worries 100% 100% vs 105% vs 106% about incontinence. One third of Japanese men over the age of 50 experience mild incontinences, such as noticing a spot on the front of their trousers from seeping or dripping after urination. We struggled to develop a design to naturally enclose male genitals, while also allowing them to move freely since they hang outside of the body. We ﬁnally achieved this 3D cup shape and commercialized Male Female the product after trying them on ourselves many times. * Researched by the Research Institute of Human Engineering for Quality of Life (subject age range: 75-79 years old) Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 17 Feature Topic 2 Responding to a Super-Aging Society a project to implement various measures for social issues Raising awareness of continence-care created with the cooperation of city government and private organizations and corporations in Yokohama. We received At Unicharm, we are committed to public awareness positive feedback including participant comments such as “I activities to spread appropriate knowledge of nursing would like to try the pelvic ﬂoor training that I learned today care and continence care. We provide opportunities to prevent incontinence.“ Feedback from the sponsoring for people to acquire a better understanding of organization stated that “cooperation with a private nursing care through hands-on demonstrations at company enabled us to provide information on preventive seminars and forums for the general public. care unavailable at government-only Asia Continence care seminar at PPCS projects. We would like to continue to work One of the members of our continence care research together to extend the center delivered a lecture on “Excretory disorder of the healthy life expectancy of elderly and the importance of continence care“ at the Tsurumi residents.“ ninth Pan Paciﬁc Continence Society (PPCS) Meeting, held in Taiwan in September 2014. The meeting is held annually “Family caregiving class“ held in Tanakura, Fukushima to provide an opportunity for the participating members A “Family caregiving class“ was held again in 2014, of incontinence societies in Japan, China, Korea and following the success of the previous yearʼs class, at the Taiwan to get to know each other and exchange views Tanakura-cho town hall, Fukushima prefecture, where and information. We one of our plants is located. We explained the basics of encouraged nursing care incontinence, how to choose and ﬁt diapers properly, as workers to recognize that well as implementing the incontinence self-evaluation and independent continence pelvic ﬂoor training with participants. Feedback included is the starting point for comments such as “I realized the misuse of diapers and supporting the lifestyles now I understand why of the elderly. it leaked,“ and “I am now prepared should it Educational activities including become necessary,“ from Japan continence-care seminars have 30 participants including expanded across Japan family caregivers and “Nursing care class“ held in Kakegawa, Shizuoka nursing care staﬀ. A nursing care class was held for the general public members of “home caregivers of Kakegawa city“ under A lecture at a nursing and midwifery school in the theme of “how to choose and ﬁt diapers properly. Takatsuki, Osaka “ A lecturer from our continence care research center In keeping with our mission to provide nursing care explained the structure of diapers and the mechanisms support in our super-aging society, we delivered a lecture of leaking, to raise awareness of the importance of the on “How to choose and use diapers,“ as requested by proper way to put them on. The lecture received favorable Aijin-kai nursing and midwifery school in Takatsukifeedback from the participants including comments such city, Osaka, to improve the quality of nursing care with a as “it provided useful better understanding of diapers and how to use them. information for nursing 100 participants including students and staﬀ listened to care in the future“ and “I the lecture on how to use diapers and a demonstration am glad to receive new of product features and how to use them. Feedback knowledge such as how from participants included comments that “I didnʼt fully diapers work and the understand when I absorbing ability.“ joined workshops before. I would like to use the “Incontinence control class“ held in Tsurumi, Yokohama best of what I learned A seminar on mild incontinence and self-care under the today“ and “I could theme of “incontinence control“ was held for the general understand various public inYokohama in the framework of Co-creation Front, features of the diapers.“ 18 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Realization of a symbiotic society for people and their pets “Manner WearⓇ “Manner WearⓇ for male“ for female“ Background Our Activities The pleasure of living with a pet provides energy for seniorsʼ minds and bodies Pet Health and Etiquette Pets are our precious partners who comfort our hearts Pets have been enjoying greater longevity, just like and add abundance to our lives. Pets have attracted people. Unicharm introduced disposable diapers attention in recent research, which has shown that for pets in 2001, and expanded the product lines to interaction with pets has beneﬁcial inﬂuences on realize comfortable and enjoyable lives with pets and the health condition of seniors, including positive human beings. eﬀects in preventive medicine such as prevention of While pet owners in Japan hope to go out with dementia, stabilization of blood pressure and pulse, their pets, the places they can visit with their pets and improvement of healing ability, as well positive are limited compared to America and Europe. One outcomes in mental health and social participation of the possible reasons is a lack of discipline such as such as providing feelings of security by reducing a defecating for marking in public places. sense of alienation and increasing opportunities to With this situation in mind, Unicharm is actively talk with other pet owners. Other research has shown engaged in the promotion of “manner care,“ and that the number of hospital visit of “those who feel introduced “Manner-wear® for male“ and “Mannerstress“ on a regular basis were 10.37 times and 8.62 wear® for female,“ a product to prevent dogs from times a year for non-dog owners and dog-owners, marking in public spaces, in October 2014 and March respectively. 2015, respectively. We are working to create an Based on the idea that extension of the healthy inclusive environment that allows pet dogs and their lifespan of pets will lead to health and longevity for owners to go out together. the elderly, Unicharm aims to realize a “symbiotic society for people and their pets.“ “Manner-wearⓇ for male“ Stylish design to erase the image ● Correlation between raising a pet and number of hospital of continence care. Just wrap it visits by the elderly around dogʼs waist; it considers the comfort of active dogs as well Number of hospital visit among those who feel stress on regular basis as being easy to put on. Those who do not own a dog 10.37 times per year “Manner-wearⓇ for female“ Those who Stylish dress-like design to erase own a dog 8.62 times per year the stigmas such as “diapers = 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 (times) nursing care, pitiful, shameful.“ Even the most active dogs are * “Happy living with pets,“ Pet Symbiosis Promotion Council willing to wear it for the distinct shape of its absorbent materials and patented elastic technology. Ms. Kaori Murata reduces a sense of alienation, creates opportunities for exercise, and decreases hospital visits of seniors. Pets also Mominoki Animal Hospital A member of the Japanese Animal play the role of “social lubricant“ to increase opportunities Hospital Association (JAHA) of communication with other pet owners while walking the pets, for example. However, quite a lot of communal With Manner-wear, public places will facilities do not allow pets, due to problems with urinating become more open to pets and defecating. Using Manner-wear for pets when visiting A great deal of research and academic studies have shown public spaces will encourage more facilities to allow pets that pets have signiﬁcant eﬀects on the health of both and will lead to increased opportunities for the elderly to the mind and the body. Living with a pet increases smiles, get out into their communities. Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 19 Environmentally Friendly Manufacturing Feature Topic 3 As a manufacturer of consumable products, Unicharm is working to deepen understanding about environmental issues and to reduce environmental impacts through its businesses. By strengthening our measures against various issues in every manufacturing process, we are balancing environmental conservation with economic growth and working toward our goal of contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. Committed to developing environmentally friendly products and technologies ↖Eco Charming mark Background Our Activities Reducing environmental impacts through Unicharm s Initiatives through its our business activities Products The Working Group I report adopted at the plenary session Expanding the number of environmentally of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) friendly products points out that there is an extremely high possibility Unicharm is working to develop environmentally that humans are the main factor behind global warming friendly products, having established the ratio since the second half of the 20th century. The report also of environmentally friendly products as one of emphasizes the need to signiﬁcantly and continually its environmental targets. The degree to which lower greenhouse gas emissions in order to curb climate a product is environmentally friendly is checked change*. Meanwhile, the amount of resources being during each step of development, while a productʼs consumed and waste produced continues to increase due environmental impacts across its entire life cycle to global economic growth and rising populations. are measured and later assessed to make sure Many of Unicharmʼs products are consumables these assessments are correct. With FY2005 as base essential to a clean and healthy lifestyle, which means year, Unicharm set a goal to achieve a 67% ratio of our businesses closely relate to the environment through environmentally products in FY2014 and thanks to the use of resources and generation of waste. This is why our eﬀorts we were able to meet this goal. 67 we will continue to reduce our environmental impacts in all processes, from product development to sales, while keeping close watch of environmental issues using a Ratio of environmentally global perspective. friendly products % * Ministry of the Environmentʼs FY2014 Annual Report on the Environment, the Sound Material-Cycle Society, and the Biodiversity in Japan Eco Charming mark based on Unicharmʼs proprietary standards List of Eco Charming products Only environmentally friendly products that clear rigorous standards in terms of reducing environmental impacts and improving product value are able to use Unicharmʼs own eco label known as the Eco Charming mark. Currently, 25 products bear the Eco Charming mark under this program that started in 2008. Products are selected for this distinction based on a factor method* and proprietary set of eco label guidelines created by Unicharm. * Factor: An environmental indicator used for assessments between a new and old product by quantifying the productʼs environmental impacts and value (function, etc.). 20 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Example 1 Disposable Baby Diapers Example 3 Urine-suction robot “Humany“ Thanks to its proprietary technologies, Unicharmʼs The urine-suction robot called Humany was launched disposable baby diapers today oﬀer the same absorption in 2009 for continence care that makes independent power but use signiﬁcantly less pulp and are about support possible. Sensors in the robotʼs special 60% thinner than they were 20 years ago. This reduces absorption pad detect urine and automatically suck overall waste by an estimated 75kg and CO2 emissions away the urine immediately, placing it in a storage by 580kg during the diaper period (about three years) tank. This means adult diapers no longer need to compared to 20 years ago. Currently, the amount of be changed at night and pads only have to be waste and CO2 emissions generated during the diaper changed once a day, greatly reducing the burden period is 200kg and of continence care. This also lowers the number 930kg, respectively. of disposable adult diapers used, reducing waste Unicharm stands volume by 90%. CO2 emissions are also reduced committed to reducing to 80kg, which is greatly lower than conventional these amounts even disposable adult diapers. further going forward. approx. 1 10 Example 2 Feminine Hygiene Products The Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep Extra-Fit-Slim newly launched under the Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep 90 nighttime sanitary napkin brand is a slimmed down Urine-suction robot “Humany“ version of the conventional Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep Guard that is two-thirds thinner. This results in a Waste volume product with 84% of the weight of the previous one, which reduces CO2 emissions produced from the reduced by % manufacturing and distribution processes to 82.4%. ● Environmental Eﬀects from Humany Amount of waste from CO2 emissions (LCA) from one year of use one year of use Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep Extra-Fit-Slim 640kg 80kg 600kg Reduced 56kg Reduced by approx. by approx. 0 90% 0 87% Use of tape-type Use of Use of tape-type Use of diapers and pads Humany pads diapers and pads Humany pads Asami Shima * Unicharm study Product Development Department Global R & D Division Unicharm Corporation Kiyoshi Miyazawa Pursuing comfort along with lessened General Manager environmental impacts CSR Division Amid a rise in womenʼs social advancement, we began Unicharm Corporation developing a sanitary napkin that is comfortable to wear without sacriﬁcing peace of mind to meet rising demand among women The Unicharm Group is working toward the goal of increasing for higher quality sleep. During development, we faced a tough the ratio of environmentally friendly products from 67% in time ﬁnding how to remove heightened insecurity caused 2014 to 80% in the future from the standpoint of reducing by the thinner sanitary napkin design, and we ﬁnally arrived its impacts on the environment. We will examine ways to at a design where the absorption pad maintains the same use recycled materials and lower the environmental impacts ﬂexible coverage as existing designs. We also slimmed down associated with the raw materials used to make disposable the product so that it is two thirds as thin as our conventional diapers and feminine hygiene products, while continually sanitary napkins by ﬁnding ways to improve comfort. This slim striving to achieve technological breakthroughs that lessen design also helps reduce CO2 emissions from the manufacturing the burden on diaper changes and reduce wearer discomfort. and distribution process to 82.4% of previous ﬁgures. To realize sustainable growth in our global business Going forward, we will continue to engage in product activities, we will promote activities that enhance long-term development that delivers even greater peace of mind while value in terms of the environment, society and governance, achieving both comfort and reduced environmental impacts. in addition to risk management. Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 21 Continuing to Provide Reconstruction Support to the Disasteraﬀected Areas from the Great East Japan Earthquake Unicharm once again extends its heartfelt sympathies to those aﬀected by the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, 2011. We sincerely hope for a speedy recovery from this unprecedented disaster. Since immediately after the earthquake, Unicharm has delivered supplies and continually used the Matching Fund, set up to receive charitable donations from employees, to provide relief support. Through these activities, we will continue to deepen our interaction with local residents and make contributions to local communities. Continuing with our Matching Fund Employees from Wakatake Gakuen shared the combing disaster relief support following feedback, “The impacts from the Great with electricity conservation East Japan Earthquake have reduced the salmon Our Matching Fund established to provide disaster catch, which has made it very diﬃcult to procure the relief assistance and our Super Cool Biz and Warm salmon leather for the ID card case. Nevertheless, we Biz employee dress codes to promote electricity are committed to using local salmon as a means to conservation are now in their ﬁfth year. The Matching rebuilding Miyako City. The fact our products were Fund provides a matching donation for the price sold during Super Cool Biz really motivated our of our original polo shirt, badge and jacket bought residents who enjoyed making the card cases.“ by employees, with the proceeds having so far Going forward, we stand fully committed to been used to purchase a total of 125 urine-suction continuing our support for the disaster-stricken robots called “Humany“ for hospitals and healthcare areas and carrying out electricity conservation eﬀorts facilities in the disaster-stricken area. These robots are together with our employees. being used on the front lines of nursing care to help improve the quality of life (QOL) of users. The original polo shirt used for our Super Cool Biz employee dress code was manufactured at an apparel factory in Shirakawa City, Fukushima Prefecture, while disabled persons living at Wakatake Gakuen, a support facility for the disabled located in Miyako City, Iwate A salmon leather ID card case Making the card cases Prefecture, which also received a donation of Humany, and bookmark 125 87 created a salmon leather ID card case and bookmark. Number of Number Both of these were included in the Matching Fund. Humany units of facilities donated beneﬁted Main initiatives following (accumulated total) (accumulated total) the earthquake and tsunami (As of December 31, 2014) June 30 ● Donated a total of 2,540 “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask 2011 for Kids“ to Tanagura Town, located in Fukushima March 11 The Great East Japan Earthquake strikes Prefectureʼs Higashishirakawa County ● Crisis Management Team (CMT) established July 1 ● “Matching Fund“ established combining “disaster relief ● Whereabouts and safety of all employees conﬁrmed, assistance“ with “Super Cool Biz“ employee dress code including those at the Fukushima Factory and North (proceeds used to purchase and donate Humany for those Japan Branch areas in need) March 12 ● Disaster response framework established August 31 ● Launched new “Two-pack Version of Chorittai Ultra ● Assistance eﬀorts launched in collaboration with 3D Shape Mask,“ with 1% of sales donated to disasteradministrative agencies, other companies in the aﬀected areas industry, and municipalities September 1 ● Donated 2.68 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask“ to ● First convoy of vehicles loaded with relief supplies children attending day care, kindergartens, elementary, departs for the disaster zone junior high, and high schools March 13 ● Five trucks loaded with relief supplies arrive in the Tohoku region. First relief supplies delivered to the 2012 disaster zone January 16 ● Held campaign in support of the earthquake and March 18 ● Establishment of “Matching Fund“ for charitable tsunami reconstruction eﬀort together with Tsuruha donations Holdings in which Unicharm purchased domestic March 25 ● Product speciﬁcations of MamyPoko Pants partially emissions credits generated from Tsuruha using part of modiﬁed (temporary changes made because of damage the proceeds from the campaign (ran until March 16) suﬀered by raw materials manufacturer) March 6 ● Donated 5 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks“ to March 26 ● Production partially restarted at the damaged children attending day care, kindergarten, elementary, Fukushima Factory junior high, and high schools in Iwaki City, Fukushima May 2 ● “Summer Time“ work schedule introduced as means to Prefecture conserve electricity during the summer April 24 ● Donated pet foods “Aiken (Dog) Genki,“ “Neko (Cat) May 9 ● Fukushima Factory becomes fully operational again Genki“ and “Deo-Sheet“ (pet mats) as relief supplies ● A portion of disposable diapers for adults were through the Japan Pet Food Association. temporarily imported from overseas aﬃliates May 7 ● “Matching Fund“ established combining “disaster relief assistance“ with “Super Cool Biz“ employee dress code (proceeds used to purchase Humany for those areas in need) 22 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Urine-suction robot “Humany“ Keisenkai Social Welfare Corporation Asaka Aiikuen Social Welfare Corporation Support Center for the Disabled Support Center for the Disabled Taiyosou Asaka Asunaroso (Karumai Town, Kunohe County, Iwate Prefecture) (Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture) Mr. Katsutoshi Masuo, Life Supporter Ms. Maki Suzuki, Life Supporter Residents are able to wake up in the Improved sleep means residents are able morning feeling better knowing they stayed to spend more time with one another dry through the night We are using Humany for a female resident in her 40s with I hadnʼt heard of “care robots“ before, but when I saw the Down Syndrome who is almost bedridden because of donated Humany, I thought it was a continence care product diﬃculty swallowing and a decline in physical functions. that could help make our residents comfortable, so I started Until now, she had a diﬃcult time controlling her urine using it. output, so we needed to change her adult diaper, clothing The residents currently using the Humany had to have or sheets a number of times during the night because of her their adult diapers changed four times every night. Having to frequent and high volume urination. She was also plagued manipulate their body position during each change caused by a lack of sleep. some pain resulting in a lack of sleep, but ever since we Currently, we use the Humany mainly for night-time started using Humany, we no longer have to do any change continence care. When we ﬁrst started using it, there were and the residents now get to sleep through the night some leaks because we couldnʼt ﬁnd the right position for without interruption. The workload of staﬀ members has the pads, so the staﬀ discussed together how to properly also been reduced because we can immediately respond to position and place the pads. As a result of various changes situations as Humany tells us whenever there is a leak. and improvements, we have eliminated nighttime leaks The greatest beneﬁt of using Humany is that residents and she can now get enough sleep. She also no longer can now wake up in the morning more comfortable. They experiences the chills from her clothing being wet with seemed to be really unpleasant when they woke up with a urine which has helped us maintain the cleanliness of her wet adult diaper until they were still using it. They feel much skin and give her added peace of mind. Since improving her better now waking up after a night with Humany because sleep, she is now spending more time enjoying her favorite the surface of the super soft pads is dry. Staﬀ involved in music during the day and talking with other residents at the providing care have also beneﬁted from a reduced and more cafeteria and other places. eﬃcient work load because there are fewer diaper changes I feel Humany is a suitable and required tool for any care during the night. facility for the disabled because it also reduces the workload of the staﬀ. August 31 ● Held charity Rakugo performance at the Unicharm head December 13 ● Held charity Rakugo performance at the Unicharm head oﬃce to beneﬁt relief assistance (sponsored by the oﬃce to beneﬁt relief assistance (sponsored by the Unicharm Union) Unicharm Union) November 15 ● A total of 1.36 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks“ December 19 ● Organized nursing care seminar on continence care for donated to children attending daycare, kindergarten, the elderly and adult diapers in Tanagura Town, Higashi elementary school or junior high school in municipalities Shirakawa County, Fukushima Prefecture located in the Hamadori district of Fukushima Prefecture December 18 ● A total of 1.5 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks“ 2014 donated to every household of Tanagura Town in March 14 ● Held charity Rakugo performance at Unicharm Nagoya Higashi Shirakawa County of Fukushima Prefecture as to beneﬁt relief assistance (sponsored by the Unicharm well as evacuees living in the town Union) 2013 April 1 ● Commenced “Super Cool Biz“ employee dress code Established the “Matching Fund“ campaign combining January 16 ● Held campaign in support of the earthquake and disaster relief support with “Super Cool Biz“ employee tsunami reconstruction eﬀort together with Tsuruha dress code (proceeds used to purchase and donate Holdings in which Unicharm purchased domestic Humany for those areas in need) emissions credits generated from Tsuruha using part of September 25 ● Held “a family nursing care lecture class“ in the proceeds from the campaign Tanagura Town, located in Fukushima Prefectureʼs January 18 ● “Matching Fund“ established for “Warm Biz“ employee Higashishirakawa County, on basic knowledge about dress code (proceeds used to purchase and donate elderly incontinence and the correct way to choose an Humany for those areas in need) adult diaper April 1 ● “Matching Fund“ established for “Super Cool Biz“ November 1 ● Began the “Warm Biz“ employee dress code: employee dress code (proceeds used to purchase and Established a “Matching Fund“ combining disaster relief donate Humany for those areas in need) support with “Warm Biz“ employee dress code August 30 ● Held charity Rakugo performance at the Unicharm December 19 ● Held charity Rakugo performance at the Unicharm head Shikoku Technical Center to beneﬁt relief assistance oﬃce to beneﬁt relief assistance (sponsored by the (sponsored by the Unicharm Union) Unicharm Union) November 18 ● “Matching Fund“ established combining “disaster relief assistance“ with “Warm Biz“ employee dress code (proceeds used to purchase and donate Humany for those areas in need) Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 23 Unicharm Group’ s Primary CSR Themes and Major Indicators (KPI) Related Item Items Where Unicharm is Making Efforts Ideal Vision (Goal) Major Activity Plan for FY2014 Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth with Initiatives to reduce environmental impact environmental protection by applying proprietary and ambitious environmental standards to all Install energy-saving facilities in conjunction with ancillary facility upgrades. corporate activities. Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth with Along with the Environmentally friendly product development environmental protection by promoting environmentally friendly manufacturing and providing Promote waste reduction and recycling within the group centered on Environment activities world-first, and world-leading products and services in terms of safety and quality that deliver productivity improvement activities. comfort, impression, and satisfaction to people around the world. Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth with Environmental management environmental protection by building and implementing a PDCA cycle for environmental Ensure consistent implementation at each gate of product development stage. activities and by reducing environmental impacts. Promote activities that are considerate of biodiversity in all business activities covering the Biodiversity conservation activities Identify environment-related risk items and add new guide line. entire supply chain. Promote marketing that properly captures changes in social environment, QOL improvements market trends and consumer needs. Provide world-first and world-leading products and services in terms of safety and quality that Promote product safety assurance measures. deliver comfort, impression, and satisfaction to people around the world, and contribute to a Improve product quality and ensure product better quality of life for everyone. safety Promote quality control initiatives. Along with Promote initiatives to reflect customer feedback in products. Our Customers Leave a lasting impression on customers, deepen relationships with customers and provide Take steps to improve customer satisfaction based on the results of the Improve customer satisfaction satisfaction to customers. customer service satisfaction surveys Promote initiatives to ensure proper product labeling practices are followed. Support customers’ independent decisions and selections by correctly and proactively providing Fair marketing and information disclosure appropriate information to customers. Promote disclosure of corporate and product information by expanding the Company’s website. Disclose CSR activities in the CSR report. ● Continue to properly hold board of directors’ and board of auditors’ meetings Achieve company growth, ensure employee happiness and fulfill social responsibilities by ● Implement internal control for sites in both Japan and overseas Corporate governance ● Continue maintaining transparent corporate management and actively disclosing information. to properly disclose information based on amendments to disclosure ordinances ● Set up and operate global intranet system Ensure the Unicharm Way, a systemized specific mechanism for all employees and executives ● Stream president messages(weekly) to ensure better penetration of the Sound corporate culture to take action in accordance with the corporate philosophy and corporate ethics, is practiced Unicharm Way Group-wide. ● Establish an environment where the Unicharm Way can be referenced in English at newly established Unicharm Group companies Promote company-wide procurement strategy and hold the Quality Policy Fair procurement Fair and equal trade with Achieve co-existence with suppliers by building fair and equitable business dealings with Briefing Session for suppliers practices suppliers suppliers. Provide compliance and governance training to purchasing managers. Ensure the Company uses its intellectual properties by protecting the intellectual property rights (important company assets) of the Company and making sure employees protect and Ensure the protection and respect of Unicharm and other companies’ Protection of intellectual properties respect the intellectual properties of other companies and the Company, as noted in the intellectual properties Unicharm Group Action Guidelines. Conduct legal affairs training on violations of the Unfair Competition Comply with laws on competition and trade, and promote correct corporate management by Fair competition and trade Prevention Act and Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. undertaking fair and equitable trade. to Subcontractors Management Develop and thoroughly implement various guidelines Promote correct corporate management by educating Group companies and affiliates about Compliance the Unicharm Way and guidelines to complying with the Unicharm Way (including insider trading prevention rules and affiliate management rules, etc.). Conduct risk and compliance training at local incorporated subsidiaries overseas Compliance and risk management Internal control based on Japan’s Financial Promote correct corporate management by properly analyzing forecast risks and ensuring the Strengthen risk management structure and internal control Instruments and Exchange internal control system functions to prevent and avoid such risks. Act Earn the trust of customers, business partners and society by strictly and securely managing ● Promote and thoroughly practice information security, including at Group Information security received information and building a systems infrastructure that ensures the Company can companies continue to operate as a going concern in the event of a fire or disaster. ● Develop structure to succeed systems operations in Japan and overseas 24 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Unicharm Group formulates and implements important CSR activities and KPI together with related departments international. Going forward, we seek to enhance the quality of these initiatives by implementing the PDCA cycle. Indicators and Results Location Main Indicators for Achieving Ideal Vision SelfResults of FY2014 Activities Major Activities Plan for FY2015 Mentioned in (Goal) Target* Results Unit assessment CSR Report GJ/ Achieved target by upgrading ancillary equipment at manufacturing plant [Domestic] Energy usage (GJ) / Basic unit of Launched energy saving promotion activities globally by rolling out 10.6 10.6 million ○ and conducting continuous improvement activities through the promotion net sales (millions of yen) Energy Saving Working Group activities outside of Japan. yen of activities via the Domestic Energy Saving Working Group. p33 [Domestic] Total waste emissions (3 main Continuously implemented UTMSS improvement activities (Reduce product Continue to promote waste reduction and recycling within the group sites) -13 -20 % ○ waste and effectively utilized materials during the production process). centered on productivity improvement activities. *compared to 2000 [Domestic] Ratio of environmentally friendly Fostered awareness of the environment-friendly mind through gate checks Hold training and penetrate standards to ensure environment67 67 % ○ P20 and 34 products during the preliminary development stage. friendly mind is firmly rooted. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of items Took steps to implement guidelines on contracts with domestic(Japan) and Make guidelines on environmental data known outside Japan and 1 1 cases ○ Online created in global operations manual overseas industrial waste providers. expand the area applicable to third-party assurances. [Domestic and Overseas] Information Formulate materials procurement policy in consideration of overall Gathered information on peer practices as well as identified problems and exchange with related parties inside and 4 4 times ○ ESG and devise guidelines on forest management using in-house Online direction of forest resource management throughout the supply chain. outside the company standards. [Domestic and Overseas] Product likability Strived to enhance product value by developing customer insight based on an Conduct marketing focused on public interests through products indicator 100 98 % △ approach to product development that improves customer satisfaction, and that maximize consumer value and by recognizing changes in social p30 *compared to 2012 fostered greater trust among customers by providing a stable supply of products. environment, market trends and consumer needs. Performed safety checks on all materials and products, from raw materials Obtain the latest information on laws and regulations in the [Domestic] Number of problems with to post-use of materials and products and disposal, prior to release of new 0 0 cases ○ overseas countries we operate and ensure product safety based on material or product safety products in Japan based on related laws/regulations, industry standards and evidence. p31 voluntary in-house standards and, as a result, no safety problem occurred. Implemented improvement measures based on information concerning faulty Implement improvement measures based on information concerning [Domestic] Complaint reduction rate -1 -20 % ○ products. faulty products and activities to ensure improvements are maintained. [Domestic] Achievement rate of product Made product improvement proposals based on consumer feedback at monthly Convey customer feedback in a timely manner at monthly 100 82 % △ proposals based on customer feedback divisional meetings, but, failed to achieve targets. departmental meetings and swiftly reflect it in products. P28-29 [Domestic] Customer service satisfaction Responded quickly, fairly and faithfully and, as a result, received strong Continue to perform customer service satisfaction surveys and 90.5 93.3 % ○ survey: Percentage of satisfied customers customer satisfaction evaluations for the company’s response. further improve the quality of our responses to customers. Performed conformity checks on all products prior to their release in Japan Continue to abide by laws/regulations, industry standards and [Domestic] Number of cases involving for compliance with laws/regulations and industry standards, checked labels voluntary in-house standards and implement evidence collection 0 0 cases ○ p31 product labeling problems to prevent improper use and collected evidence for product labeling, and, as a activities. Collect the latest information on various laws and result, there was no legal violation in advertisement or misleading labels, etc. regulations in related countries overseas. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of 11 12 countries ○ Launched new corporate website in Egypt and Brazil Launch new corporate website in Myanmar. p30 countries with website presenc [Domestic and Overseas] Number of times 1 1 times ○ Published CSR Report 2014 (print and web editions). Publish CSR Activity Report 2015. p3 CSR report published [Domestic] Implementation rate of board of Held board of directors’ and board of auditors’ meetings according to the Hold board of directors’ and board of auditors’ meetings according 100 100 % ○ p44 directors’ / board of auditors’ meetings annual plan. to the annual plan. ● Establish and operate the global intranet [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation ● Operated the Global Intranet in a stable manner ● Stream president messages(weekly) to ensure better penetration rate for promoting environment to use the ● Streamed president messages(weekly) to continue ensure environment with of the Unicharm Way 100 100 % ○ ● Establish an environment where the Unicharm Way can be Unicharm Way through expansion of global better penetration of the Unicharm Way intranet system (English) (● No new Unicharm Group companies were established this year) referenced in English at newly established Unicharm Group p44 companies [Domestic and Overseas] Distribution rate of Distributed paper-edition of the Unicharm Way to newly hired employees and Distribute paper-edition of the Unicharm Way to newly hired 100 100 % ○ the Unicharm Way pamphlet to employees mid-career hires. employees and mid-career hires. Held the 3rd Quality Policy Briefing Session in China involving 112 representatives from 41 companies. In addition to quality standards, Unicharm [Overseas] Number of times Quality Policy conveyed its approach to compliance and governance and issued quality 1 1 times ○ Hold the 4th Quality Policy Briefing Session in China. p42 Briefing Session held for suppliers commendations. In Japan, the Quality Policy Briefing Session was held for the first time in three years, with 156 representatives from 65 companies attending. Here, information on our quality, environment and safety policies was shared. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of training Compliance and governance training was provided to 41 purchasing managers Hold compliance and governance training for purchasing managers 1 1 times ○ p44 sessions held for purchasing managers and persons in charge at the Global Purchasing Meeting (October). and persons in charge at the Global Purchasing Meeting. Hold study sessions on intellectual property laws and product labeling laws in Japan for the marketing departments, R&D [Domestic and Overseas] Intellectual property Held label screening study sessions at marketing departments of domestic and departments, employees being dispatched overseas, newly hired study session implementation rate (number 100 100 % ○ overseas subsidiaries, for employees being dispatched overseas, new marketing employees and managers from domestic and overseas subsidiaries p45 of times implemented / number of times department employees, and newly hired employees. where study sessions have yet to be held. In particular, augment planned) curriculum based on changes in labeling law and take steps to enhance and expand the system for managing labels. Continue to hold legal affairs training for directors, corporate Continued to hold legal affairs training in marketing departments, R&D auditors, executive officers, marketing departments, R&D departments, research departments, for employees being dispatched overseas, [Domestic and Overseas / Group companies] departments, research departments, employees being dispatched 100 100 % ○ newly hired employees, directors, corporate auditors, executive officers and p44 Legal affairs training implementation rate overseas and newly hired employees. Also, hold legal affairs training managers. Also held new legal affairs training for employees of subsidiaries for employees of subsidiaries linked with legal affairs managers at linked with legal affairs managers at overseas subsidiaries. overseas subsidiaries. Continue to hold legal affairs training in marketing departments, Continued to hold legal affairs training in marketing departments, R&D R&D departments, research departments, for employees being departments, research departments, for employees being dispatched overseas, dispatched overseas, newly hired employees, directors, corporate newly hired employees, directors, corporate auditors, executive officers and [Domestic] Insider trading prevention rules auditors, executive officers and managers. Also hold legal affairs 100 100 % ○ managers. Also held new legal affairs training for employees of subsidiaries training implementation rate (those targeted) training for employees of subsidiaries by working with legal affairs by working with legal affairs managers at overseas subsidiaries. Regularly managers at overseas subsidiaries. Continue to regularly publish published Q&A introducing in an easy-to-understand manner legal knowledge Q&A introducing in an easy-to-understand manner legal knowledge on business through the company’s intranet for general employees. on business through the company’s intranet for general employees. [Domestic / Group companies] Affiliate Ensured proper reporting to the headquarters in accordance with affiliate Continue to monitor and ensure proper reporting to the management rules training implementation 100 100 % ○ management rules by utilizing TV conferences with overseas subsidiaries and headquarters in accordance with affiliate management rules by (affiliates) legal audits. Monitoring was also performed. utilizing TV conferences with overseas subsidiaries and legal audits. Conducted legal audit at subsidiaries in Indonesia, Vietnam and Malaysia and Continue to conduct legal audits primarily in countries not covered in p44-45 proposed solutions for remedying problems found and taking legal steps to [Overseas] Implementation rate of legal the previous year in accordance with the annual audit plan. Propose 100 100 % ○ prevent inherent risks facing at each subsidiary. Also, conducted monitoring of affairs audit plan solutions for remedying problems found and take legal steps to the progress of solution implementation by subsidiaries audited last year using prevent inherent risks facing each subsidiary regular TV conferences. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of serious deficiencies found in the company-wide ● Formulate BCP covering new risks and set company-wide risk 0 0 cases ○ ● Formulated BCP covering new risks and set company-wide risk items. management evaluation of internal control items. ● Evaluated company-wide internal control (covering entities accounting for that should be disclosed ● Evaluate company-wide internal control (covering entities 95% of consolidated sales). [Domestic and Overseas] Number of serious ● Evaluated operating process internal control (covering entities accounting for accounting for 95% of consolidated sales). deficiencies found in the management ● Evaluate operating process internal control (covering entities 0 0 cases ○ 2/3 of consolidated sales). evaluation of operational processes and accounting for 2/3 of consolidated sales). internal controls that should be disclosed ● Make improvements to strengthen the system for managing confidential information of customers and other sources and make ● Made improvements to strengthen the system for managing confidential it known to all. [Domestic] Number of information information of customers and other sources. ● Introduce system to control the mistakenly sending and browsing 0 0 cases ○ ● Established system to immediately terminate the ID of lost or stolen divulgation incidents of management information and make it known to all. information equipment. ● Regularly hold information security training. ● Continue running system to immediately terminate the ID of lost p45 or stolen information equipment. ● Continued change-over training in case of a disaster ● Continue to carry out change-over training in case of a disaster. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of ● Continued ● Continue to improve operational procedures and manuals for disasters to improve manuals and operational procedures for incidents where systems failed during a 0 0 cases ○ ● Visualized the confirmation of safety, disaster damages and system failures disasters. disaster ● Make improvement plan in BCP measures outside Japan. using smartphones Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 25 Related Item Items Where Unicharm is Making Efforts Ideal Vision (Goal) Major Activity Plan for FY2014 Unicharm Group Earn the trust of stakeholders by establishing and operating a system to implement the PDCA Continue to hold CSR Committee meetings and promote important CSR CSR management CSR cycle for CSR activities, and disclosing the details of such activities. themes Foster relationship of trust by recognizing stakeholder needs through stakeholder engagement General Promote activities that encourage communication with various stakeholders and continually reflecting these needs in corporate activities. Maintain growth that will earn the trust of shareholders and maintain industry-leading Stakeholder Stakeholder shareholder returns. Engagement engagement Proactively disclose important information in a timely manner and continue to Strive to clarify accountability and improve management competencies in order to promote Shareholders hold dialogue in which senior management and persons in charge of investor correct corporate management. relations meet with people working in the capital markets. Actively disclose management information and strive to promote trustworthy corporate management. Contribute to the realization of a bright society without discrimination by striving to educate Respect for human rights and prohibition of Continue to utilize and promote the employee consultation and counseling Human Rights workplaces about human rights awareness and by promoting a workplace culture that respects discrimination hotline the individual personalities and capabilities of each and every employee. Promotion of employment Continue to promote the employment of persons with disabilities of persons with disabilities Employees working together with respect for and trust of one another regardless of age, Respect for diversity Promotion of rehiring gender, nationality, employment format, or disability. employees after Continue to promote the rehirement of employees after mandatory retirement mandatory retirement ● Continue to conduct the employee satisfaction survey (every year), identify ● Foster a corporate culture that provides opportunities for equal self-realization and to issues and create policy develop self confidence and pride, based on respect for each and every employees’ ● Provide workplace environments where diverse human resources can actively Improved workplace environment autonomy. ● Foster the creation of a diverse and open group of persons that respect the values and time contribute ● Make efforts to reduce the amount of overtime work (hold company-wide of one another in all situations. no-overtime days) Along with Guarantee of safe Our Employees Conduct Health & Safety Committee meeting workplace environment Occupational health Give utmost priority to employee health and safety, and guarantee comfortable workplace and safety Promote employee health environment. Implement mental health care training and return-to-work program and mental care Foster employees that are never satisfied with the status quo and always strive for personal Human resource development / utilization Implement global human resources development training development and to tackle new challenges. Under foundation of mutual trust between labor and management, achieve corporate growth Dialogue between labor and management together as well as maintain / improve employee labor conditions and ensuring a stable Hold discussions with the labor union lifestyle. Promote measures across the entire Unicharm Group (Japan: pink ribbon Contribute to improved health and hygiene standards for people and a sound and dynamic Along with the activities, child raising support project, provision of paper diapers to Social contribution activities society by constructing relationships of trust through activities that address the needs of Society Shikokuchuo City, and factory tours for employee family members) (China/ communities and society as a whole. Taiwan: pink ribbon activities, etc.) Reconstruction Carry out disaster relief activities (donations of Humany urine-suction robots by Assistance for the Contribute to the safety of people and restoration of disaster-affected areas by providing combining Super Cool Biz and Warm biz employee dress codes with disaster Disaster relief activities Great East Japan assistance to every extent possible as a manufacturer that provides daily essentials. support provided via the Matching Fund, and the holding of nursing care Earthquake seminars, etc.) 26 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Indicators and Results Location Main Indicators for Achieving Ideal Vision SelfResults of FY2014 Activities Major Activities Plan for FY2015 Mentioned in (Goal) Target* Results Unit assessment CSR Report [Domestic] CSR Committee meeting Set up subcommittees and hold CSR Committee meetings according 100 100 % ○ Held CSR Committee meetings according to the annual plan. p8 implementation rate to the annual plan. [Domestic] Number of CSR news published Disseminated information on the Unicharm Group’s CSR activities in a timely ontinue to disseminate information on the Unicharm Group’s CSR 10 17 times ○ p9 on the corporate website manner. activities. [Domestic] Financial presentation Senior management presented performance results to investors at financial 100 100 % ○ Hold financial presentation briefings (in Japan). implementation rate (Japan) presentations (in Japan). Senior management used overseas investors relations roadshows to hold [Overseas] IR tour implementation rate 100 100 % ○ Hold investor relations roadshows overseas. dialogue with major overseas institutional investors. p43 Persons in charge of investor relations met individually with investors on more [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation 100 100 % ○ than 300 occasions both in Japan and overseas to explain about the business Hold individual meetings with investors. rate of individual meetings with investors operations of the Company to persons working in the capital markets. [Domestic] Employee consultation and Responded to all consultations received by the employee consultation and Continue to respond to consultations received by the employee 100 100 % ○ p44 counseling hot line response rate counseling hotline. consultation and counseling hotline. Actively promoted and improved the hiring of people with disabilities. Continue to actively promote the hiring of people with disabilities. [Domestic] Employment rate of persons with 2.0 2.0 % ○ Continued to develop workplaces where employees with disabilities can Continue to develop workplaces where employees with disabilities disabilities contribute with their skills and expertise. can contribute with their skills and expertise. Interviews held between future retirees with their supervisors and HR on their Continue with current initiatives for rehiring future retirees and carry p38 future career options one year or two years prior to mandatory retirement. out regular follow-ups according to specific plans for coaching their [Domestic] Rehirement rate after mandatory 60 83 % ○ Promoted the rehiring of employees after their mandatory retirement by junior generations. Establish a system where rehiring employees retirement establishing a system to share feedback from the individual on their roles and are able to maintain their strong motivation and skills even after expectations after being rehired and to urge their change in mind and behavior. mandatory retirement. Continued to conduct “employee satisfaction survey“ twice in FY2014. [Domestic] Number of times employee Confirmed employees’ current situation and degree of satisfaction with their Continue to conduct “employee satisfaction survey“ as same as last 2 2 times ○ satisfaction survey conducted work and reflected them in various management initiatives and provided year and reflect results in management initiatives. feedback to each department. Eliminated concern among applicable individuals by sending guidelines on Continue to implement current initiatives as well as to provide [Domestic] Turnover rate due to pregnancy maternity and parenting leaves. Through back-to-work interviews, concerns briefings to male employees whose spouses are delivering babies p37-39 8 0 % ○ or childcare over work-life balance after returning to work were eased and support was and their supervisors about childcare-leave programs and systems provided through consultations. for encouraging them to take childcare-leaves as well. Continued to implement once a month company-wide. Employees were [Domestic] No-overtime day implementation 100 100 % ○ thoroughly notified by audio announcements in the office, posted-notes signed Continue to implement once a month company-wide. rate by divisional general manager, email, etc. [Domestic] Health & Safety Committee Held once a month at each office. Also held health management guidance led 100 100 % ○ Continue to hold once a month. meeting implementation rate by industrial physicians and worked to reduce employee working hours. Implemented employee health check-ups during the fiscal year. Also provided Implement employee health check-ups during the fiscal year. [Domestic] Health check-up screening rate 100 100 % ○ post-exam care and recommendations for employees requiring second Continue to provide post-exam care and recommendations for screening. employees requiring second screening. p39 Sent employee and department versions of illness guidelines to applicable Hold “workplace communication training“ for managers and [Domestic] Mental health care and adult individuals, distributed seasonal health information monthly and promoted supervisors in the Sales Division. Send health information as onset disease improvement training 100 100 % ○ health management. Held group training program on remedying adult well as illness guidelines monthly to foster greater mind in health implementation rate (for those applicable) onset diseases and “workplace communication training“ for managers and management. supervisors. In addition to distinctive training for new employees and various types [Domestic] Monthly and weekly messages of training programs based on job title, role and age, issued monthly and from senior management and promotion of weekly messages from senior management and continued to hold learning Continue to carry out current initiatives and training programs as last learning(all employees). Theme-based and 100 100 % ○ opportunities for all employees on these messages. Held annually, monthly and p38 year. rank-based training program implementation weekly training on abilities for thoughts and actions to improve employees’ rate (for those applicable each fiscal year) abilities to carry out Unicharm’s unique business model in their day-to-day work. Introduced and revised various personnel systems(work hours management, Continue to hold regular discussions once a month and add [Domestic] Number of discussions held with employee lease housing, interest subsidy program for employee homeowners, discussions as needed based on each project. Introduce defined 12 15 times ○ p39 the labor union Life Plan pension) and held wide range of discussions on employment issues, contribution pension plan and increase its enrollment rate. benefits, health management measures, etc. Implement initiatives for improving productivity. Promoted measures across the entire Unicharm Group (● Japan: pink ribbon activities, “child raising support project in ’paper city’ & provision of baby paper [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation diapers to Shikokuchuo City“, excretion care lectures etc. ● China: pink ribbon 100 100 % ○ Continue to implement activities promoted on a company-wide level. p40-41 rate of company-wide activities activities ● India: providing learning opportunities about first menstrual period. ● Taiwan: pink ribbon activities and donations provided to social welfare group, etc.) Continued to provide support to disaster-affected areas(Great East Japan [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation Continue to provide assistance to those areas affected by the Great 100 100 % ○ Earthquake: organized Matching Fund through Super Cool Biz/Warm Biz p22-23 rate of relief to disaster-affected areas. East Japan Earthquake. employee dress codes that donated Humany urine-suction robots). * Qualitative goal is set as 100%. Self Evaluation Standards: ○ = Goal achieved; △ = Mostly achieved; × = No Progress Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 27 Along with Our Customers Unicharm will contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone in the world by Ideal offering world-first and world-leading products and services of the finest quality and safety Vision that will bring comfort, excitement, and joy to its customers around the world. Communicating with customers Initiatives of the Customer Service Center centers in China, Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia, At the Customer Service Center, our fundamental Australia, India and other countries. Following goal is to improve customer satisfaction by Unicharm China and Taiwan, Unicharm Thailand responding to the valuable feedback we receive from and Indonesia declared their self-conformity with our customers in a prompt, fair and sincere manner. ISO 10002 in October In FY2014, the Customer Service Center received 2013 and March 2014, approximately 33,000 calls. The feedback we received respectively, as part of was in turn shared widely with related departments our eﬀorts to improve inside the company and used to help improve our customer satisfaction products and services. across the Unicharm In July 2006, Unicharm made a declaration of selfGroup. Customer Service Center 93.3% conformity with ISO 10002 international standard Customer Complaints Correspondence Management customer System, and is extending it to our customer service satisfaction ● Main Initiatives of the Customer Service Center Main initiatives Contents We organize training programs to enhance our specialist knowledge, including sessions led by external instructors 1. Responder training and other informative workshops, in order to improve the quality of our response. We share customer feedback with related departments in a timely manner through weekly and monthly report. 2. Reﬂection in products This feedback is used to improve existing products and develop new products, in order to provide customers with products that are safe and convenient. Customer feedback is shared internally in real-time using our centralized customer information management system, or the SMILE system. Report meetings with business departments and product package conﬁrmation 3. Information dissemination meetings (Communication Guarantee Meeting) are also held to ensure feedback is utilized to improve products from a customer standpoint. The R&D and Manufacturing departments organize training sessions for new employees and others who wish 4. Customer Service Center to participate in order to reinforce their focus on the customer and quality. In FY2014, 742 employees took part training in these training sessions. The initiatives of our customer service centers located around the world are being shared to help improve 5. Strengthen collaboration customer satisfaction across the entire Unicharm Group, including its overseas subsidiaries. This information is with overseas customer also being used to improve our response skills based on ISO10002 complaint response MS and to step up interservice centers oﬃce collaboration. ● Unicharm Complaint Response Policy （1）Customer feedback will be centrally managed by the Companyʼs customer service centers and addressed in a fair and impartial manner in accordance with the QMS (ISO9001) complaint response process manual and ISO10002 complaint response process documentation. Information concerning defects in a product or service will be reported to the President & CEO and steps will be taken immediately to remedy the problem. （2）In the case customer feedback must be redressed, related departments will work together to immediately rectify the situation and prevent future reoccurrences in accordance with the QMS (ISO9001) redress and preventive measure procedure manual. （3）We will strive to reﬂect the valuable feedback of customers in future products and services. We will take customer feedback seriously and exert our best eﬀorts so that each department works together to ensure that customers are satisﬁed. ● Examples of customer feedback reﬂected in our products Feedback We received customer We received customer feedback about launching Feedback about feedback about releasing a about a request to a disposable diaper for panty liner product using sell a disposable a request to sell newborn babies with a low a sheet from the Sofy Hada diaper for newborn a liner in the Sofy weight and in November Omoi series and in October babies with a low Hada Omoi series 2014 we rolled out this 2014 we launched this weight. exact product. exact product. 28 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Activities of overseas customer service centers Additionally, a joint workshop was held with Taiwan Customer Service Center Audit and employees of our plant in Taiwan to broaden Along with Our Plant Workshop understanding about the importance of quality and Unicharmʼs customer service center in Taiwan made safety as well as customer feedback. As a member of the Customers a declaration of self-conformity with the ISO 10002 Unicharm Group, our subsidiary in Taiwan is committed standard for complaint correspondence management to building an even systems on March 11, 2013. Following this declaration, stronger collaborative the Customer Service Center in Japan audited it to make structure going forward sure it was properly implementing its management to ensure its responses Along with the system, during which it was conﬁrmed that its responses please and satisfy the Taiwan Customer Service Center are indeed closely in tune with the customer. customer. Audit and Plant Workshop Feedback from participants for 3rd Global Customer Service Center Conference Environment Thailand Customer Service Center China Customer Service Center We were able to learn about responding to customers and It was very beneﬁcial to listen to the presentations of each Along with Our organizational functions based on the presentations of best country and share example of our responses and challenges. practices from each country. This information was shared with Those of us at Unicharm working hard at customer service staﬀ members and we will now dedicate our full eﬀorts, with a represent a single, large family. This provides the power to Employees smile, toward better satisfying customers in Thailand. overcome any diﬃculty or challenge we may face. Moving forward, we will dedicate our utmost eﬀorts to responses that India Customer Service Center satisfy the customer. It was very helpful to be able to discuss and share our thoughts Taiwan Customer Service Center with staﬀ members from other countries. We plan on using what we learned here to improve customer service in India and We felt the dedication of customer service staﬀ members Along with the support the happiness of our customers there. from each country who want to achieve the same level of service regardless of where in the world a customer provides Indonesia Customer Service Center feedback. We are committed to carefully listening to feedback Society from customers and ﬁnding ways to reﬂect these ideas in the This was my ﬁrst time attending this conference, and after products and services of the future. listening to the presentations, I found that there are truly many diﬀerent types of customer feedback. In recent years, customers in Indonesia have a growing interest in quality and the number of these inquiries is rising. We will learn from the examples of each country and strive to improve customer satisfaction under our ISO Along with Our 10002 complaint correspondence management system. Our goal is to hear the words “thank you“ from more and more customers. Business Partners Australia Customer Service Center It was a very beneﬁcial conference. We believe a collaborative structure involving each country was established to learn about how to respond to customer feedback. The next step for us will be to develop a complaint correspondence management system Along with compliant with ISO 10002 and strive to ensure that customer feedback is shared with related departments internally without fail. 3rd Global Customer Service Center Conference Shareholders and Letter of thanks from consumers Investors “Center-in Compact Fragrance“ “Lifree Zurezunianshin (Slip-free Easy-feeling) for Management Disposable Pant-type Diapers Urine Absorbing Pad Nighttime Super“ “After opening the individual packaging, a sweet ﬂoral fragrance permeated the room, transforming the “I was able to get a better nightʼs boring bathroom into a sleep and wake up feeling good, luxurious and relaxing space.“ both physically and mentally.“ Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 29 Communication with customers using Insight research, R&D, and marketing various media As a specialized manufacturer, Unicharm provides Three-pronged approach involving information on continence care, ﬁrst menstruation, insight research, R&D, and marketing and parenting to customers within Japan. In March We practice a model of manufacturing that closely reﬂects 2012, a Facebook page for Moony was established to customer needs by adhering to the motto “Maintain our provide a platform for new moms to communicate No.1 position through continued and dedicated service“ with one another. In conjunction with “Baby Town,“ ingrained in our DNA. We thoroughly observe the lifestyle which boasts approximately 700,000 members, and consumption style of consumers and pursue the this social media page disseminates parenting true needs that exist in their subconscious. We are information to customers. In April 2013, we revamped committed to developing products that exceed customer our educational website for ﬁrst menstruation called expectations by leveraging our customer-oriented “First Body Navi“ and added additional content. In creativity. In order to promote a more extensive global addition, we have developed corporate websites for reach, we are developing products localized to meet overseas locations aimed at strengthening online the needs of each region and market. While Unicharm communication with customers both in Japan and products are considered daily necessities, there are some abroad. countries where paper diapers are regarded as a luxury or consumers are not accustomed to using paper diapers throughout the day. Taking each countryʼs customs and needs into consideration, we are creating unprecedented new value in our products that balances function with cost, making these products more accessible to all. We aim to continue developing products that suit the local needs of each First Body Navi Pre-Mama Town http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ http://www.premama.jp/ region by combining girls/ Baby Town the forces of insight http://www.babytown.jp/ research, research and development, and marketing. Monitoring survey Cooperation between R & D and Engineering Using an organizational structure consisting of Moony on Facebook Mild Incontinence Care Navi http://www.facebook.com/ http://www.nyoucare.jp/ research, development, and engineering (R&D&E), moony.japan Unicharm promotes research and development in an interdepartmental approach that encompasses ﬁve businesses. These departments engage in various types of basic research on an ongoing basis while the new technologies and materials they develop continuously provide improvements for Continence Care Navi Unicharm Human Care http://www.carenavi.jp/ http://www.humany.jp/ existing products and create completely new ones as well. In addition, we have set up research centers in key geographic areas, creating an infrastructure capable of developing products that Website for Egypt Website for Brazil truly meet local needs. Product testing 30 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Quality Management products of consistent and high quality. We are also Along with Our disseminating our framework to overseas subsidiaries Unicharm’s view of quality assurance and assisting with the implementation of best Customers and framework practices by way of a mother plant system between To promote quality management at Unicharm, we factories in Japan and those overseas. have aligned our quality policy with our Medium*UTMSS: Unicharm Total Management Strategic System Term Management Plan and undertake internal and external audits to conﬁrm the conformity and ASEAN UTMSS improvement study group Along with the eﬀectiveness of our systems. We continually strive Indonesia to improve these by putting in place corrective and Environment preventative measures. All of our business oﬃces in Japan and overseas have acquired ISO 9001. Based on this standard, we have implemented a quality management system (QMS) throughout our supply chain. In 2014, following changes in regulations, Along with Our Indonesia and Thailand obtained ISO 13485 certiﬁcation for medical device quality management Thailand Employees systems, in addition to ISO 9001. Product safety eﬀorts In consideration of the characteristic of our products and how they are used, Unicharm carries out Human Along with the Repeated Insult Patch Tests and a variety of alternative testing methods to conﬁrm the safety of its products. Society We also have a mechanism in place at the product development stage in which our Safety Assessment Initiative for appropriate product labeling Committee operates as a gate check, conducting In an eﬀort to provide accurate information to our risk assessments that take into account misuse or customers, we verify that our product labels and chemical toxicity of novel materials and structures. advertisements comply with relevant regulations as Along with Our well as voluntary industry standards and that they Global safety activities are easy to understand to avoid misunderstandings We have had a safety-check framework in place and misuse. We also set up a Communication Business Partners in each country since April 2007, which is being Guarantee Meeting which eﬀectively functions to implemented by our local subsidiaries primarily in verify and evaluate the scientiﬁc basis for product China, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Indonesia. In labeling during the product design stage as well as addition, we visit our suppliers, testing partners and to collaborate across the Group to achieve the most government institutions in each country to step up adequate and precise labeling possible. Along with communication in order to deliver safe and reliable products to our customers through a joint eﬀort. Shareholders and Initiative at Unicharm products Investors As an initiative for quality assurance, Unicharm Products is implementing improvements based on information from consumers relevant to defective Management products or poor services, and for factory-wide improvements using UTMSS.* This system is used for Communication Guarantee Meeting goals such as visual control and standardization and for continual improvement in productivity and quality so that we can continue to provide consumers with Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 31 Along with the Environment We will contribute to the sustainable development of a society which maintains a balance Ideal between conservation of the environment and economic growth through the creation of Vision environmentally friendly manufacturing. Promotion framework for environmental activities Our attitude toward the environment All of our employees are committed to environmental Most of Unicharmʼs products are consumables essential activities following the Basic Environmental Policy and to a clean and healthy lifestyle, which closely relates the Environmental Action Guidelines developed based to the environment through our use of resources on our corporate philosophical framework (Unicharm and emission of waste. As we have expanded our Ideals, “Beliefs and Pledges“ and Corporate Principles operations globally centered on Asia in order to provide of Action). We carefully monitor the impact our better products to consumers around the world, our business activities have on the environment, and we role and responsibility for reducing our environmental are promoting initiatives to reduce our environmental impact has also increased with each passing year. impacts and improve our economic eﬃciency aimed at achieving a sustainable society. Basic Environmental Policy Environmental Action Guidelines As a company that engages in the manufacture ● Abide by all laws and regulations and sale of disposable products, we recognize the ● Make sound choices for the environment extent of our responsibility to the environment. ● Eliminate waste Through our corporate activities we strive to create ● Learn more about environmental issues environmentally friendly products so that we may ● Enhance productivity in the future pass on a beautiful earth to future ● Share eﬀorts for helping to improve the generations. We are committed to providing goods environment and services that bring comfort, excitement, and ● Reduce the use of natural resources joy to people throughout the world and we are determined to realize the sustainable development of a society that achieves a balance between environmental conservation and economic growth. Promotion framework for environmental activities President. In FY 2015 we established our Corporate Social The Unicharm Groupʼs environmental activities are Responsibility (CSR) Division by merging our Global considered to be an important part of its quality Quality Assurance and CSR Departments, in order to assurance program as we deal largely with disposable further promote environmental activities. products. The Groupʼs environmental activities have While aiming to integrate ISO14001 and ISO9001, each been implemented primarily by the Global Quality Group company seeks further improvement by employing Assurance Department under the responsibility of the the PDCA cycle in carrying out gate control and KPI CQO* led by the CSR Committee chaired by the Groupʼs management as a part of day-to-day business processes. *CQO: Chief Quality Oﬃcer ● Environmental Management Structure CSR Committee and related groups Environmental / ISO Promotion Group, CSR Division Unicharm Product Marketing Purchasing Manufacturing Distribution Sales Value chain development 32 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Environmental impact and environmental goals Along with Our Monitoring the environmental impact of utilizes resources, we engage in eﬀorts to improve Customers products during the entire lifecycle the environment at every stage of the supply As a manufacturer of consumer products, Unicharm chain through all of our business activities, from uses resources in various aspects of its business the procurement of materials to manufacturing, activities. As a responsible manufacturer that transport, and disposal of products after use. ● Environmental impact from a lifecycle perspective Along with the Input Output Production Input Discharge Water 2,961,568 tons Environment Resources Materials Transport & Steam manufacturer Fluvial Discharge & Raw Materials & Raw Materials & Auxiliary NOx 25.3 tons Atmospheric Release Auxiliary Materials Materials 331,073 tons SOx 19.8 tons Production Products CO2 202,877 tons Electricity 297,231,000 kWh Along with Our 35,942 tons Outsourced Heavy oil 3,267 kl Effluent Disposal 889 tons Resources Water 3,268,685 tons Effluent outside sites 33,708 tons Recycle 32,819 tons Solar power Utility gas 1,231,000 m3 generation systems 6,060,000 kWh Incinerated waste 2,234 tons 1,898 tons Employees LPG Products 352,878 tons Thermal Recycling Transport Input CO2 28,091 tons Atmospheric Transport Nox 136 tons Release Resources Diesel 10,888 kl Along with the Wholesale & Retail Stores Waste 839,000 tons Waste & Society Consumption Containers and 8,300 tons Incineration Third party guarantee (P46): mark is shown where packaging applicable. Company Policies and Standards on Aggregation Aggregation period: April 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 Scope: Unicharm Group companies as stated below. Unicharm Corporation (Headquarters, Global R&D Division, Mie Along with Our Factory, Itami Factory, Saitama Factory, Sales Division (Electricity and CO2 only), Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. (Fukushima Factory, Shizuoka Factory, Shikoku Factory), Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. (Factory No. 1, Factory No. 2, Factory No. 3, Kokko Plant), Uni Care, Cosmotec Corporation / Peparlet Co., Ltd. / Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd./ Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Policies and standards: Aggregation based on company rules concerning the management of environmental information in accordance with relevant environmental laws and regulations including the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, and the Waste Business Partners Management and Public Cleansing Act. Notes: 1. The CO2 emission coeﬃcient is determined in accordance with the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. However, the officially published figure of 0.570kg-CO2 /kWh by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (FY2013 results/before reflecting the 2010 Kyoto Mechanisms Credit) is used for electricity. For Thailand, the published ﬁgure of 0.522kg-CO2/kWh (2011 results) from the IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights is used, and for China the ﬁgure of 0.788kg-CO2/kWh comes from the energy usage reporting system in Shanghai City 2. Discharge includes industrial waste, general waste from oﬃces, and recyclables. 3. Figures estimated from incinerator operations at the Fukushima Factory are used for the volume of incinerated waste materials. Environmental Activity Themes and Goals of ﬁlms thanks to the use of sorting processes. These Along with In FY2014, UTMSS activities at our production sites eﬀorts helped us to achieve signiﬁcant improvements. resulted in recycling of trimmings and the recycling We also achieved other targets as well. Shareholders and ● FY2014 results and FY2015 goals perspective Investors Theme of the Activity Indicator Base Year FY2014 Goal FY2014 Result Assessment FY2015 Goal FY2016 Goal Energy use (GJ) / base unit per net Reducing CO2 emissions － 10.6 10.6 ○ 10.6 10.5 sales (millions of yen) Reducing waste Total emissions at the 3 main factories 2000 -13% -20% ○ -14% -14% Management Recycling ratio at the three main Recycling resources － Over 99% Over 99% ○ Over 99% Over 99% facilities Development of Ratio of environmentally friendly environmentally － 67% 67% ○ 70% 75% products friendly products [Assessment] ○: Achieved target △: Rate of achievement: 70% under 100% ×: Rate of achievement: Less than 70% * FY 2014 data was collected from April to December 2014, due to the change in our accounting period. For waste, data was converted to 12-month data based on FY 2014 performance. Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 33 Environmental initiatives through our products Unicharm has set a target ratio for environmentally environmentally friendly product line. Starting in friendly products as part of its environmental goals FY2013 we began regularly conﬁrming the ecoin promoting the development of environmentally friendliness of products under development during friendly products. Products are evaluated for whether each stage of the product development process. environmental impacts are successfully reduced Since the inception of our proprietary within the life cycle from the baseline ﬁgures of environmental label, the “Eco Charming mark“ in FY2005. In FY2014, we achieved our goal of 67% 2008, a total of 25 items have come to bear this label. environmentally friendly products. We have set Please refer to Feature Topic 3 (pages 20-21), “Environmentally a goal of 70% for FY2015, to further expand our Friendly Manufacturing“ Initiatives to reduce environmental impact through our business activities Unicharm’ s Management of Chemical serves as a gate, carrying out various risk assessments Substances based on use and disposal methods. Unicharm has established measures to control its use In conjunction with our recent global expansion of chemical substances that are harmful to people centered on Asia, we are now carefully monitoring or ecosystems. To ensure consumers can use our chemical substances for the impacts they have on products that directly contact their skin with peace people as well as ecosystems, based on their use of mind, we carry out inspections in accordance not only in Japan but internationally as well. In 2014, with our Basic Rules on Quality Control in all we changed our perspective and revised our list of processes, from product development to equipment hazardous chemicals, which was based on Japanese development, materials purchasing, manufacturing, laws and regulations, into a chemical management and marketing. guide that can be used worldwide. We have already We have established guidelines for preventing shared the guide with our suppliers in Japan and the use of chemical substances that are harmful to other countries in Asia, and we conducted a survey people or ecosystems in the materials procurement on chemical use. In cooperation with our suppliers, stage and a dedicated department investigates we will continue to strive to ensure the safety of the the chemicals we use in terms of hazards and legal materials we use. compliance. Our Safety Assessment Committee ● Safety screening process Disposal (restrictions) Regulations of applicable country/region Stability Safety *3 Materials/ Overseas ● Labeling/Eﬃcacy ● GMP Obtain ● Safety management/side eﬀect reports Toxicity Regulatory products data on Approval Launch study compliance Safety materials assessment Japan ● Safety management/side eﬀect reports Ingredients Disposal (restrictions) Domestic law, ❶ Usage allowed Stability Safety regulations ❷ No CMR ingredients*1, PBT ingredients*2, carcinogenic Test Items ❶ Cell toxicity testing ❷ Sensitivity testing ❸ Oral toxicity ❹ Environment (toxicity to marine life) qualities, mutagenic qualities, ❺ Heavy metals, etc. ❻ Odor analysis ❼ Use test results or reproductive toxicity ❸ Less than concentration regulation *1 CMR: Carcinogenic, mutagenic, and/or reprotoxic substances. *2 PBT: Persistence, Bioaccumulation,Toxicity *3 GMP: Good Manufacturing Practice. A quality control standard for pharmaceutical products established by Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, based on Japanese Pharmaceutical Aﬀairs Law. 34 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Energy conservation activities at our Japan Installation of solar power systems production sites In the context of the severe shortage of electricity Unicharmʼs production sites hold 6 energy conservation in Japan since the Great East Japan Earthquake, we Along with Our meetings each year, in order to achieve our energy installed solar power facilities at our 3 major plants conservation goal of a 1% reduction in CO2 emissions in Japan: Fukushima, Shizuoka, and Shikoku. These Customers from the previous year. Personnel in charge of energy 3 plants generated a total of about 6,060 thousand conservation at each production site join the meeting kWh of electricity in 9 months in FY 2014, which is to consider various measures through a number of approximately equal to the electricity usage of 2,250 discussions and case studies. We, as a group, strive to general households. achieve our energy conservation goal by employing the Along with the PDCA cycle, such as sharing information at meetings, implementing measures at each production site, and Environment reporting the performance outcomes. China Participating in the Shanghai Emissions Trading System to Help Prevent Global Warming Along with Our A trial emissions trading system was launched in Shanghai Japan Received an award for energy under Chinaʼs environmental protection plan aimed at conservation measures Employees realizing a low-carbon society. Uni-Charm Consumer The Environmental Bureau of the Tokyo Metropolitan Products (China) Co., Ltd. (UCCP), our local subsidiary in Government held the “2014 Energy Saving Seminar China, participated in the trial carbon trading scheme along for Tenants“ in July 2014, where we presented with 191 other companies as a member of society working the energy and electricity conservation activities toward the goal of a low-carbon society. at our Mita headquarters in Tokyo. The aim of Along with the UCCP, as a participating company of the trial emissions the seminar was the promotion of energy and trading exchange, actively rolled out related eﬀorts electricity conservation activities for companies Society in response to the governmentʼs call for uniﬁcation. in the constrained environment of a multi-tenant Speciﬁcally, the company proactively took part in training building. Our achievement of a 30% reduction in on reducing CO2 emissions, submitted company reports electricity usage in 2014 (compared to 2010) received in a timely manner, cooperated with carbon emission recognition at the seminar. inspections carried out by the government and is further We presented our 25-item code of conduct for Along with Our enhancing its activity level. environmentally-friendly workplace electricity saving, UCCP has appointed a dedicated department and person and the background of our “super cool biz“ initiatives in charge of its eﬀorts, and installed the latest energy saving including encouraging employees to wear shortBusiness Partners technologies together with reducing its use of energy sleeved shirts to work. We emphasized that “the through daily improvements in productivity. It also stepped keys for long-lasting success are to set reasonable up its eﬀorts for managing energy usage, which helped it targets and to make daily electricity usage data identify issues and promote available to everyone to share the results.“ Feedback more eﬀective energy from attendees included the comment that “it was Along with saving activities. Through helpful to know how to make every member fully these eﬀorts, UCCP is more understand the activities, such as making the energy Shareholders and Investors committed than ever before saving activities visible with numbers.“ about contributing to a lowcarbon society. Thailand Initiatives to reduce waste at Management production site Unicharm Thailand, an overseas subsidiary of Unicharm Corporation, installed facilities to crush and separate irregular products from the production process and reuse more than 90% of the waste produced at the site. Along with continuous recycling activities, we realized zero landﬁll waste. Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 35 Along with Our Employees At Unicharm, we recognize that “a companyʼs growth and development depend on the growth Ideal and development of its individual employees who make up the organization“. Therefore, we view “the training and development of our human resources as among the most important Vision tasks of management“. Never being satisfied with the status quo, we are committed to being a group of people that never cease challenging ourselves to excel beyond the current situation. View concerning human resources Unicharm Group s Human Resource Philosophy and respect for human rights Human Resource Philosophy 1. Human perspective ◆ We recognize that our employees are autonomous At Unicharm we value the autonomy of each and every individuals, and we respect individual initiative based on individual, based on Unicharmʼs “Beliefs and Pledges“ freedom and individual responsibility. ◆ We believe that each employee is aware of her/ and Corporate Principles of Action. We endeavor to his respective missions and roles, and that we are all provide fair opportunities for our employees to ﬁnd independent, active beings who think and act on our own. fulﬁllment in their work and to create a corporate culture 2. The organization and the individual that fosters the development of conﬁdence and pride. ◆ We, people with common interests and aspirations, will work together in harmony, and together we will create a vision of ● Unicharm HR Philosophy Chart the future and share the joy of our growth as a whole. ◆ With market principles as one of our fundamental Human beings as the foundation of our company values principles, we will pursue the integration of organizational and individual development, and the realization of “the In order to support our “company management to serve the common three aspects of wealth.“ good“ into the future, we will continue to be a group of experts who create and disseminate dynamic staﬃng systems that actualize and 3. Growth and creation ◆ By improving the ways in which we learn from each other motivate our employees, trusted by our employees all over the world. and the diverse values we all hold, we will continue to pursue the creation of new values. ◆ We will provide our employees with opportunities for growth and will continue to create opportunities for the demonstration of such growth. Invariant principle Our view of human rights As the “Unicharm Group Action Guidelines“ clearly state, in HR Philosophy order to achieve our “Pledge to Associates“ we will never The meaning of our discriminate against people based on race, religion, gender, existence family background, physical disability, or any other factors; that we will not tolerate child labor or forced labor; that we Common values/ will never engage in acts of sexual harassment or power criteria for judgment harassment; and that we will undertake comprehensive safety and health management in the workplace. ● Human resources data （①: Total group, ②: Group companies in Japan, ⑪-⑬employees on the payroll of Unicharm or Unicharm Products, Others: employees on the payroll of Unicharm) Index Unit FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 ① Number of employees (consolidated) Persons 10,855 12,795 13,901 ② Number of employees (Japan) Persons 3,009 2,994 2,994 Employment ③ Average age of employees Age 40.6 40.7 40.6 Employee turnover rate (Excluding retirement at the mandatory ④ ％ 1.5 1.7 1.2 age, promotion to board member, and transfer within the group) ⑤ Percentage of female employees ％ 22.1 16.7 17.2 ⑥ Percentage of female management staﬀ ％ 2.4 4.9 4.8 ⑦ Employment rate of persons with disabilities (annual average) ％ 1.7 1.8 2.1 ⑧ Rehiring rate of retired employees ％ 79 79 83 Diversity, Equal Opportunity ⑨ Health check-up rate ％ 100 100 100 and Occupational Safety ⑩ Employee turnover rate for pregnancy or childcare ％ 0 0 0 and Health ⑪ Use of childcare leave system Persons 57 55 55 Total ⑫ Use of family-care leave system number of Persons 0 3 0 ⑬ Use of shortened work hours system for childcare men and Persons 45 46 39 women ⑭ Use of ﬂextime system for personal lifestyle support Persons 50 58 57 *1 As of March 31, FY2012 and FY2013; as of December 31, FY2014 *2 ⑪-⑬ permanent and contract employees. Others permanent employees. *3 ④ Employee turnover rate = Number of terminated employees (except for retirement at mandatory retirement age, promotion to board members or transfer within the group) / Number of employees at the end of each ﬁscal year (March 31 or December 31) *4 ⑥ Percentage of female management staﬀ = Number of female management staﬀ / Total number of management staﬀ *5 ⑧ Rehiring rate of retired employees = Number of rehired employees /Number of retired employees (at mandatory retirement age) 36 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 SAPS management model: Emphasis on respect Employee survey for people and a sense of accomplishment We conducted “employee surveys“ twice a year at all The purpose of the SAPS management model, which has been group companies in Japan and overseas, in order to in operation at Unicharm since 2004, is to make our employees verify employeesʼ satisfaction/fulﬁllment and sense of utilize their precious time more eﬀectively and spend their life accomplishment. This sequential surveying enables us with happiness by focusing their time and activities on highto implement various measures in management and priority (value-added) issues. In order to make that happen, human resources, and also encourages employees Along with Our we get together as a company-wide group to work on and and organizational operations to be more proactive. Customers implement the 6 key essentials of the SAPS management ● Employee satisfaction index (all full-time model based on which we aim at respecting the independence employees) of individuals having diverse values and bringing out each “Work satisfaction” and “Satisfaction about working for Unicharm” otherʼs capability so that we can share the joy of growth of the progresses at to high levels Employee survey organization as a whole. Through SAPS management model, (Unit: points) * Average score on a scale of 5. Along with the 5.0 we proceed toward the realization of “wealth in three aspects“: 4.09 4.22 4.12 4.24 4.11 4.25 4.13 4.21 “aspiration,“ “economy,“ and “mind and body.“ 4.0 ● Six essentials of SAPS Management 3.0 Environment 1. Respect for people 2.0 2. Emphasis on a sense of accomplishment 1.0 3. Emphasis on time competitiveness (Time-based management) Along with Our 4. Knowledge management 0 5. Emphasis on curiosity and entrepreneurship Second half First half Second half First half of 2012 of 2013 of 2013 of 2014 6. Mentality change Employees ■ Work satisfaction ■ Satisfaction about working for Unicharm Global expansion of management with resonance – The President’ s Award Unicharm established the “Presidentʼs Award“ which may honorees share their successful result for the year with more be awarded to any employee, both Japan and overseas than 1,500 employees watching the live report at the same Along with the to recognize any individual or team that has achieved time. The “Presidentʼs Award“ is more than an employee outstanding results through promoting SAPS management awards program and works systemically and broadly to Society model based on our philosophy of management with promote leadership development through providing resonance. In a presentation that is broadcasted to about 60 opportunities to simulate good practices and encourage locations worldwide through our video-conference system, both presenters and participants to learn from each other. The Presidentʼs Award 2014, Winner of “Gold Prize for Teams“ Along with Our Indonesia China Japan Business Partners Along with Business Planning Department & Ultra Sound-Sleep Team Moony Development Group Shareholders and Sales Department Feminine Care Products Department Global R&D Division PT Uni-Charm Indonesia Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Unicharm Corporation Investors We are very excited to have won the Gold Prize It was the happiest moment in the past ﬁve years of It has been a pleasure and great asset for me to work for Teams three years in a row. With our motto of my professional career since being placed in charge of with my team members who faced oﬀ against any “big dreams with one heart,“ we as a solid team are nighttime sanitary napkins. This recognition was made challenge or failure. I look forward to continuing to working to achieve our dreams by solving the various possible by the support and eﬀorts of all of our team create new value in the future. challenges we face in Indonesia one at a time. members. We will continue to work together going forward to achieve our goal of becoming number one in the market. Satoru Sakaguchi Ahmad Nur Cahaya Gusti (pictured second from right) Lu Xiaolin (pictured at left) (pictured third from left in the back row) Management Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 37 Personnel utilization and training Expansion of education and training programs We have in place a skills-enhancing program to enhance employee abilities to think and take action, consisting of understanding our SAPS management model and practical skills improvement. ● Our distinctive training programs Eligible Title Summary people ①Transitioning from student life to working life (rewiring) ④Understanding the SAPS management model ②Deepening employeesʼ understanding of the “3 DNAs“of Unicharm ⑤Experiencing the importance of working as an organization (team selling), and For eligible Training for new employees ③First-hand experience and understanding of the three aspects of actual work sites understanding Unicharmʼs persistent emphasis on “target oriented“ and “target people (manufacture, purchase and use) and recognizing and persisting in developing a achievement“ approaches “consumer-oriented mindset.“ ⑥Creating your own “10-year career vision and plan“ Training at all levels, ages For eligible Training is carried out for people in keeping with their respective levels, ages and roles. All training is based on understanding our SAPS management model and improving and roles people practical skills, providing opportunities and places to enhance the ability to think and take action. For eligible SAPS Trainer’s CAMP An upskilling program for “leaders/educators“ in order to realize and spread our unique business model, the “SAPS management model.“ people For eligible A workshop program for veteran employees in their early fifties to develop action plans by utilizing their accumulated insights and skills in order to demonstrate their powers of Unicharm Spirits Masters people execution and foster younger employees. Unicharm Spirits Masters For eligible For employees who are on the verge of becoming senior expert employees, this program substantiates goals for future activities as torchbearers of the Unicharm Spirits. Advance people Overseas Business Trip By By accompanying senior members on overseas business trips, participants have the opportunity to observe and learn about the thoughts and actions of senior management Accompanying Program invitation members. Ten-year career vision and For all Provides employees with the tools and a system for designing and developing individualized 10-year career plans, and for completing their own action plans. The tools can also be plan employees used for communication with management, in order to support each employee in achieving her/his own goals. Workplace Exchange Participation A cooperative training program established by several companies for the purpose of allowing participants to enhance their own skills and improve their own issues & weaknesses. Workshop by lottery Interaction with participants from other companies is expected to provide all participants with inspiration and insights that may not be available within a single workplace. Training program for For eligible This training program helps employees prepare for their post-overseas transfer and develop their mindset so they can rapidly assume their duties in the new environment and employees posted overseas people achieve results. Respect for Diversity Various Support Systems We are committed to always improving our work environment so that each and every employee can work to the best of their abilities. ● Various Support Systems to respect diversity System Eligible people Summary Birth Support Leave Program Employees who undergoing fertility treatment Leave for advanced fertility treatment (up to 1 year) Shortened work hours For employees who have a child/children up to the third year of elementary school Working hours can be shortened to 5 hours a day system for childcare For employees who have family member(s) in need of continuous nursing care for By application, up to 5 days leave/year is available for one family member, up to 10 days leave/year for Nursing-care leave more than 2 weeks as a result of injury, sicknesses, or physical or mental disorders. 2 or more family members who require nursing-care. Former Unicharm employees who worked for more than 3 years and resigned from They are eligible for re-employment within a five-year period (from time of resignation), provided that Career Recovery System employment for various reasons such as marriage, pregnancy, childbirth, childrearing, both the former employee and the company reach a certain agreement. nursing-care, or accompanying spouses on business transfers. Civic duties leave Employees who are selected as citizen-judges The required number of days leave to appear in court as a citizen-judge is available by application. Up to 7 business days leave per 1 donation of bone marrow available by application, for the Bone marrow donors leave Employees who wish to donate their bone marrow procedures required for donation to a patient in the working country (except for donor registration). Employment of people with physical disabilities Initiatives for balancing work and childcare We aim to provide a workplace where employees Aiming to create an environment that supports both with disabilities are also able to fully exercise their childcare and work, our childcare leave program allows abilities. We have implemented measures such as employees to take up to two years of childcare leave. placing handicapped parking in locations on company Childcare leave taken before and after pregnancy is treated grounds that remove barriers to movement into the as paid vacation, while employees with accumulated paid workplace and making facilities barrier-free. More vacation days at the start of their childcare leave can use than anything else, we expect proper outcomes from up to 15 of these days to receive their normal pay and help employees with disabilities and promote a corporate reduce their burden from birth and childcare. Additionally, cultural environment free of barriers in all respects. we also brief male employees whose wife has had a baby and their supervisors on our childcare leave programs and structure to encourage them to take leave, with the results of these eﬀorts monitored. 38 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Hiring of pregnant women Industrial health and safety Along with Our Unicharm newly implement the Fresh-Mom Recruitment program for hiring new female Company-wide safety conventions Customers graduates from FY2015. Women who have expressed We hold company-wide safety conventions as part an interest in working for Unicharm but are hesitant of our eﬀorts to ensure employee safety. The 12th to accept because they are pregnant or unsure can convention was held in 2014 at the Central Plant, take part in the Fresh-Mom Recruitment program to Shikoku factory, Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Mr. delay joining the company up until the age of 30. Ishikawa, president of Along with the Unicharm Products Unicharm Family Plant Visit Days Co., Ltd., presented the Environment Unicharm holds Family Visit Days at all of our plants companyʼs wish for the both in Japan and overseas, to welcome the families safety of all employees of employees for a tour of the plant. We received is embodied in the The 12th company-wide safety comments from participants, such as “I was impressed “Sazareishi monument“ convention, Unicharm Products, by how quickly production of the various products to all the factories. Co., Ltd. Along with Our was completed,“ as well as from employees, such as “I was happy to show my family my working site.“ Health and Safety Committee Employees Unicharmʼs “Health and Safety Committee“ consists of industrial doctors and elected commissioners from the company and the labor union. The Committee implements various activities once a month, including activities related to improving the working Along with the Shikoku Factory Shizuoka Factory environment and preventing work related accidents. We also promote no-overtime days and reduced Society working hours as ways to realize a well-modulated way of working. Fukushima Factory Promoting employee health To ensure a high level of productivity both physically Charming Voice (Suggestion System) Along with Our and mentally, we proactively carried out health The Charming Voice suggestion system is a checkups for employees and 100% of employees had mechanism that allows any employee to have their received one which resulted in FY2014. Unicharm also Business Partners voice heard by management at any time. Since its covers the costs of gynecological checkups and breast start in FY2011, Charming Voice has been one way cancer and cervical cancer screenings. For employees for us to realize “management with resonance“ by who are at risk of developing metabolic syndrome, utilizing the wisdom, enthusiasm and hopes of frontwe held seminars for improving lifestyles. Participants Along with line people. It serves as an opportunity to promote created a six-month action plan and worked to communication with top management through achieve the goals set out in the plan. We also held suggestions to improve quality, service, eﬃciency a seminar for smokers to reconsider their smoking Shareholders and and cost-trimming, and leads to the development of Investors habit. On April 1, 2014, we totally banned smoking self-reliant employees. during work hours across the entire company. We also introduced an employee support Dialogue between labor and management program by which our employees and their We place a great deal of value on mutual trust families can consult Management between labor and management, and hold regular with external counselors monthly discussions between the company and about their worries and labor union. In FY2014, we consulted on working troubles, in order to conditions for sales people, beneﬁt programs, health facilitate their realization management measures and the like, and continued of fulﬁlling and healthy A seminar of the lifestyle with eﬀorts to create an easy place to work. lives without worries. modiﬁcation program Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 39 Along with the Society We build trusting relationships with communities and society, contributing to the realization of Ideal a sound and vital society by improving health and sanitation standards through our business Vision activities serving community needs. ● Pink Ribbon activities in Asia Our attitude toward social contributions Japan Unicharm believes that its business activities have a highly positive impact on society. We feel a strong sense of pride and joy in providing comfort, emotion and pleasure to people not only in Japan, but also in Asia and other parts of the world. Through our involvement in a variety of social contribution activities Pink Ribbon Smile Walk Tokyo Pink Ribbon limited edition products directly related to our business, we are working to become a company that makes contributions to the countries in which we operate and one that is welcomed and trusted by people in these locales. Sofy Pink Ribbon Quiz Fund ● Unicharm’ s stance toward social contributions Taiwan Core businesses Social contribution activities ● Baby care ● Various charitable Pink Ribbon ● Feminine care activities Walk ● Employee-led social ● Healthcare contribution activities ● Clean & fresh ● Activities in the ﬁeld ● Pet care of education Community-based social contribution activities (Japan) ● Activities in the communities where we operate Disaster agreement signed with Kagawa Prefecture following Shizuoka and Fukushima Making contributions to society Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. signed an Agreement on through our core business Procuring Hygiene Goods for Disaster Relief with Kagawa Prefecture in August 2014 to smoothly supply products Continuous participation on Pink Ribbon essential to daily life in case a large-scale natural disaster activities in Japan and overseas strikes the prefecture. At the prefectureʼs request, Unicharm Pink Ribbon activities help to raise awareness around will provide disposable baby diapers, adult diapers, sanitary the world about the early detection, early diagnosis napkins, wet tissues and masks as needed. After the and early treatment of breast cancer. Unicharm assists experience of the Great East with these activities in Japan, China and Taiwan. Japan Earthquake in 2011, we United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) participates every believe the establishment of year in the annual Pink Ribbon Walk held in Taipei. such a system with prefectural Every employee takes great pride in the fact that the governments will lead to the company is a sponsor of Pink Ribbon activities. quick delivery of supplies In Japan, Unicharm is now in its seventh year of in the event of a large-scale Activity for deliverying supplies after supporting Pink Ribbon activities. An employee who disaster. the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011 participated in the Pink Ribbon Smile Walk Tokyo Event held in October 2014 noted that by walking Sponsored project to provide paper together with other participants they were able to not diapers to the City of Shikokuchuo only help raise awareness around the city, but also Shikokuchuo City is considered to be one of Japanʼs change their own consciousness . In 2014, Unicharm largest paper producing areas. Unicharm is helping to organized the Sofy Pink Ribbon Quiz Fund, which sponsor local initiatives to assist children here as part raised money for related organizations by donating of a public-private partnership initiated by the city funds based on the number of people took part in a government. Through this initiative, families in the city quiz on breast cancer uploaded to the Sofy website. raising a child below the age of one receive a childcare support voucher they can use to redeem for MamyPoko 40 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 and Moony products free of charge. Unicharm actively Taiwan Donated children’ s books to Along with Our supports the cityʼs eﬀorts to promote the local children living in rural Taiwan production and local consumption of paper products In August 2014, Unicharm donated childrenʼs books Customers as a means to easing the burden placed on families and and reference books to contribute to the education encouraging the healthy development of children. of children living in rural parts of Taiwan. Nearly 1,000 books in total comprising new books purchased and Sponsored Childcare Festa 2014 in old books donated by employees were delivered. Shikokuchuo City Along with the Unicharm Products and Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven China Ongoing continence-support participated in “Childcare Festa“, a child raising presentation for students Environment festival held by the city of Shikokuchuo in October In March 2014, Senior Researcher Funatsu from the 2014. In keeping with the festivalʼs slogan, “The Best Unicharm Continence Support Research Institute Place to Raise a Child in Shikoku,“ this event provides served as an instructor for students studying nursing an opportunity for parents and children to interact care at Shaanxi Labor College, Shaanxi Province, with one another and to promote a good childcare following up on his previous visit a year before. Along with Our environment. Two companies operated a miniature Students learned how to choose and use adult steam locomotive and distributed pamphlets about the diapers; received practical training on how to provide Employees Pink Ribbon Campaign and breast cancer awareness. support for the mechanics of getting to and going to the bathroom; and learned about the functions of diapers and how to change them while the person is in bed. A student commented that they learned the importance of reducing the burden of both Along with the caregivers and user and that cost savings could be realized, adding that since such pads are not yet Society common in China, “I would like to promote the spread of their use through education.“ Community-based social contribution activities (overseas) Indonesia Visit to a foster home Unicharm employees have been visiting orphanages and Along with Our welfare facilities for the disabled in Indonesia in conjunction Business Partners with July 1 (the date of our founding) since 2004. Every year we visit two facilities, where employees present their monetary donations and donations of Unicharm products as well as food, clothing and daily essentials that can be Along with used by the facility. Employees are always greeted by the residents. These visits are helping us to deepen our relationship with local communities in Indonesia. Shareholders and Investors Management Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 41 Along with Our Business Partners Ideal We will collaborate with suppliers in implementing CSR activities and promote CSR throughout Vision the entire supply chain, in an eﬀort to produce better products. Approach to materials procurement CSR procurement guidelines Through close cooperation, we share Unicharmʼs 1. Compliance with laws and social imperatives philosophy on safety and the environment, details of (1) Comply with related laws and social imperatives in speciﬁc activities, and collaborative requests with suppliers. purchasing activities. (2) Provide fair and equitable competitive opportunities in At our overseas locations, where we are expanding purchasing activities, regardless of nationality, size, or operations, we are working to roll out best practices from track record. (3) Strive for the appropriate management of information Japan as well as gather information through business obtained in purchasing activities. activities closely rooted in the local market. This enables 2. Procure safe products and materials that provide a us to aim for business relationships that fulﬁll the same peace of mind (1) Choose products and materials in purchasing activities standard of quality, functionality, safety, the environment for which safety has been conﬁrmed. and services of product lines in growth markets with (2) Choose economical and high quality materials and products in purchasing activities. diﬀerent price categories. (3) Emphasize the ability to manufacture and supply In addition to promoting procurement activities with products that meet requirements in purchasing activities. 3. Give due consideration to human rights and labor a particular emphasis on crisis management, going (1) Engage in purchasing activities with corporations who forward, we aim to establish a sound understanding place importance on respect for human rights. (2) Engage in purchasing activities with corporations who and dissemination of Unicharmʼs stance and view give due consideration to inhumane labor practice. on compliance with laws and social imperatives and (3) Emphasize engaging in purchasing activities with corporations who promote appropriate employment extending due consideration to human rights and labor practices. when we commence trading with new overseas partners. 4. Responsibility to the environment We will also call for the cooperation of existing partners (1) Value corporations who understand the importance of, and promote environmental conservation in purchasing in environmental and ethical areas. activities. (2) Emphasize environmentally friendly raw materials in purchasing activities in an eﬀort to achieve a recyclingPromoting CSR procurement oriented society. 5. Development of relationships of mutual trust (1) Cultivate a relationship and trust with business partners We established CSR procurement guidelines and within the scope of social norms. implemented them in 2009. (2) Strive to enhance business performance mutually through exchange of essential information with business partners. The guidelines incorporate provisions relating to applicable laws, human rights, industrial relations, environment, and product safety, such as “the abolition of child labor,“ “the elimination of discrimination,“ and Particular emphasis on the future direction to material “the promotion of measures against global warming,“ quality was given to future targets and a request for as stated in the U.N. Global Compact. assistance to focus on improving materials delivery Beginning with China in 2009, followed by Thailand, and safety and reducing environmental impacts, Indonesia, Taiwan, and Korea, we held brieﬁng sessions while achieving consistent quality and stable supplies. for our domestic and international suppliers in order Outside of Japan, the 3rd Quality Policy Brieﬁng to share our CSR procurement guidelines. Through the Session was held in China in September 2014. Over the Quality Brieﬁng Session and other venues, we share the last three years a total of 363 suppliers have attended. importance of CSR procurement, issues and detailed At this yearʼs brieﬁng, the ﬁrst ever Unicharm Quality initiatives while continually asking for cooperation to Award for China was selected to commend suppliers ensure CSR is practiced across the entire supply chain. with particularly excellent improvement initiatives. Suppliers were also asked to cooperate with future Quality Policy Brieﬁng Session ongoing quality improvement eﬀorts that will serve as a model for overall quality improvements in China. In November 2014, the 11th Quality Policy Brieﬁng Session was held for suppliers of Unicharm Products in Japan in order to explain Unicharmʼs management policies, business results, the most recent status of materials quality, and important initiatives and tasks. Quality Policy Brieﬁng Quality Policy Brieﬁng Session in Japan Session in China 42 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Along with Shareholders and Investors We continue to grow and develop to maintain our shareholdersʼ trust and to ensure the Ideal distribution of industry-leading returns to shareholders. Vision We practice transparency in our management and strive to ensure that our management is considered to be trustworthy. Our basic policy on proﬁt returns to our shareholders Along with Our Customers The “Beliefs and Pledges“ and Corporate Principles of Action outlined in our Unicharm Groupʼs Action Guidelines constitute our pledge to our shareholders which we share with all group employees. Our Corporate Principles of Action clearly state that “We will strive to manage the Along with the Information for investors on our website company in a way that will maintain a level of growth http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ir/ http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/ir/ corresponding to our shareholdersʼ conﬁdence, and that Environment will enable us to distribute industry-leading returns to shareholders. Based on our Corporate Principles of Action, we ensure stable and continuous return on investment, as well as improvement of our business performance. Our basic guidelines for return on investment are to Along with Our implement stable and continuous returns while also investing in our own midand long-term business Employees expansion. We distributed 6.4 yen per share (after the share split) in the ﬁscal year ending in December 2014 Results brieﬁng and have achieved dividend increase for 13 consecutive ﬁscal years. We will continuously view shareholder return as Along with the an important management agenda and will strive to realize the distribution of industry-leading returns with Society continuous improvement of our business performance. Information disclosure for our investors Overseas IR tours We opened investor relations pages on our websites to Along with Our post disclosure information including brief notes on the settlement of accounts and ﬁnancial statements. At the same time, we post English translations of important Listed in the SRI Index Business Partners information on our English site to disclose information for overseas investors. We also position result brieﬁngs and overseas IR tours Unicharm is included in the major international as important venues for dialogue among company SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) indexes executives and our investors, and strive to improve “FTSE4Good Index Series“ and “Morningstar Socially Along with the disclosure of information in order to help investors Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI)“. to better understand our business activities. Takahisa Shareholders and Investors Takahara, the president of the company, visited the corporate investors in Europe and the U.S. on this yearʼs overseas IR tour, where he made an appeal for our future growth by directly referencing the security of our stable Morningstar Socially Responsible FTSE4Good Index Series Investment Index (MS-SRI) proﬁts in domestic business in Japan and detailing Management Unicharmʼs mid-to long-term global growth potential. We have been working on improving communication by holding regular individual meetings for the active exchange of opinions with institutional investors and securities analysts, as well as by holding small-scale meetings where the president answers question. Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 43 Management Ideal We achieve growth and development as a company, the happiness of our employees, and Vision social responsibility through transparent management and proactive information disclosure. Corporate Governance Compliance Unicharm strives to pursue proper corporate management Our attitude towards compliance through Unicharm Ideals. We recognize the importance We see compliance as the promotion of sound of achieving a sustainable balance between increasing corporate ethics and our corporate philosophy, in corporate value and fulﬁlling our corporate social addition to conforming to established legislation. responsibilities through business activities implemented We strive to promote the “Unicharm Group by integrating management and executive divisions. Action Guidelines,“ which express the high level Based on this belief, we are reinforcing our corporate of preparedness and morality expected of every governance system as we further strengthen our executive employee at the Unicharm Group, as well as ensure oﬃcer structure through our corporate auditor system*. legal and fair management. * Unicharm has transitioned to a committee governance structure as of May 1, 2015 when Japanʼs revised Companies Act took eﬀect, in order to Initiatives for increasing compliance awareness further enhance corporate governance by improving the transparency and eﬃciency of processes in Group management and strengthening We conduct periodic training and e-learning to raise supervision of the board of directors and the execution of their duties. the compliance awareness of directors, oﬃcers and employees as well as provides them with knowledge Establishment of an Internal Control System of laws and business contracts for their respective The Unicharm Group formulates our “Basic Policy for positions and work duties. As part of these eﬀorts, Establishing an Internal Control System,“ based on the we are working to ensure that all directors and Companies Act, and established an “Internal Control employees understand that they are prohibited from Committee“ to respond to the “Internal Control bribing public oﬃcials, that facilitating payments are and Reporting System (J-SOX)“ of the Financial in principle banned, and that it is important to uphold Instruments and Exchange Act. antitrust laws and other applicable laws. We will The Internal Control Committee conducts an annual continue to train our employees through a phased reevaluation of risks for each company under the expansion of target areas and companies going Group, reviews target countries for J-SOX assessment, forward. and revises business processes requiring evaluation. In Japan, employees can consult on compliance At the same time, the Committee is committed to issues by phoning our “RingRing Employee Hotline.“ achieving improvements in reliable ﬁnancial reporting In ﬁscal 2014, there were 19 consultations. We also by promoting the establishment and operation of an operate similar hotlines in China and Thailand. In internal control system and eﬀective assessments. addition to RinRin Dial, an internal whistleblowing Going forward, we will continue to make hotline has been operating since April 2014 to improvements to our internal control system. promote compliance management. ● Corporate Governance Structure (as of December 31, 2014) General Meeting of Shareholders Monitor Board of Auditors Audit Board of Directors 2 Full-time Statutory Auditors, 10 Directors Accounting Auditor 2 Part-time Statutory Auditors Supervise Attend Report Business Plan CSR Committee Advisory Board Report Corporate Ethics Audit Meetings Committee Report President and CEO Attend Business Update Direct/supervise Report Meeting Report Attend Executive Officers /Deputy Executive Officers Management Report Audit ● Business Divisions ● Functional Divisions ● R&D Divisions Auditing Department Audit CSR Survey Subsidiaries, Affiliated Companies Department Statutory Auditors (Board) Strengthening Legal Compliance and Ethics Report Action Guidelines (“Five Great Pillars“ and Associate Principles of Action, “Beliefs and Pledges“ and Corporate Principles of Action) 44 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 Risk management Along with Our Thorough information security Business Continuity Plan (BCP*) Customers To ensure thoroughness in information security, Unicharm Unicharm has been enhancing its risk control since ﬁscal 2005. has set out its information security principles and procedures, The BCP Manual describes steps to ensure the safety of our such as the Information Security Policy and the Information employees and their families, deliver Unicharm products that Management Security Rules. We also have Personal Information represent necessities for daily living to people in disasterProtection Rules in place to safeguard personal information aﬀected areas as well as those who require them at the fastest Along with the provided by our customers, and we strictly manage this rate possible, and recover important corporate functions of information and take precautions to prevent information leaks. Unicharm. Environment To ensure that these rules are strictly observed and to prevent We conduct e-learning sessions for all employees to raise information leaks, Unicharm has established a group-wide their awareness and promote proactive measures. For quick Information Security Committee, and carries out employee conﬁrmation during an emergency, all employees carry a education and ongoing monitoring, as well as implementing disaster response pocket manual. Furthermore, we have monthly information management day. established an infrastructure in which employees carry a Along with Our smartphone so we can conﬁrm their safety and continue Protecting intellectual property business functions in the event of an emergency. Employees The intellectual property of the Unicharm Group is centrally We also hold emergency drills at each location, hold managed by the Legal & Intellectual Property Division, which basic lifesaving courses and provide training according to formulates and executes intellectual property strategies functional divisions. We hold BCP training entitled “3/11 linked to business and development strategies at Unicharm. Comprehensive Company-Wide Drill“ for a major earthquake As our patent application strategy, we have been protecting directly underneath Tokyo or a possible large-scale interpolate Along with the and using business and development results as intellectual earthquake involving the Tokai, Tonankai and Nankai plates. property. Strengthening our international patent applications First-response drills with an emphasis on conﬁrming employee Society in 2014 as part of our global expansion has brought us to safety and the functioning of disaster response headquarters 91st place for international patent applications and into the are carried out on an ongoing basis, including checking the Top 100 for four consecutive years according to WIPO. We are safety of all Unicharm employees in Japan in order to further also working to strengthen our intellectual property portfolioimprove our emergency response measures for earthquakes, building activities for our overseas business with patents, pandemics and other crises. Along with Our utility models, designs and trademark. We have applied for or In ﬁscal 2014, as part of our crisis communication activities obtained trademarks for the Unicharm Group brand in more grounded in information disclosure for minimizing damages than 160 countries around the world and by utilizing these caused by threats directly facing the company from an Business Partners rights we are protecting our brand and packages. emergency, we selected themes of anticipated crises and Additionally, we take a resolute stance, which includes carried out drills with related departments, through which we litigation, against infringements of our intellectual properties veriﬁed the eﬀectiveness of our response manual. and illegal use of our rights. We work closely together with Going forward, we will strengthen our global risk response our Business Department, R&D Department, and overseas capabilities for riots, terrorism and other emergency situations so Along with subsidiaries, while also collaborating with government that we can respond without being caught by the unforeseen. agencies, to eliminate counterfeits and other products that * BCP: Plan for the continued execution and recovery of core business Shareholders and Investors infringe upon our rights both inside and outside of Japan. activities soon after an emergency Unicharm is committed to cultivating a corporate culture that promotes the respect and protection of intellectual Crisis Response property rights of Unicharm and other companies, as training articulated in the Unicharm Action Guidelines. Internal Management compliance training on patents, trademarks, the Act against Unjustiﬁable Premiums and Misleading Representations, and other topics uses a combination of on-the-job training, oﬀthe-job training, and e-learning to ensure that employees in Japan and overseas are fully versed in the handling of Disaster planning intellectual property rights at Unicharm. Portable manual Drill at the Shizuoka Plant Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 45 Third Party Assurance Report * The Third Party Assurance Report is also published on our website. Web http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/csr/assurance/index.html 46 Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 List of contents Web PDF Web PDF Chapter Title Topic Page Chapter Title Topic Page version version version version Company Profile / Promotion framework for environmental ● ● P32 Primary Consolidated Subsidiaries and ● activities Overview of the Affiliates P2 Environmental impact and environmental Unicharm Group ● ● P33 Production and sales Areas ● goals Main Business Indicators ● Environmental initiatives through our ● ● P34 Along with the products Editorial Policy ● ● Editorial Policy P3 Environment Initiative to reduce environmental impacts Contents ● ● ● ● P34-35 through our business activities Message from the President ● ● P4-7 Initiative for biodiversity ● Integrating CSR with Our Businesses ● ● Activity results for FY2014 ● CSR Promotional Structure ● ● Site data ● Unicharm Group’s Reference Framework for Unicharm’s CSR P8-9 CSR ● ● View concerning human resources and Strategy ● ● respect for human rights Relationship with Stakeholders ● ● Along with Our Personnel utilization and training ● ● P36-39 Employees Introduction of Unicharm’s five business divisions deliver ● ● ● P10-11 Respect for Diversity business activities gentleness Industrial health and safety ● ● Making Life Better for People Living in ● ● P12-15 Asia by Reducing the Burden of Daily Life Our attitude toward social contributions ● ● Feature Topic Responding to a Super-Aging Society ● ● P16-19 Making contributions to society through ● ● our core business Environmentally Friendly Manufacturing ● ● P20-21 Along with the Community-based social contribution P40-41 Society ● ● Continuing to Provide Reconstruction Support to the Disaster● ● P22-23 activities (Japan) affected Areas from the Great East Japan Earthquake Community-based social contribution Unicharm Group’s Primary CSR Themes and Major Indicators ● ● ● ● P24-27 activities (Overseas) (KPI) Approach to materials procurement ● ● Initiatives of the Customer Service Center ● ● P28 Along with Our Promoting CSR procurement ● ● P42 Activities of overseas customer service Business Partners ● ● P29 centers Quality Policy Briefing Session ● ● Communication with customers using Our basic policy on profit returns to our ● ● P30 ● ● various media Along with shareholders Shareholders and P43 Three-pronged approach involving insight Information disclosure for our investors ● ● ● ● P30 Investors research, R&D, and marketing Listed in the SRI Index ● ● Along with Our Cooperation between R & D and Customers ● ● P30 Corporate Governance ● ● Engineering Unicharm’s view of quality assurance and Management Compliance ● ● P44-45 ● ● P31 framework Risk management ● ● Product safety efforts ● ● P31 Third Party Assurance Report ● ● P46 Global safety activities ● ● P31 List of contents / List of Awards md Commedations Received in ● ● P47 Initiatives at Unicharm Products ● ● P31 2014 Initiative for appropriate product labeling ● ● P31 2014 questionnaire results ● List of Awards and Commendations Received in Fiscal 2014 Month and year Name and description Implementing organization Recipient Unicharm April 2014 Received the Corporate Category Award at the Nikkei Social Initiative Awards Nihon Keizai Shimbun Corporation Nikkei Business Unicharm July 2014 15th Environmental Brand Survey 2014: 188th Publications, Inc. Corporation Received a Gold Medal for Moony Tape Genbutsu POP (POP with real-scale product) in the Hanger Japan Promotional Unicharm October 2014 Category of the 44th JPM Creative Solutions Awards hosted by the Japan Promotional Marketing Institute Marketing Institute Corporation Japan Institute of Design Unicharm October 2014 Received the FY2014 Good Design Award for the Moony Air FitⓇ disposable baby diaper Promotion Corporation Unicharm November 2014 2014 NICES Corporate Ranking: 16th Nihon Keizai Shimbun Corporation Unicharm December 2014 Received the 6th Mothers Selection Award for the Moony Series Nippon Mothers Association Corporation Unicharm CSR Activity Report 2015 47
