YKKO Group of Companies Limited UN Global Compact 2015 Communication on Progress CONTENTS STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRPERSON 1 OVERVIEW 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT 3 OUR ACTIVITIES 4 HOW YKKO IMPLEMENTS THE 10 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRPERSON I am pleased to confirm that YKKO Group of Companies Limited reasserts its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely, Daw Yu Yu Lwin CHAIRPERSON of YKKO Group of Companies Limited, Myanmar, COP for 2015 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT OVERVIEW NOW OPERATING 32 SHOPS SINCE 1988 VISION To instantly recognize YKKO as a successful Myanmar Brand and to last for centuries. MISSION To provide customers with 100% satisfaction operating on ‘3’ principles of foundation: Quality, Cleanliness, and Service TIMELINE 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Yankin Kyay-Oh was YKKO Kyay-Oh and YKKO Group of 27 shops opened founded BBQ House was opened on Companies Ltd is • 17 in YANGON Saya San Rd, Bahan established. • 3 in NAY PYI TAW Township, YANGON • 4 in MANDALAY 6 shops opened; • 1 in MAWLAMYINE 1 in NAY PYI TAW • 1 in PYIN OO LWIN • 1 in MYEIK 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT YKKO Group of Companies Limited has been a signatory of the UNGC since 2012. The Compact is a voluntary framework for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies to stimulate organisational change in accordance with the Ten Principles covering human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As a voluntary initiate, we are committed to submitting a Communications on Progress (COP) to the UNGC on an annual basis. The reporting period for this COP is from 5 June 2014 to 3 June 2015 and the report highlights select activities of YKO in relation to the ten principles. This COP report is not a comprehensive disclosure of our activities in relation to the UNGC. It is designed to provide an overview of how we implement the Ten Principles, and outline our compliance. We also aim to report on our wider sustainability and citizenship activities and how our business operations enhance our commitment to our communities. 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT OUR ACTIVITIES YKKO Group of Companies Limited is a network of family-oriented restaurant chains, operating across Myanmar. We have branches in 6 states, and have 1,400 people working in outlets across the country. Our core service has always been to deliver a great kyay oh experience for our customers through our YKKO ethos and actions. These principles evolved over time to not only extend towards our customers but also involve stakeholders. Our Social & Sports Sub Committee still holds activities for employees, and YKKO continues our annual Blood Donation and Thingyan Donation programs. BLOOD DONATIONS This year, 175 staff members contributed to the program. THINGYAN DONATIONS During our annual water festival – thingyan – in April 2015, volunteering staff of YKKO operated 4 shops during the holiday. Compared to 2013, we have had a 13% rise in financial contributions in 2014, and a further 41% increase in 2015. MHAW BI MONESTARY SCHOOL YKKO continues to support Mhaw Bi Monestary School through financial aid to cover monthly expenses, such as teachers’ salaries and building maintenance costs. In the past year, we have donated 19,800,000 kyats for the school construction, 19,250,000 kyats for the teachers’ hostels, and also 9,100,000 to build a canteen area for students and faculty. BAGO FLOOD RELIEF In August 2014, when the intense rain flooded the district of Bago, YKKO along with other MRA members, organized a rapid response to visit relief camps for additional aid. We visited 3 camps and distributed 50 bags of rice accordingly. 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT HOW YKKO IMPLEMENTS THE10 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principle Commitment 1. Businesses should support YKKO is organizationally oriented on career and respect the protection of development at all levels. We focus on evoking Human internationally proclaimed new insights about the organization, community, human rights; industry and culture. Our training offers learning Rights 2. and make sure that they are experiences to the employees that are job related, not complicit in human right whilst encouraging career advancement beneficial abuses. to both employee and the company 3. Businesses should uphold YKKO has never sought competitive advantage at the the freedom of association cost of labour. We’ve implemented several labour and the effective recognition rights standards in our company’s code of conducts of the right to collective bargaining; Labour 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Standards labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; 6. and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a In recognition of the environmental impacts that precautionary approach to concern the global community, YKKO has worked environmental challenges; actively to promote greater environmental 8. undertake initiatives to responsibility into our business activities. We have Environment promote greater set social and environmental standards in our environmental responsibility; product development and in the provision of our 9. and encourage the products and services. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against YKKO Group of Companies Ltd. enforces a zero corruption in all its forms, including tolerance approach to exploitation and corrupted extortion and bribery. dealings. Our enhanced introduction of sound Anticorporate governance practices in transactions with Corruption our suppliers and negotiations with chosen business associates further solidifies our stance against anticorruption. 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT Systems, Policies and Procedures Highlights • Internal Code of Ethics which includes Human Rights Following international standards, we are now including considerations and prohibits discrimination in our YKKO Values in our employee handbook to further solidify a hiring practices against religion, race and gender corporate culture that drives growth, innovation and • Quality and Risk Management manual teamwork. • YKKO does not use forced, compulsory or child labor • YKKO supports where applicable, the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • We hold ourselves accountable to recognize staff members that have travelled from suburban areas to the city without living quarters, and makes sure to provide hostels for them. • We record electricity, gas and water consumption on We have been able to convert from using bamboo chop a regular basis to identify areas of wastage. sticks, the traditional means of noodle cutlery to plastic chop • The usage of air condition units are strictly monitored sticks with metal tips to prevent further environmental by management • We take proactive steps to determine what areas can wastage and also take into account, consumer safety. limit wastage and resources • Internal Code of Ethics which includes anti-bribery policy 6 The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although we endeavor to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future. No one should act on such information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough examination of the particular situation. Publication name: YKKO 2015 Communication on Progress Report Publication date: June 2015
