CSR Report 2014 Report target period Jan 2014 to Dec 2014 Report publication date May 2015 RUBYCON CORPORATION Yellow cherry in Tonouchi Memorial Park Company Creed Let's be the No.1 in Japan in all aspects! Employees' Motto 5 Corporate Philosophies 1. Be honest and faithful in daily living 2. Work and live properly 3. Be loving in all aspects 4. Self examine today's deeds and be grateful of no regrets 5. Believe in yourself and believe in hopes Rubycon Company Song Supervised by Hideo Tonouchi (Founder) Lyrics by Sen Kinoshita Composed by: Yoshihiro Nishimura Arranged by: Akira Sakashita 1. Shinano surrounded by many mountains Senjo in the east, Komagatake in the west covered with virgin snow for thousands years tradition and enterprise, Oh! Rubycon strive together hand in hand 2. Water going away to the south eternal Milky Way in the center of the sky washing out rocks without standing still efforts and training, Oh! Rubycon study together hand in hand 3. Thousands of flowers on the ground brilliant Big Dipper in the sky swear to Home Town Ina faith and trust, Oh! Rubycon advance together hand in hand 1 Contents Messages from the top of Company 3 Consumer Issues Rubycon products contribution to society 4 Security of Product Safety 5 Fair Business Practices 7 Organization Governance 8 CSR Plan in Rubycon 10 Participation in Community 11 Environmental Measures 12 Green Procurement 13 Human Rights 14 Creation of Comfortable Workplace 15 Major activities in 2014 17 Summary 18 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact «Human rights» Principle 1 ： Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 ： make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. «Labor» Principle 3 ： Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 ： the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 ： the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 ： the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. «Environment» Principle 7 ： Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 ： undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 ： encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. «Anti-corruption» Principle10 ： Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Messages from the top of Company In 2014, under the circumstances that developing markets such as industrial instrument and new energy, as well as home appliances and automotive, built on solid growth, Rubycon Group has addressed to creation of commodities customers are wanting, focusing on the activities to expand new markets, develop new products and improve quality. As the result, conductive polymer capacitor, electric double layer capacitor, polymer multi-layer capacitor (PMLCAP) and power supply unit has been growing to satisfactory products, in addition to our main products such as aluminum electrolytic capacitor and film capacitor. We here apologize to have given anxiety to the participants about the matter relating to the competition law continued since the last year. We are going to take sincere responses to investigation of the proper authorities, and will penetrate and improve our compliance system for the entire employees. We are always striving for providing reliable and satisfactory products with our experience on technology and quality, and establishing good relations with partners, shareholders, our employees and people in the community, so as to contribute to creation of affluent society. Under the Mega Competition, Rubycon Group Slogan for 2015 has been given as Uncharted Challenges for the customers and with customers. We are going to advance management in the customers' view, in order to improve QCDS meeting the customers' expectations in the whole company including me. We are looking forward to your support to Rubycon Group in the future. Shuichi Katsuyama President and C.O.O Rubycon Corporation The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact In October 2011, Rubycon Corporation expressed the support for the universal principles about Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption upheld by United Nations, and officially joined the UN Global Compact. Rubycon Corporation contributes to society thru business activities, by supporting 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. 3 Consumer Issues Rubycon products contribution to society << Rubycon products contribute to society through power electronics technologies >> Urgent global themes such as energy issues are faced by societies. Core technologies to control energy with countermeasures to avoid escalation of global warming with power electronics are of primary importance. Rubycon is proposing capacitors to various power conversion devices to contribute higher efficiency, longer life and miniaturization. << Conductive Polymer Aluminum Solid Electrolytic Capacitor >> Conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitors have a wider temperature range, are more compact, have lower ESR, and higher resistance to ripple current than other aluminum electrolytic capacitors. These features enable high-efficiency power supply design and can contribute to the reduced number of parts. The net result of this capacitor technology is energy savings improved efficiency. << Example of parts reduction with conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitor >> << Power Film Capacitor >> Voltage and current of main circuits have been increased to improve efficiency in power electronics. Most notably, in applications such as solar/wind power and automotive. Demand of large film capacitors (referred to as power film capacitors) is increasing. We are addressing deposition technology and low ESL (inductance) designs to improve efficiency and improve miniaturization. 4 << Screw Terminal Type Aluminum Electrolytic Capacitor >> Screw Terminal Type Aluminum Electrolytic Capacitors are used for main circuit of power electronics together with power film capacitors. We are downsizing dimensions and raising withstand voltage with our independent development of new electrolytes and adoption of high capacitance etched foil. Stud screw type capacitors have efficient heat radiation structure and high resistance to ripple current, so as to contribute to efficient packaging and downsizing of equipment. We are further addressing to develop new electrolyte and foil for higher voltage use, which is important to circuits for the next-generation power electronics semiconductor. << Electric Double Layer Capacitor >> Electric double layer capacitors use electric double layer produced on the boundary between the electrode and electrolyte (as dielectric) for storing electric charges. This capacitor realizes quick charge-discharge cycles as well as long life since there aren't chemical reactions to store charges. This capacitor is ideal for applications requiring momentary large current such as power assist and energy regeneration. If the capacitor is used as the main power for rechargeable equipment, maintenance is reduced. A module of multiple capacitors as well as a single electric double layer capacitor will expand applications. Electric double layer capacitors can be useful for effective energy use. 5 Security of Product Safety We, at Rubycon, closely check compliance and non-use of banned substances in planning phase of product development, in order to secure product safety. We also describe safety instructions in our catalog and delivery specifications. We perform reliability tests with various processes to secure safety of products to be manufactured. We conduct reliability tests in various phases, including process design phase to secure correct materials, specifications and production conditions. During the mass production phase we check reliability of all products through regular sampling, also during the product development and planning phases. Such tests include reliability and the general process is confirmed in addition to safety, so as to maintain the reliability of Rubycon products. We are striving to supply safe and reliable products now and in the future. << COC: Claim 0 Campaign >> We, at Rubycon, accept every complaint from customers with sincerity in order to improve customer satisfaction and quality related with product safety. We have started quality improvement activities as the manufacturer responsible for our products, so as to attain our goal Claim 0. We started Claim 0 Campaign (COC) in May, 2012. In the result of the third year, 60% reduction in the complaint rate (number of complaints/output) has been kept. We are addressing to COC activities to attain Claim 0. * ppm (Parts Per Million) denotes complaint rate. << Improvement of Customer Satisfaction >> Rubycon has the quality policy of manufacture to win customer satisfaction that provides customers with relief and trust through 5 pillars of organizational power, cooperation power, analyzing ability, quality control ability, small group activities. We are addressing Customer Satisfaction through quality to contribute to the society and the future. We conduct customer questionnaire every year including cost, delivery and service as well as quality, so as to improve customer satisfaction. 6 Fair Business Practices We, at Rubycon, are compliant regarding relevant statutes, internal regulations, social norms and ethics, and excluding relations with antisocial forces, so as to promote business activities through fair and good competition and to secure safe and ease of customers in consideration of views and positions of ordinary citizens. Compliance We are observing all statutes relating to business (labor, environment, public welfare, trade, industry, commerce, national tax and civil affairs), and as well as conducting fair business and transactions. On the basis of our internal regulations, we are developing such activities to our group companies through mutual improvement. We have published Rubycon Group Code of Conduct conforming to EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition), and are providing it to all employees and group companies. If any compliance violation is found, we will seek accurate facts to determine the cause followed by strict action to prevent recurrence. Internal Audit We have a designated audit department under the president's direct supervision to audit fair and proper performance of internal activities in accordance with relevant statutes, operation policy and internal regulations. The department will further provide advice to improve and correct our business as well as the risks for compliance in organizational activities. This audit covers all organizations in each company group. Risk Management In addition to Risk Management Activities conducted since 2012, we are strengthening internal systems and reviewing relevant internal regulation since inquiries from customers on code of conduct and ethical risk management are increasing. We will also assess effectiveness of risk management regulation and disaster contingency plan as well as reviewing BCP (Business Continuity Plan) for disaster and unexpected contingency. Protection of Intellectual Properties (Measures against Counterfeit Products) We, at Rubycon, have participated in the Project 3 of IIPPF (International Intellectual Property Protection Forum) for eradicating counterfeits, so as to address to counterfeit eradication activities cooperating with various entities and companies. We are providing counterfeit information on the website of Cybernet for Counterfeit (https://gcnet-public.sharepoint.com/company/rubycon/). We will proactively utilize this website to advance the activities. Protection and Control of Information Misuse of information important to corporate management will have significant impact on relations of trust with partners and their management. We have established security policy and privacy policy recognizing importance of information assets. We give the first priority in risk management and BCP to the policies. We are protecting and controlling information assets through education of employees and various security measures and activities. 7 Organization Governance CSR Policy Rubycon's CSR System to accomplish corporate social responsibility is shown below. Decision-making is performed referring to the vision, the employees motto and the Global Compact, on the basis of the foundation spirit. All of these support us to remain a reliable company to stakeholders such as customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community, and to drive steady CSR activities. Foundation Spirit Our mission is to contribute to the society through manufacture. The word all aspects includes sales, profit and treatment of employees as well as quality. The company song says to keep enterprising mind for considering things favorably and to work together for establishing brilliant tradition. For the purpose, endeavor and study is essential. Faith is necessary to win trust. A company is built upon management-labor cooperation. A phrase of the company song says to advance with great hope. The founder Hideo Tonouchi (the current chairman) established the company song in 1961 and the company creed in 1962. The times changed greatly since then. But Rubycon is going to open the way to the future with the mind to value others. 8 Rubycon Group Code of Conduct The purpose of Rubycon's Code of Conduct is to define business activities of our employees complying with laws and observing environmental responsibility and corporate ethics under a safe labor environment. << Human Rights and Labor >> << Fair Trade and Ethics >> 1. No forced labor 1. No corruption or bribery 2. No inhumane treatment 2. No abuse of dominant bargaining position 3. No child labor 3. No improper advantage 4. No discrimination 4. No anticompetitive act 5. Reasonable wage 5. Provision of accurate information on product 6. Working hours and service 7. Right to organize of employees 6. Respect to intellectual property 7. Appropriate export control << Safety and Health >> 8. Disclosure of information 1. Machine Safeguarding 9. Prevention and early detection of irregularity 2. Workplace safety 10. Prohibition of reprisal 3. Workplace sanitation 11. Responsible mineral procurement 4. Occupational injury and illness 5. Emergency preparedness << Quality and Safety >> 6. Physically demanding work 1. Security of product safety 7. Facility safety and sanitation 8. Health of employees 2. Quality management system << Environment >> << Information Security >> 1. Product content restrictions 1. Safeguarding for threat to computer network 2. Chemical materials to be used in 2. No leakage of personal information production process 3. Environmental management system 3. No leakage of confidential information of 4. Minimal impact on environment (e.g. customers and third parties waste water, sludge, exhaust gas) 5. Environmental permits and << Social Action >> administrative approval 1. Contribution to society and community 6. Effective utilization of resources and energy (3R) 7. Reduction of greenhouse gas emission 8. Waste reduction 9. Disclosure of environmental preservation activities 9 CSR Promotion System CSR activities are positioned as the business itself, and awareness of all employees to CSR is raised under instruction of the president. held, and decisions are penetrated into the whole group including divisions and affiliated companies to share problems. CSR management is promoted, emphasizing interaction with customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community. We are securing compliance under the spirit that a corporate is a public institution. We provide proper feedback of requests from stakeholders. CSR Plan in Rubycon 10 Participation in Community Social Action Program << Acceptance of Internship >> In the view of social service and youth development, we accept the requests of internship for students of junior high-school, high-school and university, businesspeople and disabled people as mush as possible. Such requests are increasing year after year, and we are going to accept to the utmost extent. << Participation in Clean-up Activity around Tenryu River Area >> We are participating in clean-up activities around Tenryu River Area (Tenryu River Environmental Picnic) every year to cooperate with community residents, as a part of Local Beautification Activity. The activities work as parent-child communication, as children of employees participate in them. << Road Clean-up around Company >> We perform road clean-up activity around our headquarters in time with monthly company clean-up activity, so as to cooperate with Local Beautification Activity. << Promotion of local firefighting activities and Japanese Red Cross Service activities >> We, at Rubycon, promote cooperation with and participation in community activities. Local firefighting activities and local Red Cross service activities are especially important for local active disaster prevention and local welfare. We treat absence due to participation in such activities as paid holidays. << Participation in Ina-matsuri Festival >> We participate in Ina-matsuri Festival every year with a dancing team. The dancing team performs powerful dance in gratitude for the community, in order to encourage the festival. <<Voices>> Participation in Ina Matsuri Festival / Ayaka Nishimura, PZ Section I participated in Rubycon Team for dancing in the last year. Dragon dance was the first for me and difficult, but I became skilled at the dance through repeating exercise. It was great at deepening exchanges with persons in other sections. I'm going to participate in the festival from now on to further deepen exchanges with the community and advertise Rubycon to Ina City. 11 Environmental Measures Reduction of Environmental Burden << Power Saving and CO2 Emission Reduction >> Rubycon has been designated as a specific proponent according to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy in 2010, and have been addressing Power Saving in Lighting, Air Conditioner, Compressor, and Measures for Production Facilities to annual energy saving rate more than 1%. Running status of circulating roof spray system << CO2 Reduction >> Rubycon's goal is Reduction of greenhouse gas over 5% by March, 2015 against 2009 as medium-term target. CO2 emission in 2013 (April, 2013 March, 2014) was 5,897t, which was 6.8% lower than the amount in 2009. The average CO2 emission from 2010 to 2013 was 3.2% less than in 2009. We achieved size & weight reduction and performance improvement of our products through R&D to respond to customers requests. We continue further improvement in size reduction to reduce CO2 emission and contribute on energy conservation. << Promotion of Recycling >> Waste Plastics: We maintain 100% recycling of waste plastics. Waste Products: We maintain 100% recycling of waste products. Paper: We segregate paper from combustible waste to pass on 65% of combustibles to recycling. Miscellaneous: We are addressing to recycling to establish Zero Waste Emission. << PRTR（Pollutant Release and Transfer Register）>> We prepare annual report according to the PRTR Act. The achievements in recent years are as follows: 2010: 76,375kg transferred 2011: 83,350kg transferred 2012: 247kg transferred (Some of the substances were excluded.) 2013: 430kg transferred 2014: 340kg transferred 12 Environment Clean-up Activity We, at Rubycon, are operating research, development and production in natural blessings. As expressed with our environmental catchphrase I preserve the environment, we are continually striving for cleaning of our premises preserving nature, in order to make visitors comfortable. We have Environmental Preservation Section dedicated for daily premises maintenance, and all employees clean up the premises in the early morning every month. <<Voices>> Participation in Environment Clean-up Activity / Tatsuya Kinoshita, Sample Section I am participating in the monthly clean-up activity to enjoy a good reputation such that Rubycon is a clean company. I am trying to keep the company comfortable for employees in attendance and work, as well as for visitors. I'm going to actively participate in the activity in the future. Green Procurement We, at Rubycon, are purchasing materials, parts and components for Rubycon products from partners who are proactively reducing environmental burdens and addressing to reduce substances in the Environmentally-controlled Substance List, and observing statutes and social norms of each country. We will continue such activities in the future. << Control of Banned and Hazard Substances >> We have specified our Banned and Abolished Substance List for banned and hazard substances, and continually update it according to customers' requirements of green procurement including RoHS and REACH regulations, so as to reflect them to our commitment to such requirements. We have a check system for RoHS regulated substances in material reception stage through regular XRF analysis for samples and inspection of high-precision analysis data. We also have a material tracing system to prevent reception, incorporation and contamination of banned and abolished substances. In the system, barcode is used to identify all materials under cooperation of suppliers to establish material traceability, and we have a database to trace material information within 24 hours to prevent environmental defects from discharging. We are continually striving for preserving the comfortable environment with the catchphrase I preserve the globe. 13 Human Rights Respect of Human Rights Our employee regulations specify equal opportunity such that employees are not discriminated by their nationality, religion, sex or social position. These regulations also specify strict compliance of prohibition of forced labor , prohibition of inhumane treatment , prohibition of child labor , restriction of dangerous and harmful work and restriction of dangerous and harmful work for pregnancies as stipulated by law. We are further addressing control of working hours to prevent overwork. We have also formally participated in UN Global Compact proposed by the UN in October, 2011, and put up our original poster in each of our departments including our group companies and overseas distributors in order to comply with the 10 rules. We are thoroughly instructing the importance to respect and cooperate with each other for pursuing work through personnel training courses described below. Child-raising and Nursing Care << Establishment of Child-raising and Nursing Vacation Regulation >> We have Child-raising and Nursing Vacation Regulation complying with the Child Care and Family Care Leave Act. Many of our employees use child-raising vacation to return to work. To support child-raising, employee raising a child up to the first grade of primary school can select working hours 2 hours shorter than regular at most. << Establishment of Healthcare Vacation >> Healthcare vacation system is our original one to accumulate annual paid holidays not used up to 10 days for a year with the retention of 2 years at most. This system helps need of long cure due to accident, injury or disease. << Hourly Paid Holiday >> We also have an hourly paid holiday system in which an employee can have hourly holiday up to 2 days in a year. It is useful for late attendance or early leaving due to going to a hospital for one's own or a family's sake. << Acquisition of Kurumin Mark >> We have been addressing to the next-generation development support, and approved Kurumin Mark by Nagano Labor Bureau on August 29, 2008 according to the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. << Mothers' Meeting >> We gather female employees in child-raising vacation and working raising children, so as to exchange child care information. It is a good opportunity to consult childcare problems. 14 Labor Proctices Creation of Comfortable Workplace << Safety and Health >> Employees are company's resources. We wish them to be health and safe in work and to be happy. For the purpose, we are pursuing various activities as follows. Health Patrol (Twice a year) Young Drivers Club Patrol of Health Representative (Weekly) Disaster Drill KYT Activity(Once a year) Safety and Health Education Kiken Yochi Training meaning the foreseeing danger situations training. Hiyari-Hatto Proposal Activity (Once a year) Factory Environment Survey (Twice a year) Plant Environment Survey (Twice a year) VDT Environment Survey(Annual) Risk Assessment << Address to Mental Healthcare >> As described in the section of professional training, we provide mental healthcare training with external instructors. We take appropriate actions for persons of mental disorder in cooperation of personnel section, company nurse and company doctor. << Health Consultation >> Company nurse picks up 3 to 4 persons every month from long-hour workers and employees with findings in medical check, to consult company doctor on monthly visit. Relation with Labor Union << Labor-management Council >> We have labor-management council with labor union of the company, for the common purpose of development of company and happiness of employees. The council is held as appropriate including in Spring Labor-management Negotiation in every spring, to find resolution through discussion. 15 << Summer Festivals >> We co-host summer festival together with the labor union, in the time of Ina-matsuri Festival in August. Section members sell Yakisoba noodle and shaved ice to employees. It is helpful to communication between employees. <<Voices>> Participation in Rubycon Summer Festival / Yasushi Mukaiyama, Production Section 2 す It was hot in the summer festival of the last year, but many families enjoyed the festival. I sold pickles in a food stall. I remember the pickles of cucumber was a good seller. It is good nibble for alcohol drink. Miso is just good with cucumber. I'm sorry at telling about drinking. I'm looking forward to my role in the festival of the next summer. Cucumber is the best for summer, because it cools down human body. << Rubycon Ball Game Tournament >> We co-host ball games (softball and mallet golf) every year in September together with the labor union, for the purpose of friendship promotion. Group employees gather from all over Japan to enjoy the day. After the games, participants clean up the surrounding area to express appreciation to the community. <<Voices>> Participation in Rubycon Ball Game Tournament / Masae Shinoda, Nagoya Sales Office I've been participating in the ball Game Tournament for these 7 years together with my family. We have had good time in softball and mallet golf, and enjoyed to see employees in other sections and group companies. It was a good chance to strengthen family bonding. I'm going to proactively participate in the tournament. 16 Major Performances in 2014 and Goals and Plans in 2015 Major Item Minor Item Goal and Plan in 2014 Major Performances in 2014 Page Goal and Plan in 2015 Submitted COP to the headquarters of UN Global Compact on May 7, CSR Management 2012 (expedited about 6 months). Corporate Governance Support of 10 rules of UN Global Compact, and develop them to Top Message Promote priority themes in the group Interaction with business activities Declared support of 10 rules of UN Global Compact on Rubycon 60th Stakeholders Anniversary Website. Promotion of transparent Made out CSR Report 2014 and published on our website. management Creation of CSR report and publication Corporate Governance CSR Promotion System Improvement of compliance and on our website Internal control regulation into effect on March 1, 2014 internal control Respect of Human Promotion of human rights Performed human rights education in fresh recruit training (April) and Promotion and continuance of human Rights / No Respect of human rights enlightenment fresh recruit follow-up training (October 30). rights enlightenment activity Discrimination Performed Chinese courses (basic and application courses) and English courses (basic and advanced courses) once a week. Human Resources Performed young employee training (4-5th-year), Class 1 employees Improvement and performance of Improvement of employee training training (mid-level, 7-8th-year), first grade supervisors training and Development training program first grade managers training over the year. Human Resources Development Brought 7 fresh and mid-level employees into telephone manners contest, and one of them won the jury's special award. Continued employment according to Continuance of extended employment Support to Work system motivation and ability of each Continuance of extended employment system (master and adviser) Diversity retired employee Promotion of multiskilling Human Rights / Labor Practices Health consultation Held mental health course for 40 employees (managers, chiefs and Continuance of measures for lifestyle Measures for lifestyle diseases leaders) on November 12. Confirmed to create stress-free workplace diseases with reminding and encouraging each other. Risk assessment (monthly review by safety and health committee) Promotion of safety and health in Creation of comfortable workplace Performed safety and health patrols in the National Labor Health Week workplace Safety and Health of and the National Safety Week twice in a year, together with indoor Employees environment clean-up activity, fire drill, sheet-belt use rate survey. Continuance of workplace safety and Rubycon Baseball Team won the National Athletic Meet for the first health activity time in a decade, and also participated in the National Baseball Activation of internal circles Tournament in Nagasaki. The team further participated in the Central Japan Inter-city Baseball Tournament for the third successive year. The team won two tournaments in Nagano. Enactment of childcare/nursing leave regulations Support to childcare and nursing Support to childcare and Continuance of support to childcare Mother meeting care nursing care and nursing care Continued approval of Kurumin Participation in Ina Matsuri Festival (Aug. 2) Held Rubycon Summer Festival (Aug. 2) and Rubycon Engineering Summer Festival (Aug. 9). Cooperation with Labor Promotion of joint events with labor Continuing promotion of joint events Social service activities Union union Held Rubycon Group Ball Game Tournament (Sep. 6) at some grounds with labor union including Rubycon Baseball Park. The weather was good, and employees of Rubycon Group gathered to have good time. Holding of labor-management council Environmental Continuing approval and compliance Maintenance all over the group ISO14001 approval status Maintenance all over the group Management of ISO14001 Chemicals control WG (every 2 months) to penetrate instructions into Management of banned Continuing management of banned Management of banned substances the group substances and hazardous substances and hazardous and toxic and hazardous and toxic materials and toxic materials materials Instruction of Green Procurement to suppliers Environment-friendly Attained 100% recycle of industrial waste D Environment Reduction of industrial waste and Reduction of industrial waste and Business Process promotion of recycling Attained 65.1% recycle of industrial waste A promotion of recycling Environmental burden Energy saving plan Goal: Reduce reduction program Energy saving plan Goal: Reduce Reduced 6.8% in 2013 against 2009. Then the total reduction since energy per capacitor by 5% by energy per capacitor by 5% by March, 2010 is 3.2%. March, 2015 against 2009 2015 against 2009 Marketed a winding type conductive polymer aluminum electrolytic Launch of compact and energyEnvironment-compatible capacitor PFV Series (hybrid type). MAT-C (Multi Anode Terminal Social service with Development of environment-friendly saving products compatible with Products Capacitor) compatible with high capacitance low ESL and low ESR is products products environment also marketed. Risk Management Risk reduction activities Estimated reduction of critical risk rate by 56% (self calculation). Continuance of risk reduction activities Compliance in transactions with Continuing compliance in transactions Fair Competitions and Compliance with the subcontract act suppliers with suppliers Fair Business Practices Trades Compliance in trading Reviewed AEO Manual. Continuing compliance in trading Promotion of information security Information Protection Reviewed security control regulations and performed training and Continuing promotion of information control (critical in risk management Fair business practices and Control measures. security control items) Participated in the Project 3 of IIPPF (International Intellectual Property Protection Forum), and started disclosure of counterfeit Protection of Promotion of brand protection and Continuing promotion of brand information. Further asked a local researching company for Intellectual Properties counterfeit measures protection and counterfeit measures investigation and analysis of fake products, so as to attack responsibility of the fake manufacturers. Development of risk map on safety/risk Design considering capacitor safety Performed training of design staff on product safety security. Product safety security Improvement of product evaluation quality/safety Promotion of improvement in Invited engineers in Rubycon Indonesia to Japan to improve skills Continuing promotion of improvement in production facilities in Rubycon ― Consumer Issues through training and drill. production facilities in Rubycon Group Group Conducted Claim 0 Campaign (COC). We are maintaining the goal of Product Compliance with Consumer Action plan for product Continuing compliance with Consumer reduction by 60% against 2012, and going to advance the activities to Accident/Failure Plan Products Safety Act accident/failure Products Safety Act attain 0 complaints. Conducted a questionnaire to major customers on quality, time of Improvement of delivery, price and service. Attained 95% of customer satisfaction in Improvement in customer Continuance of customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction survey Customer Satisfaction quality, and the total customer satisfaction was improved to 77% (71% satisfaction survey in 2013). Participation in Community Conducted cleaning within the premises and roads around the company Environmental Clean-up Promotion of social service in each every month, as a part of environmental clean-up activity. Activity location Continued public exhibition of Tonouchi Memorial Museum. ― Continuing promotion of social service Social Service Program Promotion of local fire fighting activity and Japanese Red Cross Handled all of the activities as special paid holidays. activities in each location / Community Development activity Social service activities Accepted 20 persons (including students, business people and Acceptance of internship handicapped) for internship. 17 Summary I really appreciate the persons who gave advices or opinions to us on the publication of Rubycon Group CSR Report 2014. In 2014, investigation in capacitor transactions has been started for violation of the antitrust law and the competition law in each country. We here apologize to have given anxiety to the participants about this matter, while we are going to generally work with the proper authorities on the investigation. We will also penetrate compliance and improve our internal control system to intensify corporate governance. We are looking forward to your support to Rubycon Group in the future. This year, we have the slogan Uncharted Challenges (for the customers and with the customers) to go back to our first objective and advance social contribution. We are providing new products so as to maintain good environment and establish more human-friendly company. Akira Nakayama, Executive Secretary 18
