SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2014–2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y 1 A word from our CEO 3 Who we are and what we do 6 Materiality REPORT 8 People 18 Environment 24 Community 28 Leading the way on product stewardship 34 Governance and compliance 39 Global Reporting Initiative Index ABOUT THIS REPORT This is the first Sustainability Report for Pact Group Holdings Ltd and has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 version). This Report is in accordance with “core” GRI guidelines and no information is restated and no changes have been identified. The information contained in this Report relates to sites wholly owned and operated by Pact Group Holdings Ltd (“Pact” or “the Company”) and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“the Group”). All data relates to the 12 month period or the status as at 30 June 2015 (FY15), unless otherwise stated. Data for specific areas of environmental impact is reported only for operations owned and wholly operated by the Group within Australia. It is the Company’s intent to expand this reporting across all regions in the following financial year. All monetary amounts in the Report are stated in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. We have not sought external assurance for this report. Further information regarding Pact’s sustainability performance is communicated through various other channels including: • www.pactgroup.com.au • The Annual Report • The Annual General Meeting • Disclosures to the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), company code (PGH). Previous Annual Reports can be downloaded from the Investor section of our website: www.pactgroup.com.au. If you have any questions or feedback, please email: info@pactgroup.com.au Pact Group Holdings Ltd ABN 55 145 989 644 A WORD FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER This year has been an exciting one in Pact’s journey and we are delighted to bring you our inaugural Sustainability Report. It details our key achievements in 2014–2015 and our strategy and outlook for 2015–2016 for sustainability. Sustainability is a consideration in all of our business in the workplace in an engaging, contemporary and decisions and stewardship choices. As a manufacturer, morale boosting way. we have a responsibility for the environment and A number of health and wellbeing initiatives future generations that we take seriously. For us, promoting healthy living for our people were sustainability is by no means an end result. It is an introduced this year. In Australia we re-launched ongoing process of improvement and care. Pact’s Employee Assistance Program; a work-based Our Sustainability Report is based around five key intervention program designed to provide emotional, themes: People, Environment, Community, Product mental and general psychological support to Stewardship and Governance and Compliance. employees and their families. People One of the key ways we measure employee engagement is through our annual Employee By implementing a range of targeted initiatives, we Engagement Survey, which gives employees the have worked hard this financial year to ensure the opportunity to have their say about their workplace, health, engagement and safety of our people. colleagues and the broader business. In the 2014 We continued our Towards Zero Harm strategy Survey, we saw greatest improvements on 2013 in the to increase the consistency and management of areas of IT effectiveness (+7%), corporate leadership health and safety across all our sites. As part of (+6%) and manufacturing platforms (+6%). We are this, we developed a Workplace Health and Safety aiming for continued engagement across the business Framework, revised our manuals, procedures with the next survey scheduled for October 2015. and forms, updated our audit program, externally We remain committed to the maintenance and benchmarked our performance and conducted promotion of workplace diversity to ensure we awareness programs. provide a discrimination-free workplace. In 2015– PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 1 A key engagement program for us was our Safety 2016 we will continue our focus on diversity in the Selfie campaign, which we launched on United workplace and further developing engagement Nation’s World Day for Safety and Health at Work opportunities for women. (28 April 2015). This month-long personal safety awareness campaign encouraged all employees to Environment send a Safety Selfie attracting close to 800 entries Environmental stewardship is entrenched in our from 55 sites, across four countries. This campaign way of working; from the design and life cycle successfully delivered a simple message around of our products, through to the minimisation of employees’ responsibility for their personal safety manufacturing waste. A WORD FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CONTINUED) To reduce emissions and improve energy efficiency, Governance and Compliance this year we made resource efficiency a major We are committed to ensuring our Group is properly Group-wide KPI, with all sites required to monitor managed to protect and enhance shareholder and reduce energy consumption. As part of this interests, and that the Company is compliant in the initiative, we upgraded equipment, implemented application of policies and practices. We carefully waste material control and identified specific energy assess the risks to our financial sustainability to saving opportunities such as compressed air leak better direct our management strategy and target management. We also improved lighting systems, our economic sustainability initiatives. used thermal imaging for detecting hot spots, and installed smart meters at the majority of sites, adding Pact reported a strong financial result for the year, the capability to monitor energy use in real time. and it has done so upholding the business ethics and values we set ourselves. We believe adopting Community and operating under robust standards of corporate We recognise we have a responsibility to our local governance is essential for sustainable long-term community, and throughout the year, we supported performance and value creation. As a business, we various events and awareness campaigns addressing promote a risk-aware culture, and are committed to health and wellbeing, education, community and upholding high standards of business integrity and environmental causes. This included initiatives honesty in all our dealings. to raise funds and support for charities such as the Cancer Council, the Royal Flying Doctor Service and OzHarvest. The coming year will see significant changes in our Brian Cridland support of the community and we look forward to Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director focusing more on this area in the future. Product Stewardship Pact’s vision is to enrich lives everyday through sustainable packaging solutions. We remain committed to offering our customers innovative and responsible solutions that consider the entire PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 2 life cycle and supply chain of our products. One such ‘whole of life’ solution involves buying back damaged or unserviceable wheelie bins from councils, recycling them and using the recycled resin in the manufacture of new bins. More than 250 local councils across Australia are now actively participating in the Pact wheelie bin program, which has significantly improved the sustainability of wheelie bins’ renewal across Australia. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Pact is a leading manufacturer of rigid plastic and steel packaging solutions and related products across a broad range of product segments with more than 6,000 customers. Pact has 64 operating sites across seven countries in Australasia and across Asia. These sites primarily 6,000+ CUSTOMERS convert plastic resin and steel into packaging and related products. We service a diverse customer Chilled Food & Beverage base across a range of market sectors. Our well-invested packaging technology, sector know-how and global licences enable us to deliver 100+ PRODUCT SEGMENTS superior design and functionality to customers. With a focus on innovation, resilience and growth, our Company seeks to enrich lives everyday through sustainable packaging solutions. Ambient Food & Household Industrial & Materials Handling 941 2,166 3,107 Permanent 15 26 41 Casual 956 2,192 3,148 Total employees Workforce breakdown At Pact, we remain committed to creating and maintaining a discrimination-free workplace, and to enhancing long-term job security for all our people. Our priority for 2015–2016 is to continue our focus on diversity in the workplace with extended focus on PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 3 engagement opportunities for women. In the 2015 financial year, women made up 30% of our workforce, and more than 99% of our people were employed on a permanent basis. In 2014–2015, Pact operated 64 sites across seven countries, employed over 3,000 people and sold almost 22,000 different variants of products totalling more than 7.3 billion units. Where we are 3 China 1 Philippines 1 Thailand* 1 Indonesia 1 Singapore 64 sites Australia** 39 New Zealand 18 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 4 * Thailand is a 50/50 joint venture with Weener Plastics ** Our head office is located in Melbourne, Australia OUR SUPPLY CHAIN VARIES BET WEEN INDUSTRIES TO ACCOMMODATE THEIR BESPOKE NEEDS AND LIFE C YCLES OF THE DIFFERING PRODUC TS INVOLVED. This year we worked Industrial packaging supply chain with close to 5,000 Raw material suppliers from a broad Manufacturing range of countries including Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Processor Customer Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, United Kingdom and USA. Industrial Farm/mines etc. collection/recycling Retail packaging supply chain Raw material Manufacturing Customer Recycle PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 5 Kerbside Distribution recycle centre Landfill Consumer Retail MATERIALIT Y Pact recognises that our business activities have a direct impact on a wide range of stakeholders, including employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers and the broader society in which we operate. Risks across all material areas of the Group A combination of internal and external factors were were identified and assessed, including those used to determine whether an aspect is material, within the categories of economic, social and including factors such as our Vision and Values, environmental sustainability. This was done in line concerns expressed directly by stakeholders, with the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and broader social expectations, and the materiality Recommendations (Third edition). aspect’s influence on upstream (such as supply chain) and downstream (such as customers) entities. The risks we identified are factored into our risk management approach and have been reviewed We used the following process to determine areas of to inform the materiality assessment for this Report. focus for this Report: Our risk management approach is detailed in the • Completed Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) training Governance and Compliance section. with Ernst & Young. Economic sustainability risks, which include impacts • Appointment of Executive sponsorship. that may affect our ability to continue operating at • Reviewed a range of information sources to help a particular level of economic production over the identify possible material issues for our business: long-term, are also detailed in the Governance and – Peer review Compliance section. – Societal norms Social sustainability risks are those that may affect – Policy and strategy review our ability to continue operating in a socially – Short-term financial impacts accepted manner over the long-term. Pact has – Stakeholder review identified and manages key risks that could have – Opportunity for innovation. a material impact on the Group across the areas • Reviewed the results of our research and of work health and safety, attraction and retention determined possible material aspects to consider. of key personnel, and compliance with laws and • Prioritised the possible material aspects regulations. The management approach for each of considering significance to stakeholders, the these areas is detailed in the People section. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and GRI Environmental sustainability risk ensures we operate requirements. in a manner that does not compromise the long• Executive Sponsor approved list of aspects. term health of the ecosystems in which we operate. • The Audit, Business Risk and Compliance Committee Failure to comply with environmental or dangerous noted the concise list of material aspects. goods regulations and laws has been identified as a • Executive Team approved draft Report. material risk. Further detail about how we manage this risk is included in the Environment section. • The Audit, Business Risk and Compliance Committee made a recommendation to the Materiality process Board to approve the Report. Pact is faced with a wide range of topics on which • Board approved the final Report. to potentially report. Relevant topics are those This Report has consequently been structured that may be considered important in reflecting our around the five themes that form the heart of our economic, environmental and social sustainability, commitment to sustainability: People, Environment, or in influencing the decisions of stakeholders, and Community, Product Stewardship and Governance PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 6 therefore, potentially merit inclusion in the Report. and Compliance. The issues we consider most material to our Within the themes of this Report, we predominantly business were identified through a weighting process focus on the sustainability activities for the 2014–2015 that examines internal significance (including internal financial year, but always with an eye toward the future. communication, training and corporate policies) We will continue monitoring existing and emerging and external significance (including regulatory issues and engage in dialogues on these issues with requirements and media interest). our stakeholders to ensure our commitment to sustainability remains a core pillar of the Company. Information integrity Dedicated engagement ensures that our decisions are informed and balanced. Pact’s executive and senior management are responsible for the preparation and integrity of the As our stakeholders grow increasingly concerned information in this Report. We believe this Report about issues relating to sustainability, stakeholder fairly represents our sustainability performance engagement facilitates open, collaborative dialogue. during the 2014–2015 financial year. Our engagement with stakeholders is continuous and takes various forms. Stakeholder engagement Pact’s main stakeholder groups are those that are Our stakeholders are groups of people who impact relevant to the social, financial and environmental and/or are impacted by Pact and our activities, and in impacts of our operations, and those that influence turn, they impact our organisation’s governance. or are influenced by the culture, performance and Stakeholder engagement assists us in understanding long-term strategy of the Company. Our stakeholders the issues that matter to our shareholders, and methods of engagement are outlined below: customers, employees, suppliers and communities in order to better understand what they expect of us. Shareholders Employees Suppliers Customers and Retailers Government Website and external ASX Survey and feedback Supplier Customer presentations and Regulators communications processes assessments Newsletter and other Selective participation Mailed communication Performance appraisals communications in policy debate Face-to-face meetings Intranet and websites Preliminary stakeholder Collaboration with interviews environment/safety Site noticeboards and regulators toolbox talks Regular customer business review meetings and audits Third party employee Community Groups Society Partners Consumers organisations (unions) Preliminary stakeholder Local, national and Newsletter and other Via customers/market Enterprise negotiation interviews international community communications research processes involvement PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 7 Employee representation Sponsorships and donations matters Website and external Resolution of employee communications grievances and concerns Pact is a signatory to the UNGC, Australian Packaging Covenant and the New Zealand Product Packaging Stewardship Scheme and a member of Sedex on a site by site basis as required. PEOPLE At Pact, we encourage the active contribution of our people to drive the continuous improvement of operations in a safe, economical and environmentally responsible way. PPE IS YOUR HAZARDOUS PROTECTION MATERIALS – – CHECK IT, DO YOU WEAR IT, KNOW WHAT EVERY DAY, YOU’RE EVERY JOB! WORKING WITH? STAY SAFE STAY SAFE AROUND AROUND HAZARDOUS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MATERIALS Employee input is not simply encouraged; it is Towards Zero Harm strategy considered a vital part of our growth as a diverse Following its successful launch in April 2014, the and adaptable workplace. Through continuous and strategic initiative Towards Zero Harm (TZH) continued open communication and implementation of targeted this financial year. TZH aims to increase consistency strategic initiatives, we seek to ensure the safety, and management of health and safety across all wellbeing and development of every Group employee. Group sites utilising three key strategic pillars: Safety 1. Building the right system Workplace health and safety (WHS) has been, and 2. Engaging our people will continue to be a top priority for Pact. We are 3. Effectively managing our risks committed to providing a workplace that is incident and injury free; a zero harm workplace. Building the right system It is important that we have the right systems in place Our strategy seeks to create a workplace culture where: to manage and promote a zero harm workplace. • no injury is acceptable; We are taking steps to ensure our success through: • there is respect and concern for people; and • The development of a WHS framework and the • there is discipline to apply and enforce rules and rewrite of the Pact WHS manual, procedures procedures. and forms. Safety does not occur by chance; it is the result of • Updates to our audit program. careful attention to all operations by those who are • Externally benchmarking our safety performance directly and indirectly involved. It is more than simply against other companies. a set of rules or a state of being. Working safely is a Each Group site has been internally audited under mindset that we must continually encourage in every the new TZH WHS Audit Program. employee, because safety begins with a positive and responsible attitude both on and off the job. In 2015–2016 we will be integrating our WHS and environmental management systems (EMS), and We believe maintaining a safe environment is continuing the implementation of the combined necessary because a zero harm workplace is not Group management system. only a fundamental human right and responsibility, PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 8 but also good business practice. Engaging our people Employee engagement is critical in the adoption of safe behaviours in and around the workplace. To this end, we hold quarterly safety webinars for each Group site. Discussion points include safety performance across the Group, sharing best practice, and priorities for the next quarter of activity. We also initiated quarterly awareness campaigns across all sites this financial year. These campaigns included compulsory ‘tool box talks’ and posters outlining key safety priorities. Consultation arrangements A key component of our TZH strategy is the consultation with our workers. Our Group WHS system was developed following a series of workshops attended by representatives from a cross section of sites across the Group. We encourage the continual improvement of our WHS system and this is driven by feedback from workers across Group sites. Each workplace has a designated Safety Representative and consultation arrangements in place. These arrangements allow workers to help shape decisions around workplace health, safety and wellbeing. We believe that this WHS consultation In 2015–2016 we will: provides an opportunity for workers to contribute to • Continue with quarterly awareness campaigns the decision-making process concerning their own focusing on key priority areas. workplace health and safety. • Continue with quarterly webinars. Health and Safety Committees (HSC) bring workers and site management together in a co-operative Managing our risks effort to promote health and safety in the workplace. This financial year we focused on managing our The HSC is tasked with making recommendations hazards. Supporting this initiative, the National Safety about health and safety matters, such as: Council of Australia (NSCA) was engaged to develop • Consulting with workers on health, safety and and deliver Plant Safety Risk Management training. wellbeing. This training was administered to more than 100 employees throughout Australia and will be rolled • Assisting in resolving WHS issues and reviewing out in New Zealand in the 2015–2016 financial year. measures taken. • Assisting in the development of arrangements for recording hazards and accidents to promote PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 9 improved WHS. • Investigating any matter that may be a risk to health and safety. Case study: PACT’S SEND A SAFET Y SELFIE CAMPAIGN When we introduced TZH in 2014, one element of the strategy involved empowering employees with a sense of responsibility for their own personal safety. To reinforce this, all sites hosted ‘tool box talks’ and applied transparent safety decals to washroom mirrors with the phrase, “You are looking at the person responsible for your safety.” A simple concept with a serious A successful WHS campaign safety message In the 30 days of the campaign, 758 entries were To acknowledge the United Nation’s International sent from 55 Sites across four countries. There Labour Organisation (ILO) World Day for Safety were four sites that achieved 100% participation and Health at Work on 28 April 2015, the Send and the winning site was Astron in East Tamaki, a Safety Selfie campaign was launched by the New Zealand which submitted a total of 53 selfies Managing Director and CEO, Brian Cridland. in the first week of the campaign. This month-long awareness campaign encouraged Acknowledging the digital age we live in, we used the all employees to send (via email or MMS) a Safety universal language of the selfie to reinforce a serious Selfie of themselves within the TZH decal. message about the need for employees to be aware All employees that sent a Safety Selfie received a of their responsibility for their safety at work. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 10 TZH branded cap. The site that submitted the most The competition increased employee morale and Safety Selfies (pro rata by number of employees) the money won will be put toward their hazard won a $5,000 site prize (to be used for a safety management program at Astron East Tamaki, initiative) and the inaugural Pact Group Site Safety in particular a new process for removing residual Award, to be presented at the 2015 Applause plastic scrap from the on-site hoppers. Awards (our Group-wide employee reward and recognition program). The TZH strategy seeks to transform Group sites into zero harm work environments, and ultimately to achieve zero injuries in the workplace. Safety performance Any injury or loss of life is unacceptable and the Group continues to strive towards a zero harm workplace. In the event of an injury or incident at any site, details are recorded on Pact’s online incident reporting We currently do not collate data on lost day rate, system. This allows real time reporting, visibility, absentee rate or occupational disease rate (ODR). immediate escalation and management of incidents Each site has safety performance targets and action and injuries where required. plans, which they continue to work towards as part of The primary measurement of safety performance their journey to zero harm. we track is Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR). LTIFR represents the number of lost time injuries Health and wellbeing recorded for every one million hours worked over a Improving the safety of our workplace goes beyond rolling 12 month period. The graph below illustrates compliance. At Pact, we believe healthy workplaces a sustained improvement over more than a decade, reduce absenteeism and turnover, improve albeit with a disappointing finish for the 2015 employee engagement, increase social inclusion and financial year of 4.5. This translates to about a 20% deliver greater productivity. Promoting the health reduction in actual Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) when and wellbeing of employees both at work and at compared with December 2013. home supports a better way of living and a more 10.3 productive workplace. LTIFR 9.7 In addition to programs aimed at incident and injury prevention, Pact acknowledges that the overall health and wellbeing of our employees as a significant 7.2 contributing factor to the culture and performance 6.1 5.8 5.8 of each workplace. 4.8 4.5 Over the past year, we have supported a number 4.0 of health and wellbeing initiatives such as the Global Corporate Challenge to promote healthy living among our employees. These initiatives have FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 1H14 FY14 1H15 FY15 targeted the physical and social issues at specific workplaces with programs to improve physical health In keeping with our strategic intent to drive zero and fitness, diet and nutrition. harm activity, we commenced reporting of the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR), which at Employee Assistance Program Pact, represents the number of Medical Time Injuries The Pact Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a (MTIs) and LTIs recorded over a rolling 12 month work-based intervention program across Australia and period per 1,000,000 hours worked. New Zealand designed to provide emotional, mental Pact has commenced benchmarking against ASX100 and general psychological support to all employees. companies with targets issued to each site and the The service aims to provide preventative and proactive executive team, seeking a quartile step improvement interventions for the early detection, identification for the prior year’s performance. Although the and/or resolution of problems that may adversely benchmark was not achieved overall, quite a few sites affect an employee’s performance and wellbeing. achieved a gold standard of zero injuries and we remain Occupational physiotherapy PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 11 confident that our strategy will drive improvement. Group sites VIP Laverton North, Alto Wacol, VIP Where much of FY15 was occupied by building the TZH Truganina, VIP Moorabbin and Alto Mulgrave system and raising awareness, the challenge for the have all implemented an onsite occupational year ahead is to focus on improving performance. physiotherapy program to tackle musculoskeletal Since the inception of Pact in 2002, the Group’s safety issues and reduce injuries to workers. Our onrecord has been an area of critical focus. Despite our site physiotherapists offer services that combine focus on safety performance, we regret that during the knowledge of our organisation’s work environment, reporting period, the Group had its first fatal workplace expert physiotherapy and occupational rehabilitation incident involving a contractor at our VIP Villawood site. and a strong focus on injury prevention. Overall Group results from our most recent Employee Engagement Survey held in October 2014 are: 55% 68% KPI >50% Participation for the Group Pact engagement score Greatest KPI improvements: Our priority for 2015–2016 is to was 55% in 2014 vs 54% was 68% vs 65% in 2013 • IT Effectiveness (+7%) continue improving engagement in 2013 and 59% in 2012 • Corporate Leadership (+6%) across the Group with • Manufacturing Platforms maintained participation (+6%) above 50% • The only KPI to decline was Job Security (-1%) Our provider also offers assessment of critical job employment opportunities in the context of demands, risk assessments and recommendations challenging economic times. regarding a worker’s capability to perform their physical The elevated outcome of employee engagement is job demands. In the case of a work related injury, fundamental to many programs and activities run the aim is for the Pact employee to remain at work, throughout the Group, so measuring this engagement be productive and rehabilitate in a safe manner. is vital to our continued success. Our primary means For non-work-related injuries, the aim is to ensure of doing so is the annual Employee Engagement Survey. that employees do not aggravate their injury at work and are safe to carry out their normal duties. Employee Engagement Survey This program will be rolled out to other sites as Participation in our voluntary Employee Engagement needed over the coming months and years. Survey gives Group employees the opportunity to have their say anonymously on everything from their Employee engagement workplace, colleagues and managers to the broader business. Feedback is then integrated into our Employee engagement speaks to the relationship internal projects and programs. between an employee and an organisation. At Pact, we want to engage with our people and build a sense In our 2014 survey, 26 of 27 Group Key Performance of trust and commitment to ensure sustainable Indicators (KPIs) recorded improvements and only one KPI decreased (see graphics above). Case study: GLOBAL CORPORATE CHALLENGE To support our goal of keeping our employees Pact returned a fantastic result, moving, we encourage all employees to participate in The Global Corporate Challenge (GCC). The GCC achieving first place in the is a 100-day walking challenge with a goal of each participant reaching at least 10,000 steps per day. Manufacturing and Operations Participants wear a pedometer to record their daily category for the Asia-Pacific step count which is achieved through a range of activities, including walking, swimming and biking. region. Our best-performing team came in 81st out of more PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 12 In 2014, the Group fielded an impressive 51 teams with seven employees in each. Areas of than 40,000 participating teams the business involved included head office teams in HR, Finance, Sourcing, Business Services and from 1,200 companies across Inpact, as well as site-based teams across most Group locations including Alto, Astron, Brickwood, 185 countries. PlasPak, Salient, Signum, Snopak, Steri-plas, VIP The 2015 event began in May with Pact fielding Packaging and Viscount. 39 teams. The event finished in September. Case study: STEVE LONG INAUGURAL APPLAUSE WINNER Steve Long was the inaugural Twinlock™ is a ready-meal tray that overcomes a problem perennial to the genre; namely condensation causing waterlogging of the meal after heating. winner of Applause for his The now patented design of the Twinlock™ tray allows the inherent moisture content of the ingredients to gently steam the meal and then crucially, the ready meal solution; Twinlock™. condensed steam then drains through the bottom of the inner tray into the Steve was awarded $20,000 lower one. The cooked meal is now moist without being waterlogged, thus optimising both texture and flavour. for the innovative packaging Twinlock™ has since been commercialised and is on-shelf in supermarket solution. freezers. In December 2014, Twinlock™ won the Silver Award for Innovation at the 2014 Australian Packaging Design Awards. Employee development & recognition Applause – Pact’s reward and recognition program We recognise that our people deserve reward and Applause is a Group-wide reward and recognition recognition for their positive contribution to the program that helps cultivate success and drive organisation. We are proud to invest in the training innovation throughout the business. Acknowledging and development of our people, and offer a fun that the best ideas come from engaged and reward and recognition program to foster success talented employees across the Pact business, and team spirit. Applause rewards individuals who demonstrate passion, persistence, drive, initiative, dedication and Training and skills development commitment beyond their role. Pact employee training and development is led by direct managers at site level, with corporate Employees can nominate themselves or a co-worker compliance programs managed by head office. in categories aligned with the Group’s Vision and These programs cover training across safety, Values. Pact’s Vision is to enrich lives everyday diversity and operational improvement. through sustainable packaging solutions. The implementation of our new Information Our Values are: Technology (IT) platform in 2014 has expanded the • We walk in our customers shoes to serve them better staff access and use of online training programs • We are committed to sustainability and providing within the Group. Courses available include an honest and respectful environment computer software, leadership and management, • We are passionate about driving results as well as a range of safety topics. • We pursue opportunities for transformational change Performance reviews • We act with speed and purpose Further development and career considerations Since its launch, the program has netted more than are prompted as part of the bi-annual performance 500 ideas, awarded more than $150,000 in prize appraisal for all salaried staff. money and saved one manufacturing site around The Pact performance appraisal process aligns $1.2 million dollars. employee performance with the achievement The 2014 program received a record number of of business goals. It also provides a platform for nominations and awards with 203 submissions, employees to discuss career aspirations and 136 silver awards, 10 gold awards and six platinum development requirements. finalists. Two of these finalists submitted ideas All salaried staff are required to complete two addressing ‘Sustainability and Respect’, in line with PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 13 performance appraisals per year: a mid-year review our vision and values. These ideas were: around December and an end of year review in June. • A cost effective solution for a temperature control We believe it is important to have an open two-way problem at one of our sites with potential to assist discussion about performance, goal alignment and other sites with similar issues. future directions. Being honest and respectful is a • Moving to a single storm water filtration point to core value of the Group, and we encourage everyone reduce the labour time required to maintain the to make full use of the process. current 45 individual filtration points at one of our larger manufacturing sites. ENCOUR AGING DIVERSIT Y DRIVES OUR ABILIT Y TO AT TR AC T, RETAIN AND DEVELOP THE BEST TALENT. Diversity Gender diversity targets for 2014 and beyond At Pact, we recognise our responsibility to respect Our Board set the following gender diversity people for their contribution to the organisation measurable objectives for the 2014-2015 financial year: regardless of their background and we are 1. Require at least one female candidate to be committed to the maintenance and promotion recommended for interview and/or job-ready process of workplace diversity to ensure that we provide for each salaried employee recruitment assignment. a discrimination-free place of work. Encouraging 2. Monitor the Annual Salary Review outcomes for diversity drives our ability to attract, retain and salaried employees to ensure females receive, on develop the best talent. It also enables an engaged average, not less than the same percentage increase workforce, the delivery of the highest quality services in their remuneration as males across the Group. to our customers, and the continued growth of the Pact business. Pact is a multicultural organisation 3. Include specific questions in the next Employee operating across many countries and asks only that Engagement Survey to quantify gender as an issue people are respectful of each other as we go about in the workplace across the Group. our daily activities. Since setting the measurable objectives in April 2014, Diversity Policy we continue to focus on establishing the systems and The Board approved a Diversity Policy in January processes required to ensure that the Group is able to 2014. The Company’s Diversity Policy can be manage, monitor and achieve the objectives. Progress accessed under Corporate Governance in the towards reaching our goals has been made as follows: Investors section of our website. Pact’s vision for • External recruiters have been requested to source PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 14 diversity incorporates a number of different factors, female candidates for all salaried staff vacancies. including gender, ethnicity, disability, age and • It is recommended that on implementation of Pact’s educational experience. Human Resources Information System Recruitment Module in 2015, no salaried appointment can be made unless a minimum of one female candidate has been made job-ready for the role. IN 2015 –2016 WE WILL CONTINUE OUR FOCUS ON DIVERSIT Y IN THE WORKPL ACE WITH EX TENDED FOCUS ON ENGAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN IN THE GROUP. • The annual salary review now includes gender Parental leave detail to enable the identification of any gender Flexible work arrangements are implemented as pay equity imbalance, with a view to correcting/ needed for those employees returning from parental minimising any such imbalance as part of the final leave. As a result, we have retained 97% of returning approval process with the CEO. mothers, and 100% of fathers. A total of 32 women • The Group lodged its annual public report with took parental leave during the reporting period with the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) one choosing not to return to work at the completion including detail on gender pay equity for the of the leave period. second time in 2015. It has been confirmed by All permanent employees, both male and female, the WGEA that it achieved compliance status. are entitled to take parental leave once they • The 2014 Employee Engagement Survey completed have completed one year of service with Pact. in October 2014 asked six questions regarding diversity and non-discrimination which received Return to work and retention rates of employees positive feedback. who took parental leave, by gender: More detail on gender diversity at Pact is available in Female Male Total our Corporate Governance Statement which can be Returned 23 2 25 accessed on the Corporate Governance section of Still on leave 8 1 9 the investor website. 31 3 34 Professional networking Total on parental leave in FY15 32 3 35 Several years ago, Pact established a professional Retention rates 97% 100% 97% women’s networking group to meet the Note: these figures are based on assumption that those still requirements of Australia’s Workplace Gender on leave will return. Equality Act. Based in Melbourne and catering to the professional women in the Group, the group hosts up to four events throughout the year with inspirational women speaking at each event. As gender diversity has become a focus of our growing business, we recently renamed the group Pac Network and intend to expand the program beyond Melbourne in 2015. In 2015–2016 we will continue our focus on diversity in the workplace with extended focus on engagement opportunities for women in the Group. Workforce growth In every region, our workforce increased this year. Our greatest age category for new hires, for both men and women, was the under 30 category. Diversity in our governance bodies PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 15 The Pact Board includes six individuals, all of whom are in the 50+ age category. This includes five men and one woman. Diversity across our business Across our business, we are committed to providing a range of diverse employment opportunities for both men and women, and across various age groups. Board* General Manager & CEO 1 5 1 8 Under 30 Female 30 to 50 Female Over 50 Female 6 14 4 1 Managers Professionals, Sales & Administration Under 30 Male 30 to 50 Male Over 50 Male 1 1 23 11 18 65 112 133 52 502 143 73 3 133 Operations Total Employees 44 161 68 180 777 314 952 469 2,499 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 16 3,148 342 861 1,050 419 * Board not included in total employees THROUGH THE DIVERSIT Y OF OUR TEAMS, SITES AND OPER ATIONS, PAC T IS COMMIT TED TO THE PRINCIPLES OF FAIR AND EQUITABLE L ABOUR REL ATIONS. Labour relations In an effort to keep employee satisfaction and motivation in sharp focus, Pact measures and Through the diversity of our teams, sites and reports on several facets of labour relations over operations, Pact is committed to the principles of fair the course of the year. In 2015, we reported the and equitable labour relations. The right to freedom following: of association and collective bargaining are upheld in all of our Australian and New Zealand operations, • Four weeks’ notice is typically provided to with 53% of our permanent workforce covered by Group employees prior to the implementation these agreements. of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. Most ‘blue collar’ positions are covered by awards • For Group partners with collective bargaining and/or collective bargaining agreements negotiated agreements, notice periods and provisions for with third party bargaining agents like unions whilst consultation and negotiation are specified in most ‘white collar’ employees are engaged under a collective agreements. common law contract of employment which details entitlements, protections and responsibilities. Contractual agreements at Pact observe statutory minimums in relation to termination and redundancy processes, and in some cases exceed these provisions. Common Law Collective Bargaining Total employees % Employees covered Contracts Agreements by Collective Bargaining Agreements Australia 495 1433 1928 74 New Zealand 561 225 786 29 Singapore 5 0 5 0 Thailand 79 0 79 0 China 301 0 301 0 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 17 Philippines 26 23 49 47 Total 1467 1681 3148 53 ENVIRONMENT At Pact, we believe the only way to be a sustainable organisation is to operate sustainably within our environment. Managing our potential impacts Environmental Policy The Pact Environmental Policy (the Policy) details our commitment to sustainable progress whilst protecting our planet. The Policy outlines our commitment to the continual reduction and prevention of pollution; our compliance with applicable environmental laws; and our continuing pledge to set and review environmental objectives and targets. The Policy is supported by an environment management system (EMS) implemented at every site within Australia and New Zealand. That is why at every site and at every level of the Group, sustainability is entrenched in our Environment management system way of thinking; from the design and life cycle Pact operates under a Group EMS aligned with of our products through to the minimisation of ISO14001. The EMS is fundamental in achieving manufacturing waste. compliance with environmental regulations in all We are committed to the continual improvement of the jurisdictions in which we operate. To assess our environmental performance across sites. To this compliance, each site is audited annually against the end, we have set improvement targets for energy Group EMS Standard, with a target score of >95%. use, greenhouse gas emissions and waste reduction, The Group EMS manages our environmental risks and focus on the entire life cycle of our products to and legal compliance, as well as enhancing our reduce impacts at every step. reputation and meeting customer expectations. Reducing the environmental impact of our operations In 2015–2016 we will integrate the Pact WHS and and services has been, and will continue to be, a long EMS, and continue implementation of the Group term commitment at Pact. We work hard to conserve management system. energy, minimise waste, prevent pollution, save water and use raw materials wisely. Pact is committed to Engaging our people ensuring all products, services and activities meet Our people are key to achieving Pact’s environmental the requirements of our stakeholders without goals. Without an engaged workforce, we cannot compromising the needs of future generations. expect the adoption and adherence of Group policy whether it’s about safety, the environment or ethics. Key risks to our environmental sustainability Annual forums have been held in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Auckland to enable Environment Pact understands analysis and management is key in representatives from all sites to meet and share the mitigation and offset of risk. We are committed ideas, as well as to communicate any important to upholding robust environmental standards for our environmental information. Company and stakeholders and have outlined the primary risk to our environmental sustainability as a Pact provides all sites with access to a central PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 18 failure to comply with environmental or dangerous document portal containing the Group’s goods regulations and laws which could result in environmental documentation. Through this portal, penalties or plant shutdowns. employees can access EMS documents, procedures and templates, audit guides and other helpful To minimise this risk we subscribe to an online documents and external links. legislation directory to ensure we are up-to-date with all legislation requirements. Additionally, annual audits are undertaken by the Group Risk Team to ascertain whether sites are compliant with all environmental requirements. Compliance In 2014-2015 Pact (Australia only) consumed There were no material incidents of non-compliance 1,132,931 GJ of energy which was equivalent to with environmental management regulations at sites 266,122 tCO2e GHG emissions. The breakdown during the reporting period. of this result is as follows: Grievance mechanisms Electricity In 2015, we introduced our online incident reporting 917,653 GJ system. This allows real-time incident reporting, visibility and immediate escalation and management 254,454 tCO2e of incidents where required. Sites holding environmental licences are required to keep a Community Complaints register for LPG all external complaints received. There were no 24,531 GJ complaints received or material incidents advised 1,469 tCO2e during the reporting period. Energy and emissions Natural Gas At Pact, we strive to improve our energy use and 161,481 GJ management of greenhouse gases (GHG) across 8,289 tCO2e all operations. We make resource efficiency a Group-wide consideration with sites required to accurately monitor and reduce energy consumption. • Pact uses both electricity and natural gas in Transport (3 fuel types) product manufacture. 26,034 GJ • Pact participates in the National Greenhouse and 1,814 tCO2e Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme. The National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act requires the annual reporting of GHG emissions and VOCs energy use. N/A GJ • Pact began NGER reporting in the 2013–14 N/A tCO2e financial year as Pact Group Holdings Ltd. Diesel (stationary uses) 1,379 GJ 96 tCO2e Butane PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 19 1,853 GJ N/A tCO2e Total 1,132,931 GJ 266,122 tCO2e OR Scope 1 11,668 tCO2e Scope 2 254,454 tCO2e Scope 3 N/A Energy improvements Materials We have improved energy efficiency across sites Wherever possible, Pact products are lightweighted, through: thereby reducing the excessive use of raw materials. • Improved operations, streamlining processes and Recycled material is used wherever possible, including eliminating unnecessary steps wherever possible. in industrial products such as waste bins that have up to 30% recycled content. • Upgrading our equipment, such as the installation of Fridgel air chillers and electric blow moulding Total materials consumed in Australia and machines at Alto. New Zealand is shown in the graph below tonnes: • Waste material control and specific energy saving opportunities such as compressed air leak 3,055 840 management. • Improved lighting systems and the use of thermal 30,180 imaging for detecting hot spots. • Installing smart meters at the majority of sites, adding the capability to monitor energy use in real time up to the previous day. Equipment upgrade at Alto Henderson AUS & NZ Supporting Pact’s sustainability objectives, Alto Total resin (AU) Henderson has commissioned a new fully electric Total resin (NZ) extrusion blow moulding machine (EBM) for the production of multi-cavity bottles up to 5 litres in size. Recycled resin (AU) 106,969 The site has confirmed the electricity consumption Recycled resin (NZ) is approximately 40% less than the equivalent hydraulic oil machine. The electric EBM machine also allows for a significantly quieter and cleaner working environment. The machine movements are fast and Total resin used in Asia was 996,407 tonnes precise, adding to the machine’s efficiency in the per annum. production of quality bottles parison after parison. Materials and waste At Pact, we know materials and waste are a big part of the packaging and manufacturing industry so we work hard to ensure our processes are as efficient as possible. We look for opportunities to refine each stage in the packaging life cycle, from material selection and the manufacturing process, to the availability of end of life recycling. Pact is committed to sourcing and developing the most environmentally sustainable outcomes for our product range. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 20 Waste Pact is committed to minimising waste production Reducing the environmental impact of our operations and increase material recycling through the and services has been a long-term commitment at utilisation of internal recycling processes and Pact. At each of our sites, we work hard to not only businesses. We work with our waste management produce a package that is recyclable, but to minimise provider to ensure we divert as much waste from the waste created during the process. Our aim is to landfill as possible. We most commonly recycle eliminate waste production at our factories and to paper, cardboard, steel, plastic, used oil and steel produce packaging that is 100% recyclable. drums, and intermediate bulk containers. Packaging in itself is designed to minimise waste Where possible, product offcuts are internally and we believe our packaging should not end up reground. Where the offcuts have been contaminated in landfill but continue to provide a service e.g. come into contact with the ground, these through recycling. materials are collected for offsite recycling. HDPE and PP are recycled by Pact subsidiary, Astron. In return, Astron makes recycled resin, cable covers and slip sheets from the scrap plastic. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 21 Tonnes of waste produced 2014–2015 (Australia only) 25 517 107 81 56 28 27 119 66 33 26 385 394 369 360 378 363 362 45 326 21 315 13% 291 292 13% recycled Recycled Waste to landfill Jul 14 Aug 14 Sep 14 Oct 14 Nov 14 Dec 14 Jan 15 Feb 15 Mar 15 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 AT PAC T, WE REALISE THAT A ZERO WA STE TO L ANDFILL GOAL CAN ONLY BE ACHIEVED THROUGH THE ENGAGEMENT OF OUR PEOPLE. To get our people involved we instituted a number of Incidents site changes including: We are proud to note there were no material spills • Setting up common waste signage across our sites. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 22 across sites during the reporting period. • The launch of an annual waste awareness campaign – Bin it Right, Both Day and Night. PACT’S WAR ON WASTE We have recently broadened and redefined our approach to environmental sustainability and are presently launching our FOOD new War on Waste initiative. Pact’s War on Waste addresses the Group’s inherent conviction that we must be more than just ‘responsible’ in the way we tackle waste in its afterlife. Our War on Waste is aspirational and focussed on introducing new products and processes that will eliminate waste from every point in the supply chain; from our manufacturing process to our customer’s application and ultimately the consumer’s use. Pact’s War on Waste encompasses three pillars: Food Waste, Resource Waste and Operational Waste PAC T’S WAR ON REWA STE INITIATIVE WA S L AUNCHED IN 2015 SOURCE AND ITS FR AMEWORK AND PRINCIPLES WILL BE PROGRESSIVELY EMBEDDED THROUGHOUT THE GROUP OVER THE COMING MONTHS. OUR 2015 -2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT WILL FOCUS ON WAR ON WA STE PROGRESS AND OPERACA SE STUDIES. TIONAL PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 23 COMMUNIT Y Like the citizens that make up a nation, every business has a responsibility to the community in which it resides. The actions undertaken by one party will no doubt From bake-offs to catered events and gold coin impact another; that is why we believe it is important donations, sites are encouraged to host an event that to engage with and support the communities in suits them. Some sites order in pizza for each shift, which we operate. At Pact we produce a wide others ask everyone entering the site for the day (or range of packaging and related products to service month) to donate a gold coin to the Cancer Council. customers in many sectors including food and We are proud to have raised more than $60,000 beverage, personal care and household consumer since hosting our first Morning Tea event, helping goods. We are passionate about each product we provide funds for vital cancer research, prevention produce and the experience of each person using and support services across Australia. This year we it. We want every interaction with our brand to be raised more than $10,000, and consequently, have a good one and this extends to our community been granted the opportunity to sponsor a research engagement philosophy. project for Cancer Council. The Pact Group Research We believe it is important to nurture a spirit of Award will help fund research into the treatment and generosity and to support causes important to our causes of melanoma in all age groups. people and the broader organisation. This helps build a sense of community and team, which leads to happier, more productive employees and consumers. Corporate social responsibility Royal Flying Doctor Service’s Outback Car Trek At Pact, we know the importance of corporate social The Outback Car Trek is an annual motoring event responsibility (CSR) and we value every opportunity to raise money for Australia’s Royal Flying Doctor to engage with the community and support the Service (RFDS). The Group has participated in and causes that matter to them. helped sponsor the Trek for the last five years. The past financial year has seen the Group support a Supporting the Trek entry of our customer Lion, we number of events and awareness campaigns across contributed significantly to help fund the purchase health and wellbeing, community and environmental of medical equipment and the rollout of the RFDS causes. TOOTH program which delivers dental service to We actively participate in our local communities regional communities. Our Salient site also provides through corporate investment, sponsorship, sponsorship for a quarter of customer PAX’s entry in fundraising and employee participation and we are the event. always on the lookout for new ways to contribute. Delivering primary health care and emergency Here are just a few of the initiatives we have services to those who live and work in remote and supported in the 2014-2015 financial year either at rural Australia, the RFDS is one of the largest and Group level or across sites: most comprehensive aeromedical organisations in the world. Cancer Council’s ‘Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea’ PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 24 An opportunity for workmates to come together, Product donation to OzHarvest share a cup of tea and help those affected by cancer, OzHarvest rescues approximately 280 tonnes of Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea has been an annual quality excess food from commercial outlets every feature of the Pact calendar for the last nine years. week, delivering it free of charge to 600 charities across Brisbane, Gold Coast, Newcastle, Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. Pact has donated around 3,000 rigid plastic crates to OzHarvest for the storage and transportation of food stuffs. Made from recycled polypropylene, the reusable crates have a lifespan of around seven years making them ideal for long-term use. On 24 June 2015 Pact was announced as a finalist in the Best Corporate Social Responsibility Report or Initiative category of the World Dairy Innovation Awards for our partnership with OzHarvest. The Awards took place in Amsterdam as part of the 9th Global Dairy Congress. The judging panel considered almost 220 entries from 30 countries in 18 categories. Cancer Society’s ‘Daffodil Day’ The annual flagship event of New Zealand’s Cancer Heart Foundation’s ‘Ice Bucket Challenge’ Society, Daffodil Day raises awareness and funds While heart disease and stroke death rates have for cancer research, patient support and education fallen considerably since the establishment of the NZ programs. Heart Foundation in 1968, heart disease is still the Cancer affects one in three New Zealanders and single biggest killer in New Zealand today. several of our Group sites there host Daffodil Raising money and awareness for this important Day events to raise money for and promote this cause, the Alto Hamilton Food Management and important cause. The 2014-2015 financial year has Warehouse teams completed a mass ice bucket seen several of our New Zealand sites raise funds for challenge in memory of Campbell, a long-serving the Cancer Society. member of the Warehouse team. With 12 management staff taking part, the event was a great success raising approximately NZ$700 for the Heart Foundation to help fund its heart health Sponsoring children’s education at Plastop, research, cardiac rehabilitation and education programs. Philippines Group site Plastop provides educational support and sponsorship to the children of employees from kinder all the way through to year 12. Each child receives sponsorship to the total value of 15,000PHP Product Donation to WasteAid ($360) to help cover the cost of books, shoes, uniforms, transport, field trips and school supplies. Pact subsidiary, Sulo, has recently been involved with a relatively new organisation, WasteAid, which has PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 25 This ongoing support helps parents provide quality been established to provide basic waste services education to their children. Many families are now to disadvantaged areas of Australia, predominantly able to send their kids to better schools, resulting in a assisting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander higher overall outcome for the community. populations. Sulo recently provided the waste bins for the Bourke and Engonia projects and plans to participate further in the 2015-2016 financial year. Corporate social responsibility Human rights and community moving forward engagement At Pact we understand every community is unique, Pact is committed to giving back to the communities and different causes matter to different people. in which we operate. We focus on undertaking While we share common goals, we understand community involvement activities that are both there are other issues and causes also important relevant to our business and focused on assisting to our people. That is why we are launching a new others. We acknowledge the link between a healthy structured community program in the 2015-2016 community, a growing economy and the success of financial year, enabling employees to apply for our business. funding to support the causes they are involved in. Understanding the many and varied social This program will address key areas of focus raised responsibilities of our business is a complicated task, by our employees in a prior Employee Engagement however we are working to address our national and Survey. international links, as well as our numerous local community obligations. We have made progress in identifying the social impacts of our business, meeting our community responsibilities, and making choices to participate in areas relevant to our geographic location and employee preferences. Given the breadth of Pact community programs and initiatives already in place, we have not found it necessary to quantify the percentage of Group operations with implemented community engagement, impact assessments and development programs. We do acknowledge this position may change in future years as Group projects evolve. Human Rights Pact seeks to uphold universal human rights, including accessibility, non-discrimination and labour rights, across all of our sites. This is reinforced through our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (see page 27) and its principles, including those related to human rights. Our Code of Conduct requires the fair and equitable treatment of all Pact employees, contractors and customers, and establishes the responsibilities of all employees in this regard. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 26 Our Quality Policy ensures we operate in a manner that meets international standards. This includes providing our suppliers with a Supplier Code of Conduct when applicable. The Supplier Code of Conduct requires that our suppliers comply with the objectives of our Quality Policy and are part of a supply chain that upholds ethical, social and environmental principles. Pact is committed to being an equal opportunity employer and to ensuring its workplace is free of United Nations Global Compact unlawful discrimination, harassment and bullying. The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a Our Equal Opportunity, Harassment and Bullying strategic policy initiative for businesses committed Policy details this commitment. to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 Our Code of Conduct, Quality and Equal Opportunity, universally accepted principles in the areas of human Harassment and Bullying Policies can be viewed on rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. the Pact website. As business is a primary driver of globalisation, UNGC We note that there has been one incident of signatories can help ensure that markets, commerce, discrimination during the reporting period. There technology and finance advance in ways that benefit have been no grievances about human rights economies and societies everywhere. impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms Pact subsidiaries VIP Packaging and Alto have during the reporting period. been signatories to the UNGC for many years. Pact In this reporting period, we have not held any became a signatory in 2014, absorbing VIP and Alto training addressing human rights. into the single signing. Child and forced labour Sedex As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Sedex is a simple and effective way of managing we are committed to supporting and respecting ethical and responsible practices across the supply internationally proclaimed human rights, and as part chain. The secure online database allows members of this, to the abolition of child labour and forced to store, share and report on four key areas: Labour labour worldwide. As a business, our Code of Conduct Standards, Health and Safety, the Environment and and other Group policies condemn and resolutely Business Ethics. prohibit child and forced labour. There have had no Sedex is currently a tender requirement for some incidents of child or forced labour within the Group of our customers, as they review and track the that we are aware of during the reporting period. sustainability credentials of their supply chain. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 27 Some of our sites have undergone a Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA). Publicly available and one of the most commonly used programs in the world, SMETA was developed to provide a best practice framework for social auditing and reporting. It is designed to meet multiple customer requirements and to minimise the duplication of ethical audits. LEADING THE WAY ON PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Everyday we strive to design, source, engineer and manufacture packaging solutions that our customers – and their consumers – will love today and tomorrow. Inpact’s Innovation Model 1. Create The creative process starts with category mapping to gain an insight into the competitive environments in which our customers operate. We identify the key influences of brand, product, packaging design and retail navigation. Throughout the process, the consumer remains the central focus so we can better understand their behaviour and improve their experience. The insights extracted during this process guide our strategic innovation. 2. Source Pact searches the world to find and secure the latest technological innovations so we can deliver world-class packaging solutions and designs. Our innovation and technical teams work collaboratively to ensure each design challenge is considered from all angles. If we do not already hold We work with some of the world’s biggest brands, the solution, we will find a way to make it happen. building, designing and engineering the packaging 3. Engineer solutions that are right for them. Through innovation and responsible product stewardship we can ensure Concepts are transitioned from sketched illustrations the lifecycle of each product from production, to on a page to full 3D rendering and tool design. sale, use and disposal is managed in the most Our engineers manage each step of the process, sustainable way, minimising the environmental, social taking the project from the conceptual phase and health impacts as much as possible. It is not just through to implementation. All aspects of making good design, it is good business. the concept more environmentally sustainable are considered from lightweighting via material Inpact Innovation – from concept to reduction, material switching and use of recycled commercialisation content. This end-to-end process means each project is consistently monitored, enabling us to identify Inpact Innovation is Pact’s internal innovation potential hurdles early and safeguard our success. business. Inpact’s creative consultants and technical, engineering, design and sustainability experts work 4. Manufacture PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 28 collaboratively to stretch conventional thinking Operating in more than 100 market segments and identify opportunities through insight led across almost 22,000 product variants, Pact has innovations, to take a creative concept into the the manufacturing capabilities and technological commercial world. know-how to take Inpact’s concepts through to commercialisation. Case study: EX TR ALOK Pact has lightweighted the 38mm Hot Fill Closure to create the new 38mm ExtraLok Hot Fill closure enabling customers to reduce bottle finish thickness without compromising performance. The patented ExtraLok, bead-behind-the-wing, scored tamper band enables excellent tamper evidence for robust seal performance in an enhanced lightweight design. The weight reduction from the former closure is 33% from 4.5 grams to 3 grams. According to a desktop lifecycle analysis, the annual environmental saving of ExtraLok is equivalent to one of the following: • Planting 847 trees • Energy consumption of 320 homes’ daily use • Water usage of 7 Olympic swimming pools • 1536 household wheelie bins of solid waste Packaging and the journey towards we provide a range of sustainability, recycling and holistic sustainability environmental services to help our customers reduce the environmental impact of their product Packaging plays a key role in day-to-day life, allowing packaging and related processes. us to transport, store and consume a huge range of products at our consumers’ convenience. Performing We try to design our packaging not only to suit a number of key functions, packaging helps preserve the product, but to ensure that its end-of-life and protect its contents, it informs consumers of management suits existing recycling systems, relevant product information, facilitates product collection programs and curbside recycling. usage (like easy-pour bottles), transports and We utilise the most appropriate materials, eliminating stores contents. harmful substances whenever possible, and we label our products with advice for appropriate end-of-life Great packaging can help the consumer identify with disposal so they do not become an environmental and select one product over another. It has a life problem in the future. after the product is used and can be repurposed, recycled or reconditioned. Great packaging may be At Pact, we look at how packaging is used and find ‘single use’ in its primary purpose, yet its design and ways to make it better. For us, the more sustainable manufacture ensures a positive life after initial use. our approach, research and development is, the better. That is why we utilise a suite of dedicated We all know plastic packaging can have a significant tools to help us assess our packaging against impact on the economy, environment and society. sustainability criteria and determine how best to Plastics that are wasted or littered can be harmful reduce environmental impacts, measure progress to the environment, but when plastic is treated as and identify marketing opportunities. These a resource, there are significant benefits and cost sustainability tools include: savings on offer. Through intelligent redesign, use of recycled content, recycling and reconditioning we are • Environmental Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 29 doing just that. • Packaging Impact Quick Evaluation Tool (PIQET®) assessments At Pact, we work hard to enrich lives through sustainable packaging solutions. This vision informs • Recycling assessments everything we do. It encompasses the entire life • Packaging redesign to improve environmental cycle of our packaging, from our suppliers, to our performance customers and the end consumer. As such, A commitment to product stewardship and Life cycle assessments sustainability with the APC and NZPPSS In order to respond to consumer concerns and Our Group brands are signatories to the Australian supply chain pressure, brand owners need to Packaging Covenant (APC) and the New Zealand move beyond the environmental footprint of their Product Packaging Stewardship Scheme (NZPPSS). operations to include the environmental impact at Both programs are sustainable packaging initiatives product level. aimed at changing the culture of business to produce A life cycle assessment (LCA) is an internationally more sustainable packaging, increase recycling rates recognised approach in the assessment of the and reduce packaging waste. An agreement between environmental impact of products and services across government, industry and community groups, the all phases of their life cycle, from raw material extraction APC (and the NZPPSS) represents an opportunity for and processing, product manufacture, component business to voluntarily demonstrate leadership in manufacture, transport and end-of-life disposal. sustainable packaging design, material recycling and reuse, and product stewardship. The APC Action Plan Pact measures the environmental impact of is a key factor in the decision-making and activity of each stage of the package life cycle with a range each brand, helping guide improvements and shape of evaluations including Sustainable Packaging the Group’s environmental performance. Guidelines’ assessments, PIQET® assessments, and short and full LCAs. These assessments determine As part of our APC commitment, we assess our how best to reduce the environmental impact of products against the Sustainable Packaging packaging, measure our progress, report against Guidelines. These assessments are stored on a the APC and the Environmental Code of Practice for database along with product information. Designed Packaging (EcoPP) requirements, and help identify to search and store a range of product information, green marketing opportunities. the database helps our team review and improve on existing packaging design and engineering. It can also be used in discussion with our customers, helping inform their packaging choices. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 30 Case study: AIP OIL CONTAINER REC YCLING PROGR AM The AIP (Australian Institute of Petroleum) Oil Container Recycling Program is an industry led product stewardship program developed to recover domestic plastic oil containers less than 10L in size. The general public can dispose of used motor oil According to a desktop life cycle analysis; the containers and oil residues, free of charge, from annual environmental savings of this program are selected transfer stations. As oil containers are not the equivalent to all of the following: accepted via household kerbside recycling, prior to this program plastic oil containers were all sent to landfill. Pact has steadily rolled out the program since 2004 and there are now more than 380 pickup locations, servicing approximately 80% of the Australian population. Planting Energy Water usage 4,536 household In 2014, Pact collected more than 500 tonnes of 548 trees consumption of 0.2 Olympic wheelie bins oil containers and granulated those containers for of 347 homes swimming of solid waste further recycling. pools Recycling Reconditioning Recycling plastic makes sense ecologically and Pact is one of the leading drum reconditioners in economically – for our customers, ourselves and Australia and New Zealand, supplying and collecting our community. Treated as a resource, recycled both steel and plastic drums across both nations. plastic reduces waste, material handling and saves Reconditioning extends the life cycle of the drums costs. Sustainability Services is a growing facet of without compromising their quality. It also provides a our business. We are proud to be one of the largest cost-effective and complementary alternative to new recyclers of resin in Australia and New Zealand. We packaging. It is the perfect combination of economy most commonly recycle high density polyethylene and ecology. (HDPE), and polypropylene (PP) but we also handle In the past 12 months, Pact has collected almost other grades of plastic. 900,000 used steel drums for reconditioning with 80% We collect and clean industrial plastic scrap in of these reconditioned into good-as-new drums for Australia and in New Zealand, break it down, granulate reuse and the remaining 20% sent to steel recyclers. and extrude it. Once we have processed it we either Both open head and closed head drums are return the reprocessed plastic to the original source collected, cleaned, reshaped and repainted (tolling); sell it as graded plastic resin; or convert it into into drums that have the majority of functional second generation products including underground characteristics of new drums. Internal lining can cable covers, piping and slip sheets. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 31 be provided to satisfy food grade or water based applications. Reconditioning drums in this manner replaces the need to manufacture new drums (which are made from new steel), which greatly reduces the overall impact on the environment. Along with standard openand closed-head Industry and customer programs reconditioned drums, Pact offers hydraulically Pact’s industry and customer programs are formed Re-Make drums combining the economy dedicated collection and recycling services that of a reconditioned drum with the standard and recover the products everyone else will not. In performance of a new one. the past 12 months, for instance, the Group has The Group is also a leading intermediate bulk collected more than 500 tonnes of plastic oil container (IBC) service provider in Australia and containers and granulated them for further recycling. New Zealand. These programs are as follows: Australian Institute of Petroleum THROUGH OUR • The AIP (Australian Institute of Petroleum) Oil RECONDITIONING Container Recycling Program is an industry-led SERVICE, WE CAN product stewardship program developed to recover domestic plastic oil containers that are less than 10 EX TEND THE LIFE litres in size. The general public can dispose of used C YCLE OF IBCS motor oil containers and oil residues, free of charge, WITHOUT at selected transfer stations. Prior to this program, all oil plastic containers were sent to landfill, as COMPROMISING they were not accepted via household kerbside THEIR QUALIT Y. recycling. VIP Packaging has steadily rolled out the program since 2004, and now has more than 380 In the past 12 months, the Group has collected more pickup locations, and services approximately 80% than 116,000 used IBCs for reconditioning. IBCs of the Australian population. are collected and cleaned using specially designed DrumMUSTER equipment, and as a result, are able to be used as • Every year, the Group collects more than 400,000 good as new IBCs. In some circumstances where the plastic drums (approximately 420 tonnes inner bottle cannot be cleaned, it can be removed of material) as a participant in the national from the steel cage and replaced with a new bottle. drumMUSTER Recycling Program. DrumMUSTER is a national product stewardship program that is supported by chemical manufacturers and industry stakeholders, to collect and recycle eligible, precleaned (triple rinsed) agricultural and veterinary chemical containers. Prior to the program, these containers were typically sent to landfill or burned/ buried on farms. Since its inception in 1998, the drumMUSTER Recycling Program has recycled more than 20 million containers. VIP Packaging is one of the major participants that collects drumMUSTER containers, servicing the majority of the south-east coast of Australia. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 32 It processes the material for further recycling and utilises the material in the manufacture of industrial containers – reducing the need for virgin resin. These hard to recycle products are either impractical or too expensive to collect via traditional networks. By diverting this waste from landfill and reprocessing it, Pact can minimise the loss of valuable resources and ensure we focus on this important field. Case study PL ASTIC RESIN REC YCLING Every year the Group collects and processes 19,517 tonnes of plastic resin from Australasia. The resin is then granulated, extruded, palletised and used to make 4,679 tonnes 7,338 tonnes 7,500 tonnes industrial containers and products such as cable covers, slipsheets collected and collected and collected and and mobile garbage bins (MGBs). See the Product Stewardship reprocessed reprocessed from reprocessed in section of the Report for more details on our recycling and from Pact sites external sites New Zealand reconditioning activities. Case study Bespoke customer program RESENE’S PAINT WISE Plastic paint pail recycling in New Zealand Almost 20 tonnes of Leading paint producer, Resene, and Pact have collaborated to HDPE has been recycled build a program that closes the loop for plastic paint pails. Resene’s and processed into customers can bring their unwanted paint and paint containers into rHDPE in the last 12 their local Resene ColorShop. The paint is donated to local community months of the program. groups. Auckland Drum Sustainability Services (ADSS) wash and granulate the containers, Astron re-extrudes it and VIP manufacture new pails from the material for Resene. Case study Bespoke customer program VLS – COLES CR ATE WASHING PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 33 Plastic collapsible crates are collected and cleaned using state-of-the art washing In the past 12 months, equipment into good as new food grade crates and as such are proud to hold HACCP Pact has washed 54 certification. Re-using plastic collapsible crates offers a favourable solution cost over million plastic crates alternative packaging systems, including cardboard and also lowers its environmental for re-use in the market. impact, as the crates can be continually rewashed and re-used until damaged. At end of life the crate goes to Astron – then back to Viscount as resin to be turned into a new crate. GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE As a publicly listed company, Pact’s financial condition is of major concern to investors and creditors, and as capital providers, it relies on favourable end of year results for both the security and profitability of their investments. We are committed to ensuring that the Group is properly managed to protect and enhance shareholder interests, and that the Company operates with appropriate compliance in all applicable policies and regulations. To this end, we carefully weigh the risks to our financial wellbeing to better direct our management strategy and target our economic sustainability initiatives. The Group’s business model involves servicing a large number of customers many of whom have multiple contracts covering a variety of products in various geographies. During any financial year there are numerous customer wins and losses, new business wins, volume increases and reductions, some of which may involve a positive or negative margin impact. This continual change is constantly managed by the Company with the aim to seek to improve overall and avoid a material adverse impact on financial performance. Financial results for 2014-2015 Pact reported a strong financial result for the year, delivering a sales revenue increase by 9.3% to $1,249.2 million. EBITDA increased 5.3% to $208.7 million, and net profit after tax (NPAT) before significant items increased 42.7% to $85.2 million, compared to the prior year. Operating cash flow was up by 56.7% to $312 million, compared to the prior year, and cash flow conversion was 150% including the benefits of the debtor’s securitisation program. Further detail on financial results for the year can be viewed in our 2014–2015 Annual Report which can be referenced at www.pactgroup.au/investors/ investor-relations/reports. The material risks to economic sustainability include: Key risks to our economic sustainability Customer risks: There are various internal and external risks that may have a material impact on the Group’s future Customers are fundamental to the success of the financial performance and economic sustainability. business and, in recognition of this, Pact invests in The Group makes every effort to identify material strong relationships with key material customers and PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 34 risks and to manage these effectively. producing quality products to customers required specification and standard. The loss of key material customers or a reduction in their demand for the Group’s products can have a negative effect on the future financial performance of the Group. Competitor risks: Pact is also exposed to a range of other currencies Pact operates in a highly competitive environment including the US dollar, China’s yuan, the Philippines as a result of factors including actions by existing peso, the Indonesian rupiah and the Thai baht in or new competitors, price, product selection and relation to Pact’s business operations. Any depreciation quality, manufacturing capability, innovation and the of the Australian dollar and adverse movement in ability to provide the customer with an appropriate exchange rates would have an adverse effect on the range of products and services in a timely manner. Group’s future financial performance. Any deterioration in the Group’s competitive position Supply chain: as a result of actions from competitors or customers The ability for the supply chain to meet the Group’s may result in a decline in sales revenue and margins, requirements including the sourcing of raw materials, and an adverse effect on the Group’s future financial is reliant on key relationships with suppliers. performance. The price and availability of raw materials, input Consumer preferences: costs, and future consolidation in industry sectors Changes in consumer preference for the Group’s could result in a decrease in the number of suppliers products or adverse activities in key industry sectors or alternative supply sources available to Pact. which the Group and its customer service may be Additionally Pact may not always be able to pass on influenced by various factors. These industry sectors changes in input prices to its customers. Any of these include consumer goods (e.g. food, dairy, beverages, factors may have an adverse effect on the Group’s personal care and other household consumables) future financial performance. and industrial (e.g. surface coatings, petrochemical, Interruption to operations: agriculture and chemicals) industry sectors. Factors Pact operates across a diverse geographical footprint which may influence these sectors include climate and situations may arise in which sites are not able to conditions, seasonality of foods and an increased operate. Factors include emergency situations such focus in Australian and New Zealand supermarket as natural disasters, failure of information technology chains on private brands. Demand for the Group’s systems or security, or industrial disputes. Any of products may materially be affected by any of these these factors may lead to disruptions in production factors which could have an adverse effect on the or increase in costs, and may have an adverse effect Group’s future financial performance. on the Group’s financial performance. Strategic acquisitions: Pact’s strong growth over time has been aided by Pact has established a Risk Management Framework the acquisition of numerous businesses and assets. and business strategy to help offset and strengthen This growth has placed, and may continue to place, our economic sustainability through: significant demands on management, information • Capital investment in innovation and technology. reporting systems and financial and internal control systems. Effective management of Pact’s growth, • Diversity of facilities and operations. including identification of suitable acquisition • Material substitution (plastic alternatives and candidates and effective management of integration recycling / recycled content). PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 35 costs will be required on an ongoing basis. If this • Entry in new markets and customers to increase does not occur then there may be an adverse effect diversity. on the Group’s future financial performance. • Enhanced safety processes and monitoring. Foreign exchange rates: • Standardised financial systems and processes. Pact’s financial reports are prepared in Australian • The operation of a financial shared service dollars. However, a substantial proportion of model to deliver standard operating systems Pact’s sales revenue, expenditures and cashflows and processes. are generated in, and assets and liabilities are denominated in, New Zealand dollars. Managing risk and creating a positive Governance committees work culture The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Pact fosters a culture that values integrity governance committees. These committees are the and respect. Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Audit, Business Risk and Compliance Committee. WE BELIEVE THAT Both committees are chaired by Independent ADOPTING AND Directors and have a specific set of responsibilities. The Charter for each Committee is available on the OPER ATING UNDER Pact website. HIGH STANDARDS Risk management OF CORPOR ATE Pact promotes a risk-aware culture and we are GOVERNANCE IS committed to managing all risks in a proactive and effective manner. This requires the identification ESSENTIAL FOR and mitigation of risk in a way that protects business SUSTAINABLE LONG continuity and reputation, informs management decisions and drives competitive advantage. TERM PERFORMANCE We encourage reporting of newly identified risks that AND VALUE CREATION. may impact our operations across all areas of the Group, this includes but is not limited to, operational, Board composition environmental, sustainability, compliance, strategic, The Board is responsible for the overall corporate ethical conduct, reputation or brand, technological governance of Pact. The Board seeks to ensure that: product or service quality, human capital, financial · Pact is properly managed to protect and enhance reporting and market related risks. shareholder interests. Our Risk Management Framework (the Framework) · The Company, its Directors, officers and personnel sets out the principles and approach for risk analysis operate in an appropriate environment of including identifying, assessing, responding to corporate governance. and monitoring risks. The Framework is based on ISO31000 Risk Management Principles. The Board of Directors has been appointed to The Risk Management Policy is available on the ensure a highly experienced and complementary skill Pact website. set exists for the benefit of the Group. Board members have extensive relevant experience in operations, manufacturing, finance, information technology and public company experience. The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 36 one Executive Director, and four Independent NonExecutive Directors. Biographies of the Board members are available on the Pact website. Code of conduct Pact is committed to ethical behaviour and operating with integrity in all business practices. Our Code of Conduct outlines how we expect our representatives to behave and conduct business in the workplace. It includes legal compliance and guidelines on appropriate ethical standards. The objectives of the Code of Conduct are to: · Provide a benchmark for professional behaviour throughout the Group. · Support the Group’s business reputation and corporate image within the community. · Encourage reporting of unethical behaviour and breaches of the policy. The Code of Conduct is designed to ensure Pact delivers on its commitment to corporate responsibility and sustainable business practice and covers key topics including conflicts of interest; facilitation payments; political contributions; bribes, gifts and commissions; and securities trading. The Code of Conduct is supported by a suite of Group Policies, which have been designed to ensure compliance with laws and regulations. The Code and related Policies are available on the Pact website. Whistleblower Policy Pact has a Whistleblower Policy with the purpose of encouraging employees to raise concerns about misconduct, malpractice, irregularities or any other behaviour which is dishonest, corrupt, illegal or inconsistent with any of the Company’s values or policies. The policy also sets out how Pact intends to make sure that whistleblowers are not being personally disadvantaged or discriminated against for reporting unacceptable behaviour. This policy is available on the Pact website. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 37 Ethics and compliance Competition Consumer Act Compliance Pact is committed to upholding high standards of Pact is committed to ensuring that all staff understand, business integrity and honesty in all its dealings. and act in accordance with, the obligations under We seek to comply with all applicable laws and strive the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (CCA) and to act consistently with international good practice. Commerce Act 1986. This impacts how we deal with our Pact endeavors to act in a manner consistent with competitors, suppliers, and customers. the spirit of the 10 principles of the United Nations CCA compliance and awareness is important Global Compact. because a breach of the CCA can result in significant Anti-bribery and corruption penalties (to both the Company and individuals) and significant damage to the Company’s goodwill and Bribery and corruption is a risk that has been reputation in the marketplace. identified at Group level as an area of focus. All of our Executives, Senior Managers, Sales team Pact has an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy which and other relevant employees have completed outlines the standard for the Group. Training on the online Self-Administered Legal Training (SALT), applicable laws and policy has been provided to the which highlights the CCA and related legislation Executive and relevant Senior Managers. The Group compliance. In addition face-to-face training has will continue to focus on this risk and continue to been provided in 2014–2015 to those employees develop and enhance tools and procedures to seek considered to require a greater understanding of to minimise this risk. these obligations. During the reporting period, we have not had During the reporting period, we have not had any incidents in which employees or contracts any legal action pending or completed regarding with business partners have been investigated or anti-competitive behaviour in which the Group terminated due to corruption. has been identified as a participant. Political contributions and activities During the reporting period, there have been no Pact supports the involvement of its employees in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for community activities and professional organisations. non-compliance with laws and regulations in However, outside activity must not create a conflict relation to competition law. (or the appearance of a conflict) of interest. Political activity by any employee in his or her If you would like further information or would like individual, private capacity is not prohibited, however, to provide us with any comments relating to the to eliminate any appearance of coercion in such Report please contact us at info@pactgroup.com.au political activities, it is prohibited for any supervisor or visit our website www.pactgroup.com.au to solicit funds from a subordinate for political purposes: · The Code of Conduct prohibits the use of corporate funds for political purposes. · Pact does not contribute any monies to any candidate for election to a political party. PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 38 SUSTAINGLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE SUMMARY INDEX Pact’s 2014-2015 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 version). The following table summarises Pact’s performance against “core” GRI guidelines. General Standard Disclosures Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page Disclosure status Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker in the organisation Fully A word from our CEO 1 G4-2 Impacts and Risks summary Fully Materiality, Governance & Compliance 6,34 Organisational profile G4-3 Organisation name Fully About this report b G4-4 Primary products, services Fully Who we are and what we do 3 G4-5 Head office location Fully Who we are and what we do 4 G4-6 Countries of operation Fully Who we are and what we do 4 G4-7 Ownership and legal form Fully About this report b G4-8 Markets served Fully Who we are and what we do 3 G4-9 Scale of organisation Fully Who we are and what we do 4 G4-10 Employee structure / breakdown Fully Who we are and what we do, Diversity 3,16 G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining power Fully Labour relations 17 G4-12 Supply chain description Fully Who we are and what we do 5 G4-13 Significant changes to organisation Fully About this report b G4-14 Overall approach to managing operational risk Fully Managing risk and creating a positive work culture 36 G4-15 External charters, principles, initiatives subscribed to Fully Stakeholder engagement 7 G4-16 Active in external memberships Fully Stakeholder engagement 7 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Who is covered by this report Fully About this report b G4-18 Boundaries of this report Fully About this report, Materiality b,6 G4-19 Material aspects identified Fully GRI Index Specific Standard Disclosures 39 G4-20 Aspect boundaries relevancy to entities inside organisation Fully Materiality 6 G4-21 Aspect boundaries relevancy to entities outside organisation Fully Materiality 6 G4-22 Any restatements of previously reported information Fully About this report b G4-23 Any significant changes since last report Fully About this report b Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders Fully Stakeholder engagement 7 G4-25 Reason stakeholders chosen Fully Stakeholder engagement 7 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Fully Stakeholder engagement 7 G4-27 Issues raised by stakeholder groups Fully Materiality 6 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Fully About this report b G4-29 Date of previous report (if any) Fully About this report b G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Fully About this report b G4-31 Contact for any questions regarding this report Fully About this report b G4-32 In accordance with Fully About this report b G4-33 Approach to external assurance Fully About this report b Governance G4-34 Governance structure Fully Managing risk and creating a positive work culture 36 G4-35 Process for delegating authority economic, environmental & social Fully Managing risk and creating a positive work culture 36 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles and standards e.g. code of conduct Fully Managing risk and creating a positive work culture 36 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page Disclosure status Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA Why economic performance is material Fully Materiality 6 G4-EC1 Local economic value revenue, employees, community Fully Governance & compliance or 2014-2015 Annual Report 34 Category: Environmental PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 39 Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Materials policy Fully Materials and waste 20 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight non-renewable, renewable Partially Materials and waste 20 G4-EN2 Percentage recycled input Fully Materials and waste 20 Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Energy policy Fully Energy and emissions 19 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within organisation Fully Energy and emissions 19 Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Emissions policy Fully Energy and emissions 19 G4-EN15 Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions Fully Energy and emissions 19 G4-EN16 Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions Fully Energy and emissions 19 G4-EN17 Scope 3 other Indirect emissions Fully Energy and emissions 19 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Partially Energy and emissions 19 G4-EN19 Reduction in GHG emissions Partially Energy and emissions 19 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE SUMMARY INDEX Specific Standard Disclosures (continued) Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page Disclosure status Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Effluents and waste policy Fully Materials and waste 20 G4-EN24 Number and volume of spills Fully Incidents 22 Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Environmental impacts policy from product & services Fully Packaging & the journey towards holistic sustainability 29 G4-EN27 Impacts and mitigation of impacts from product & services Fully Packaging & the journey towards holistic sustainability 29 Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Environmental compliance policy Fully Managing our potential impacts 18 G4-EN29 Non-compliance fines value Fully Managing our potential impacts 18 Material Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Environmental grievance policy Fully Managing our potential impacts 18 G4-EN34 Number of grievances reported and acted upon Fully Managing our potential impacts 18 Category: Social Sub-category: Labour practices and decent work Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Workforce & labour practices and policies Fully Labour relations 17 G4-LA1 Employment rates and numbers by demographics, region Partially Labour relations 17 G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave and retention rates Fully Diversity 14 Material Aspect: Labour/Management relations G4-DMA Labour / management relations policy Fully Labour relations 17 G4-LA4 Notice periods for significant operational changes Fully Labour relations 17 Material Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety G4-DMA OHS policy Fully Safety 8 G4-LA6 Injuries, rates, days lost Fully Safety 8 G4-LA7 Workers with high risk jobs Fully Safety 8 Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal opportunity G4-DMA Diversity & equal opportunity policy Fully Diversity 14 G4-LA12 Governance and workforce breakdown Partially Diversity 14 Material Aspect: Equal remuneration G4-DMA Equal remuneration policy Fully Diversity 14 G4-LA13 Gender remuneration breakdown by job category Partially Diversity 14 Material Aspect: Labour practices grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Policy for labour practices grievance mechanism Fully Labour relations 17 G4-LA16 Total number of labour practices grievances, resolutions Partially Labour relations 17 Sub-category: Human Rights Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Human rights policy Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 G4-HR2 Percentage and number of hours employees trained in human rights Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 Material Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-DMA Non-discrimination policy Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 G4-HR3 Number of discrimination incidents, resolutions Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 Material Aspect: Freedom of association and Collective bargaining G4-DMA Freedom of association & collective bargaining policy Fully Labour relations 17 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers violating this right Fully Labour relations 17 Material Aspect: Child labour G4-DMA Child labour policy Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers with incidents of child labour Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory labour G4-DMA Forced or compulsory labour policy Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers with incidents of forced labour Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 Material Aspect: Supplier human rights grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Policy for human rights grievance mechanism Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 G4-HR12 Percentage and number of supplier human rights grievances Fully Human rights and community engagement 26 Sub-category: Society Material Aspect: Local communities G4-DMA Community investment and engagement policy Fully Community 24 G4-SO1 Percentage operations with community engagement & development Partially Human rights and community engagement 26 Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Anti-corruption policy Fully Ethics & compliance 38 G4-SO3 Percentage and number of operations assessed for corruption risks Fully Ethics & compliance 38 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Fully Ethics & compliance 38 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption, resolution Fully Ethics & compliance 38 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 40 Material Aspect: Public policy G4-DMA Political contribution policy Fully Ethics & compliance 38 G4-SO6 Value of political contributions, broken down Fully Ethics & compliance 38 Material Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour G4-DMA Anti-competitive behaviour policy Fully Ethics & compliance 38 G4-SO7 Number of legal actions from anti-competitive behaviour Fully Ethics & compliance 38 Material Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Value of fines from non-compliance Fully Ethics & compliance 38 Sub-category: Product Responsibility Material Aspect: Marketing communications G4-DMA Marketing communications policy Partially Packaging & the journey towards holistic sustainability 29 G4-PR6 Sales of banned/disputed products Partially Packaging & the journey towards holistic sustainability 29 G4-PR7 Number of incidents of marketing non-compliance Partially Packaging & the journey towards holistic sustainability 29 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 41 www.pactgroup.com.au 6/650 Church Street, Richmond VIC 3121 Australia Telephone +61 3 8825 4100
