COP 2014-2015 This COP covers the period: From: 09-10-2014 To: 09-10-2015 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Atelier 2000 A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During the 2014-2015 period, Atelier 2000 has worked with Global Compact ten principles in our operations by adopting an approach that is based on corporate commitment, assessment of risks, implementing preventive and remedy measures. In the coming year we will continue to work with the ten principles throughout our value chain. Sincerely yours Heidi Moisen Adm.Director Human rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Ateliers policy confirms the Global compact human rights principles and supports the universal declaration of Human Rights as well as ILO and other internationally accepted standards. Atelier will not trade with companies that do not comply with these Principles: principles and standards. Principle 1: Businesses should Assessment of the risks within our operational value chain occurs support and respect the through the use of our questionnaire to suppliers. Suppliers are protection of internationally asked to read our Code of conduct and answer our questionnaire. proclaimed human rights The human rights risks in our operations in Denmark are minimal as Principle 2: Make sure that we operate according to all applicable laws and regulations as well as they are not complicit in recommendations through various human rights sources. human rights abuses Implementation and Measurement of outcomes Atelier has in place procedures regarding human rights issues covering our internal operations as well as our business partners. We have prepared a specific Human rights policy that we will communicate to our suppliers especially those placed in “high risk” countries. Internally, we make sure that all new employees are informed of their rights, our policies and procedures upon commencement of work at Atelier 2000. Each new employee receives a contract that covers amongst other things, human rights issues. Our due diligence regarding our suppliers has resulted in a number of suppliers responding with positive answers to our questionnaire. Due to company circumstances, it has been quite difficult for us to manage the compliance of the supply chain. We have therefore during this last period, looking at compliance management regarding our “high risk” suppliers other than a filled in questionnaire. The result is that we plan to work more closely with third party standards and certifications such as ISO standards, BSCI, Fair trade, Ecolabels, factory audits and so on. Our plan will be in place by the end of this year. Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier respects the employees’ right to representation, including the right to join industry associations. We do not tolerate harassment and we are committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and avoiding unlawful discrimination The well-being of our employees, both physically and psychologically is one of our priorities and our aim is to keep improving our working Principles: conditions and working environment to ensure this priority. Principle 3: Businesses should The work assessment tool is our way of assessing our labour issues. uphold the freedom of It is both compulsory and effective as it covers both the physical and association and the effective psychological elements regarding the working conditions and our recognition of the right to workers well-being. collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of Implementation and Measurement of outcomes all forms of forced and During the 2014-2015 period, we worked with our yearly “work compulsory labour environment assessment” (APV). Principle 5: The effective We have also held 3 evaluation meetings regarding work conditions abolition of child labour and employee/management input as well as making sure that everything is done according to the applicable laws and regulations. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of Atelier has procedures in place regarding accidents and the employment and occupation. registration of these. These above procedures are described in detail and it is the job of the work environment representative with input from the management and the employees to implement these and to disseminate the results Labour conditions of employees in our supply chain has been a major topic in our “Labour” work this last year. We are in the process of finalising our “Responsible Sourcing” document which contains both labour requirement elements and compliance procedures based on third party certifications, standards and audits. This document will replace our standard questionnaire. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals Our aim is to reduce environmental impacts and uphold the applicable laws and regulations throughout our operations. We expect that our business partners as a minimum uphold the laws and regulations that are applicable to their business and as a minimum we require that all our fabric suppliers are Oekotex 100 certified. We encourage our suppliers to work with environmental issues by Principles: using third party official certification schemes and standards such as the EU Ecolabel, the Nordic Swan or any other equivalent Ecolabel. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Implementation and Measurement of outcomes approach to environmental A plan that will allow us to take a closer look at our energy use is challenges; now in place. We are engaging an energy expert to go through our Principle 8: undertake daily operations and expect that we will receive an evaluation report initiatives to promote greater from which we will decide what actions will take place in the next environmental responsibility; year. and Regarding our suppliers, we have prepared an environmental Principle 9: encourage the requirements document and it is used in our due diligence work. This development and diffusion of document will be updated and included in our “Responsible environmentally friendly Sourcing” document. technologies. We inform our suppliers about the Ecolabel possibilities concerning textiles. Results of our environmental requirements and the questions attached have shown that all our textiles are Oekotex certified. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier makes it clear in our code of conduct that we do not tolerate corruption in all its forms. To emphasize our position on this, we have prepared a specific AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses corruption policy document. should work against Implementation and Measurement of outcome corruption in all its forms, Our anti-corruption document will be included in our “Responsible including extortion and Sourcing” guidelines document and will be communicated to all our bribery. business partners.
