ELI LILLY AND COMPANY Corporate Responsibility Update 2014 03 Our greatest contribution to society is making IMPROVING GLOBAL HEALTH 29 Table of Contents medicines that help people live longer, healthier, Our Role in Healthcare Policy 31 more active lives. But our company vision—to Our Global Health Programs 33 improve global health in the 21st century— Hunger Relief 40 demands that we do even more. This report Responding to Ebola 45 covers our activities across a range of areas, Product Pricing and Affordability 45 including Advancing Medical Science, Improving Product Donations 45 Global Health, Strengthening Communities, Patient Programs 46 and Operating Responsibly. 01 04 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES 48 OVERVIEW 02 Giving at Lilly 49 Message from the CEO 02 Volunteerism at Lilly 52 About Eli Lilly and Company 04 Education Initiatives 54 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility 05 Key Performance Indicators 06 05 TOC Corporate Responsibility Highlights 08 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY 57 01 About This Report 10 Ethics and Transparency 58 Supply Chain 69 02 02 ADVANCING MEDICAL SCIENCE 11 Counterfeit Medicines 73 03 Animal Care and Use 76 Discovering Medicines More Quickly 14 Workplace 78 Bioethics 16 04 Environmental Stewardship 88 Transforming Clinical Trials 20 Environmental Performance Indicators 110 05 Ensuring Quality Medicines 25 United Nations Global Compact Index 113 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 1 Message from the CEO Overview Dear Reader, For us at Lilly, there’s an inherent connection between achieving our core mission and contributing to a healthier world. Discovering new medicines means never being satisfied with what we’ve achieved. It demands determination to overcome failure and find solutions, no matter the odds. And it requires uniting our expertise with the creativity of research partners around the world. This same vision and resolve drive all our efforts to improve life for the people we touch. We’re increasingly using our assets, expertise, and passion to find sustainable solutions to global health challenges, expand access for people who need our medicines, and strengthen communities. “At Lilly, we hold steadfast to our long-standing TOC values of integrity, excellence, and respect 01 for people. We strive to create a culture that fosters engagement and teamwork, 02 rewards diligence and ethical action, and 03 inspires creativity.” — John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. 04 Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 2 This report reflects our commitment to fulfilling Partnership and the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership—are OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Overview our mission and meeting our responsibilities as a helping to improve health outcomes and expand access At Lilly, we hold steadfast to our long-standing values corporation. In the pages that follow, you’ll find a to medicines for people in need today. We also help of integrity, excellence, and respect for people. Our detailed report on our performance in four areas: providers, patients, and their families navigate the commitment extends through to our support for the complexity of healthcare challenges through a variety ADVANCING MEDICAL SCIENCE United Nations Global Compact and its principles of offerings, including TruAssist, which provides access related to human rights, labor, the environment, and Colonel Eli Lilly, our founder, set out to establish to Lilly medicines for people in the United States who anti-corruption. We strive to create a culture that fosters public trust in medicine at a time when questionable otherwise couldn’t afford them. And Elanco, our animal engagement and teamwork, rewards diligence and characters were peddling untested potions. Throughout health business, is focused on the important link ethical action, and inspires creativity. We’re proud to be our company’s history, we’ve earned that trust by between hunger and human health, and is working to recognized as a company that works hard to support our bringing new and better medicines to people who need break the cycle of hunger in 100 communities around employees, both inside and outside of work. them—commercializing the first insulin, introducing the world by 2017. important classes of antibiotics, revolutionizing the Our values—and our humanity—guide how we treat each treatment of mental illness, making critical contributions STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES other and those we serve, inspiring us to build trust in the treatment of cancer, and more. Today, we remain In the late 1800s, Colonel Lilly took an active leadership through our commonalities, celebrate our differences, committed to pursuing innovative potential medicines for role in efforts to improve life in Indianapolis, home to and seek out ways to keep making life better. scourges such as diabetes and Alzheimer’s disease, and our global headquarters. Ever since, Lilly people have we’re working to change the way we perform research continued this legacy by strengthening the communities On behalf of everyone at Lilly, thank you for your interest to reduce the time it takes to develop new therapies. All where we work and live and by assisting people who live in our company and in our efforts, outlined here, to be along the way—even when we fail—we advance medical in poverty. You can see this commitment on Lilly’s Global true to our mission and our legacy. science by learning more about disease pathways and Day of Service, which ranks among the largest singleTOC human biology. day volunteer events of any global enterprise. The same spirit is manifested by Lilly volunteers who serve in IMPROVING GLOBAL HEALTH 01 vulnerable communities around the world as part of our John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. At Lilly, we share the vision of a world where everyone Connecting Hearts Abroad program. And it drives our is able to enjoy the basic health care that so many of Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer ongoing work to empower teachers, inspire students, 02 us take for granted. Even as we develop strategies May 2015 and advocate for new approaches to ensure that every to bring medicines to more people around the world, student has access to a great education. 03 our signature global health programs—the Lilly NCD 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 3 About Eli Lilly and Company Overview Lilly is a global healthcare leader that unites caring with discovery to make life better for people around the world. We were founded more than a century ago by a man committed to creating high-quality medicines that meet real needs, and today we remain true to that mission in all our work. Across the globe, Lilly employees work to discover ABOUT ELANCO ANIMAL HEALTH Elanco, a division of Lilly, provides comprehensive and bring life-changing medicines to those who need them, products and knowledge services to improve animal health in more than 70 countries. Elanco serves the diverse and evolving needs of our customers to help TOC improve the understanding and management of disease, them address the global challenges we all face. At Elanco, we understand the powerful role healthy 01 and give back to communities through philanthropy and animals play in making life better. That’s why Elanco initiated the ENOUGH movement to support food security (www.ENOUGHmovement.com) and supports 02 volunteerism. To learn more about Lilly, please visit us at the human-animal bond through partnership with Canine Assistants (www.celebratethebond.com). 03 Additional information about Elanco is available 04 www.lilly.com and newsroom.lilly.com/social-channels. at www.elanco.com. 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 4 Our Approach to This includes investing in areas traditionally seen as In the past, we have used traditional philanthropy— Overview the domain of “corporate responsibility,” including product donations and charitable contributions—to help Corporate Responsibility philanthropy, community involvement and volunteerism, environmental programs, workplace initiatives, and reach more people in need of our medicines, including those living in lowand middle-income countries. Lilly patient programs, among others. At Lilly, no one person will continue to make well-informed philanthropic At Lilly, our greatest owns our corporate responsibility work. Rather, it is embedded into many facets of company operations and investments. However, consistent with our mission to improve global health, Lilly is pursuing a number of is expressed in countless ways in communities around different approaches to expand access to our medicines. contribution to society is the world. These include our growing efforts to build strategic partnerships to find new solutions for people living in Over the last decade, we have transformed our discovering and developing corporate responsibility efforts, sharpening our focus on improving the health of people in lowand middlelower-income countries. GOVERNANCE innovative medicines that income countries and strengthening the communities where we work and live. We’re balancing traditional philanthropy—which dates back to the earliest days of Given the growing importance and complexity of healthcare access issues, in 2012, Lilly named a senior director of global health programs and strategy, make life better for people our company—with novel approaches that put to work our scientific and business expertise, our resources, who works alongside the senior director of corporate responsibility. This operational structure allows for around the world. This is and the passion of our employees. cross-functional collaboration on healthcare access EXPANDING ACCESS TO MEDICINES and other corporate responsibility issues from a global perspective. Specifically, this role is responsible for TOC the core of what we do. And Many people are interested in what pharmaceutical companies, including Lilly, are doing to help people get access to the medicines they need. We recognize that Lilly’s engagement with key stakeholders interested in Lilly’s access to medicines strategy and also for by doing this well, we are 01 leading strategic thinking at Lilly on broader access only an estimated 2 billion people out of the world’s total to medicine issues. population of 7 billion have a reasonable opportunity 02 able to extend our reach to use a Lilly medicine today. And those 2 billion are typically in higher socio-economic classes or in 03 developed countries with strong healthcare systems. 04 and deepen the impact of 05 our other activities. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 5 Key Performance Indicators Overview 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Financial Highlights Worldwide Revenue ($ millions) $ 23,076.0 $ 24,286.5 $22,603.4 $ 23,113.1 $ 19,615.6 U.S. Revenue $ 12,865.6 $ 12,977.2 $ 12,313.1 $ 12,889.7 $ 9,134.1 Europe Revenue $ 5,106.4 $ 5,290.9 $ 4,259.7 $ 4,338.4 $ 4,506.7 Other Foreign-Country Revenue $ 5,104.0 $ 6,018.4 $ 6,030.6 $ 5,885.0 $ 5,974.8 Stock Price ($ at year end) $ 35.04 $ 41.56 $ 49.32 $ 51.00 $ 68.99 Dividend ($ per share) $ 1.96 $ 1.96 $ 1.96 $ 1.96 $ 1.96 Research and Development ($ millions) $ 4,884.2 $ 5,020.8 $ 5,278.1 $ 5,531.3 $ 4.733.6 Workplace1 Recordable Injury Rate (per 100 employees) 0.96 1.09 1.10 0.88 0.88 Lost-Time Injury Rate (per 100 employees) 0.41 0.47 0.49 0.36 0.35 Fleet Collision Rate2 (percent of fleet) 24% 22% 21% 19% 18% TOC Philanthropy Highlights3,4 01 Product Donations ($ millions) $ 373 $ 549 $ 645 $ 695 $ 550 Cash Contributions ($ millions) $ 57 $ 48 $ 55 $ 55 $ 40 02 Total Contributions ($ millions) $ 430 $ 597 $ 700 $ 750 $ 590 03 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 6 Overview 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Environmental Highlights5 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) (metric tonnes CO2e) 1,620,000 1,560,000 1,560,000 1,610,000 1,540,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (metric tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet) 75.3 71.4 69.7 71.1 69.8 Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 11,200,000 10,800,000 10,900,000 11,200,000 10,700,000 Energy Intensity (million BTUs/1,000 square feet) 521 495 488 495 484 Water Intake (billion liters) 12.8 13.3 12.4 12.7 13.5 Water Intensity (million liters/million $ revenue) 0.555 0.549 0.549 0.562 0.688 Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 228,000 242,000 281,000 307,000 292,000 Waste Generation Intensity (metric tonnes/million $ revenue) 9.88 10.7 12.3 13.3 14.9 Waste to Landfill (metric tonnes) 15,900 10,900 12,300 8,900 6,300 Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances6 11 8 8 5 3 Read the Health and Safety at Lilly section to learn more about our new safety 1 In 2014, we saw a decrease in the number of people requesting assistance 4 Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an 6 goals for 2020. through our U.S. patient assistance programs following the implementation exceedance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the of the Affordable Care Act, which allows previously uninsured low-income regulatory authority. The reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or In prior reports, we tracked the motor-vehicle collision rate (collisions per 2 Americans to obtain healthcare coverage. As a result, fewer people were in in a routine compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in million miles driven). We now are tracking vehicle safety based on percent of need of donations from Lilly. harm to people or the environment. fleet involved in a collision. Historical collision rates shown in this table have TOC been restated. Following World Resources Institute guidance, energy use, greenhouse gas 5 emissions (except Scope 3), waste, and water use data are reported on an Total charitable donations include funding from both Lilly and The Eli Lilly 3 adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as and Company Foundation. appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. 01 02 03 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 7 Corporate Responsibility Highlights Overview The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership is our largest Every year since 2006, Lilly has received and our animal health division, Elanco, philanthropic effort ever—a $170 million a 100% rating on the Human Rights together have contributed more than $3 commitment from 2003–2016. Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality million to Heifer International, providing Through the partnership, we gave away our Index (CEI) and has been named to the gift of training and animals to break manufacturing technology and know-how HRC’s “Best Places to Work” list. the cycle of hunger for families in China, for two antibiotics to other manufacturers. India, Indonesia, and Zambia. Elanco’s latest Lilly’s experience and insights from this commitment supports the East Africa Dairy decade-long initiative are documented in a Between 2007 and 2013, we improved Development project, which aims to provide new white paper, Seeking Solutions to energy efficiency by 17% and reduced sustainable livelihoods for more than a Global Health Crisis. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 600,000 people in Kenya, Tanzania, intensity by 16%*, surpassing our goals TOC and Uganda by 2018. of 15% improvement during that timeframe. 01 Through the Lilly NCD Partnership, we’re Through lower energy consumption, we saved investing $30 million over five years to $175 million in energy costs during 02 Working Mother magazine has named strengthen diabetes care for people in rural that period. 03 Lilly as one of its “Working Mother and urban settings in Brazil, India, Mexico, 100 Best Companies” 20 years in a row. 04 and South Africa. 05 *Each of these goals is per square foot of facility space. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 8 Overview Our new 2020 environmental goals In 2014, Lilly presented a gift of $12.7 Over the last five years, Lilly has target another 20% improvement in energy million to United Way—our company’s committed more than $6 million in efficiency with a corresponding 20% largest ever United Way contribution. philanthropic donations to strengthen reduction in GHG emissions intensity, a the educational landscape in Indiana and 20% improvement in waste efficiency, and sent hundreds of employee volunteers a 15% absolute reduction of phosphorus to help in the schools. The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation emissions in wastewater.** (APEC), in 2014, named Lilly as one of the 50 Leading Companies for Women, For the fourth year in a row, in 2014, in recognition for our efforts to encourage We reduced our waste sent to Lilly was named to DiversityInc’s women’s participation and leadership. landfill by 72% from 2007 to 2013, “Top 50 Companies for Diversity” surpassing our goal of a 40% list, which recognizes corporate TOC reduction during that time. This diversity best practices. 01 equals the amount of waste that would We reduced water intake by 35% in fill about 2,300 garbage trucks. Our total absolute terms between 2007 and 2013, 02 Each year, Lilly donates substantial reduction in overall waste generation exceeding our goal of a 25% reduction amounts of products and cash—more 03 over that same period was about 19%. during that period. The decrease of than $590 million in total in 2014—and 6.9 billion liters would fill about 13,000 04 our employees volunteer their skills Olympic-sized swimming pools. around the world. 05 **These goals have a baseline of 2012, except for the reduction of phosphorus emissions in wastewater goal, which is 2014. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 9 About this Report We feel the new timing for our report, issuing earlier in To ensure appropriateness and accuracy, Lilly follows Overview the calendar year, will help us to be more responsive structured processes to collect, evaluate, and calculate This is Eli Lilly and Company’s 2014 Corporate and transparent to those interested in Lilly and our work. the data we report. We consider external standards in Responsibility Report. It also serves as Lilly’s annual Indeed, it reflects a deepening and a strengthening of deciding what data to collect and report. For example, Communication on Progress for the United Nations our commitment to communicating about our corporate following guidance from the World Resources Institute, Global Compact (UNGC), of which Lilly is a signatory. responsibility in a more timely and coordinated way. This we report progress toward environmental goals on an The UNGC is a strategic policy initiative for businesses report, issued in May 2015, represents our first report to adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and that are committed to aligning their operations and be issued on our new timeline. Moving forward, reports divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in will be issued in May. unless stated otherwise. Our global health, safety, and the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, environment management system is certified by an Data and other updates contained in this report are and anti-corruption. An index to the UNGC indicators independent, accredited auditor in accordance with focused on the 2014 calendar year and include global in this report can be found on page 113. More the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care operations, unless otherwise noted. We also discuss information about the UNGC can be found at Management System requirements. data and trends from previous years, where relevant, www.unglobalcompact.org. and include some significant events and initiatives that We welcome feedback on this report, as it helps us to Every year since Lilly joined the UNGC in 2010, we have occurred in the first half of 2015. This report does not improve future reports. reported on our commitments to the UNGC principles include joint ventures, partially owned subsidiaries, Please contact: and our related activities and progress toward goals leased facilities, or outsourced operations. that we have set for ourselves. Since our initial UNGC Robert Smith Our financial information, which is prepared according Communication on Progress (COP) submission in 2010, Senior Director, Corporate Responsibility, and to the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) we have integrated our COP content into our annual President, The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation in the United States, is subject to our own internal TOC corporate responsibility report. This has enabled us to accounting control systems and to external third-party E-mail robsmith@lilly.com cover the UNGC principles alongside a range of other audits. (All dollar amounts given are in U.S. dollars.) Phone 317-276-2000 01 topics of interest to global stakeholders across all areas In addition to those external third-party financial of our business. In 2014, we made the decision to adjust audits, Bureau Veritas provided independent, thirdthe timing of our annual corporate responsibility report, 02 party verification of greenhouse gas emissions data moving our annual publication date from November for Scopes 1, 2, and 3. Bureau Veritas also verified to May. This decision was based on a range of factors, the percentage decrease from both the baseline 03 including the desire to provide more timely updates on year (2007) and from 2013 compared to 2014 for the our corporate responsibility efforts, achievements, and following metrics: energy intensity, waste to landfill, 04 challenges, as well as to align disclosures on Lilly’s and water intake. Otherwise, the content and data in corporate responsibility goals and performance with this report have not been externally verified. our annual shareholders’ meeting and the release of 05 Lilly’s annual report. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 10 TOC Advancing Medical Science 01 02 03 Discovering Medicines More Quickly Transforming Clinical Trials 04 Bioethics Ensuring Quality Medicines 05 Throughout our history, we’ve been pioneers against Advancing Medical Science some of the world’s most devastating diseases. Our rich history includes industry breakthroughs, such as these: • The development of insulin in 1923 with scientists from the University of Toronto; • New classes of antibiotics—many of which are still being used today; At Lilly, our purpose is to make life better • Biosynthetic human insulin—the world’s first biotech product for human use; and • Prozac®, which revolutionized how doctors treat clinical depression. for people around the world. We focus on But our legacy of improving human health is not done. Millions of people around the world continue to suffer discovering and developing new medicines, from life-threatening diseases. And Lilly remains committed to the innovation-based research and development strategy that has distinguished us for more than 139 years. improving the understanding and management In 2014, we launched a number of new medicines designed to treat diabetes and certain cancers. And of disease, and supporting people with serious TOC our pipeline of potential new medicines is poised to deliver future treatments for other devastating diseases, 01 including autoimmune disorders, Alzheimer’s disease, illness and their families. pain, and more. 02 We focus our research on three core areas—diabetes, oncology, and neurodegeneration, including Alzheimer’s disease. In addition, our research efforts will expand to 03 include two emerging areas—immunology and pain —based on research opportunities and clinical data. 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 12 BUILDING ON 139 YEARS OF EXPERTISE Advancing Medical Science For more than 139 years, Lilly researchers have worked tirelessly to discover medicines that make life better. From the development of insulin and the manufacturing of the polio vaccine to the discovery of medicines that treat mental illness, we have pioneered breakthroughs 1970s Ceclor® was launched and eventually became the world’s top-selling oral antibiotic. Lilly also 1980s The most significant breakthrough in diabetes care since the 1920s was marked by Lilly’s against some of humanity’s most stubborn and introduced Dobutrex®, an innovative and lifesaving introduction of Humulin® insulin, which is devastating diseases. cardiovascular product. identical to that produced by the human body. Lilly launched Prozac®, the first major Milestones in Medical Research introduction in a new class of drugs for 1960s Lilly launched the first of a long line of treatment of clinical depression. 1880s Lilly was one of the first companies to initiate a oral and injectable antibiotics and, over the genuine pharmaceutical research program, hiring next two decades, pioneered important a pharmaceutical chemist as its first scientist. chemical breakthroughs that allowed their large-scale production. 1990s Lilly introduced a stream of innovative new products for the treatment of pancreatic The company also introduced anticancer and non-small-cell lung cancer, diabetes, 1920s Our researchers collaborated with Frederick Banting and Charles Best of the University of drugs, known as vinca alkaloids. and schizophrenia; the prevention of blood clots following certain heart procedures; Toronto to isolate and purify insulin for the and the prevention and treatment of treatment of diabetes, a fatal disease with no postmenopausal osteoporosis. effective treatment options at the time. In 1923, the work resulted in Lilly’s introduction of the world’s 1950s The company introduced a powerful antibiotic that remains the last line of defense for patients TOC suffering from serious hospital infections first commercially available insulin product. Lilly initiated a research program to find a associated with certain types of resistant bacteria. Lilly also launched an antibiotic with a 2000s Since the turn of the century, Lilly has continued to develop and launch new medicines to treat or reduce the risk for a range of diseases and 01 treatment for pernicious anemia, a life-threatening broad antimicrobial spectrum that expands the conditions, including osteoporosis, attentionblood disorder, and introduced a liver-extract alternatives for penicillin-allergic patients. deficiency hyperactivity disorder, bipolar product that served as a standard of therapy 02 Lilly was approached to produce a polio vaccine depression, male erectile dysfunction, severe for decades. sepsis in adult patients, malignant pleural based on the one developed by Dr. Jonas Salk. mesothelioma, ovarian cancer, invasive Ultimately, more than half of all the Salk vaccine 03 1940s Lilly was among the first companies to develop a method to mass-produce penicillin, the world’s used in the United States bore the Lilly label. breast cancer, diabetes, and thrombotic cardiovascular events. first antibiotic, marking the beginning of a 04 sustained effort to fight infectious diseases. 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 13 “The secrets of science inspire me. I went into this As we continue to focus on some of the most prevalent Advancing Medical Science diseases affecting our society, we also recognize that for patients in need of treatment now, the drug discovery field because I always wanted to know the answer and development process can seem to cost too much and take too long. From start-to-finish, it’s not uncommon for this process to take more than 10 years and to cost in excess of $1 billion for each new medicine approved. Discovering Medicines to the questions. But once I got here, it became More Quickly Biopharmaceutical research takes determination. Once more about the people who need new medicines, the a molecule is invented, it goes through rigorous tests in our labs, followed by clinical testing at sites all over the world, to understand if it could potentially be effective people suffering from conditions that have no good treatment options. I see how we change people’s and safe when used in humans. How can we find innovative ways to improve the speed and quality of this development process so that new TOC medicines reach the people who need them faster? lives in oncology and diabetes, the promise we have for Alzheimer’s disease and autoimmune disorders. LILLY’S PIPELINE: MEDICINES IN DEVELOPMENT 01 Lilly is focused on some of the world’s most prevalent and devastating diseases, including cancer, diabetes, and 02 That inspires me. It makes me get up every morning, neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer’s disease. Our science is focused on developing a complementary mix of small 03 molecules (oral medications) and large molecules (often given by injection) to address the diverse needs of the people we 04 serve. Our interactive pipeline website provides information on potential new medicines in clinical development: www.Lilly.com/Pipeline. ready to come to work.” 05 — Carl Garner, Ph.D., Lilly Regulatory Scientist LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 14 “The single greatest motivation Advancing Medical Science to work in the pharmaceutical industry is the knowledge that there are patients who are waiting for the medicines that we are making, who need the therapies that we can create for them. When I was young, I developed a case of rheumatic fever after a bout of strep throat. It had an effect on my heart and, as a child in third grade, I was unable to play with other children. In fact, I had to lie in a bed for months and be carried. It was a medicine TOC that I took that allowed me to get up again, and it was a medicine made by the company that I now work for. That’s why I joined the pharmaceutical industry. 01 There are two ways to beat the odds in the discovery of new drugs: strong data and a good dose of passion. To work against the odds 02 for the good of the people who need the medicine—that’s what makes the difference.” 03 — Andrew M. Dahlem, D.V.M (h.c.), Ph.D., Vice President, Lilly Research Laboratories Operations, 04 Lilly Research Laboratories Europe 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 15 Above all, it takes people, committed to excellence, • Continuous improvement in the quality of our clinical science as an in-kind contribution that the investigators Advancing Medical Science working together, to make it happen. Our 6,000 R&D study design during the study, rather than evaluation can use in their work (e.g., publications, grants). scientists are working not only to discover and develop of the study design at the end; and Promising results may become the basis for further new medicines, but to do it faster than ever before. Our • Improvements to our chemistry, manufacturing, and collaborative agreements. scientists combine their deep knowledge of human biology, control processes to ensure flexible supply chains disease, chemistry, and genomics with computer models and the insights we’ve gained from people and product development plans throughout the development process. Bioethics affected by disease to identify new potential medicines. Bioethics—which focuses on the ethics of biomedical Our Partnerships and clinical research and public policy in biomedical We build specialized computer programs, screening Some of the best scientific breakthroughs happen through fields—is becoming an increasing area of attention for labs, and other tools to help us process information, collaboration. Particularly in today’s complex healthcare the pharmaceutical industry, with more companies develop new experiments, and test our hypotheses as environment, we must be innovative in our science, as posting bioethics position statements and making efficiently as possible while maintaining a high standard well as in our approach to partnerships. We never stop public statements about bioethics. At Lilly, we believe of quality. During the drug development process, we searching for the best potential medicines, new ways to that bioethics is an integral component of corporate might conduct 10,000 experiments to find one compound address unmet medical needs, and treatments that provide integrity and pharmaceutical R&D excellence. We that has the potential to become a new medicine. The better outcomes for patients, healthcare providers, embrace a comprehensive, systemic approach and commitment and expertise of our scientists, who publish and payers. offer an increasing variety of resources and educational some 8,000 scientific articles annually based on their In addition to traditional partnerships, we find and offerings to help employees navigate ethical scenarios research, continue to drive forward the development facilitate medical innovations through Lilly Ventures and empower them to apply bioethics principles in their of potential new medicines and contribute to society’s and the capital funds portfolio Lilly Asia Ventures. daily work. overall base of scientific knowledge. TOC These funds invest in start-up biopharmaceutical and Our aim is to address bioethics issues proactively OUR APPROACH TO DISCOVERY AND medical technology companies via early expansion-stage and make bioethics discussions more informed and DEVELOPMENT investments. 01 commonplace throughout the company. Most importantly, Lilly is evolving the way we discover and develop Lilly also collaborates with external scientists to we encourage our employees to adopt ethics-focused medicines in order to bring new medicines to the people complement our internal efforts. Lilly’s Open Innovation thinking, which is based on values and principles, in 02 who need them even faster. We can accomplish this in addition to compliance-focused thinking, which is based in Drug Discovery (OIDD) program provides external many ways, including these techniques: researchers with a point of entry into Lilly’s drug legal regulation. This kind of ethics-focused thinking helps 03 • Science-driven adaptive programs that improve discovery process. OIDD uses a unique web-based guide employees when they are faced with a situation that our quality and speed through use of analytics and platform that aims to remove barriers to sustainable is not explicitly covered by regulation, such as continued 04 modeling, along with patient input, in plan developinnovation with a novel transactional model between access to an investigational medicine, stem cell research, ment, clinical study design, and decision-making; Lilly and external scientists. The platform provides or implications of providing individual results to clinical external investigators with direct access to Lilly’s trial patients. 05 • Patient-centric tools and approaches that make it easier scientific infrastructure and talent; Lilly provides quality for people to find, enroll, and participate in clinical studies; LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 16 We also believe in contributing to a strong bioethics • The Bioethics Advisory Committee, a crossCROSS-FUNCTIONAL COLLABORATION Advancing Medical Science practice across our industry, so we engage external functional committee composed of senior leaders stakeholders through presentations at professional and academic conferences, post and communicate our from across the company, as well as two external academic experts in the field of bioethics who offer As bioethics principles continue bioethics position statements, and serve on industry, academic, and government committees that address guidance on projects and consultations; to be integrated throughout Lilly, • The Lilly Bioethics Network (BEN), a virtual bioethics issues related to biomedical research. community of more than 150 Lilly employees who we collaborate internally to bring LILLY BIOETHICS STRUCTURE AND are interested in building their knowledge in bioethics MANAGEMENT through training opportunities and attendance at bioethics issues to the forefront lectures, seminars, case discussions, and other In 1999, Lilly became one of the first pharmaceutical companies to establish a standing bioethics committee activities sponsored by the Bioethics Program; of our work. One example is the to systematically identify, evaluate, and communicate bioethics issues. In 2008, we established the Lilly • The Bioethics Specialist Team, a subgroup of the BEN composed of Lilly employees with specialized collaborative efforts between our Bioethics Program, which is committed to promoting bioethics excellence across the company. knowledge and skills in bioethics and an ongoing commitment both to develop in this area and bioethics and pediatrics teams. A The bioethics program is an independent organizational to support the Lilly Bioethics Program through participation in bioethics activities and projects; and member of the Bioethics Advisory unit reporting to the chief medical officer and includes a senior leader and full-time staff members with • The Bioethics Leadership Academy (BELA), an Committee sits on the Pediatric internal, nine-month, experiential training program TOC pharmaceutical industry expertise and specialized training in bioethics. These individuals serve as designed to establish a cohort of Lilly employees Steering Committee and vice versa. with distinct bioethics skills. See below for more resources for the company and are responsible for the program’s development, deliverables, and oversight. about the academy. This approach allows employees to 01 In addition to this full-time effort, employees from ENGAGING EMPLOYEES IN BIOETHICS effectively share ideas and expertise across the company participate in key bioethics program Our aim is to involve more and more employees in 02 activities beyond their regular work responsibilities. bioethics training—creating a network of specialists and led to the co-development of Employees get involved for a number of reasons: to capable of relating bioethical thinking and knowledge 03 broaden their own understanding, to create a network back to different functional areas across the company. our bioethics position on Pediatric When employees approach their work with a strong 04 of additional resources, and to integrate bioethics concepts throughout Lilly. These “extracurricular” foundation in bioethics, we’re better able to safeguard Medicine and Device Clinical the integrity of our scientific process and protect the 05 activities include: rights and well-being of research participants. Development. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 17 Bioethics Consultations implications for the pharmaceutical industry and Lilly, conducting, analyzing, and disclosing results from studies Advancing Medical Science Since 1999, the Bioethics Advisory Committee has recognize those who have made contributions throughout involving human subjects. The framework incorporates offered a consulting service, providing a forum for Lilly Lilly in this area, provide employees with an opportunity company values, bioethics principles from widely employees to ask questions and seek advice regarding to engage with experts in bioethics, and position Lilly to recognized global guidelines, and scholarly literature. bioethics and research ethics issues. The primary proactively address emerging bioethics issues.For more The Lilly Bioethics Program employs the bioethics focus of the consultations is pharmaceutical research about our approach to animal research, see the Animal framework when conducting ethical analyses to answer and development, but questions may also touch on Care and Use section of this report or visit our Animal consultation questions and to develop bioethics positions interrelated aspects of clinical ethics, business ethics, Care and Use webpage. on relevant and emerging topics to assist Lilly teams and organizational ethics. Bioethics Leadership Academy (BELA) contemplating challenging bioethics decisions. We have conducted more than 200 consultations since Employees who are selected to participate in BELA dedicate a portion of their working time to bioethics training for For Lilly, conducting clinical trials in diverse locations 2008, when we started collecting metrics, and have nine months. Participants work through a curriculum, around the world holds many benefits, including seen rising interest over the past several years—starting participate in bioethics program activities, and develop knowledge of how genetic and environmental diversity with five requests per year in 2008 and increasing to a project to help them respond to bioethics issues may impact the safety and effectiveness of our approximately one per week in 2013. Results from a related to their functional role in the company and the medicines. We understand that for many, the issue of survey conducted by bioethics staff indicate that the pharmaceutical industry. This is just one way we’re how clinical trials are conducted in diverse locations consultation service is well regarded and viewed as increasing the number of employees throughout Lilly who around the world is of special interest, particularly with approachable, helpful, and responsive. The service make bioethics considerations a part of their daily work. regard to the well-being of individual participants and increases awareness about bioethics, empowers the fair distribution of the benefit and burden of research employees to raise bioethics concerns, and helps Ongoing Employee Training across geographies. One of our most recently released them reason through challenging issues. In 2014, we introduced a computer-based training course position statements relates to multinational clinical TOC to provide an overview of the bioethics program at Lilly and For more information, read “A Pharmaceutical studies. The statement outlines: the resources available to help our employees effectively Bioethics Consultation Service: Six-Year Descriptive 01 navigate bioethics issues. The training is mandatory for • Reasons for conducting multinational clinical studies; Characteristics and Results of a Feedback Survey”—an our medical directors and clinical research physicians article about our experience with consultations and the • Our global ethical standard for conducting clinical studies; and scientists. We plan to expand the training next year to 02 benefits we’ve seen as a result of our consultation service. • Our commitment to the safety, rights, and well-being help familiarize employees with our overarching bioethics Bioethics Week framework (see below) and how it applies to their work. of all study participants; 03 In 2014, we hosted a companywide week of awards, lectures, presentations, and discussions related to OUR POSITIONS ON CURRENT AND EMERGING • Our approach to choosing locations for clinical bioethics. The event—themed “Bioethics in Action”— BIOETHICS ISSUES studies; and 04 was jointly sponsored by Lilly’s Bioethics Program and The Lilly bioethics framework provides our researchers • Our commitment to make the results and benefits of our Animal Research 3Rs Initiative. Our goals for the with guiding principles and practical tools by specifically the study available to the host country or community. 05 week were to increase awareness of bioethics and its describing and evaluating the ethics of developing, LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 18 Building Bioethics Leadership at Lilly: Three Perspectives from the BELA Program Advancing Medical Science “The foundation the BELA program provided is “With so many important things to do on any given “The BELA program opened my eyes to bioethics something I will carry with me throughout my day, I appreciate that Lilly gives employees an issues in a way my previous medical training hadn’t. career. I’m constantly referring back to the training opportunity to devote a significant portion of time My entire way of thinking and the approach I take I received and thinking about how bioethics to the study of bioethics through the BELA program. to my work have shifted significantly after going principles apply to my work.” The dedicated time to consider and study these through the program.” issues has been invaluable for me, and I believe — Sandra Prucka, M.S., Consultant Scientist, — Iris Goetz, M.D., M.S., Epidemiologist, it will benefit my larger team and the patients Tailored Therapeutics Research Advisor, Global Patient Outcomes we serve.” and Real World Evidence — Elizabeth Stiegelmeyer, M.A., Associate Consultant, Biomedicines, Clinical Development Information and Optimization The intersection of bioethics and genetics research A strong bioethics foundation for clinical trial teams Supporting clinical trial patients with complex cases Sandra Prucka is a consultant scientist in our tailored As an associate consultant on our clinical delivery team, Iris Goetz, M.D., works as research advisor on Lilly’s global therapies area. Her expertise in informed consent and genetic Elizabeth Stiegelmeyer helps improve the clinical trial patient outcomes and real world evidence team. She supports education helps clinical trial investigators and research experience for research participants. She evaluates data Lilly colleagues who design studies to help understand how participants understand the role of biomarker research in and collaborates with clinical trial teams to help them make a medicine will work outside of a controlled clinical trial helping to deliver the right medicine, to the right person, at decisions about enrollment timelines, study designs, and environment. Iris and her colleagues also investigate how a given TOC the right time. where to conduct trials. She also partners with those at Lilly medicine may affect aspects of patients’ everyday lives, such as who run clinical trial simulations to identify aspects of trials independence, quality of life, or the ability to work. Traditionally, During the BELA program, Sandra focused on a question 01 that may be burdensome for participants, so Lilly can address this kind of “real-world” evidence can only be studied after a at the intersection of bioethics and medical research—the the issues before the studies begin. medication has been released commercially. ethical implications of providing individual research results and incidental findings to individuals who have volunteered for Through BELA, Elizabeth proposed conducting a short Iris is involved in a pan-European research project, running 02 clinical trials. As part of an industry research group, Sandra workshop with the global clinical trial designers participating from 2013–2016, to evaluate how this knowledge can be also focused specifically on the return of genetic research in the trial simulations. The workshop will help elevate gathered earlier in the process, for example, by opening 03 results and worked with others to develop a paper exploring bioethics issues and ensure the bioethical aspects of each clinical trial participation to patients who may not typically be this topic. Sandra’s participation in BELA has helped her to specific trial are at the forefront of discussions during clinical considered, such as those with underlying health conditions. become a resource for her team at Lilly, offering important trial development. Elizabeth plans to pilot the workshop by This ongoing work is helping Iris and others understand the 04 insights into bioethics issues that arise during the course of mid-2015 and roll it out more broadly throughout the year. bioethical implications associated with this approach to clinical their work. trial design, and what additional considerations should be taken into account to support people with complex cases, 05 who don’t fit the typical clinical trial profile. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 19 All of our bioethics position statements are available on Advancing Medical Science our bioethics webpage, including compassionate use of investigational medicines, continued access to an investigational medicine, human biological samples, PATIENT PARTICIPATION IN CLINICAL TRIALS and stem cell research, among others. Transforming Clinical Trials FEW PATIENTS ARE AWARE THAT CLINICAL TRIALS ARE AN OPTION 23% PATIENT-REPORTED BARRIERS TO JOINING A TRIAL* 16 Learning how potential new medicines work for patients % during clinical studies is essential to our ability to offer safe, effective medications. Therefore, it is critical that of cancer patients we work to understand the biggest barriers that prevent were aware of relevant or deter people from participation in clinical trials and clinical trials at the time 14% % of non-participants that we work to improve the clinical trial experience. they were considering This includes using technology to make trials more treatment options* 13% convenient for participants, integrating parent perspectives when children are involved, and increasing 10% 10% OF THE PEOPLE AWARE OF CLINICAL TRIALS: the diversity of participants across our studies. 43 57 6% TOC CREATING PATIENT-CENTRIC CLINICAL TRIALS % % We believe study volunteers who have a positive experience are more likely to adhere to the study protocol, complete Enroll and Do not 01 their intended study participation, and potentially be more participate* participate* positive when talking with others about their clinical study New treatment Fear of placebo experience, which may speed enrollment in future studies. not as good 02 Insurance concerns 95 % In Lilly’s research, we have found that there are numerous of study volunteers would Fear of side effects Relocation away 03 reasons why people do—and do not—participate in clinical consider participating in Did not meet from family trials. A general lack of awareness among patients another clinical research study** acceptance criteria regarding their ability to participate in trials is a major 04 issue. Once patients are aware of a clinical trial, several *Fenton L, Rigney M, LICSW, Herbst, R Clinical trial awareness, attitiudes and participation among patients with cancer and oncologists. 2006. barriers may prevent them from enrolling—from fear oncologypractice.com/co/journal/articles/0605207.pdf. 05 that the new treatment won’t be as good as what they are **Center for Information and Study on Clinical Research Participation. 2013 Perceptions & Insights Study, Public and Patient Perceptions of Clinical Research: Report on Clinical Trial Information Seekers; www.ciscrp.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/2013-CISCRP-Study-Clinical-Trial-Information-Seekers.pdf. Accessed January 22, 2015. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 20 receiving to insurance concerns. However, the vast majority In a separate program, which also aims to improve Advancing Medical Science of those who do participate have a positive experience and volunteer experiences with clinical research, Lilly has would consider participating in another research study. begun to incorporate the parent perspective in study design processes for pediatric research. Through the Lilly works to ensure that those who participate in our program, which began in 2013, Lilly employees who are clinical trials have a positive experience and would parents of children with medical conditions volunteer to consider enrolling in future trials or recommending be contacted when a need arises to provide a parent’s the experience to others. In 2012, we launched our perspective on a pediatric study protocol. The questions “Volunteer/Patient Experience Measures” program, in cover topics such as the frequency and duration of collaboration with the nonprofit Center for Information visits, the appropriateness of formulations and dosing, and Study on Clinical Research Participation, to help us and what potential barriers to participation exist. After understand and improve the experiences of research piloting the project with Lilly parent volunteers, the volunteers in our clinical studies. Our goal was to gain program will be expanded to include non-employees, a better understanding of why volunteers enter clinical such as parents from advocacy groups. trials in the first place, what their fears and expectations are, what contributes to their level of satisfaction at Using Technology to Improve Clinical Trials for Participants various points during the trial, how their experience The Lilly clinical open innovation team explores the affects their behavior, and why they may choose to future of clinical trials—looking at how to improve drop out. clinical trial matching, the integration of mobile Using the insights gained from a comprehensive tools, and Internet-based studies. These are exciting literature search and group discussions with volunteers, possibilities as technology advances and clinical trial TOC Lilly developed a quantitative survey to collect models evolve. The clinical open innovation team is also information about volunteer experiences throughout working on solutions that can improve the clinical trial 01 the clinical study process. This information can help experience for patients today. us measure the success of efforts designed to improve One area that can benefit from immediate changes 02 recruitment, retention, and overall volunteer experience. is the way in which we inform patients about clinical Eight clinical trial sites plan to distribute this survey to trials. According to the Center for Information and participants in 2015. Early results are already helping us 03 Study on Clinical Research Participation, the Internet better understand how to measure patient satisfaction is the primary way that people find out about clinical with clinical trials in the future. 04 research.1 However, sponsor websites, ClinicalTrials.gov, Center for Information and Study on Clinical Research Participation. 2013 Perceptions & Insights Study, Public and Patient Perceptions of Clinical Research: 05 1 Report on Clinical Trial Information Seekers; www.ciscrp.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/2013-CISCRP-Study-Clinical-Trial-Information-Seekers.pdf. Accessed January 22, 2015. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 21 and private third-party websites provide patients with visit information includes average study visit duration, historically and consistently been underrepresented in Advancing Medical Science limited information. Our discussions with patients and study length, and the total number of visits. The specific clinical trials. As a result, important information about caregivers have taught us that these sources do not visit information provides details for individual study how medicines work in minority populations is not answer the questions that truly matter to them, such visits, including visit length, visit before and after always available. as these: instructions, and a visit assessment list. In addition, the In response, Lilly promotes initiatives, such as the “Get Connected” section allows caregivers to select a • How much time will I need to take off of work or I’m In campaign, that are working to increase the potential study start date and view a tentative schedule school to participate? diversity of clinical trials on a broad scale. We of visits for the entire study. Our intention is to use this • Will I need to fast before my visits? also strive to increase the enrollment of minority website as a model for future study websites, improving populations in our own clinical trials. • What can I expect to happen at these visits? upon the model as we learn. • Will this study interfere with my upcoming travels? Lilly has developed a clinical trial diversity strategy to INCREASING DIVERSITY IN CLINICAL TRIALS better understand patient differences that may affect Patients don’t get the answers to these important The impact of disease isn’t the same for everyone. clinical outcomes and to help increase the enrollment of questions until they contact a research site and begin Research has shown that health disparities exist racially and ethnically diverse populations in U.S. clinical the formal informed consent process. Given patient between different ethnic and racial groups. In the United trials. The ultimate goal of our clinical trial diversity interest in accessing clinical trial information online, States, members of minority groups often suffer a strategy is to improve health outcomes for individual sponsor websites are an excellent opportunity to do disproportionately higher incidence of certain diseases, patients. The strategy includes: just that. As a result, we’ve revisited the study website such as stroke and diabetes, compared with whites. to look for areas where we and other sponsors can do For example, we know that African Americans are twice • Translating patient materials into Spanish, better. We’ve incorporated these ideas for improvement as likely to be diagnosed with diabetes as non-Hispanic • Providing physician-education materials that into a pilot project—a study website for our Duchenne whites, and Hispanics are almost twice as likely as TOC include background on the different needs of muscular dystrophy trial. The study website is designed non-Hispanic whites to be diagnosed with diabetes.2 distinct patient groups, for parents of boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy Responses to medicines can vary depending on a 01 to explore and simulate what participation in the trial • Partnering with advocacy organizations and number of factors, including someone’s genetic would be like. Using the website, parents can begin to professional societies to raise awareness about background, ethnicity, and lifestyle. That’s why it’s 02 answer the questions that matter most to them—before health disparities and the need for diversity in critical that Lilly has diverse representation in clinical initiating contact with a research site. clinical trials, and trials—to gain the insights necessary to make medicines 03 For instance, the “study details” section provides both that will be the most effective for all people who • Actively recruiting investigators to work with general and specific study visit information. General use them. Unfortunately, minority populations have diverse patient populations. 04 05 2 Diabetes data from The Office of Minority Health (minorityhealth.hhs.gov/). Accessed January 2015. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 22 Training Minority Clinical Trial Investigators GLOBAL DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION AWARD Advancing Medical Science One important variable in increasing the diversity of Yoko Tanaka received a Global Diversity and Inclusion Award from Lilly’s diversity office in 2014 for her work to provide a more clinical trials is increasing the diversity of the physicians culturally relevant view of clinical trial data, including increased diversity in data monitoring committees and greater inclusion who conduct the trials (called “investigators”). One in five of various cultural perspectives. African Americans and one in three Hispanic Americans Lilly conducts clinical trials in the countries where we intend to sell the medication being investigated, so we can get the most prefer a doctor of the same race or ethnicity.3 While accurate information possible about the effects on the people who will be taking the drug. Yoko helps provide training for data this is not a majority, it is still a sizeable percentage monitoring committees in Japan that review clinical trial data and advise trial sponsors on the safety of continuing the trial. and can impact enrollment in clinical trials if there is a lack of diversity among the physicians conducting Traditionally this work has been performed mostly by American, Canadian, and European personnel. However, Yoko has worked through a Harvard University project to involve and train experts from other areas of the world. In April 2014, Yoko organized a the trials. When there is less minority representation training that prepared a Japanese affiliate to set up a Japanese-led data monitoring committee for a study in Japan rather than among physicians in certain specialties, it makes it having it led by our U.S.-based team. even more difficult for us to increase the diversity of our investigators. (For example, there are approximately 10,400 oncologists in the United States, but just about pharmaceutical industry, aspires to develop a them after the completion of the workshop.The first 1 to 2 percent are African American and approximately broader base of diverse investigators who understand workshop took place in March 2014, with 20 physicians 2 to 3 percent are Hispanic.) the principles of good clinical trial design and have in attendance. We are aiming for the same number of To address this issue specific to oncology, Lilly is the tools to conduct trials that are relevant to participants in 2015, with the goal of training 75 to 150 partnering with The Center for Drug Development underrepresented populations. minority oncologists by 2016. and Clinical Trials at Roswell Park Cancer Institute Participants arrive with a concept in mind for an Coleman Obasaju, M.D., Ph.D., senior medical director, in Buffalo, New York, to conduct a three-day clinical ongoing project in diverse clinical trial research. and global leader of diversity in clinical research for Lilly TOC research workshop to train minority physicians to During the course of the workshop, they complete a Oncology, is heading up Lilly’s efforts in this area. For become clinical trial investigators. It is Lilly’s hope that clinical trial protocol—describing the objectives, design, his work, Dr. Obasaju has been awarded the prestigious 01 by increasing participation by minority physicians, we methodology, statistical considerations, and organization Scroll of Merit by the National Medical Association for will be able to increase the diversity of clinical trial of the clinical trial—to support their research and ensure increasing minority participation in clinical trials. In participants and improve clinical research. data integrity and participant safety. The oncologists addition, his team conducting the workshop received an 02 The workshop, titled “Reducing Cancer Disparities also participate in lectures, small breakout discussions, award from Lilly’s Global Diversity and Inclusion Office through the Training of a Diverse Workforce,” is offered one-on-one sessions, and self-study—all facilitated by for its work to increase clinical trial diversity in the 03 expert faculty who guide participants in the development United States. to oncologists across the country who hail from minority groups. This training program, the first of its kind in the of their research concept and continue to mentor 04 05 University of Alabama Minority Health & Health Disparities Research Center. Study: Minorities Prefer Same-Race Doctors (mhrc.dopm.uab.edu/news/ 3 MinoritiesPrefer.html). Published March 2005. Accessed January 2015. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 23 Diversity in Lilly-Sponsored Clinical Advancing Medical Science Trials in North America (2014 Sites) In an effort to gain greater insight into the effectiveness of potential medications across a diverse population, Lilly works to increase minority participation in our clinical trials. In 2008, we set a goal that every study conducted with more than 25 clinical trial sites must select at least two sites meeting Lilly’s diversity criteria. A diverse clinical trial site means the patient population is greater than 25 percent non-Caucasian. This map shows the number of sites in North America that meet this goal. TOC 01 95 7 50 48 141 68 29 02 03 04 SITES IN THE SITES IN ALASKA SITES IN THE SITES IN THE SITES IN THE SITES IN THE SITES IN WEST AND HAWAII SOUTHWEST MIDWEST SOUTHEAST NORTHEAST PUERTO RICO 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 24 Ensuring Quality Medicines Advancing Medical Science Lilly’s global quality team is an independent organization within Lilly, comprising about 2,200 individuals, including QUALITY ACROSS THE MEDICATION LIFE CYCLE scientists, pharmacists, and other technical quality We work tirelessly to make our medications safe and effective—from the early stages of design and drug development through professionals. The team is involved in the entire life cycle ongoing monitoring and understanding of the patient experience once a medication is on the market. Attention to detail and rigorous of the molecules we develop, working across all phases quality control across many interrelated areas of our company are necessary to ensure a high-quality product. of drug development. The team’s goal is to provide effective guidance and quality oversight, collaborating with colleagues in research and development and manufacturing, to assure regulatory and Lilly’s quality standards and controls are followed. LILLY QUALITY: PUTTING PATIENTS AT THE CENTER OF EVERYTHING WE DO Lilly is known for superior quality—in our clinical trials, our products, and the information we provide to our DESIGN DELIVER MONITOR customers. Producing quality medicines is our chief responsibility, and it is what protects the bond of Clinical Development Safety and Efficacy Data Safety trust between Lilly and our customers. Every day, we work to make sound decisions consistent with TOC current regulations, science, and the best interests Product Development Manufacturing and Distribution Product Complaints of patients. Our goal is to always carefully listen to 01 patients and customers and to respond through continuous improvement. Market Research Product Information Patient Experience 02 To meet the expectation of quality that is Lilly’s hallmark, our quality team updates and manages 03 the Lilly Quality System, providing the foundational quality requirements for processes throughout the product development cycle. An integrated structure 04 of standards, business processes, organizational controls, and management controls, the Lilly Quality 05 System is designed to assure that high-quality LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 25 medicine and information get to every patient, every We believe that focusing intently on both safety On its own, however, this data does not predict whether Advancing Medical Science time. The system harmonizes quality approaches, and quality leads to improved performance and an individual patient will specifically benefit from a as needed, among internal and external (contract) productivity. To maintain continuous improvement, particular medicine. Once patients begin using the manufacturers of Lilly medicines and provides the global manufacturing invests in the people, processes, medication, they are monitored by their healthcare overall quality direction across the company. technology, and facilities needed to ensure that Lilly and professionals to evaluate how the drug actually Elanco products provide the quality people expect. The performs. Even as physicians become experienced To ensure we are able to meet these standards, Lilly’s organization constantly measures performance and at identifying individual patients who will more likely quality organization provides on-site support as well productivity against its own stringent standards and best benefit from a specific drug therapy, it is still not always as conducts an annual risk-based audit to oversee manufacturing practices. We also use the Six Sigma possible to predict whether the drug will have the both internal Lilly and external partner operations. process-improvement system, originally developed by expected therapeutic benefit or whether side effects Audit results provide us with the knowledge we need Motorola, as a tool for ongoing improvement. will occur in an individual patient. to continue to make improvements to our quality controls and systems. GLOBAL PATIENT SAFETY Beginning with the discovery of a potential new medicine, BALANCING BENEFITS & RISKS OF MEDICATION LILLY GLOBAL MANUFACTURING our goal is to ensure that the benefits and risks of the Approximately 9,200 individuals—about 22 percent of our BENEFITS RISKS medicines we market are continuously monitored and employee base—compose Lilly’s global manufacturing well-understood by regulators, healthcare providers, and organization. The group operates 24 company-owned patients. Lilly’s global patient safety organization, consisting sites on five continents and manages relationships with of more than 300 physicians, pharmacists, nurses, more than 100 contract manufacturing organizations and other professionals, is dedicated to the collection, in 45 countries. Global manufacturing’s mission is to monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of safety information. TOC ensure a continuous supply of the safe, high-quality EFFICACY medicines for which the Lilly brand is known. Assessing the Benefits and Risks of Medications Well before a medicine is approved by regulatory 01 The organization works across Lilly’s businesses to authorities, it is rigorously assessed through carefully achieve company objectives and optimize value through designed clinical trials to better understand its benefits 02 a commitment to scientific excellence, quality, efficiency, and risks. The results of these studies are shared with CONVENIENCE SAFETY and integrity. All told, our global manufacturing function regulators, such as the Food and Drug Administration makes, packages, and distributes about 3,500 variations in the United States, so they can conduct their own 03 of our products (including different formulations, assessment before approving the drug for wider use. dosages, packaging configurations, and label languages) 04 for diverse markets around the world—60 percent When the regulatory agency approves a drug, it LIFE EFFECTS TOLERABILITY associated with our human pharmaceutical portfolio concludes that the drug’s benefits outweigh its risks and 40 percent associated with Elanco, our animal for the conditions outlined on the product label and that 05 there is a public health benefit from the medication. health division. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 26 Risk Management Plan Collecting Safety Information Throughout the Life event reports voluntarily reported directly from the Advancing Medical Science Lilly develops a risk management plan (RMP) for our Cycle of a Medication public, including healthcare providers and patients medications. The RMP outlines the specific plan to Learning how individual patients react to a medication who are using a medicine. further understand the safety profile of that product. is essential for the ongoing development of better treatment practices. Often, infrequent side effects can New safety findings and emerging concerns are shared It also outlines, when applicable, how Lilly plans to go only be observed after a medication has been approved openly with regulators and healthcare providers to about minimizing risks that may be associated with the and used across a large, diverse patient population for appropriately manage risks associated with the use of medication. For example, it may require training for an extended period of time. our medicines. We also work diligently to combat drug physicians that will teach them what specific actions counterfeiting, which poses serious health threats should be taken to lessen certain risks. For this reason, safety evaluation does not stop when a to patients. After a drug receives approval and is made available to medication reaches the market. After the completion of pre-marketing clinical trials, Lilly continues to carefully The Patient Safety section of Lilly’s website is available patients, the RMP continues to be updated as additional monitor for new safety findings. In fact, the monitoring to educate key external stakeholders about the role the information becomes available that impacts the safety increases—through collection of information from postpharmaceutical industry, regulators, physicians, and profile or benefit/risk balance of the product. Updates marketing clinical studies and spontaneous adverse patients play in ensuring medicines are safe and effective. are submitted to the regulatory authorities. TOC 01 02 03 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 27 Pharmacovigilance: The Continuous Monitoring of Product Safety Advancing Medical Science Lilly collects, monitors, and evaluates safety information throughout the life cycle of each medication. This system is designed to maintain and evaluate the product’s benefit/risk profile. When important safety issues arise, Lilly communicates them to doctors, patients, and regulatory agencies in various ways depending on the nature of the adverse event. DRUG DISCOVERY PRE-APPROVAL CLINICAL TRIALS POST-APPROVAL CLINICAL TRIALS AND REAL-WORLD USE Information gathered Adverse event information Individual adverse event reports from the public, including during toxicology studies/ collected and reported to patients, healthcare providers, and pharmacists SAFETY DATA animal research Lilly throughout the course of Post-marketing clinical and non-clinical studies and the trials epidemiological studies Published information about drugs in the same Scientific and medical literature pharmacological class TOC Depending on the nature of the event: 01 Create an intitial drug Update the drug safety profile Follow-up with doctors and Collaboration with regulators LILLY’S ACTION safety profile for use Create summary of safety patients to understand reported to share information 02 during clinical trials information for product adverse events Updates to product safety label safety label Continuous monitoring of Additional safety 03 reported adverse events to communications as necessary find trends and evaluate key Additional post-marketing 04 safety issues clinical trials and safety studies Notification to regulators 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 28 TOC Improving Global Health 01 02 03 Our Role in Healthcare Policy Responding to Ebola Patient Programs 04 Our Global Health Programs Product Pricing and Affordability Hunger Relief Product Donations 05 To be sure, expanding access to medicines is one Improving Global Health important aspect. But at Lilly, we recognize that we also need to think bigger—beyond the medicines we For all our human ingenuity and medical provide—to identify ways we can work with others to help meet the health challenges of our time. Lilly has a rich tradition of philanthropy, dating back advances—which have extended lifespans to the earliest days of the company. And we remain committed to giving back to society, sharing our financial resources and time to help make life better for others. and improved the quality of life for billions of Yet we know that philanthropy alone is no match for the scale of global health problems facing us today. Many countries lack even the basic infrastructure and people—far too many have been left behind. healthcare facilities needed to get the right treatment to those who need it. We need collaboration on a greater scale than ever before. At Lilly, this means seeking out Remedying that situation is not only a moral partnerships that help us amplify our resources and impact. It means lending our voice to important debates on health care. And it also means focusing strategically on the areas of public health where we feel we can TOC imperative, but also a very practical one. The make the greatest impact, while understanding that the diversity of the challenges before us means we need to use a wide variety of engagement strategies. 01 pharmaceutical industry has an important role Our global health programs, including the Lilly NCD Partnership and the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership, are 02 helping to expand access to medicines to people today 03 to play in addressing global health challenges in low-income communities, with the potential to help millions more as solutions are replicated and scaled. In 2013, Lilly joined other industry leaders in support of 04 and expanding access to quality care. a new U.N. framework around access to health care, and in early 2015, we announced a new commitment of $1 million to our partner AMPATH in Kenya, helping 05 to equip an oncology center, hire staff, and train local LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 30 healthcare workers. Our animal health division, Elanco, GUIDING PRINCIPLES ON ACCESS implementation toward achieving UHC. We believe the Improving Global Health is focused on the link between hunger and poor health, TO HEALTHCARE perspectives of the pharmaceutical industry, including and is dedicated to breaking the cycle of hunger in 100 our technical knowledge and experience in providing The complexity of the world’s global health challenges communities by 2017. Our patient assistance programs access to high-quality medicines and other health requires collaboration across the private sector, provide free or reduced-price medicine to those who solutions, makes us valuable partners in this discussion. governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), cannot afford to pay, including just over $527 million in donors, academia, and care providers. In this spirit, Lilly, As countries work toward achieving UHC, we hope the product in the United States, and Lilly product donations along with 12 other major healthcare companies, signed principles we advocate may offer guidance to policy help thousands of people each year around the world, on to the Guiding Principles on Access to Healthcare makers, industry members, and other stakeholders who especially in times of disaster. Through a variety of during the U.N. General Assembly in September 2013. seek to improve health care and meet the health needs patient programs, we work to make the healthcare As a set of industrywide principles and approaches, the of all citizens. While every country is unique and tailored system more accessible and effective, helping to document recognizes the importance of five core areas: approaches will be required, there are some common educate those receiving care, caregivers, and others collaboration, research and development, expanding challenges and opportunities faced by countries at all who impact patient outcomes, both directly availability of healthcare services, developing health stages of implementing UHC. Based on these areas of and indirectly. systems resources, and respecting human rights. shared experience, the guiding principles focus on eight key areas to inform the design of global UHC policies: Universal healthcare coverage (UHC) is a concept that Our Role in Healthcare Policy is also attracting increasing attention. In March 2014, • Equitable Access • Availability Lilly joined in another industrywide effort to voice • Efficiency • Adaptability There’s a growing body of evidence that suggests in support for the concept and to articulate some guiding • Quality • Choice developing countries, health does not follow wealth— principles for consideration. Lilly is committed to • Inclusiveness • Innovation it’s the other way around. A report by the World Health working with multiple stakeholders to shape action and TOC Organization (WHO) Commission on Macroeconomics and Health concluded that health is both a creator and pre-requisite of societal development. The Commission “At its core, universal health coverage (UHC) is the idea that people should be able to gain access to 01 underscored that extending the coverage of health the health care they need without experiencing financial hardship as a result. UHC has become an services and a small number of critical interventions 02 to the world’s poor could save millions of lives, reduce increasingly salient issue for developed and developing countries alike in the context of the global poverty, spur economic development, and promote global security. Likewise, a study from researchers at economic crisis, increasing healthcare demands, and still unmet medical needs. There is increasing 03 Harvard University estimated that one extra year of life recognition that providing quality UHC is an investment in socio-economic well-being and a key expectancy raises a country’s per capita GDP by about 4 04 percent. Evidence such as this of the profound benefits contributor to the wealth and economic productivity of countries.” of investing in robust healthcare systems informs Lilly’s — Innovative Biopharmaceutical Industry Perspectives on UNIVERSAL HEALTH COVERAGE 05 engagement in healthcare policy. March 2014, Proposed Public Policy Principles, March 2014 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 31 Improving Global Health “What a boon it would be to the world if all of the earth’s people had access to basic health care TOC 01 and modern medical 02 innovation.” 03 — John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Lilly Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 32 ADVOCATING FOR COLLECTIVE IMPACT • Global health experts including NGOs, academic insti• Who live where there is a shortage of health care, Improving Global Health THROUGH THE SHARED VALUE INITIATIVE tutions, and government agencies that bring long exwhere there is a shortage of healthcare professionals, perience in measuring health outcomes and recognize or where drug supply chains break down; Another way that Lilly participates in dialogues about the vast potential of corporate innovation to address • Who are inhibited by stigma from seeking global health impacts and outcomes is in conjunction public health challenges. treatment; or with the Shared Value Initiative, a collaboration of organizations committed to creating measurable For more on Lilly’s work in health policy, see the Ethics • Who could not afford our medicines even if they were business value by identifying and addressing social and Transparency section of this report. otherwise available to them. problems by applying business expertise. Like other actors in the global healthcare world, we are Starting in 2013, Lilly and more than 20 corporate leaders and global health experts came together at Our Global Health Programs one entity amid a much larger ecosystem. In seeking innovative solutions to healthcare challenges—whether the behest of the Shared Value Initiative to tackle the Historically, pharmaceutical companies such as Lilly they are access, affordability, or quality of care—no single challenge of measuring the outcomes of shared value have sold their products in markets that have wellorganization can solve these problems alone. That’s programs in health care. Sessions continued over the functioning healthcare systems and the economic why we partner with leading organizations at both the course of the year. A summary document provides a means to pay for innovative products. Philanthropic international and local level to tackle tough challenges guide for corporation practitioners. Participants in this donations have helped to further expand access to and use a variety of approaches, tools, and tactics. dialogue included two distinct groups with different, but medicines and improved health care to a relatively complementary, perspectives: limited number of people living in lowand middleOUR AMPATH PARTNERSHIP income countries. Faced with growing, aging • Representatives from pharmaceutical, medical deLilly is proud to play a small role in supporting the work populations, and already-strained healthcare budgets, vice, nutrition, technology, and telecommunications of AMPATH, or Academic Model Providing Access to however, governments are desperately looking for TOC companies that are pursuing shared value initiatives Healthcare. AMPATH is led by Moi Teaching and Referral new, sustainable solutions that improve overall health at various stages of implementation. These companies Hospital and the Moi University School of Medicine in outcomes and lower costs. see measurement as a critical barrier to fostering Eldoret, Kenya, and a consortium of North American 01 Lilly recognizes that we must continue to pursue a academic health centers, led by Indiana University. wider adoption and scale-up of shared value, but are still learning how to do it well. variety of strategies when it comes to making our Created in 2001 as a response to the HIV crisis, AMPATH 02 medicines available to patients more broadly. We are has since grown into a highly respected international actively seeking ways to serve those: research and care consortium, serving more than 3.5 million people who previously lacked access to basic 03 • Who do not have access to quality healthcare health care in Kenya and surrounding countries. delivery systems; 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 33 A Spectrum of Involvement: Lilly’s Global Health Programs One of Lilly’s long-running partnerships, AMPATH is Improving Global Health a great example of a philanthropic partnership that is strongly outcomes-based and has set a high bar for We know that the philanthropic efforts of Lilly and others in our sector are vitally important, and this will remain quality healthcare management and innovation in a a fixture of our global health portfolio. Increasingly, however, even our philanthropic efforts are being evaluated resource-constrained setting. AMPATH provides care and fine-tuned to create deeper and more sustainable impact over time. Our efforts to improve global health based on individual needs—from treating diabetes to span a spectrum ranging from traditional philanthropy, to donations of products and employee volunteerism, preventing hunger-related complications—and has been to strategic global health partnerships, and even to shared value strategies that link activities to Lilly’s nominated three times for the Nobel Peace Prize. Since business operations. 2002, Lilly has donated approximately $60 million in medicines to the program. In early 2015, we committed $1 million to help fund a new oncology center and hire PHILANTHROPY SHARED VALUE healthcare workers, allowing AMPATH to treat and provide palliative care to more people. Watch this video Addressing community needs Creating value for both to learn more about our partnership with AMPATH. and building goodwill business and society The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership Lilly’s Disaster Relief Grants Our Elanco TOC Support Hunger Relief of Life for Efforts a Child 01 The Lilly NCD Partnership 02 Our Connecting Our Access 03 Hearts Abroad to Medicine Program Expansion Efforts 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 34 THE RISING BURDEN OF NCDS LILLY’S SIGNATURE HEALTH PROGRAMS The Lilly NCD Partnership Improving Global Health The Lilly NCD Partnership was launched in 2011 to help Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are a complex In recent years, we have sharpened our thinking and our and growing public health threat, accounting for stem the rising tide of non-communicable diseases, focus for our global health programs, and challenged approximately 36 million deaths each year, according which include cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic ourselves to ask the big question: How can we find longto the World Health Organization (WHO). Commonly respiratory diseases, and diabetes. Collectively, NCDs term, sustainable solutions that have the potential to not mistaken for diseases that mainly afflict affluent are by far the leading cause of deaths worldwide. After countries, NCDs—which include diabetes, cancer, just help hundreds or thousands of people, but millions? consulting with key global health stakeholders at the cardiovascular diseases, and chronic respiratory The answer we have repeatedly found is that only through international, national, and local levels, we determined diseases—disproportionately affect the most vulnerable. collaboration can we maximize the overall impact of our that we could best contribute by primarily focusing on In fact, a staggering 80 percent of these deaths occur in lowand middle-income countries. work. Increasingly, we are using a “collective impact” diabetes, which particularly affects those who are socially approach to help address global health issues that and economically disadvantaged. For more than 90 years, This impact is exacerbated by the fact that healthcare disproportionately afflict people living in lowerto middleLilly has been a world leader in pioneering diabetes systems in these countries have traditionally been oriented income countries. This approach is best illustrated by solutions. Given our history, deep expertise, and current toward infectious diseases and other areas, including maternal and child health. Amid scarce resources and Lilly’s two signature global health programs: the Lilly product portfolio and pipeline, diabetes was a natural competing healthcare system demands, many people NCD Partnership and the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership. choice as the first area of focus for the Lilly with NCDs are diagnosed late—if at all. And for those NCD Partnership. Through these two programs, we are actively engaged who are diagnosed, care is variable at best. More than 16 million deaths attributed to NCDs occur before the age with nearly 50 leading health and governmental As part of our commitment, Lilly is investing $30 of 70. As these diseases take lives, they also diminish organizations to tackle two stubborn diseases: diabetes million over five years to strengthen diabetes care opportunities. Poverty grinds on. Development stalls. and tuberculosis. Our ultimate goal is to find solutions for people in rural and urban settings in Brazil, India, Struggling communities weaken even further. And families that can be scaled up and replicated around the world, Mexico, and South Africa. In those four countries TOC face the loss of loved ones, lost income, and potentially creating ripple effects that touch even more lives. alone, 91 million people live with diabetes, the catastrophic healthcare expenditures. You can read more about our global health initiatives, equivalent of one-quarter of the population of the There are few successful models and limited international including specific progress in target countries, in our United States. We are working with our partners to 01 funding for NCDs, but recognition of the challenge is Global Health Programs Report. develop and evaluate approaches that strengthen the increasing, and global health organizations, governments, early detection and timely treatment of diabetes—with 02 and other stakeholders are mobilizing to address the the goal of sustainably improving patient and health human, financial, and societal toll of these diseases. The systems outcomes and possibly even lowering costs. WHO Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control 03 of NCDs 2013–2020 provides a road map and a menu of Evidence shows that investments in early intervention policy options for cross-sector collaboration that, when efforts can improve health outcomes and reduce the implemented, will attain nine voluntary global targets, need for more expensive treatment later, typically at 04 including a 25 percent reduction in premature deaths from far greater cost to families, communities, and society. NCDs by 2025. Achieving these targets would save millions 05 of lives. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 35 Here are some highlights Improving Global Health Mexico of our work: Our partner in Mexico is the Carlos Slim Foundation (CSF), a In October 2013, Mexico’s Ministry of Health adopted the CSF’s nonprofit organization that finds new solutions for key health model as part of its strategy against obesity and diabetes. The issues afflicting Latin America and Mexico’s most vulnerable Casalud model was scaled and implemented across nearly all of populations. Through the partnership, we have collaborated with Mexico by the end of 2014. Through our ongoing partnership with the foundation to help standardize, monitor, and evaluate a pilot CSF, we will continue to evaluate the implementation of this model India of its Casalud healthcare model. The model offers an innovative, in two states and the resulting patient outcomes. We will use the We work with three organizations in India— comprehensive approach to address NCDs at primary care data to further validate the model, improve it, and facilitate its the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), clinics with a focus on diabetes and hypertension. implementation nationally. Population Services Incorporated (PSI), and Project HOPE. With PHFI as the program lead, we are implementing a program designed to help prevent, detect, and reduce the risk of diabetes and hypertension, and collecting operational research on the effectiveness of South Africa Brazil the intervention. In Johannesburg, South Africa, we’re partnering with In Brazil, the Lilly NCD Partnership works on two projects The program, known as UDAY, is the Project HOPE on a five-year community-based project that is that are helping address gaps in the country’s approach to largest comprehensive, community-based addressing gaps in care for people at risk of—or already living diabetes. With the Institute for Children with Diabetes, we are diabetes initiative of its kind in India. It has the with—diabetes. Further south, in the vast rural stretches of seeking to improve long-term healthcare outcomes for young potential to reach more than 400,000 people South Africa’s Eastern Cape, we’re working with the Donald people with type 1 diabetes. With the Medical Foundation of living in two pilot areas, significantly improve Woods Foundation to build on its success with home-based Rio Grande do Sul—Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, TOC patient and health system outcomes, and HIV programs by adding diabetes and hypertension screening we are focusing on finding replicable approaches to reduce modernize diabetes and hypertension and care to its existing model. the incidence of type 2 diabetes in women who have previously care—while reducing overall cost to the been diagnosed with gestational diabetes. 01 healthcare system. Our UDAY partners have established a 02 research program to collect data and understand an array of factors that contribute to the spread of diabetes and hypertension— 03 from prevalence to patient knowledge base, GLOBAL STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE ON NCDS to healthcare provider practices. Based on Finding enduring solutions to treat NCDs requires smart collaboration from diverse stakeholders. To ensure that we can leverage learnings 04 this data, we, along with our partners, are around our work in NCDs, we actively share our approaches and key outcomes on an ongoing basis as well as every year at the Lilly NCD implementing and evaluating a multifaceted Partnership Summit, a gathering for all of our partners. In 2014, Lilly also collaborated with other companies, international nonprofit federations, intervention program through 2016. and foundations focused on NCDs to organize two “NCD cafés” during major health conferences. These forums helped to facilitate dialogue 05 among prominent global health leaders on key NCD topics and included representatives from the WHO and the United Nations. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 36 “We’re open to making a small Connecting Hearts Abroad in South Africa Improving Global Health difference, however we can, today. Amy Sousa is one of 20 Lilly ambassadors who have served with the And we’re open to the possibility that Lilly NCD Partnership in South Africa through the Lilly volunteer program, Connecting Hearts Abroad. These volunteer teams include through the work of Project HOPE and doctors, pharmacists, and diabetes educators, as well as specialists in communication, training, and information technology. They help Lilly, we collectively can make a big with community health screenings, patient education, and other services at the HOPE Centre. difference in the years to come.” — Amy Sousa, Communications Advisor, Lilly Research Laboratories TOC 01 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 37 At a Glance: the Lilly MDR-TB Technology Transfer THE LILLY MDR-TB PARTNERSHIP Improving Global Health Collaboration also powers the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership, Over the course of a decade, Lilly partnered with seven manufacturers—four in countries with high burdens of which was launched in 2003 to fight multidrug-resistant MDR-TB—to create a reliable supply of capreomycin and cycloserine, and to improve local access to medicines. tuberculosis (MDR-TB). This hard-to-treat form of In the process, Lilly: TB is preventable and curable if patients get the right medicine at the right time. But too often that’s not the case: MDR-TB needlessly kills more than 150,000 people each year. It develops when a TB patient doesn’t Gave away its manufacturing know-how for capreomycin and cycloserine know he or she has the disease or doesn’t adhere to the proper course of treatment, and the TB strain evolves into MDR-TB—a much harder-to-treat form of TB that Used external contract manufacturers to expand supply of capreomycin during technology transfer can require up to 24 months of treatment. to ensure continuity of supply chain The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership is our largest philanthropic effort ever—a $170 million commitment from 2003– Committed the time and expertise of multiple staff members over the lifetime of the project 2016. The partnership began when Lilly gave away the manufacturing technology and know-how to produce two Lilly antibiotics, capreomycin and cycloserine, to Offered on-site technical and quality assistance manufacturers in China, India, Russia, and South Africa— four MDR-TB “hot spots”—to help create a more reliable supply of these critical medicines. We also worked with TOC other partners to strengthen healthcare systems so they Funded local facility upgrades or the purchase of specialized equipment aimed at minimizing future manufacturing costs for our partners could better respond to the MDR-TB threat, and to fund 01 drug discovery efforts for badly needed new medicines. Lilly’s experience and insights from this decade-long 02 Worked to improve process efficiency so that partners could reinvest in local staff and facilities initiative are documented in a white paper released in 2014, Seeking Solutions to a Global Health Crisis video . Lilly’s experience is also detailed in a video released with 03 the report. Helped partners build additional manufacturing capacity to strengthen long-term sustainability The need is as pressing as ever: The WHO notes that 04 more than 450,000 people contracted MDR-TB in 2013 alone. Combatting MDR-TB effectively requires 05 a comprehensive approach to address multiple social, LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 38 economic, and medical issues simultaneously. Today, (National Academy of Sciences of Taiwan) joined the launched in 2012 and is targeting the discovery of new Improving Global Health our partnership is composed of more than 25 health initiative as a contributing member. TB medicines by collaborating on early-stage research. organizations; academic institutions; and corporations, The goal of this partnership is to shorten treatment time Infectious Disease Research Institute including the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria; for TB from the current minimum of six months to two We partner closely with IDRI, located in Seattle, to and the WHO. Together, we’ve trained more than 100,000 months, which would keep an additional 1 million people support its research efforts to find new TB medicines. healthcare professionals and nurses, distributed on treatment each year, reducing deaths and slowing the We’ve committed more than $20 million in funding and guidelines and toolkits to more than 45,000 hospitals development of drug resistance. in-kind contributions to IDRI from 2008–2016. Initially, and clinics, provided messages about TB to millions of we provided start-up funding and helped to establish The partnership is unique because it breaks from people in high-risk populations through innovative public IDRI’s fully equipped high-efficiency screening and traditional research and development practices. Instead awareness campaigns, and educated more than 350 chemistry laboratories. We also provide access to Lilly of competing, members work together to develop the journalists about the disease. research tools and our corporate compound library to best prospects, regardless of where they originated. TB Drug Discovery Efforts enable the screening of more than 800,000 molecular The structures of lead compounds identified through the As part of the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership, we are entities for activity against TB. Lilly scientists volunteer program will ultimately be placed in the public domain. committed to supporting research for greatly needed time to assist IDRI with its discovery efforts, contributing The first round of screening for new TB drug candidates new TB medicines. Most current medicines used to treat their scientific and technical expertise—and passion— has been completed, and compounds are advancing rapidly. TB are at least 50 years old, take too long to work, and for finding new TB medicines. Learn more about our Global Stakeholder Engagement on MDR-TB have potentially debilitating side effects. partnership with IDRI in this video . Lilly is actively involved with global conversations on The Lilly TB Drug Discovery Initiative MDR-TB, especially how to address market barriers We launched the Lilly TB Drug Discovery Initiative in to ensure the timely and efficient distribution of 2007 as a not-for-profit, public-private partnership with high-quality medicines to those who need them TOC a mission to accelerate early-stage drug discovery. most. Through our engagement efforts, we are in Headquartered in Seattle, Washington, the initiative discussions and collaborations with organizations on 01 brings together representatives from governments, the front lines of fighting TB, including the Center for philanthropic organizations, pharmaceutical Strategic and International Studies, the USAID Center companies, universities, and other research institutions for Accelerating Innovation and Impact, the Centers 02 to search for new TB treatments. The most important for Disease Control, the Global Health Council, the goal of the initiative is filling the pipeline with new TB Food and Drug Administration, the Global Fund, the 03 medicines. The initiative’s founding members represent TB Drug Accelerator European Parliament, Doctors without Borders, the a unique consortium linking private, not-for-profit, and Lilly is a member of a groundbreaking collaboration WHO, Partners in Health, and the Stop TB Partnership, public sectors—including Lilly, the Infectious Disease between eight pharmaceutical companies and 04 among others. At the country level, we work closely with Research Institute (IDRI), and the National Institute seven research organizations known as the TB Drug important national institutions, including national TB of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) of the U.S. Accelerator. The partnership, aided by nearly $20 control programs and leading TB research institutions. 05 National Institutes of Health. In 2009, Academia Sinica million from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, was LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 39 Hunger Relief Improving Global Health The world’s population is expected to soar from 7 billion today to 9 billion by 2050. At Elanco, Lilly’s animal health division, our vision is a food-secure future—a world “Food security is an issue we can start to solve now. If we focus on where everyone has access to enough nutritious and affordable food. Over the next few years, the world will experience the fastest growth of the global middle class in history. An the need, rely on a science-based increase in income typically leads to an increase in a family’s intake of meat, milk, and eggs. Yet, based on today’s production trends, the world might not have enough resources to meet demand. The gap is widening approach, and take leadership, we between what society will need and what farmers are able to produce. We believe every person on earth deserves a minimum of a glass of milk and an egg a day—a modest, but can create a food-secure future—one achievable, goal. Elanco has been developing the tools and technologies that protect animals from infectious disease, reduce the environmental impact of livestock TOC production, enhance animal well-being, and eradicate food-borne illness. These, in turn, enable farmers and 01 02 producers to provide greater amounts of food—safely and sustainably. Elanco is dedicated to improving animal health, including in which 9 billion people have access to enough nutritious, affordable food.” the health of animals raised for food. In other words, we’re 03 very much in the business of feeding the world. That’s why it makes sense for us to focus our sustainability strategy on reducing hunger and improving access to food. 04 Through global partnerships and volunteer efforts in — Jeff Simmons, Elanco President 05 our own backyard, we support community programs LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 40 and initiatives that provide food to those who need it and Improving Global Health promote awareness of hunger and the related problem of food insecurity. Our commitment focuses on three areas: employee engagement, community engagement, and sustainable development, with a goal of nutritious food that is accessible and affordable to all. We have pledged to “break the cycle of hunger” in 100 SUSTAINABLE EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY communities1 around the world by 2017, and we’re DEVELOPMENT ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT working with a range of partner organizations, from food “We will be a global leader in “We are personally invested “We will break the cycle of banks to Heifer International (see page 44). Breaking sustainable food-security initiatives.” in the hunger cause.” hunger in our communities.” the cycle means making at least 100 people more food secure for at least one year. By the end of 2014, we had made food more secure in 53 communities around the world through philanthropic partnerships, companysponsored donation programs, and volunteer initiatives that deliver food, dollars, and Elanco capabilities to “Everyone has a basic right to food. In the past 30 those who need it most. In addition, we have set a simultaneous goal of years, China has made significant progress to advance food security. Unfortunately, there are still 200 million engaging 100 percent of our employees so they are invested in the hunger cause. In 2014, we engaged 65 TOC percent of our people in volunteer activities, up from people in China today who struggle for their meals. 57 percent in 2013, and 87 percent of employees said 01 they were proud of our company’s efforts around food security. In 2014, Elanco employees committed Elanco is helping to make a difference by working to 02 approximately 20,000 hours of volunteer time; by 2017, we expect that Elanco employees will have volunteered 100,000 hours over a period of four years. 03 04 provide more affordable, abundant, and nutritious food.” — Yang Yunfeng, Senior Corporate Affairs Manager and Elanco Hunger Ambassador, Beijing, China 05 1 We have defined a community as one that includes 100 or more people. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 41 Growing Middle Class Drives Need for New Sources of Food Improving Global Health 7B POPULATION 1.8B MIDDLE CLASS 3 BILLION JOIN THE MIDDLE CLASS*,** 9B POPULATION 4.8B MIDDLE CLASS FASTEST GROWTH TO OCCUR BETWEEN NOW AND 2020 TODAY 2050 * Food & Agriculture Organization (FAO). “How to Feed the World in 2050” Rome. ** Kharas, Homi. “The Emerging Middle Class in Developing Countries.” Global 12-13 October 2009. pg. 1-6 www.fao.org/fileadmin/templates/wsfs/ docs/ Development Outlook. OECD Development Center. Working Paper No. 285. expert_paper/How_to_Feed_the_World_ in_2050.pdf. January 2010. www.oecd.org/dev/44457738.pdf. TOC INCREASING DEMAND FOR MEAT, MILK & EGGS FEEDING MORE WITH LESS 01 02 60 1.5 WE WILL NEED BY OVERUSING OUR RESOURCES, IT TAKES 03 % MORE ANIMALYEARS FOR THE EARTH TO REGENERATE ANNUAL SOURCED FOODS*** CONSUMPTION**** 04 *** Food & Agriculture Organization (FAO). “World Livestock 2011: Livestock in Food Security.” **** World Wildlife Fund (WWF). “Living Planet Report 2012: Biodiversity, biocapacity and 05 Rome, 2011. better choices.” LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 42 “We live in a world of extremes—from extreme excess We give all of our people an opportunity to use a half Improving Global Health day per quarter, on company time, to volunteer with a local hunger project. We want our employees to connect to extreme poverty. Food is a commodity that many on a personal level to the problems of world hunger so that they can contribute to solutions. Across our company, we have a team of approximately 60 “hunger of us take for granted and yet so many go hungry ambassadors” who help to coordinate on-the-ground volunteer activities with their Elanco peers in 23 different countries. Programs range from providing backpacks and battle for every mouthful. Elanco’s hunger cause filled with food for children facing food insecurity at home to stocking shelves at local food pantries. is critical because food is something we all need. THE “ENOUGH” REPORT It’s about redressing that balance and making that Read our recent report on the realities and solutions available to achieve global food security. Written by Elanco President Jeff Simmons, “Enough: The Fight for a Food-Secure Tomorrow” difference. And Elanco is indeed making a difference highlights the urgency to act now. Simmons advocates for farmers to have access to innovative tools and practices that will enable them to feed a growing global population and save by harnessing our technical expertise to manufacture natural resources. TOC “We have—either right now or in the pipeline—the technology that would enable us to meet consumer demand in 2050. But 01 products that can and do make a difference toward we need to give farmers the ability to access and utilize this technology and ensure that proven innovation and farm practices which maintain health and productivity are available for use,” 02 putting food on the table.” Simmons said. 03 — Julie Ann MacCluskey, Public Relations and Communications Associate and Elanco Hunger Ambassador Speke, United Kingdom 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 43 “As a food animal veterinarian, my career is based OUR WORK WITH HEIFER INTERNATIONAL Improving Global Health Elanco has had a strategic relationship with the nonprofit Heifer International since 2007, part of an ongoing program to lift 100,000 around knowing that animals and their byproducts will families, or 600,000 individuals, out of hunger. We have committed a $1.5 million matching challenge to the organization’s East Africa Dairy Development (EADD) project, which aims to provide eventually be involved in feeding and clothing humans. sustainable livelihoods for more than 600,000 people in Uganda, Tanzania, and Kenya by 2018. Funding for the matching challenge was provided by The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. Access to available protein for growth and health of Overall, Elanco has contributed more than $3 million to Heifer projects that include contributions of animals and training for families in Indonesia, Zambia, and China. children and adults is a key part of agriculture. I am Launched in 2008, EADD focuses on empowering small dairy producers to move beyond subsistence toward sustainable proud to be a veterinarian who plays a role in the livelihoods. Farmers receive extensive training on dairy husbandry, business practices and operations, and marketing of dairy products. Phase II of the project will employ new technologies and improved health and growth of animals so that humans practices around feed production, alternative energy sources, and milk transport systems. The project ultimately will reach 136,000 smallholder dairy farmers, giving them—and their families— around the world can have a better diet. Feeding the opportunities to achieve financial independence. The program will also give more people in the region better access to dairy products. TOC Elanco’s commitment includes the donation of products that will 01 most impoverished people in the world and making help dairy farmers improve the health of their cows, the talents of Elanco employees to provide on-site training in cow health, and financial support through 2018. 02 food more affordable for them is something all of 03 04 us at Elanco can be proud of.” — Christopher Dale Ashworth, Doctor of Veterinary Medicine and Elanco Hunger Ambassador, 05 Arkansas, United States LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 44 Responding to Ebola Sierra Leone. In addition, the Lilly Foundation support exploring ways to help people at different income levels Improving Global Health helped Direct Relief International make emergency get access to the Lilly medicines they need. At the same In our scientific discovery, we follow where the science shipments to aid medical responders in more than time, we need to protect the work of discovery that is not leads us. That means that about every 10 years, Lilly’s 60 facilities. possible without solid intellectual property protection, the portfolio changes, and over time our therapeutic areas • Lilly employees worldwide who contribute $25 or lifeblood of any enterprise generating value from ideas. of focus change as well. Decades ago, our portfolio more to Ebola relief projects are automatically included vaccines and other antivirals, the types of On average, it takes nearly 10 years and $1 billion to bring matched by the Lilly Foundation. Through the Lilly a new medicine from the drawing board to the pharmacy. products most likely to be effective in treating Ebola, but Global Giving program, as of the end of 2014, Lilly those products are not part of the Lilly portfolio today. Without the ability to protect Lilly’s intellectual property employees and the Lilly Foundation had donated (IP), medical innovation would not be sustainable. And the Nonetheless, in 2014, as news of the outbreak spread, nearly $42,500 to Ebola relief. Andrew Dahlem, Ph.D., Lilly’s vice president for Lilly benefits of IP protection include not only breakthrough Research Laboratories operations, led an analysis of medicines, but, over time, a broad range of low-priced Lilly’s molecule library and portfolio to see if any of our molecules might prove active against Ebola. Product Pricing and Affordability generic medicines, which are an important legacy of the innovative research-based industry. Medicines play an important role in making life better for Lilly may not have a recent history with the kinds of people. When used appropriately, medications can help us treatments that might prove effective against Ebola, but we do have capabilities and assets that may be useful live longer and healthier, slow the progression of disease, improve management of chronic conditions, enhance our Product Donations In addition to our financial contributions to organizations as further scientific understanding of the virus and host quality of life, prevent or minimize complications and side working to support global health initiatives, Lilly donates response unfolds. Lilly has been actively involved in effects of disease, or even eliminate the need for costly medicines in a variety of settings, including through other efforts to understand and combat Ebola: or painful hospitalizations and surgeries. But the role of partnerships with aid organizations, nonprofits, and TOC medicines in making life better extends well beyond the • Tim Garnett, M.D., Lilly’s chief medical officer, governmental bodies. people who use them directly. Families, caregivers, the is a member of the Ebola response coordination broader healthcare system, and society all benefit from 01 team from the Pharmaceutical Research and INSULIN PARTNERSHIP WITH LIFE FOR A CHILD the use of new medicines. By helping people prevent and Manufacturers of America that will coordinate the manage disease, medicines can reduce overall health Between 2008 and 2015, Lilly has committed to donating 02 unified response to the crisis by member companies. spending, enhance the productivity of our workforce, and more than 800,000 vials of insulin to the International • An Eli Lilly and Company Foundation grant of $100,000 improve public health. When compared against other Diabetes Federation’s Life for a Child program—one of 03 made in 2014 to long-time partners Project HOPE healthcare interventions, medicines are by far one of the our largest single-product donations. Today, the IDF’s and Direct Relief International will support aid efforts most cost effective. program provides support to 15,000 children and youths in the most affected West African countries. Thanks with diabetes in 46 of the world’s poorest countries. 04 to this support, Project HOPE has sent shipments of At Lilly, we recognize that people are concerned about medicines and supplies to Sierra Leone. Lilly’s grant the cost of medicines. We share this concern and are working in several ways to address it. Increasingly, we are 05 has also supported a logistics assessment team in LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 45 DISASTER RELIEF Impact of the Affordable Care Act our product donations are made through TruAssist, Improving Global Health When the U.S. economy began its downward turn which serves as the umbrella program for our many When disasters strike, Lilly responds with cash and in 2007, many patients found themselves lacking patient assistance efforts. product contributions to help people in desperate prescription insurance coverage and experienced situations. Every disaster is different, prompting a wide Our patient assistance programs align with our business hardship in obtaining access to Lilly medications. This variety of needs. When responding, we take great care objectives, focusing on our core areas of expertise, trend continued through 2013. With the implementation not to overburden the local infrastructure, so that our including Alzheimer’s disease, cancer, diabetes, and of the Affordable Care Act in 2014, we began to see a product donations are meaningful. We donate items that mental illness. Our programs help us gain valuable change in the use of our programs. For the first time in are specifically requested by relief agencies, partnering patient insights while offering individuals the best seven years, our programs saw a decrease in demand. with them to best leverage our support. In 2014, Lilly treatments possible. Many patients previously needing assistance in our gave $1.9 million in cash and product donations in the programs now found themselves eligible for medical We support many programs, including the following wake of natural disasters. coverage from other sources. examples. PATIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS DIABETES PROGRAMS It’s important to us to make sure that those who can benefit from our medicines have access to them. The Patient Programs Diabetes Conversations Here at Lilly, we want to do what we can to create Created by Healthy Interactions in collaboration with majority of our product donations are made through a more accessible healthcare system with better the International Diabetes Federation, Lilly Diabetes Lilly TruAssist, which serves as the umbrella program treatment options and better care. We believe we can sponsors the Diabetes Conversations program, featuring for Lilly’s many patient assistance efforts. In the United play a role in educating patients and family members, Conversation Map™ education tools. This innovative States, Lilly TruAssist provides access to products as well as leaders and other decision makers who can education method uses a unique, visual approach to for people who might not otherwise be able to afford TOC potentially impact health outcomes. facilitate interactive group participation and empower our medicines. In addition to product donations, some people with diabetes to become actively involved in programs featured on Lilly TruAssist connect patients We work cooperatively across sectors to promote managing the disease. The education tools, available 01 to co-pay programs, or offer information and assistance access to medicines, including sponsoring patient in 38 languages, have been launched in more than 121 with therapies. See this video to learn more. assistance programs. Such programs demonstrate countries since 2008. 02 our desire to improve patient outcomes by helping patients meet the challenge of obtaining access to Lilly Diabetes Camps medications. Thanks to the variety of patient assistance For more than a decade, Lilly has been one of the largest 03 programs supported by Lilly, a wide portfolio of valuable providers of insulin and glucagon, educational materials, medications is available to eligible patients. volunteers, scholarships, and special guests to diabetes 04 camps through the comprehensive Lilly Camp Care In the United States, for example, Lilly TruAssist Package. In 2014, 129 diabetes camps participated in the provides access to products for eligible patients through Camps in Color program, an art therapy-based initiative 05 several patient assistance programs. The majority of for children. Requesting camps received $3.89 million LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 46 in insulin product and 151,000 educational book packs. a variety of fun and educational printed resources The result is a compelling art collection that provides Improving Global Health Lilly also provided $91,000 in camperships through its including a book series for younger children featuring insights into the wide range of emotions experienced by partnership with the American Diabetes Association. Coco, the first Disney character with T1D. Most of the those touched by cancer. For more information, see the Learn more about diabetes camps in this video . books, including the flagship book, Coco and Goofy’s Lilly Oncology On Canvas website. Goofy Day, are now available through many pediatric PACE endocrinologist and other healthcare provider offices in Lilly Oncology is dedicated to helping improve the 50 countries and 30 languages around the world. In the cancer policy environment—specifically those decisions United States, the collaboration also offers the books that impact the development of treatments and patient online, along with other unique content that provides access to care. In 2012, Lilly Oncology launched PACE advice and practical tips, recipes, and activities for (Patient Access to Cancer care Excellence), an initiative families affected by T1D at www.T1EverydayMagic.com. that aims to encourage public policies and healthcare decisions that speed the development of new medicines, ALZHEIMER’S PROGRAMS assure cancer treatments respond to the needs and “Worried About Your Memory?” Campaign qualities of individual patients, and improve patient Lilly sees the value that camps bring to children with To help people who have concerns about dementia, access to the most effective cancer medicines. For diabetes. Since 2001, the company has donated $25 Lilly has partnered with the Alzheimer’s Society on more information, see the PACE Network website. million in medications, 170,500 educational book packs the “Worried About Your Memory?” campaign. The with materials on diabetes management, and, since campaign encourages people concerned about their MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAMS 2008, $623,000 in camp scholarships. memories to visit their doctors and seek diagnoses. Lilly Reintegration Scholarships Together, we have enabled 1.7 million leaflets, 17,000 Type 1 Diabetes: Collaboration with Disney Over the past 15 years, Lilly Reintegration Scholarships TOC campaign posters, and 60,000 information booklets to A child’s diagnosis of type 1 diabetes (T1D) can be have assisted students living with mental illness by be distributed to surgical centers, health centers, and overwhelming, and caregivers often question if they will directing more than $4 million to cover their tuition, lab hospitals in the United Kingdom. 01 ever be able to get their families back into any kind of fees, and books at nearly 350 schools across the United daily routine. Both parents and the child may feel the States. The program specifically benefits individuals ONCOLOGY PROGRAMS living with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, 02 diagnosis is the end of their future hopes and dreams. Oncology On CanvasSM bipolar disorder, or major depressive disorder who This understanding of a family’s situation served as the The Lilly Oncology On Canvas: Expressions of a Cancer wish to attain a certificate or degree from an accredited foundation for Lilly Diabetes to collaborate with one of 03 Journey Art Competition and Exhibition honors the institution to help them secure employment and the most recognizable brands in the world: Disney. Lilly journeys people face when confronted with a cancer reintegrate into society. Approximately 1,200 students pairs its deep expertise in diabetes care with Disney’s diagnosis. The biennial competition invites individuals have received assistance from the scholarship—in 04 magical storytelling to encourage and inspire families diagnosed with any type of cancer—as well as their pursuit of all levels of education, from high school coping with a diagnosis of T1D for a child. families, friends, caregivers, and healthcare providers— equivalency degree to Ph.D.—attending state and private 05 Launched in 2011, the Lilly Diabetes and Disney to express, through art and narrative, the life-affirming universities, community colleges, and trade schools. collaboration offers healthcare providers and families changes that give their cancer journeys meaning. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 47 TOC Strengthening Communities 01 02 03 Giving at Lilly 04 Volunteerism at Lilly Education Initiatives 05 Each year, Lilly donates substantial amounts of products Strengthening Communities and cash—more than $590 million in total in 2014—and our employees volunteer their skills around the world. Our company vision—making a significant Many of our donations, including those provided through The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, focus on improving patient outcomes and enhancing quality of life. contribution to humanity by improving global Our commitments to helping those in need started with our founder, who aided the poor and unemployed in Indianapolis. In 1937, the Lilly family established the health in the 21st century—calls on us to give Lilly Endowment, which has since grown to become one of the largest and most important foundations in the country. The family members were also major donors to back to the world around us. In addition to our the Community Fund, which eventually became known as United Way. That relationship continues today; in 2014, Lilly presented a gift of $12.7 million to the nonprofit—our company’s largest ever United Way contribution. work finding and developing new medicines, we Giving at Lilly TOC fulfill this vision by using our financial resources, Philanthropy will always be a hallmark of Lilly. But we’re also exploring ways we can extend our impact by tapping our business expertise to create new partnerships and our time, and our expertise to make a meaningful, make significant strides in several key focus areas. That’s 01 one reason why we’ve sharpened our focus on improving health for people in lowand middle-income countries 02 and strengthening the communities where we work and 03 measurable, and sustainable difference in the live, especially through improvements to education. We’re partnering with leading health organizations and communities where we operate. governments to explore new approaches to complex 04 global health challenges, as discussed in more detail in the Improving Global Health section of this report. Our Elanco animal health division, meanwhile, is working to break the 05 cycle of hunger in communities around the world. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 49 Charitable Donations* Strengthening Communities In 2014, we saw a decrease in the number of people requesting assistance through our U.S. patient assistance programs following the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, which allows previously uninsured low-income Americans to obtain healthcare coverage. As a result, fewer people were in need of donations from Lilly. 2012 2013 2014 Product Donations $645M $695M $550M + + + $55M $55M $40M TOC Cash and In-Kind Contributions 01 02 = = = THE CIVIC 50 In 2014, Lilly was named to The Civic 50, an annual 03 $700M $750M $590M Total list of America’s most community-minded companies. Contributions An initiative of Bloomberg LP and Points of Light, The 04 Civic 50 was created in 2012 to measure corporate civic engagement and to recognize companies that incorporate socially responsible practices and 05 community leadership into their cultures. *Total charitable donations include funding from Lilly and the Lilly Foundation. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 50 Charitable Giving: Highlights Strengthening Communities In 2014, we gave more than $590 Lilly has invested a total of million in charitable contributions We gave approximately $170 million since 2003 to (including cash, products, and other $1.9 million in cash and product fight multidrug-resistant in-kind donations) to organizations donations in 2014 following tuberculosis through the around the world. natural disasters. Lilly MDR-TB Partnership. We have committed to donating more The Lilly NCD Partnership Since its launch in 2011, than 800,000 vials of insulin to provides $30 million over five Lilly employees have raised more TOC the International Diabetes Federation’s years (2012–2016) to fight the than $1.1 million through Lilly 01 “Life for a Child” program between rising burden of non-communicable Global Giving, supporting more 2008 and 2015. The program is diseases (NCDs) in developing than 800 projects in the areas of 02 currently reaching 15,000 children and nations, with a focus on diabetes. health, hunger, education, and 03 youth with diabetes in 48 countries. the environment. 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 51 Volunteerism at Lilly Strengthening Communities Lilly actively encourages employees to volunteer and give back, and we develop programs that enable them to do so. Our robust tradition of volunteerism is often cited as a reason why people come to work for our company. Our annual Global Day of Service (GDOS) is among the largest single-day volunteer initiatives of any U.S. company. “Connecting Hearts Abroad is one of In 2014, some 24,000 Lilly employees, dressed in signature Lilly red T-shirts, fanned out across communities in nearly 60 countries, accomplishing in one day what might otherwise take months or even years. Since our first the best ways to engage our employees. GDOS in 2008, Lilly employees have contributed more than 725,000 volunteer hours through these daylong efforts. Activities ranged from working in food pantries to People come back energized, excited, outdoor beautification projects to developing activities for special needs students. In Indianapolis, Lilly attorneys and the Wills for Heroes Foundation partnered with two U.S. laws firms to provide free wills to 100 TOC 01 and appreciative of the opportunities we police officers, firefighters, and other first responders. Another flagship volunteer program at Lilly is Connecting Hearts Abroad, which sends employees on 02 have—as individuals and as a company— two-week assignments in impoverished communities around the globe. Since we began the program in 2011, more than 600 employees, representing all job levels and roles at our company, have participated in what 03 04 to help improve people’s lives.” many have described as a life-changing experience. Working alongside local partners in some of the world’s most impoverished communities, these Lilly — Stacy Burdett, Senior District Sales Manager, Cardiovascular, Kansas City, Kansas, and ambassadors have the opportunity to view the world 05 Lilly Ambassador to Thailand through a different lens, applying their energies and LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 52 Global Day of Service Around the World Strengthening Communities On October 2, 2014, more than 24,000 Lilly employees in nearly 60 countries took part in Lilly’s seventh annual Global Day of Service. For more information, visit our website. ONE OF THE LARGEST SINGLE-DAY 2014 MARKED THE 7TH ANNUAL SINCE 2008, EMPLOYEES HAVE VOLUNTEER PROGRAMS IN THE WORLD LILLY GLOBAL DAY OF SERVICE VOLUNTEERED MORE THAN 725,000 HOURS TOC 01 02 03 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 53 passions toward improving health for those living in lowhigh-quality education is critical to breaking the cycle of has committed more than $6 million in philanthropic Strengthening Communities and middle-income countries. The employees selected poverty, and it must include investments in high-quality donations to improve the educational landscape in for the program get to see firsthand the day-to-day early education, which pays big dividends for students, Indianapolis. Some examples are detailed below and can challenges that confront people living in poverty. They schools, and communities. Studies have shown that be seen in this video of our education support. come back with insights and inspiration that make us a every dollar invested in early education provides returns better—and more globally aware—company. of up to $16 for society. In 2014, Lilly volunteers worked on assignments in That’s one reason why we enthusiastically championed Costa Rica, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Peru, South Africa, the Indianapolis Early Education program, which the Tanzania, and Thailand. About 30 of the ambassadors city’s legislature approved in the fall of 2014. Lilly volunteered at global health sites associated with the pledged to raise $10 million over three years from the Lilly NCD Partnership in India and South Africa, where business community, including $2 million from the Lilly we’re working to improve the diagnosis and treatment of Foundation, to invest in preschool programs. The funds diabetes and other non-communicable diseases. are part of a broader $40 million investment from public and private funding sources that will help ready more students for kindergarten by expanding the number of Education Initiatives quality early education providers and making access more affordable to low-income families. The Mind Trust Lilly has partnered with The Mind Trust, an IndianapolisAs a company built on scientific discovery, we recognize based nonprofit, to attract more great leaders and the pivotal role that education plays in preparing Improving education in Indianapolis not only strengthens teachers to local schools and to encourage more children for successful careers, including in science, our city; it also strengthens our business. By investing innovation and school-level autonomy. Most recently, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. in our children, we are building a future pool of talented we have helped support The Mind Trust’s Innovation TOC School Fellowship. The Fellowship is a partnership with individuals who may one day work for Lilly. Today’s Our local philanthropic portfolio in recent years has student could be tomorrow’s scientist or doctor. the Indianapolis Public Schools (IPS) and the City of focused on education, particularly in our headquarters 01 Moreover, a stronger, more vibrant community will help Indianapolis to help IPS create high-quality “Innovation state of Indiana. We have been placing special emphasis us recruit, retain, and engage talent from our home Network Schools” within the school system. These on improving outcomes for low-income students and state and from around the world. schools are autonomous public schools that will operate 02 helping excite all kids about science and math. under a contract with IPS, but will be free from many While high-quality early education is necessary, it regulations and bureaucratic burdens, giving principals In Marion County, where we are headquartered, more 03 than 20 percent of people live below the poverty line. As cannot be the end of the story. We have to ensure that and teachers the autonomy and accountability that are every child has access to a great school, regardless hallmarks of high-performing schools. a major corporation with deep roots here, we believe 04 of where the child lives. Over the last five years, Lilly that we have an obligation to address this. Access to 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 54 The Indiana Science Initiative (ISI) SUPPORTING AND EMPOWERING TEACHERS Teacher’s Day Strengthening Communities This initiative helps public school teachers (kindergarten Every year since 2000, Lilly has hosted an annual Many of our efforts focus on ways to empower teachers through eighth grade) effectively integrate inquiry“Teacher’s Day” event, inviting teachers and and give them extra support for their daily activities. based learning curricula into their classrooms. The administrators to “shop” for science equipment—for Lilly Foundation provided $1.5 million in funding to Teach Plus free. Nearly 100 schools are invited to participate and support the program and extend its reach. More than The Lilly Foundation is providing a $1 million grant select from items such as glassware, microscopes, test 130 schools, 1,900 teachers, and 53,000 students will to support the implementation of teacher-led school tubes, flasks, beakers, hot plates, and more. The total participate in ISI through 2017. In addition to the funding turnaround initiatives at three public schools in estimated value of the equipment and supplies each from the Lilly Foundation, Lilly employees also volunteer Indianapolis. The four-year grant is in partnership with year is $100,000. Access to these much-needed supplies as coaches, getting children excited about science and the nonprofit Teach Plus, which puts teacher leaders enables teachers to stretch their budgets and continue math. The 10 public schools that have participated in at the center of schooland system-level reform. to advance science in their classrooms. The event also ISI for two full years have improved their performance, Teach Plus will place 24 experienced, high-performing helps prevent our company from sending nearly 50,000 surpassing the state average on the most recent teachers in cohorts at the schools starting in the fall pounds of equipment to landfills each year. statewide science test. of 2015, using a program known as T3: Turnaround Life Science Coaches Teacher Teams Initiative. Designed by teachers, T3 The IPS Business Alliance The Lilly Life Science Coach program assigns Lilly addresses the problem of inequitable access to highThe IPS Business Alliance, which launched in the fall of scientists to teachers to help them with classroom performing teachers in the highest-need schools and 2014, pairs low-performing schools with businesses like experiments, to talk about real-world science, and is founded on the premise that empowering exceptional ours to help improve student outcomes. Lilly is one of to serve as role models for students. In 2014, 65 Lilly teachers is the key to improving our nation’s schools. about a dozen companies that have pledged support for employees volunteered as Life Science Coaches. principals and staff in this first-of-its-kind partnership TOC between Indianapolis public schools and the business community. Lilly has been matched with the Joyce Kilmer Academy, where we will focus on innovation, 01 early intervention, and fostering exceptional leaders. 02 03 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 55 Lilly Lawyers Head to the Classroom Strengthening Communities De’Amonte McKinnis, a student at Indianapolis’ Shortridge Magnet High School, was skeptical when he heard that a group of Lilly lawyers would be teaching his class lessons in civil law. But he quickly changed his mind after going through the Street Law course, a national program that pairs inner-city schools with corporate legal departments to boost students’ knowledge of and interest in the law and legal careers. “At first, I thought lawyers were always serious, but they came in and they were cool and mellow—and I like that. I really liked the experience,” he said. Since 2011, nearly 200 students have gone through the Street Law program at Shortridge. Several Lilly attorneys volunteer in the classroom, teaching the students concepts that are typically covered in the first year of law school. Although the classes have been adapted to a high school level, the lessons give the students exposure to legal and critical thinking, as well as current events. The curriculum offers the students “real, authentic experiences,” said Stanley Law, Shortridge’s principal. “It gives them some insight into what TOC they might want to do as a career path in their lives.” At the same time, the program provides Lilly’s lawyers a chance to meet 01 groups of young people with whom they may not otherwise get a chance to connect. The program also helps to address an overarching lack of diversity in the legal profession, encouraging minority students to choose 02 the law for a career. 03 “Lilly has a very strong law division,” said Ponce Tidwell, assistant general counsel at Lilly. “We will need diverse talent, and so it’s very important for us to ensure that, at an early stage, we’re priming the pipeline.” 04 05 Learn more about the program in this video . LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 56 TOC Operating Responsibly 01 02 03 Ethics and Transparency Animal Care and Use 04 Supply Chain Workplace Counterfeit Medicines Environmental Stewardship 05 At Lilly, how we do business is as important as Ethics and Transparency Operating Responsibly For more than 139 years, the people of Lilly have what we do. We demonstrate our values through approached our company’s business with a deep sense of responsibility to those we serve—patients, physicians and other healthcare providers, shareholders, suppliers, business partners, our workforce, and the responsible business practices that reflect our communities in which we operate. Our actions are grounded in our core company values of integrity, excellence, and respect for people. These values are commitments to strong governance principles. not simply platitudes; they are infused into the Lilly culture and guide all that we do. This includes our efforts in, and approaches to, ETHICS, COMPLIANCE, AND GOVERNANCE Our commitment to ethics and compliance is born of our commitment to integrity. Our policies, our Code of promoting ethics and transparency; instilling Business Conduct (which we call The Red Book), our compliance management systems, and our training TOC responsible supply chain management; tackling THE LILLY CODE The Lilly Code, established 01 counterfeit medicines; ensuring the ethical care in 1899 and illustrated in this 1932 version of the Code, served as the company’s and use of animals in research; promoting an 02 first mission statement and code of conduct. The Code established three areas of 03 focus that endure to this day. 04 inspiring and inclusive workplace; and fostering 05 environmental stewardship. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 58 programs reinforce ethical behavior. As a global is charged with providing support for and assessment of with government and public officials, payments, grants Operating Responsibly leader in the development, manufacturing, and sale compliance with global company policies that apply crossand donations, meetings with healthcare providers, gifts, of pharmaceutical products, we have implemented— functionally. The organization is headed by the senior vice product samples, and many other topics. We also have and we continue to refine and improve—programs president of enterprise risk management, who is also functional policies, standards, and procedures that apply designed to promote ethical conduct and instill a culture Lilly’s chief ethics and compliance officer. This position specifically to particular areas of our business. of integrity. We train all of our employees in ethical reports to the CEO and has direct access to the board of Reporting, Monitoring, and Auditing business practices and have systems in place to detect directors’ public policy and compliance committee. To detect possible compliance violations, we maintain an potential violations of the law and company policies. Code of Conduct, Policies, Standards, and Procedures internal disclosure system that includes a mechanism We have invested significant resources in our ethics Our ethics and compliance programs include policies, for anonymous reporting. We also review business and compliance programs, among them programs standards, and procedures. We communicate our key actions through a system of monitoring and audits. that focus on privacy, anti-corruption, and appropriate compliance-related expectations through the Internal Reporting. product promotion. The elements of each program following vehicles: Lilly employees are required to report to the company any include training and communications designed to The Red Book. known or suspected violations of the law, The Red Book, prevent potential issues from arising, as well as We regularly update and disseminate our Code of company policies, or official orders or decrees applicable reporting, auditing, and monitoring to detect potential Business Conduct, The Red Book. Available in 23 to our business. Employees are also encouraged to report compliance gaps. We also have a robust investigation languages, this document emphasizes the company’s any other ethical concerns or issues. Our toll-free Ethics process and develop corrective and preventive action values and the importance of ethical decision-making, and Compliance Hotline is staffed by an independent firm, plans to address issues that are identified. summarizes key principles from global company 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Due to differences in Ethics and Compliance Program Oversight policies, and provides examples for employees to local law, local reporting processes can vary. Responsibility for ethics and compliance at Lilly practice applying these principles to their decisions Monitoring. TOC starts at the very top and cascades to all levels of the and actions. The Red Book is designed to provide Lilly maintains an ethics and compliance monitoring organization. Our board of directors’ public policy and foundational guiding principles to help our employees program. Its purpose is to evaluate whether the following 01 compliance committee, consisting of five independent navigate an increasingly complex global have occurred: director members, exercises direct oversight of Lilly’s business environment. global ethics and compliance program. The board’s • Compliance policies and procedures have 02 Policies, Standards, Procedures, and Related Materials. been implemented, audit committee has direct oversight of financial matters The information summarized in The Red Book is amplified and some compliance-related audit matters. by policies, standards, and procedures accessible to • Employees have been trained on these policies 03 and procedures, and Our chief executive officer routinely sets “the tone from employees on the company’s intranet. These documents the top” by speaking directly to employees about ethics govern Lilly’s actions with respect to specific areas, • Management is providing sufficient oversight of 04 including anti-corruption, privacy, product promotion, business processes and related results to support and compliance issues through his blog, through audio and video messages, and through global town hall safety, medical research, communications, securities compliance with company policies, standards, and 05 meetings. The global ethics and compliance organization trading, record keeping, international transactions, government laws and regulations. ethical interactions with external parties, interactions LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 59 The program has been standardized to include a • Our leaders communicate regularly with employees to PRIVACY Operating Responsibly global monitoring strategy, a risk assessment and reinforce that they all must conduct company business At Lilly, we are committed to complying with privacy monitoring plan with standard tools, and a process in an ethical and compliant manner, making decisions laws in all parts of the world and to acting ethically for reporting metrics to business leaders and key and taking actions in line with the company’s values of in our privacy practices. We work hard to meet our company stakeholders. integrity, excellence, and respect for people. objectives of operating with transparency and protecting Corporate Auditing. Investigations and Corrective Actions the privacy rights of all of those with whom we interact. Our internal auditing function, corporate audit services We take all reports of known or suspected violations We have a comprehensive global privacy program, (CAS), conducts both financial and nonfinancial audits of company policies, standards, and procedures including a global privacy office and a chief privacy of all Lilly affiliates globally to evaluate compliance with seriously, and we appropriately investigate all claims of officer, designed to protect the privacy rights of patients, various company policies and procedures. CAS audits potential wrongdoing that are brought to our attention. consumers, healthcare professionals, our workforce, include reviews of our anti-corruption program and our We seek to address inappropriate conduct as early medical research subjects, and others. As a part of policies that govern ethical interactions. Other groups at as possible and to prevent future recurrences. To this global program, we have adopted robust privacy Lilly routinely audit additional regulated functions (e.g., accomplish this, a five-stage investigation process policies. These policies govern the collection of personal manufacturing, environment, and safety), as described is in place globally to conduct timely, thorough, and information necessary to our business operations and elsewhere in this report. professional investigations. All investigators are trained innovation. Our goal is to ensure that we always deliver to understand and follow this process and to meet local on the promises we make to individuals whose personal Training and Communications procedural and privacy requirements. information we collect and use. We believe training is a necessary part of promoting ethical behavior because all employees play a role in the success Anti-Corruption Due Diligence For more information on our privacy policies, see of our ethics and compliance program. The company’s Lilly uses anti-corruption due diligence processes to www.lilly.com/Pages/privacy.aspx. commitment to training and communication is visible assess the appropriateness of interactions with certain TOC through many of our activities, including the following: external parties, including the following: TRANSPARENCY AT LILLY Lilly is a leader in transparency because we believe • Each year, all Lilly employees (and certain company • External parties whom Lilly may authorize to interact 01 contractors) must complete training on The Red Book with government officials on the company’s behalf, that this will help us to build trust with the public and with other stakeholders. Collaboration and and certify that they have received, read, understand, • Prospective recipients of grants and donations, and partnerships between pharmaceutical companies, 02 and will abide by its requirements. • Prospective business development partners. healthcare professionals, and healthcare organizations • Employees receive targeted ethics and compliance continue to be important and necessary for the 03 training related to their specific job responsibilities. Lilly also uses an institutional notification process to development of new and lifesaving treatments and mitigate risk relating to healthcare providers whom • New employees in the ethics and compliance group medical innovations. Some of these partnerships Lilly pays for services, including clinical trial research, 04 participate in a training and education curriculum have raised concerns regarding potential conflicts of or to whom Lilly provides other items of value, such as that focuses on understanding and implementing the interest where a healthcare professional’s judgment educational opportunities. elements of an effective compliance program globally. or actions regarding a patient may be influenced by 05 Training continues on a periodic and as-needed basis. relationships with industry. The need for greater and LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 60 more detailed transparency about industry relationships healthcare partners hotline (1-877-237-8197) or the All communications about our products are reviewed Operating Responsibly with healthcare professionals and organizations has Lilly EthicsPoint website. and approved internally (before use) for compliance evolved over the past decade. In the United States, with company policies and applicable legal In line with transparency disclosure, Lilly believes that Lilly complies with disclosure requirements at both requirements; in some jurisdictions, they are also fair compensation is due to healthcare professionals the state and federal levels. Outside the United States, submitted to regulatory authorities. We are committed for services rendered in the drug development process, Lilly participates in voluntary disclosure codes under to following leading trade association codes of conduct for research, for medical education, and/or to support the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries regarding appropriate sales and marketing practices product promotion and commercialization. Transparency and Associations (EFPIA), impacting 33 European and interactions with healthcare professionals. has challenged, and continues to challenge, us to view countries, Russia, Ukraine, and Turkey, as well as These include international, regional, and countryour business practices through the lens of external legislated requirements within and outside of Europe. specific codes such as the International Federation of stakeholders. By listening to stakeholders’ concerns, Lilly views our transparency as an opportunity to ensure Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) we strive to continuously examine and improve the way that patients, healthcare professionals, and business (for emerging markets), the European Federation of we do business. partners feel confident when engaging with Lilly. Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Lilly’s transparency journey began in 2004 when we MARKETING PRACTICES (for Europe), and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) code (for voluntarily began to disclose results from all of our Our commitments to ethical business practices are the United States) (see www.phrma.org/code-onclinical trials online—even the unfavorable ones. In reflected in how we market our products. We introduce interactions-with-healthcare-professionals). 2007, Lilly added a registry of grants and charitable a medicine to the market only if we believe it addresses contributions made by the company. In 2009, as a unmet patient needs. Once a product is approved for requirement of our five-year Corporate Integrity use, we communicate its benefits and risks, market U.S. FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT INVESTIGATION Agreement (see detail under Marketing Practices it in compliance with company policies and applicable In August 2003, we received notice that the staff of the U.S. TOC section in this chapter), Lilly began to disclose payments, legal requirements, and monitor for safety concerns. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) was conducting an reimbursed expenses, and all transfers of value to Providing trusted, timely, and accurate information investigation into the compliance by Lilly’s Polish subsidiary with U.S.-based physicians on the Lilly Physician Payment about our products is a vital part of our engagement the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Subsequently, we 01 were notified that the SEC had expanded its investigation to other Registry. Lilly publicly reports its financial support with customers. We communicate product information to our customers in several ways. These include countries and that the U.S. Department of Justice was conducting to patient organizations based in Europe and our 02 a parallel investigation. In December 2012, we announced that we company’s U.S. political contributions. the following: had reached an agreement with the SEC to settle its investigation. • Direct interaction between our sales representatives The settlement relates to certain activities of Lilly subsidiaries These experiences have helped Lilly prepare to meet 03 and prescribers, as well as account managers and in Brazil, China, Poland, and Russia from 1994 through 2009. new obligations under the U.S. “Open Payments” Without admitting or denying the allegations, we consented to regulations (implementing the U.S. Sunshine Act) and public and private healthcare administrators; pay a civil settlement amount of $29.4 million and agreed to have 04 are also preparing Lilly to meet similar obligations under • Information provided to patients and physicians an independent compliance consultant conduct a 60-day review the EFPIA transparency initiative. Lilly also engages in through package labels and inserts; and of our internal controls and compliance program related to the dialogue directly with healthcare providers and others FCPA. This review has been completed, and Lilly has implemented 05 • Product websites and direct-to-consumer communiabout transparency questions through our EthicsPoint recommended enhancements to its anti-corruption program. cations in some markets (see next page). LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 61 Direct-to-Consumer Communications Participating in dialogue and partnerships with groups obligations may differ from our own. We follow our Operating Responsibly Given the increasingly complex healthcare system, beyond our own company allows us to understand company principles and industry codes when interacting patients are seeking more information about diseases and different viewpoints, explain our positions, and address with third-party patient and consumer advocacy groups. treatments as they prepare to consult with their healthcare differences when they arise. We approach these Our principles are built upon compliance with legal providers about their healthcare needs. As a company discussions through several departments at Lilly: public requirements, open and honest communications, responsible for developing new, innovative medicines, policy; government affairs; advocacy; health, safety, transparency, and funding a diversity of recipients. We we are committed to providing consumer-focused and environment; and communications. This Corporate seek to establish collaborative partnerships that achieve communications that are truthful, accurate, and balanced. Responsibility report and our related website are also part the following: We believe that direct-to-consumer (DTC) disease-state of that stakeholder dialogue. This section of the report • Engage stakeholders on matters involving public communications help to raise awareness of diseases describes our engagement with advocacy organizations policy, improving patient access to treatment options, and conditions that are often undiagnosed, untreated, and provides examples of our stakeholder groups and and supporting market-oriented solutions to the or undertreated. engagement channels. healthcare issues we all face; For similar reasons, we engage in DTC product ENGAGING WITH PATIENT AND CONSUMER • Build awareness about various disease states, advertising in the United States, where we adhere to ADVOCACY ORGANIZATIONS treatment options, and the importance of adherence PhRMA’s Guiding Principles on Direct to Consumer We interact with advocacy organizations to address global to treatment recommendations; Advertisements about Prescription Medicines healthcare challenges and to help shape the healthcare • Provide educational information, tools, and resources; and additional internal Lilly principles on environment in ways that support patients. We believe DTC communications. • Improve medical standards of care and foster that our role within this environment is discovering and productive communication between patients and their THE IMPORTANCE OF STAKEHOLDER developing breakthrough medicines, as well as providing healthcare providers; and ENGAGEMENT information about these medicines and the diseases TOC they treat to healthcare professionals, patients, and their • Serve varied populations and provide educational At Lilly, our engagement with a wide range of stakeholder materials that are culturally appropriate and that caregivers. Lilly values the independence of external groups provides a basis for developing innovative medicines respect the diversity of patients and caregivers. 01 organizations, and we recognize that an advocacy group’s and enhances our collective ability to improve patient scientific or educational agenda, perspectives, and legal outcomes, both of which are important to our business. 02 U.S. CORPORATE INTEGRITY AGREEMENT ADDRESSING PARENTS’ ADVERTISING CONCERNS 03 In January 2009, as part of the resolution of a government investigation related to our U.S. marketing and promotional practices with Since October 2010, we have participated in an initiative in the United respect to Zyprexa®, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services States with the Parents Television Council (PTC) to alert parents to Office of the Inspector General, which required us to maintain our compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate broadcast television programs that will contain advertisements for 04 integrity obligations for five years. The agreement also provided for an independent third-party review organization to assess and erectile dysfunction drugs. Lilly sends to the PTC weekly broadcast report annually on the effectiveness of the company’s ethics and compliance program. This information was used, along with other schedules of Cialis® advertisements. The PTC publishes advertising 05 information, to build enhancements into our ethics and compliance program. Lilly satisfied the requirements of the CIA in 2014. schedules for erectile dysfunction drugs on the PTC’s website here: w2.parentstv.org/Main/Toolkit/Ed_Sched.aspx. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 62 Operating Responsibly LillyPad LillyPad, the official blog of Eli Lilly and Company, aims to start a dialogue on today’s most pressing topics that impact people around the world, such as health, medical discovery, and public policy. It also describes our corporate responsibility initiatives, advocacy efforts, and the work that our employees do every day to make the world a healthier place in which to live. Visit lillypad.lilly. com or follow @LillyPad on Twitter to join the discussion. TOC 01 02 03 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 63 WHO ARE OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Operating Responsibly SUPPLIERS Our business partners, including those involved in research, Stakeholder Groups and Examples • Green procurement • Supplier audits that Lilly development, commercial, and manufacturing alliances, are of Engagement Channels program performs also important stakeholders. Our office of alliance management performs about 15 “Voice of Alliance™” surveys per year of more • Product stewardship • Supplier risk-assessment than 2,000 respondents, asking both our business partners HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS standard process and the Lilly employees involved in those partnerships how the • Online medical information • Patient support programs • Supplier self-assessments • Policy advocacy collaborations could be improved. resources and qualifications conversations with vendors • Lilly-sponsored symposia • Disease-state educational and scientific exchange GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS programs meetings EMPLOYEES1 • Policy education materials • Advisory boards • Advisory boards • Medical and commercial • Live “global town hall” • Employee surveys • Published policy research • Meetings and conferences • Sales force interactions booths at congresses meetings • Electronic newsletters • Responses to written • Communication of studies • Direct-mail • Interactions with Lilly • Intranet social • Hotline for ethics, requests for information • Lobbying activities communications physicians, scientists, collaboration/networking compliance, and privacy • Oral and written testimony and medical liaisons tools, including CEO blog • Educational briefings • The Lilly Answers Center questions/concerns • Contracting for clinical • Written comments on • Direct legislator and telephone line • Employee resource groups trial investigation work proposed regulations policy-maker engagement • Medication guides and • Lilly-sponsored mobile • Policy discussions package inserts apps that provide PATIENTS • Online registries physicians with easy• Healthcare provider • Patient advocacy groups • Publications (manuscripts, to-access research and PUBLIC AND PRIVATE HEALTHCARE discussions • Patient support and TOC posters, and abstracts) clinical trial information ADMINISTRATORS • Educational materials assistance programs • Medical letters • Account-manager • The Lilly Answers Center and programs • Online product resources 01 interactions telephone line • Product package inserts • The Lilly Answers Center • Disease-state educational • Online medical information INVESTORS and medication guides telephone line programs resources 02 • Daily interactions through • Quarterly earnings • Advisory boards our investor relations’ communications function NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS 03 • Annual meeting of • Partnerships to support • Advisory board participation • Industry investor shareholders COMMUNITY MEMBERS conferences patients and families • Participation in annual • Annual report and other • Employee service on • Participation in local 04 • Meetings in Indianapolis financial disclosures • Partnerships to raise conferences/exhibitions boards and committees volunteer opportunities and major global cities awareness about • Company communications • Periodic investment of local organizations • Employee-directed certain diseases 05 community update meetings • Memberships philanthropy 1 Approximately 39,000 employees as of December 31, 2014. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 64 IMPROVING PATIENT OUTCOMES THROUGH IMPROVING HEALTH THROUGH ENGAGEMENT WITH FAITH-BASED GROUPS Operating Responsibly HEALTH LITERACY Lilly has long recognized that churches and other faith-based groups are powerful allies for improving health. We work with several A number of factors are making health-related religious communities to engage stakeholders. Our ongoing relationships with the National Baptist Convention, Church of God in Christ, decisions more complex, including the economic and the religious arms of organizations like the NAACP, reach more than 8 million people, most of them African American, and have achieved some excellent results. Several years ago, we started working with leaders of these organizations to distribute educational pressure of rising healthcare costs and the growing materials focused mostly on healthy and active lifestyle choices. Requests for these materials have been overwhelming, and we have prevalence of chronic disease. Increasingly, patients now given out more than 1 million pieces of literature and provided resources regarding Lilly’s patient assistance programs. are the primary decision makers in their own care, driving major decisions about the healthcare they Individual churches have also become more engaged in keeping their congregations healthy. Many of the churches now run comprehensive wellness programs and include diabetes-screenings that are founded upon Lilly’s principles of prevention and ongoing receive. Without clear communications, however, adherence to treatment regimens. Some have revamped the menus in their church kitchens to offer healthier meals. And some have patients cannot make fully informed decisions and applied for grants through First Lady Michelle Obama’s “Let’s Move!” program. These churches are truly investing in the well-being take actions that will best protect and promote their of their members, and we are glad that Lilly has played a small role in their success. health. The efforts of Lilly and others to promote health literacy are designed to help. Health literacy relates to one’s ability to interact ordinary people can understand medical information and patient and consumer groups that have an interest in with the healthcare system to get the information play a more active role in making appropriate decisions improving overall health literacy. By participating on the needed to manage one’s health. Recently, healthcare about their health. One way we have begun to do this is Roundtable, we have an opportunity to continue to make organizations have been placing increasing emphasis by partnering with nationally recognized health literacy a difference on the national level and to directly support on reducing the complexity of decision-making by making experts to train employees and to help us assess, test, the National Action Plan to Improve Health Literacy as healthcare communications easier to understand. and implement new, clear communication standards for outlined by the U.S. Department of Health and Human the materials and resources that we share with patients. Services. We look forward to continuing to report on these TOC Lilly believes that clear health communication is a vital efforts and other health literacy initiatives in the future. component of the healthcare delivery system in which In 2013, Lilly sponsored a pilot project about the 01 pharmaceutical companies play an important role. pamphlets detailing potential risks that accompany Lilly ADVANCING PUBLIC POLICY We have made a strong commitment to improve our medicines. The study found that this risk information As a biopharmaceutical company that treats serious healthcare communications and to better connect with often exceeds patients’ abilities to understand and diseases, we play an important role in public health 02 patients in ways that are both meaningful and actionable. effectively act on it. This research was developed into a and related public policy debates. We believe it is manuscript and is now published online in the journal important for our company to participate in global It’s not about oversimplifying our patient resources; it’s 03 Therapeutic Innovation & Regulatory Science. policy discussions and form partnerships with various about communicating in plain “living room” language so As a result of work like this, Lilly has been a member stakeholders to create innovative solutions to global 04 of the Institute of Medicine’s Roundtable on Health health challenges. Our engagement in the public policy THE INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE DEFINES HEALTH LITERACY AS: arena focuses on issues that will help increase access Literacy since 2013. The Roundtable brings together “… the degree to which individuals have the capacity to obtain, leaders from academia, industry, government, to medicines. As such, we develop policy positions with 05 the needs of patients foremost in our minds. process, and understand basic health information and services foundations and associations, and representatives of needed to make appropriate health decisions.” LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 65 Expanding Our Diabetes Outreach Operating Responsibly At Lilly, expanding our definition of diversity to include Fasting during the holy month of Ramadan is an The materials for Ramadan cover how people with people with a wide range of healthcare, social, and obligation for healthy adult Muslims, and some experts diabetes can safely fast, using a tool called Conversation situational needs makes sense to us. Both in the United suggest that up to 50 million people with diabetes Maps™. These visual “road maps” facilitate group States and globally, we are expanding our outreach and worldwide observe the Ramadan fast. discussions so people with diabetes can get more education for people with diabetes who fast during the involved in managing their disease. The RamadanFor many people with diabetes, skipping or reducing Muslim holiday of Ramadan. Up to 1.5 billion people focused Conversation Maps were developed with the meals can quickly result in serious complications. Since worldwide practice the Muslim faith, and the number of International Diabetes Federation and were expanded we recognize that many Muslims with diabetes wish to people with diabetes is growing at an alarming rate in in 2014 into more than 42 countries and translated into stay healthy while they fast, Lilly provides Ramadanmany areas with large Muslim populations. more than 35 different languages. Read more about our focused educational materials. Conversations Maps in the Patient Programs section. RAMADAN AND LILLY DIABETES What is Ramadan? Muslim Populations What is the Conversation Map® “MANAGING DIABETES DURING RAMADAN”? During Ramadan, Muslims fast during the day from food, Educational tool to help patients with diabetes 42 drink, and medicine TOC Reminds Muslims with diabetes to consider all INTRODUCED By 2030, Muslims will of their circumstances to help them achieve a There are up to IN 42 COUNTRIES 01 make up more than a safer Ramadan experience 1.5 billion quarter of the global Muslims worldwide* population** 02 Help patients to help themselves if 35 complications arise during Ramadan TRANSLATED Diabetes is becoming an epidemic around INTO MORE THAN 03 In 2015, Ramadan Starts the world, including in countries with large 35 DIFFERENT Muslim populations, such as Encourages conversation surrounding the LANGUAGES JUNE 17 AND ENDS JULY 17 importance of a Ramadan management plan 04 (varies with region) INDONESIA AND PAKISTAN 05 *Al-Arouj B, Bouguerra, Radha, et. al. Recommendations for Management of **Lugo L, Cooperman C, et al. The Future Global Muslim Population: Projections Diabetes During Ramadan. Diabetes Care. September 2005 vol. 28 no. 9; 2305. for 2010–2030. January 2011. www.euro-muslims.eu/future_global.pdf. Accessed on May 14, 2014. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 66 COMMUNITY CONVERSATIONS At Lilly, our public policy efforts center on areas that Operating Responsibly we feel are critical for sustainable innovation, including intellectual property protection, sound healthcare Lilly is committed to helping improve health outcomes for delivery, pricing and reimbursement issues, a favorable regulatory system, and securing the legitimate supply people with chronic conditions. In the United States, one chain. Lilly focuses on conducting policy research, taking positions on key issues, and improving of our initiatives is Community Conversations. Focused on stakeholder dialogue around topics important to our company, our industry, and the people we serve. More detailed information on key issues is available people with Alzheimer’s disease and their families, this at www.lilly.com. POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT initiative pulls together stakeholders in local communities When engaging in lobbying efforts or making political contributions, we comply with the laws that govern such to identify, discuss, and address systemic issues related activities. All financial support and lobbying activity are overseen at the board level by the public policy and compliance committee, which is composed entirely of to Alzheimer’s, such as the need for better detection and outside directors. All decisions are made without regard for the private, personal preferences of the company’s officers TOC diagnosis and medical system barriers that can stand in and executives. All of our employees must also comply with our global policies, core values, and legal obligations, which are outlined in our written Code of Business Conduct, 01 the way of effective treatment. The Red Book. Lilly is the facilitator for the “community conversations,” During 2014, Lilly brought together stakeholders to discuss Our annual report of Political Financial Support provides 02 which provide an opportunity for people to meet, learn about what can be done to address the unique challenges posed details of our company’s U.S. political contributions, best practices from an expert trained in Alzheimer’s policy and by Alzheimer’s disease. Representatives from advocacy and our memberships in organizations that report lobbying 03 care, and then create an action plan to address specific areas community groups, health systems, public health clinics, activity to the U.S. government and to which we of need locally. Since the program’s launch in 2005, when it senior housing, and law enforcement agencies are some contribute $50,000 a year or more, and the activities of had a broader focus on mental health generally, we have seen of the stakeholders that have participated in Community our Political Action Committee, the Lilly PAC, which is 04 the program create new partnerships, advance priorities Conversations events. The result has been increased funded solely by U.S. employee contributions. around the management of the disease, and build links and collaboration between these groups, better integration of connections to resources. community resources, increased training programs for those 05 who provide care, and a platform for ongoing knowledge sharing and problem solving. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 67 In the United States, we are committed to backing MEMBERSHIPS IN 2014, LILLY SPENT THE FOLLOWING AMOUNTS: Operating Responsibly candidates of any party who support public policies that In addition to direct political contributions, Lilly contribute to pharmaceutical innovation and the health A total of maintains memberships in organizations that report $1,683,525 needs of patients. When reviewing U.S. candidates for lobbying activity to the U.S. federal government. We support, we consider a number of factors, including support organizations that champion public policies these examples: that contribute to pharmaceutical innovation, healthy • Has the candidate historically voted or announced patients, and a healthy business climate. Our annual in political financial support (United States): report of Political Financial Support also notes our $420,100 in corporate contributions and positions on issues of importance to Lilly, such as memberships in trade associations that report lobbying $1,263,425 through the Lilly Political pharmaceutical innovation and health care? Action Committee (Lilly PAC). activity to the U.S. government and to which we • Has the candidate demonstrated leadership on contribute $50,000 per year or more. What follows is a key committees of importance to our business? list of U.S.-based organizations that conduct lobbying $8,066,000 • Does the candidate demonstrate potential for activities to which Lilly contributes a minimum of legislative leadership? $50,000 a year. Organizations with which Lilly holds a • Is the candidate dedicated to improving the board seat are noted to reflect our greater degree of relationship between business and government? involvement in setting priorities for these organizations. on federal lobbying activities in the United States. This information is reported • Does the candidate represent a state or district MEMBERSHIPS IN 2014 to the U.S. Congress in accordance with the where Lilly operates a facility or has a large Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995. Board seat: concentration of employees or retirees? • American Feed Industry Association • Would Lilly support have an impact on his or • Animal Health Institute TOC her campaign? ANTI-COUNTERFEITING MEASURES • Biotechnology Industry Organization To ensure patients have access to trusted medicines, a secure Eligible Lilly employees in the United States may choose • Greater Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce supply chain is a necessity. The global problem of counterfeit 01 to make voluntary contributions to the Lilly PAC. Lilly • Healthcare Leadership Council medicines requires a sustained, long-term commitment. Despite PAC donations, which are made in accordance with the ongoing efforts of law enforcement and health authorities • Indiana Chamber of Commerce 02 its budget, are determined annually by the Lilly PAC throughout the world, as well as the efforts of the pharmaceutical • National Association of Manufacturers industry to increase the integrity of the supply chain and support governing board, which is composed of 13 U.S.-based • Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers transnational law enforcement cases, the rate of counterfeiting 03 employees from various groups within the company. continues to increase significantly. Collaboration and cooperation Support is divided between the federal and state levels of America are critical to stop this dangerous trend. Lilly is committed to and allocated among various candidates according to Non-board seat: working with a wide range of public and private partners to reduce 04 specific recommendations from Lilly’s government • Business Roundtable the threat to patients. To learn more, see Counterfeit Medicines. To affairs department and employee PAC members. Lilly read more about critical elements within trade agreements, see • U.S. Chamber of Commerce 05 PAC meets all disclosure requirements and is audited our trade agreements policy. annually by Ernst & Young. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 68 Supply Chain available for audits, at Lilly’s discretion. Tier A supplier evaluations are conducted. These evaluations are Operating Responsibly contracts contain language indicating the supplier separate from, and in addition to, evaluations of Tier Ensuring our products are available wherever and supports the PSCI principles. For those Tier A suppliers A, B, and C suppliers from a supply risk perspective. whenever patients need them is one of our top priorities. that are not under a contract, we expect adherence to Our manufacturing policy committee oversees the As worldwide attention has increasingly focused on our Supplier Code of Conduct. maintenance of Lilly’s inventory of essential raw the need to monitor global supply chains to ensure MAINTAINING AND MONITORING QUALITY, materials. Inventory levels of these materials are reliability and safety, we at Lilly have continued to refine SAFETY, AND SECURITY OF SUPPLY monitored weekly to allow for proactive intervention, our efforts in this area. Through better integration of Our ability to manufacture quality medicines for as needed, to avoid any interruptions of supply. To Lilly-owned facilities and external suppliers, we have the people we serve depends on the quality and supplement these inventory action plans, we also been able to provide a consistent flow of materials availability of the materials used in the manufacturing have additional mitigation plans in place for our drug so we can manufacture our medicines in a more process. In 2014, our active pharmaceutical ingredient product components, including materials critical to efficient and effective manner. We view our supply manufacturing relied heavily on Lilly-owned and Lillymanufacturing finished drug products. For these chain as an extension of our operations, and we strive partner facilities located in the United States, Puerto components, we have identified secondary sources, to instill our company’s operating principles within our Rico, and Europe. Finishing operations, including as well as additional existing inventory in our supply supplier network. These include our support of the labeling and packaging, occur at various Lilly-owned chain. This analysis has permitted us to further United Nations Global Compact principles, adherence and Lilly-partner facilities as well as several third-party refine our overall risk strategy. to labor laws, development of a diverse supply base, and the promotion of sustainability efforts to minimize sites globally. Distribution and warehousing activities are our environmental impact. To learn more about our strategically located to serve their specific markets. UPHOLDING HUMAN RIGHTS THROUGHOUT THE SUPPLY CHAIN environmental impacts and how we work to mitigate Because Lilly manufactures medicines that people Lilly maintains a long-standing practice of complying with local them, see Environmental Stewardship. rely upon and that can be critical for health, we have a TOC minimum-age laws and requirements and does not employ responsibility to safeguard both the materials needed to child labor, or forced or compulsory labor, in any of our facilities As part of Lilly’s ongoing supply chain risk management, manufacture these medicines as well as the supply chain globally. In 2011, Lilly revised our global standards and procedures 01 Lilly suppliers in Tiers B and C are expected to complete to include specific language about human rights, including our a supplier self-assessment questionnaire aligned logistics that help to ensure their availability. Before they expectation that vendors to Lilly abide by Lilly’s human rights with the Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for enter the Lilly system, our raw material suppliers are standards as one piece of our Supplier Code of Conduct. To view 02 Responsible Supply Chain Management (also known as evaluated for patient, commercial, and health, safety, and the current Lilly Supplier Code of Conduct, visit supplierportal.lilly. PSCI principles, see detail later in this section) and be environment (HSE) impacts. For those suppliers deemed com/Suppliers/ Pages/ConductCode.aspx. 03 to have a higher risk in any of these areas, additional 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 69 5,716 556 Operating Responsibly TIER B TIER C 72,651 TIER A Lilly’s Supply Chain SUPPLIERS IN 2014 BY TYPE TOC 01 at a Glance In 2014, Lilly used the services of just under approximately 79,000 suppliers of materials and TIER A Includes suppliers of a lower supply risk profile. These include vendors TIER B 72,651 Includes suppliers of a mediumlevel of risk. Suppliers in this tier TIER C Includes suppliers deemed to pose the greatest risk for supply services. To help identify the potential impact to 5,716 providing goods and services provide raw materials and other chain interruptions. Suppliers 02 Lilly’s business from any disruption of services across general business functions, common commodities used for provide active pharmaceutical or materials, we categorize all of our suppliers including general office supplies, packaging and manufacturing ingredients, including specialty into three tiers, using a supply risk* perspective travel services, IT equipment, operations. These include chemicals. Suppliers in this tier 03 lens. Supplier data include Elanco, our animal catering, and other routine services. packaging materials, waste include contract manufacturers and health division. disposal services, and energy. research and development labs. 04 05 *Supply risk is the risk associated with Lilly’s dependence on a third party for services or materials that are critical to the operation of our business. Supply risk can come from many factors, including but not limited to supplier financial stability, the ability to produce or provide services in a quality manner, or the impact of a natural disaster on the supplier’s site. This risk is monitored on an annual basis, and mitigation plans are implemented and monitored to minimize it. 556 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 70 Shipping pharmaceutical products requires extra Lilly is committed to following the Pharmaceutical ethics. Lilly has also used joint audits performed by Operating Responsibly precautions that typical freight shipping does not, Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain PSCI to supplement our own supplier assessment including precise temperature controls. Shipments Management, which PSCI created, together with member process. Through this process, we have been able to of medicines can also be subject to tampering and companies. These principles, established to provide help our suppliers improve their internal capabilities interference from drug counterfeiters, leading to the pharmaceutical industry with a consistent standard by identifying areas for improvement. very serious consequences. Therefore, the security of measurement for vendors in the areas of ethics, Vendor trainings for knowledge and capability of our supply chains and our extended distribution labor, health and safety, the environment, and related building – Lilly has also participated in webinars and network remains a key focal point for Lilly. We have management systems, were designed to be consistent workshops, facilitated by PSCI, to help pharmaceutical chosen to integrate high standards to help safeguard with the United Nations Global Compact. The principles suppliers better understand and improve social and our products during transport, integrating what are themselves and related information can be found at the environmental practices across their own supply chains. known as Transported Asset Protection Association, PSCI website: www.pharmaceuticalsupplychain.org/ For example, PSCI held a capability-building workshop or TAPA, standards into our security framework. principles/introduction. in China in September 2014, bringing together more We actively monitor our supply chain using TAPA Lilly’s participation in PSCI has provided a muchthan 150 Chinese suppliers. Over a two-day period the standards to ensure a high level of performance for our appreciated opportunity to engage with our PSCI suppliers received presentations on topics including transportation carriers and warehouse and distribution colleagues around supply chain management, and we process safety, industrial hygiene, and environmental centers. See Counterfeit Medicines to read more about have found much common ground in our collective control, as well as labor practices and ethics. Further our broad-based anti-counterfeiting efforts, including support for the values that PSCI advocates. Our workshops in other global locations are planned product serialization and traceability. involvement with PSCI has helped us to sharpen our for 2015. PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY CHAIN supply chain management practices and delivered CONFLICT MINERALS INITIATIVE (PSCI) business value through enhanced understanding of the TOC environments in which our vendors operate. PSCI has Lilly is concerned with the variety of human rights PSCI is an industry body formed by the pharmaceutical also provided Lilly with some valuable tools, including: violations that occur throughout the world. We are sector and facilitated by Business for Social Responsibility aware that the ongoing conflict in the Democratic 01 (BSR), whose members share a vision for responsible Common auditing practices – As our industry Republic of Congo (DRC) and the surrounding countries supply chain management, with an ultimate goal of increasingly adopts the standardized PSCI is understood to be financed, in part, by the mining facilitating better social, environmental, and economic questionnaires, our suppliers can more easily anticipate 02 and trade of certain minerals, including tungsten, outcomes in the communities where purchases are questions we might have about their practices and tantalum, tin, and gold. We are committed to making made. Lilly joined PSCI in 2009 and remains an active learn to manage their operations with the rigor 03 every effort to ensure we understand our supply chain member, aligned to the mission and vision of the required by Lilly and other major manufacturers. These and the potential downstream impacts of our supply and organization. In October 2014, Lilly was pleased to host questionnaires cover adherence to high standards of purchasing decisions as they relate to the minerals 04 PSCI’s annual general meeting in Indianapolis at our HSE performance, labor practices, human rights, and at issue. corporate headquarters. 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 71 “At Lilly, we strive to ensure that our global Lilly, along with other companies covered by the Operating Responsibly Securities and Exchange Commission’s Conflict Minerals Rule, is required to annually report whether operations contribute to a cleaner, safer, and products that we manufacture or have contracted to manufacture contain certain defined minerals, and whether those materials may have come from sources more sustainable environment. This includes in the DRC region. As a part of this process, we examine the raw material content of all of our global commercial products and seek to identify the origin and source of these raw materials. Our goal is to ensure that the materials we our interactions with key suppliers and business use cannot be traced back to areas where proceeds from the mining of the materials may have been used to support armed conflict in the DRC region. partners across the globe. We are very pleased Lilly’s expectation is that our suppliers will source their materials responsibly and abstain from procuring materials from areas or sources that might promote to be a contributing stakeholder of PSCI and TOC conflict in the DRC, and that our suppliers conduct their own due diligence regarding the source of any materials they provide to us in order to ensure those materials are believe that the collective influence we have 01 conflict free. Our due diligence process for 2013 revealed that we as an industry is accelerating advancements in use very minimal amounts of the minerals at issue. We 02 filed our Conflict Minerals disclosure documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in May, capability and performance across the globe.” which include additional details regarding our diligence — Edward Canary, Vice President, Health, Safety, and Environment 03 process and findings. As of that date, aside from one supplier that could not provide us with sufficient 04 information to enable us to definitively determine the source of the minerals it provides to us, we were able to determine that none of our products use minerals 05 sourced from the DRC or surrounding region. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 72 We have established an action plan to ensure the 2012. According to data from the World Economic Ensuring that patients can continue to benefit from safe Operating Responsibly supplier at issue is able to provide us with the required Forum, worldwide counterfeit drug sales generate medicines requires innovative approaches to expose and information as a part of next year’s diligence process, an estimated $75 billion to $200 billion in illicit outwit counterfeiters—and a broad, coordinated effort and we will include updated information in our next profits annually.2,3 One expert estimates that a $1,000 among many stakeholders to give patients confidence Conflict Minerals Report to the SEC in May 2015. investment in counterfeit prescription drugs can result in the safety and efficacy of the medicines they take. in a $30,000 return—which is 10 times the profit return Lilly has made a sustained, long-term commitment to Lilly is committed to continue to understand the origin of from trafficking heroin.4 address this problem. Our anti-counterfeiting strategy these materials and will take appropriate action to avoid is composed of three key objectives: the inadvertent support of business associated with Every year, healthcare providers, health authorities, and human rights violations. law enforcement agencies must spend an increasing • Securing the integrity of Lilly medicines through the amount of resources to combat this growing threat. Lilly legitimate supply channels; faces this same challenge. We employ a variety of antiCounterfeit Medicines counterfeiting tactics for our medicines and are actively engaged in efforts to combat counterfeiting to protect • Deterring major counterfeiters of Lilly medicines through targeted investigations, Internet monitoring, Counterfeit medicines, often produced and distributed and legal actions; and patients and the Lilly brand. by global criminal networks, are an increasing threat • Partnering with governments, non-governmental to patient safety. In fact, The World Health Organization Counterfeiting is an issue that has historically affected organizations, and trade associations to raise estimates that as much as 30 percent of the medicines sold many developing countries, but the Internet has awareness and to strengthen, enact, and enforce in parts of Asia, Africa, and Latin America are counterfeit. exacerbated the problem by serving as a platform to anti-counterfeiting laws. But counterfeit medicines aren’t confined to one region; increase the availability of these dangerous products they have been found in all therapeutic areas in every globally. In the European Union (EU), approximately 19 LILLY’S WORK TO SECURE THE LEGITIMATE region of the world. Counterfeits put patients at risk of percent of all counterfeit goods detained in postal traffic SUPPLY CHAIN TOC further illness, disability, or even death; and they can For many years, Lilly has used various types of antiin 2013 were medicines.5 Today, counterfeit medicines also undermine a patient’s confidence in the medicines are exported across borders using conventional and counterfeiting and tamper-evident technologies as 01 they are prescribed, as well as the credibility of unconventional trade routes and shipping methods part of its overall strategy to protect patients. We healthcare providers. that change frequently in response to regulatory and are also putting systems in place to meet emerging 02 law enforcement actions. Products are often made in pharmaceutical “track and trace” standards around During 2013, the Pharmaceutical Security Institute one country, trafficked through other countries, and the globe. These standards, while not a “silver bullet,” documented 2,193 incidents of pharmaceutical crime ultimately sold to consumers in yet another country. are designed to help patients, pharmacists, and others 03 across 124 countries, a nearly 9 percent increase over determine if a given medicine is a fake or the real thing. 04 2  World Economic Forum. Global Risks 2011. Sixth Edition. An Initiative of the Risk Response Network. January 2011. 4 Ehrenberg R. Counterfeit crackdown. Science News. 2011;179:22-25. Report on EU customs of enforcement of intellectual property rights, Results at 5 The Center for Medicines in the Public Interest. Counterfeit Drugs and China. 3 the EU border. Publication Office of the European Union © 2014. ec.europa.eu/ www.cmpi.org/in-the-news/testimony/counterfeit-drugs-and-china-new. Last taxation_customs/resources/documents/customs/customs_controls/counter05 accessed December 18, 2014. feit_piracy/statistics/2014_ipr_statistics_en.pdf. Last accessed January 12, 2015. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 73 Serialization, the unique identification of individual packs assembly lines around the world. The incremental cost online pharmacies. In Europe, we are an active partner Operating Responsibly of medications, is a particularly promising technology. of meeting “track and trace” standards is significant: in the European Alliance for Access to Safe Medicines As each batch of finished product is packaged, a a roughly $100 million investment. Additionally, Lilly is and ASOP EU to further educate patients about the globally unique two-dimensional code is assigned and working closely with other organizations to advocate for dangers of counterfeit medicines and encourage physically marked on the product’s packaging. To track common serialization standards in the United States and Internet stakeholders to take voluntary action to tackle and trace the movement of individual packs, serial globally. These standardization efforts will help doctors, the problem of illegal online pharmacies. numbers can be recorded and electronically linked to pharmacists, and patients around the world trust the Lilly is also working collaboratively with European deliveries to customers. As a result, some countries legitimacy of the medicines they prescribe, dispense, stakeholders (pharmacists, wholesalers, and parallel have begun to require serialization, including pharmacy and receive. distributors) on implementation of the EU Falsified validation that a serial number is valid, before dispensing a given medicine to patients. By requiring not only WORKING TO DETER COUNTERFEITERS Medicines Directive. The Directive is designed to manufacturers, but also wholesalers and pharmacies, ONLINE AND IN THE FIELD safeguard public health by regulating pharmaceutical According to the National Association of Boards of supply chains and monitoring activity to help prevent to record shipments and receipts of serialized products, Pharmacy, 96 percent of online drug sellers do not meet counterfeit medicines from being dispensed to patients a documented chain of custody can be established. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) standards.6 And through legitimate EU supply chain channels. In addition, When implemented correctly, serialization will help yet the FDA notes that nearly 1 in 4 Internet users has Lilly supports prosecutors and other law enforcement secure the legitimate supply chain, while simultaneously bought from an online pharmacy.7 The vast majority of personnel in the criminal prosecution of counterfeiters offering other benefits to patients and the healthcare pharmacy websites do not require a valid prescription to around the world by gathering evidence, testing samples, providers who serve them. These other benefits include sell a medicine; others issue an on-the-spot “prescription” testifying in court, and filing civil actions. Lilly also automated checking of expiry dates, providing a way after a visitor completes an online questionnaire. This participates in the World Customs Organization’s Interface to record the batch number of specific medicines in setting provides the perfect haven for counterfeiters to sell Public-Members (IPM) database, a secure online tool a patient’s electronic medical records, and reducing TOC counterfeit and illegal medicines. Lilly is deeply engaged in serving as an interface between front-line customs fraudulent reimbursement claims for medicines not efforts to close off such illegitimate channels on officers and the private sector. IPM is used by customs actually dispensed to patients. 01 the Internet. agents globally to help identify counterfeit products that To help secure the legitimate supply chain for its products cross national borders. even further, Lilly has been making considerable Lilly is a founder and board member of the Alliance for 02 investments in packaging operations, distribution centers, Safe Online Pharmacies (ASOP), a broad coalition of and information technology infrastructure, including stakeholders with an interest in protecting patient safety 03 adding new technology to more than 30 packaging and ensuring patients have access to safe and legitimate 04 National Association of Boards of Pharmacy. Internet Drug Outlet Identification 6 US Food and Drug Administration. FDA campaign aims to protect consumers 7 Program Progress Report for State and Federal Regulators. www.nabp.net/profrom the risks of fake online pharmacies: survey data shows lack of confidence grams/consumer-protection/buying-medicine-online/not-recommended-sites. in purchasing drugs over the Internet. Press release. September 28, 2012. www. 05 Last accessed December 10, 2014. fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm321470.htm. Last accessed January 5, 2015. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 74 PARTNERING WITH GLOBAL STAKEHOLDERS “An important collaboration to build trust in our Operating Responsibly In March 2013, Lilly was proud to join with INTERPOL and 28 of the world’s leading pharmaceutical companies to launch a landmark agreement to combat counterfeit medicines. The three-year initiative is funded by a combined investment of nearly $5.9 million from the medicines is the “Fight the Fakes” campaign, an companies involved and is designed to forge strong partnerships between law enforcement and industry to enhance the global response to pharmaceutical innovative partnership between the International crime. The program targets multiple issues, including combating branded and generic drug counterfeiting, as well as identifying and dismantling organized Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & crime networks linked to this illegal activity. Lilly was a leader in the formation of this important public-private partnership. Associations and other partners representing physicians, Lilly also endorses the Fight the Fakes campaign (www.fightthefakes.org), which aims to raise awareness nurses, pharmacists, patient organizations, international financial organizations, leading foundations, and the about the dangers of fake medicines. The campaign gives a voice to those who have been impacted personally by counterfeit drugs and shares the stories of TOC private sector—all working to raise awareness of the those working to put a stop to this threat to public health. It seeks to build a global movement of organizations and 01 individuals who will shine light on the negative impact dangers of counterfeit medicines.” that fake medicines have on people around the globe 02 and to reduce the negative consequences on individuals worldwide. The website also serves as a resource for organizations and individuals who are looking to support — John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Lilly Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 03 this effort by outlining opportunities for action and sharing what others are doing to fight fake medicines. 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 75 Animal Care and Use LILLY’S APPROACH TO ANIMAL TESTING PET-like methodologies (similar to clinical PET-imaging Operating Responsibly technology for people) with rodents during the discovery Lilly embraces the industry standard for the ethical Animal studies are a critical component in the discovery process to determine if the target in the brain is treatment of animals known as the 3Rs. This approach and development of innovative medicines for both being engaged. If there is no effect, we know that it prioritizes strategies for the reduction, refinement, and humans and animals. In biomedical research, animals is unnecessary to test that chemical or biological replacement of animal use within biomedical studies have significantly contributed to the development of entity further. conducted on behalf of Lilly. lifesaving treatments in the areas of cancer, diabetes, We also believe it’s important to engage with others vaccines, high blood pressure, and neurological We continually work to integrate the 3Rs into the to advance our own understanding of, and to promote disorders, to name just a few. We believe we have a processes and practices used by Lilly and third parties the ethical treatment of, animals in quality research. moral, ethical, and scientific responsibility to ensure the on our behalf. Since we established a formal 3Rs initiative Nationally, we participate in the 3Rs Leadership welfare of animals used in research, and we have strong in 2012, we have seen advances in several areas. For Group at the Innovation and Quality Consortium. We principles and policies in place to ensure that animal instance, during the drug discovery phase, we test also participate in or collaborate with the American research at Lilly is conducted in line with our values. chemical or biological entities that have the potential to Association of Laboratory Animal Science, the American become future medications to see if they have the desired Society of Laboratory Animal Practitioners, the therapeutic activity and corresponding safety profile. American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine, and Using 3Rs principles, Lilly scientists have been able to WHY DO WE CONDUCT STUDIES ON ANIMALS? the American Veterinary Medical Association, among reduce or replace live animal tests by using cell-based others. Internationally, Lilly has associations and Regulations that govern the approval of new medicines for (e.g., primary tissue cultures) to screen compounds that supporting roles with several organizations, including human and animal use dictate that all potential treatments can be used for potential future medications. be evaluated in animals prior to testing in humans. The reason the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries for this lies in biochemistry. Human and animal physiology is We are also working to improve the predictive value and Associates, the Federation of European Laboratory TOC so complex that current non-animal research models simply of computer models to reduce the number of animals Animal Science Associations, and the National Center cannot tell us all we need to know about how a potential needed. For instance, in neuroscience, we can use for 3Rs, among others. new treatment will function in a living organism. Therefore, 01 without some animal experiments to understand the safety and efficacy of potential medicines, it would not be possible THE 3RS AWARD 02 to bring these new medicines to the people and animals that need them. We work to increase employee understanding of and encourage adoption of the 3Rs across the company through communication of strategies for reduction, refinement, and replacement of animal use within the company; awareness training; and information sharing. More than 96 percent of the animals used in pharmaceutical 03 Each year, we also honor individuals and teams who demonstrate incorporation of one or more of the 3Rs principles into an ongoing research for Lilly—including at third-party facilities—are rats research project in a significant way. and mice. We have established company guidelines for the 04 use of non-human primates. Lilly has not used chimpanzees In 2014, an oncology team received the 3Rs award for their innovative work in reducing and replacing animal use in cancer therapy in research since the late 1980s, and careful consideration research. The team collaborated with local hospitals to receive skin surgically removed from patients (who gave consent for use of to alternative approaches is given prior to initiating studies their tissue for biomedical research) undergoing mammoplasty or skin tucks following significant weight loss. By testing compounds 05 using other non-human primate species. directly on human skin tissue during the drug development process, the need to test compounds in live mice is dramatically reduced. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 76 Lilly sites that conduct animal research are guided by an • using the minimum number of animals required All animal facilities are subject to external review and Operating Responsibly Institution Animal Care and Use Committee—an ethical to obtain valid results, inspection. In the United States, our facilities are subject oversight committee—which approves and oversees • using alternative methods instead of live animals to unannounced site inspections by the United States animal research activities and care programs and where appropriate, and Department of Agriculture. In Europe, local and national ensures that people conducting tests with animals are authorities regularly inspect animal facilities. In addition, • avoiding or minimizing discomfort and distress appropriately qualified. Committee members undergo we self-inspect regularly, including semiannual program to the animals. intense training, and the committees include volunteers review and facility reviews. In situations where we have who are not affiliated with Lilly to represent the public. In addition, personnel must comply with our Global recently acquired another company, we work closely with Committees meet monthly to review animal use Policy on Care and Use of Research Animals, which that group to ensure that animal welfare standards align protocols and regularly to conduct program or covers compliance, design and conduct of animal with our policy and principles. We also maintain a global facility reviews. studies, care of animals, training of personnel, reporting oversight program of all animal research and supply concerns, and contracts with animal suppliers and companies that we do business with, including visits by Lilly Animal Care and Use Policies and Principles research service providers. Personnel must also follow trained specialists to conduct welfare examinations. All personnel conducting studies for Lilly must adhere to the following principles, which provide the foundation for other related animal research policies that apply to their Lilly requires all employees and all third parties involved our care and use of animals: particular area of expertise. in our research to adhere to all applicable country and Our policies and standards are based upon the U.S. local laws, regulations, and standards regarding the Living conditions for research animals must be Government Principles for the Utilization and Care care and use of animals. Moreover, we require Lilly appropriate for their species and contribute to their of Vertebrate Animals Used in Testing, Research, researchers and contractors to adhere to the Lilly Animal health and well-being. and Training. Care and Use Principles, even if these principles are more Personnel who care for animals or who conduct animal stringent than applicable local laws. Lilly also encourages Accreditations and Inspections TOC studies must be appropriately qualified for the proper animal research and animal supply companies globally to All Lilly-owned animal testing facilities are accredited care and use of animals in research. obtain and maintain accreditation from the AAALAC. by the Association for the Assessment and Accreditation 01 Studies involving animals must be designed and of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC). The AAALAC More information about our commitment and activities in conducted in accordance with applicable country and provides independent review and confirmation of this area is available on our Animal Research website. 02 local regulatory guidance and the following widely appropriate animal care and use. Lilly also uses the recognized principles of animal care and use: services of third-party facilities located at various sites around the world. These third parties include contract 03 • with due consideration of the study relevance to research organizations or third-party operations that human or animal health and the advancement of conduct research on behalf of Lilly, supply animals to 04 scientific knowledge, Lilly, or supply feedstuffs to animals at Lilly. • selecting only animals appropriate for that study, 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 77 Workplace WORKFORCE SUPPORT AND DEVELOPMENT emphasis on our supervisors and further developing Operating Responsibly their coaching skills so they, in turn, can better support We invest in competitive compensation and benefit At Lilly, we work to improve the world around us. Our employees’ progress. programs, training and development, and opportunities values—integrity, excellence, and respect for people— for our employees to serve in their communities and At the most fundamental level, the new process is guide our efforts as we discover, develop, and deliver the world at large. We believe in offering benefits that designed to help people doing good work get even life-changing medicines and enhance the understanding are designed to promote individual well-being while better. It’s important to note that the new performance and management of diseases. contributing to the health of our organization as a whole. management process was introduced at a time when Respect for people has been central to the Lilly culture our company had been working to overcome significant Lilly compensation and benefits programs are designed since our start nearly 140 years ago. Colonel Eli Lilly, our obstacles and create sustainable growth. We continue to to recognize and reward employees for their hard founder, charged his son to “Take what you find here and be faced with a demanding healthcare environment, an work and contributions. Flexible work arrangements make it better and better.” His words continue to hold uncertain global economy, and the ongoing challenges and generous time-off programs strive to balance the true today. Whether this takes the form of discovering of patent expirations. In order to seize the opportunities multiple dimensions of personal well-being, including new medicines, finding new ways to support people and ahead, we all must perform at our best. physical, financial, and social health. We want Lilly patients, or aiding our communities, we strive to improve to be a place where our employees enjoy meaningful That is why we announced plans in September 2014 the lives of the patients we serve. work, build successful careers, and make important to streamline our business, lower our operating contributions to society. expenses, and more tightly focus our innovation EMPLOYEES* strategy. We made the tough decision to reduce the Lilly employees participate in required training each 10,700 21,918 layers of management in our company to facilitate year to ensure they maintain the technical qualifications faster decision-making and reduce bureaucracy. expected to perform their work so our company As a result, we saw reductions in the number of TOC Indianapolis Outside United States can remain viable in an increasingly competitive management positions, from vice president to firstenvironment. In addition, employees have access to a 1,055 39,136 line supervisor. While most of the impact was felt in robust suite of learning and development programs 01 2014, work continued in many areas in the first quarter that can increase performance and assist individuals Indiana (excluding Worldwide Total of 2015. In addition, we had reductions in staff across in achieving their career aspirations. 02 Indianapolis) many parts of the company as a result of rigorous In 2014, we implemented a new performance prioritization of work. While difficult, these changes 03 5,463 United States 8,042 Employees engaged in management process focused on helping our employees learn, develop, and achieve their goals. The simplified approach promotes ongoing, quality conversations were necessary to enable us to advance our pipeline. We also announced plans to close facilities in Puerto 04 (excluding Indiana) Lilly R&D activities Rico and Egypt, impacting 100 and 130 employees, between employees and supervisors, and encourages respectively. In Puerto Rico, the employees will be employees to prioritize and focus their efforts to align offered positions at other Lilly plants on the island. 05 *As of Dec. 31, 2014. with our goals for the business overall. As part of this In Egypt, we discontinued operations at our Cairo process, we invested in education for all employees with LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 78 site as part of our efforts to align global capacity and Diversity must act as “the lens through which we’re able to understand, Operating Responsibly capabilities with long-term business needs. We expect to transfer ownership of that facility to Medical Union Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Arab Company for Drug Industries & Medical Appliances, in 2015. test ideas, challenge assumptions, and respond to patients’ needs.” EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT – John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Effective employee collaboration is critical to Lilly’s One area we’re particularly proud of is our work An important measure of our efforts to foster diversity success, and we work to engage our employees by supporting Science, Technology, Engineering, and and inclusion is our ability to attract and retain fostering and promoting teamwork. We know that Mathematics (STEM) education initiatives. As a company exceptional employees who feel comfortable being Millennials in particular embrace employers who devote built on scientific discovery, we recognize the important themselves at work. Our record as a diverse employer significant time, dollars, and resources on corporate role that early education programs in STEM play in is consistently recognized by independent organizations. responsibility programs and volunteerism. These are preparing children for scientific careers. We provide For example, in 2014, for the fourth consecutive year, we important areas for effective employee engagement. funding and volunteers for a number of programs in were named one of DiversityInc’s Top 50 Companies for Even in a difficult business environment, we believe schools in our home state of Indiana. In addition to Diversity. (See a more complete list on page 81.) As a employees should have opportunities to connect with boosting the skills of young people, our efforts are also company whose culture is built on improving the lives of Lilly’s corporate responsibility vision and mission. helping to develop a future pipeline of potential talent others, being recognized for our commitment to diversity Connecting Hearts Abroad is a great example. Since for our own company. and inclusion is an honor we value highly. the launch of this program in 2011, more than 600 Lilly For example, the Lilly Life Science Coach program We executed many important steps in 2014 to increase employees have served as Connecting Hearts Abroad assigns Lilly scientists to teachers to help them with the diversity of our global workforce, as well as to create TOC ambassadors, volunteering for two weeks of paid leave classroom experiments, to talk about real-world a more inclusive culture that embraces and values in some of the world’s most impoverished communities. science, and to serve as role models for students. (See diverse ideas and perspectives. It’s important to note The Lilly volunteers are providing hands-on support in the Strengthening Communities section on page 52 of these efforts have occurred during a period of patent 01 four categories: health care, caregiving for children and this report for more on our volunteer efforts, including expirations and financial constraints that have impacted the elderly, teaching, and community development. Our our Global Day of Service and additional examples of our workforce. We have a strong talent management 02 colleagues who participate in the signature program our STEM work.) process in every business unit to develop and promote return home as better employees and stronger leaders. diverse talent. Beginning in 2015, we will be adding Many of the participants describe their experiences as DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 03 a metric to our corporate objectives to measure our “life changing.” (See the Strengthening Communities To succeed as a company in the 21st century, we believe progress in the area of diversity and inclusion. When section on page 52.) it is imperative to include and value diversity and staffing management roles, supervisors must have a 04 inclusion in every aspect of our operations. An inclusive diverse pool of candidates. Leaders also must expect a culture helps to derive the scientific, clinical, and diverse slate of candidates for external hires. 05 customer insights that fuel innovation. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 79 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) Operating Responsibly Employee resource groups are more vital than ever to For example, the Africa Middle East & Central Asia In addition, ERGs participate in recruiting events with our company’s success. About 12,500 of our employees— Network ERG consulted on an educational tool to help our human resources department to help find interns nearly one-third of our overall workforce—are members Muslims with diabetes during Ramadan. Both the Lilly and new employees from colleges, universities, and of these nine groups in more than 60 chapters, which India Network and the Chinese Culture Network offer career fairs. They frequently consult on marketing and are located at Lilly offices around the world. Our ERGs regular cultural awareness training classes for U.S. Lilly workplace programs and help to serve as language offer strong support networks for their members and employees who are preparing for work assignments to translators during company meetings. They also assist help our company develop talented individuals for future India and China or working closely with colleagues there. with corporate executive training programs on topics leadership roles at Lilly. In recent years, they have been And, in July 2014, the field chapter of the Organization such as cultural bias and inclusion. expanding their grassroots activities into areas that have of Latinos at Lilly (OLA) held its first summit at Lilly more direct ties to Lilly’s business impact. headquarters in Indianapolis. Approximately 135 attendees, representing all business units, participated Put simply: ERGs support a richer, more inclusive in workshops that focused on addressing the healthcare workplace culture while partnering with the business needs of the Latino community. OLA also has mobilized to better serve our diverse marketplace. They its representatives in the field for outreach to healthcare provide valuable insight as we develop programs and providers with large numbers of Latino patients. relationships that help us improve lives. EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS: IMPACTING THE BUSINESS* TOC Employee resource groups are critical in driving our diversity and inclusion strategy across our company. 01 The bottom line: 02 03 04 9 12.5K 60 12K 8K Employee Resource Groups Members Satellite Groups Globally Internal Volunteer Hours External Volunteer Hours 05 *2014 data. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 80 FREEDOM INDIANA GENDER DIVERSITY of new programs, including childcare support, expanded Operating Responsibly work-from-home programs, and childcare financial In 2013 and 2014, Lilly actively participated in a statewide alliance In 2014, we spotlighted gender diversity, celebrating called Freedom Indiana, which opposed a proposed amendment support, among others, to make our company more the successes of women at our company through a to the state constitution to ban same-sex marriages and civil attractive for women. Since we began this initiative, Lilly Women@Lilly campaign. Our recognitions range from unions. We contributed financial resources, volunteer hours, Japan has made the “Best Companies to Work For” list. inclusion in the 50 Leading Companies for Women in and strategic oversight to a campaign that ultimately resulted in court decisions allowing same-sex marriage in our home the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, to a “Best of WORKPLACE AWARDS, 2014–2015 headquarters state. the Best” award from Professional Woman’s magazine, • Best Places to Work for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, to 20 consecutive years on Working Mother magazine’s Being part of a diverse community, which produces a stronger, Transgender (LGBT) Equality. Human Rights “Best Companies” list. more diverse workforce, is important to Lilly. We vigorously Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index fought against the amendment because we want our current and While times are changing, Lilly recognizes that work-life • Top 50 Companies for Diversity. DiversityInc future employees to live in a state that is welcoming to all people. balance is a challenge for many of our female, as well • Top 10 Company for LGBT employees. DiversityInc as male, employees. In acknowledgment of this reality, Lilly offers programs, such as part-time employment • Top Company for Working Families. DiversityInc Our efforts to ensure a diverse and inclusive environment and childcare services, that give all our working parents • 100 Best Companies. Working Mother magazine for our employees and those we serve span the globe. the flexibility they need to support their families while (20 consecutive years) We’ve created programs in many countries, including advancing their careers. • Top 20 Employer Science Careers. Science magazine Saudi Arabia, Japan, Korea, and others, to help grow the ranks of female employees and female leadership We are executing extensive efforts for the promotion • Best Adoption-Friendly Workplaces. (see page 83 for more information). Our global locations and development of women at our corporate Dave Thomas Foundation are constantly formulating new ways to hire, train, and headquarters and at our locations around the world, • “Best of the Best,” Top Pharmaceutical & Biotech TOC develop underrepresented groups in our workforce. including those countries where there have not Company. Hispanic Network magazine For example, our European affiliates will be conducting been strong gains in the workplace. Some of these • “Best of the Best,” Top Disability-Friendly, Top the first European Diversity Summit in June 2015 to initiatives have been industry leading. 01 LGBT-Friendly Company. Black Equal Opportunity accelerate programs there, including introducing more For example, in Japan in 2004, we introduced the first Employment Journal employee resource groups (ERGs). 02 phase of a “females in leadership” diversity strategy. • Latino 100. Latino magazine Yet while we are proud of our progress, we know we In the decade since, we have refined this strategy • Top 25 Global Companies for Leaders. Aon Hewitt must do more. At a time when Lilly is poised for growth, to include the establishment of a diversity council 03 • 50 Leading Companies for Women, Asia-Pacific we need all employees to feel included, empowered, and and introduction of new programs to develop female valued so they can do their best work and deliver great leaders. Culture change takes time, particularly in more Economic Cooperation 04 results for the people we serve. To accomplish this, we traditional societies. Progress has been slow yet steady • Top Companies for Executive Women. must intensify our efforts to become more diverse and as Lilly Japan works to increase the number of women National Association for Female Executives 05 inclusive here at home. in leadership roles. Lilly Japan implemented a number For a more comprehensive list of awards, visit Lilly.com. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 81 The Bump Group Operating Responsibly They called themselves the “Bump Group”—nine Lilly Indianapolis-based marketing employees who all delivered babies around the same time. The women gathered weekly during their maternity leaves and continued to meet as they returned to work. Although it’s not an official employee resource group, it’s just one example of how Lilly people support each other both inside and outside the workplace. Lilly encourages flexibility, including working remotely, something the Bump Group members especially appreciate when it comes to balancing work and family. “Lilly does an amazing job of providing the benefits and flexibility that working parents need to stay in the workplace,” says Kate Dempsey Leiser, a Bump Group member. Tara L. Walton is a Lilly brand manager who organized the Bump Group. She says she felt lucky to find TOC eight other women, all in marketing roles across the organization, with due dates within three months of 01 each other. “The goal of the Bump Group is simple: to build a 02 support network of women at Lilly that champion each other both in and out of work,” Walton says. “I 03 can honestly say that I am a better person, colleague, mother, wife, and friend because of the Bump Group ladies. They’ve supported and inspired me in so many 04 ways and will continue to play a huge role in my life, even after newborn troubles are long gone.” 05 Gender Diversity at Lilly Operating Responsibly FEMALE MALE There are four women on the board of directors—about 29%. The average for Fortune 500 companies is just under 17%. 36 % of management positions are held by women. 4,500 women participate in the Global Women’s network (WN), including networks in Asia, Canada, Central America, the European Union, South America, and the United States. WN 46 % strives to provide support, voice, and advocacy to women as employees, patients, consumers, and healthcare decision makers. of the 39,000 global employees are women, 54% TOC Lilly also has four women on its are men. Lilly Saudi Arabia has executive committee—also 29%. transformed its workforce. 01 Three years ago, it had no female employees; 02 now it has 37—20% of its 47 % total workforce. 03 of U.S. employees are women, 53% 04 68% of Lilly Korea’s are men. operational committee members are women. 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 83 21 % Diversity at Lilly Operating Responsibly 2014 U.S. Minority Employees * Workforce TOC 8% 8% 3% 2% African Asian Latino Two or <1% Native American more races American 01 02 Although we are proud of the progress we have made in diversity and inclusion, we know we must work to continually improve so that each 03 individual feels ever more valued and respected. 04 05 *Percentage is approximate. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 84 HEALTH AND SAFETY AT LILLY this time, we implemented many programs that have • A fleet collision rate of 12 percent, a 33 percent Operating Responsibly had a direct impact on reduced injury rates, including improvement from 18 percent in 2014. As a leading developer of medicines, we aim to make the following: As part of the new goal-setting process, we also lives better and that includes for our own employees. Keeping our people safe at work is one of our highest • A companywide initiative on injury prevention to changed the motor vehicle safety metric from one priorities and aligns directly with our company values address the most common injury types, based on collisions per million miles to one based on of excellence, integrity, and respect for people. Our percent of fleet involved in a collision. We believe the • hseDIRECTIONS to address motor vehicle safety, and philosophy is that no employee should be hurt while new fleet collision rate metric is easier to understand doing his or her job at Lilly. • A formal safety culture program. and measure across the globe. We also learned that attaining our goals requires Our employees can be exposed to a variety of on-the-job To achieve our new goals, it is imperative that we make cooperation across all aspects of our global business. risks, including injuries from dangerous materials and progress in injury reduction across all areas of the equipment, exposure to chemicals, ergonomic injuries, Thus, in 2014, we developed a new suite of goals to company. World-class health and safety performance and motor vehicle accidents for those who spend many take effect in January 2015. To set our new goals, we requires focus and excellence in three key categories: hours a week driving. gathered input from a variety of internal stakeholders, leadership, programs, and process and structure. including a cross-functional review from all business We had established an aggressive goal in 2007 to reduce Leadership. Increasing leadership effectiveness is critical areas at our company. The new goals to 2020 (using a injuries, including total recordable injury rate, lost-time for us to drive continued improvement in our health and 2014 baseline) are as follows: injury rate, and motor vehicle collision rate—each by safety culture. Further integration of health and safety into 50 percent—by the end of 2013. We made very strong • A total recordable injury rate8 of 0.7, or a 20 percent business processes, decisions, and actions will take us progress between 2007 and 2013: Our total recordable improvement from 2014’s rate of 0.88; to the next level of performance. Leaders at all levels of injury rate fell by 37 percent; our lost-time injury rate the organization will be expected to model safe behaviors • A lost-time injury rate of 0.25, a 30 percent TOC dropped by 38 percent; and our motor vehicle collision while prioritizing health and safety. improvement from 0.35 in 2014; and rate went down by 16 percent. 01 Although we fell short of the aggressive targets we had TOTAL RECORDABLE LOST-TIME INJURY RATE FLEET COLLISION RATE set for ourselves, we learned a lot about the complex INJURY RATE interaction of a number of factors that influence 02 injury rates, including improved reporting of injuries 1.4 0.6 25% 03 and accidents, changes to employee behavior, and 18% conformance to procedures and regulations. During 0.88 0.7 0.35 12% 0.25 04 The total recordable injury rate is defined by the number of work-related injuries 8  and illnesses that require medical treatment beyond immediate first aid per 100 employees working full-time for a year. The lost-time injury rate, which reflects the severity of serious injuries, equals the number of serious injuries that result 05 in an employee missing at least one day of work per 100 employees working full-time for a year. 2007 2014 2020 GOAL 2007 2014 2020 GOAL 2007 2014 2020 GOAL LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 85 TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURIES LOST-TIME INJURIES BY ACCIDENT CATEGORY 2014 BY ACCIDENT CATEGORY 2014 Programs. The Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURIES BY LOST-TIME INJURIES BY Operating Responsibly department and staff members have the primary ACCIDENT CATEGORY 2014* ACCIDENT CATEGORY 2014* responsibility for program definition and establishment. This team works companywide to understand our future product portfolio and the programs required to reduce health and safety risks. We will continue to refine and 10.31% 13.14% 10.32% 12.90% support the implementation of our current programs to advance safety culture and prevent catastrophic events, chronic illness, and injury. Process and structure. Process and structure is a 20.36 % 12.90% shared responsibility between Lilly senior leadership and HSE. We continue to develop and mature 35.57 % 33.55% across each of our business functions and areas, as demonstrated by the recent formation of a new HSE governance council made up of top leaders from our 20.62 % 30.32% four biggest business areas at Lilly. Further integration of health and safety into our decision-making and governance forums will be required to increase visibility and priorities for Lilly overall. Motor Vehicle Safety Program TOC Here at Lilly, sales and marketing employees represent about 30 percent of our global workforce. Their jobs Contusion/Laceration Slip/Trip/Fall Contusion/Laceration Slip/Trip/Fall 01 require them to spend large amounts of time driving. Ergonomic Other Ergonomic Other Motor vehicle accidents pose very real risks—risks that are often out of their control. In 2010, we launched a Motor Vehicle Collisions Motor Vehicle Collisions 02 motor vehicle safety program, called hseDIRECTIONS, designed specifically for the thousands of Lilly 03 employees who are on the roads every day, visiting physicians, hospitals and clinics, and other customers. * Company injuries are divided into accident categories so that we can analyze, communicate, and act upon global trends consistently. 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 86 The program focuses on four key areas: Energy conservation is another area where we can In the United States, Lilly offers health plan coverage Operating Responsibly have an impact. We encourage eco-driving behaviors to employees, retirees, and their eligible dependents; • Motor vehicle safety, collision prevention, and and have expanded the choices of fleet vehicles with plan participants may obtain some Lilly-manufactured injury reduction; lower emissions. medicines at no cost. In the United States, Lilly • Ergonomic risk reduction; provides coverage for preventive-care services (such Health and Wellness • Injury prevention; and as annual physicals and cancer screenings) that go well Our company’s wellness and productivity team has beyond the requirements established under federal • Improving energy conservation with direct responsibility for U.S. wellness strategy, workhealthcare reform. Outside the United States, we deliver eco-driving behaviors. life operations, health management and promotion, competitive benefit packages and health coverage that Over recent years, we have stepped up our programming and employee activities, as well as leaves and disability. vary depending upon location. In many countries, our to further reduce the rate of motor vehicle accidents. There are similar wellness teams at several of our employees receive government-provided medical benefits. In 2013, unfortunately, two work-related motor vehicle international affiliates. fatalities occurred. (Two additional fatalities involved Lilly At our Indianapolis headquarters, we have several The mission of the wellness and productivity team employees operating Lilly vehicles during non-workon-site fitness centers for individual and group fitness mirrors the Lilly Promise—uniting caring with discovery related activities.) In 2014, there were no work-related activities. We have worked with our food service to make life better, including for our own employees. motor vehicle fatalities. vendors to provide a wider range of healthier dining When people hear the term “wellness,” they often think choices and snacks—some of which are subsidized. Following an analysis of motor vehicle collisions and about the physical aspects of health and fitness. To fulfill We provide showers and bike racks for our more than related injuries, we added requirements for all new fleet our promise to employees, we have a broadened view 150 Indianapolis employees who commute to work vehicles in the United States and Europe to be equipped of wellness promoting the multiple dimensions that by bicycle. We have also made our headquarters with collision-avoidance technologies. We expect these contribute to personal well-being: physical, financial, smoke-free. TOC technologies to result in a significant reduction in rearsocial, career, and community. Our Fit for Life program end collisions—the most common type of accident Other efforts to support employee physical and offers a set of tools and resources to help employees leading to employee injuries. emotional health include free gym memberships not only better manage their health but also to identify 01 (both on-site and off campus), support groups for We also focused our fleet safety program on ergonomic those things that can contribute to a healthier and more new mothers, health coaching, and a comprehensive training, e.g., aligning the seat correctly and reducing active life. Fit for Life benefit offerings include free 02 employee-assistance program, including on-site the amount of time spent in the same position. We added health screenings, well-being assessments and plans, psychologists. We also promote financial well-being new makes and models of vehicles to our fleet choices fitness trackers, health and clinical coaching, smoking through a variety of online financial tools and financial 03 that provide greater varieties of seating options and cessation, and access to a network of nearly 9,000 advisory programs. Many of the benefit offerings are ergonomically friendly technologies, such as hands-free fitness centers nationwide. available to spouse/domestic partner and qualified 04 trunk lifting that reduces the risk of back injuries while dependents as well. inserting heavy containers into vehicles. 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 87 210 45 Environmental Stewardship % Operating Responsibly The medicines we make require the use of valuable resources, such as energy, water, and raw materials. We know that how we operate our business today can have a long-lasting impact on people and the planet. That’s why Lilly takes a broad approach to understanding and managing our environmental impacts across the PERCENTAGE OF ELECTRICITY product life cycle. We’re committed to conducting our PROVIDED BY A NEW 9.95 MW business in a patient-centered and an environmentally, PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV) SOLAR socially, and financially responsible manner. SYSTEM ADJACENT TO OUR BRANCHBURG, MILLION OUR COMMITMENT AND APPROACH NEW JERSEY, SITE 16 Lilly’s progress toward meeting our environmental goals demonstrates the company’s commitment to reduce our environmental footprint (see page 90). We believe implementing innovative, cost-effective, and more sustainable solutions creates ongoing business value. This section covers the broad range LITERS OF WATER USE REDUCED of our environmental activities, from our approach PER YEAR THROUGH NEW PROJECTS and management systems, to our work addressing TOC environmental issues across our business, to INITIATED IN 2013 AND 2014 NUMBER OF LILLY SITES performance data and examples illustrating progress. GLOBALLY THAT REPORTED 01 A Life Cycle Focus “ZERO-LANDFILL” STATUS Each stage of the pharmaceutical product life cycle IN 2014 02 includes distinct environmental, health, and safety (indicating that they send less impacts and offers opportunities for improvement. The than 0.5 percent of generated 03 graphic on the next page provides an overview of our waste to landfill) work to reduce the potential impacts from our operations. 04 A HEALTHIER ENVIRONMENT, A HEALTHIER WORLD video 05 Data referenced in this video cover 2007–2013. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 88 Managing Environmental Performance across the Product Life Cycle Operating Responsibly MATERIALS, WATER, AND ENERGY, HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND STANDARDS Research and Development Materials and Natural Resources Manufacturing Sales and Marketing Product Transport and Packaging We consider environmental factors Lilly, customers, and governments Our manufacturing health, safety, At many Lilly sales and marketing Lilly tracks the GHG emissions of from the earliest stages of design worldwide are increasingly focused and environment (HSE) committee offices worldwide, we’ve established our product transportation and and development. We use the 12 on the materials and chemicals used oversees compliance and projects to improve environmental distribution vendors, and we work principles of green chemistry, to make products. We work to reduce sustainability with applicable HSE performance while increasing with them to reduce those impacts environmental product risk our use of materials, water, and other regulations, policies, procedures, employee awareness and action. while also ensuring product integrity. assessments, and an Environmental natural resources when possible. For and standards while making certain Lilly continually works to enhance We consider many factors in selecting Development Review process to more information, see page 90. we continually measure, report, and the fuel efficiency of our sales force product packaging, including evaluate potential environmental reduce Lilly’s environmental impacts vehicles. Each affiliate periodically sustainability dimensions such as issues and opportunities during throughout the manufacturing reviews its fleet and is encouraged materials use and recyclability. We the scale-up of human health organization. For more information, to reduce associated greenhouse require packaging vendors in China, pharmaceutical production to see page 98. gas (GHG) emissions. Europe, and the United States to manufacturing levels. For more certify that they source all paper information, see page 94. and cardboard used to package our products from sustainable forests. For more information, see page 96. TOC Product Use Product End of Life Lilly is committed to understanding Due to patient safety considerations SCOPE OF HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT DATA IN THIS SECTION 01 the potential effects of and medicine regulations, typical pharmaceutical products in the product stewardship concepts of • Data in this section cover Lilly’s global operations, including wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. 02 environment. We support using reuse and recycling are not applicable • Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation methodology and other factors. science-based evaluations to assess to our products. We are working with • Following World Resources Institute guidance, energy use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and reduce the environmental risks customers and business partners (except Scope 3), and water-use data are reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, 03 of our pharmaceutical products. to ensure cost-effective approaches acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. Through collaborations with industry are available for product end-of-life partners, academic researchers, and disposal that balance environmental • Years are calendar years, unless stated otherwise. 04 regulatory agencies, we continually risk, patient privacy, legal compliance, • Bureau Veritas provided independent, third-party verification of GHG emissions data for Scopes 1, 2, and 3. work to further understand and and security. For more information, In addition, Bureau Veritas verified the percentage decrease from both the baseline year (2007) and from proactively address any potential see page 97. 2013 compared to 2014 for the following metrics: energy intensity, waste to landfill, and water intake. 05 impacts from our products. For more information, see page 96. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 89 Lilly’s 2013 Environmental Goals Operating Responsibly (BASELINE OF 2007 UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED)* 15 % 15 % In 2008, Lilly established several performance goals to minimize our impact on the environment. We achieved our water-intake and waste-to-landfill reduction goals significantly ahead of the target date and reset our goals for these measures, demonstrating our drive for continuous improvement. We exceeded our updated waste-to-landfill reduction goal as well as our reduction of energy intensity and GHG emissions intensity goals. REDUCTION IN GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION IN ENERGY INTENSITY** We fell short of our updated reduction in water-intake EMISSIONS INTENSITY**,*** Progress through 2013 goal, due to increased production over this time period. Progress through 2013 17% reduction 16% reduction We continue striving to make progress in that area. For information about progress toward our health 25 40 and safety goals, see page 85. TOC % % 01 02 REDUCTION IN WATER INTAKE**** REDUCTION IN WASTE Progress through 2013 TO LANDFILL****,† *Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward environmental 35% reduction Progress through 2013 03 goals is reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and Goal achieved in 2009, four years early 72% reduction divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. Goal achieved in 2009, four years early **Per square foot of facility space. Updated goal (2010 baseline) 04 ***This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Reduce water intake by 5%**** Updated goal (2010 baseline) Progress through 2013: 1% reduction Reduce waste to landfill by 20%****,† ****In absolute terms. Progress through 2013: 44% reduction †Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “reused” without 05 extensive processing. Examples include coal ash reused for mine reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 90 Lilly’s 2020 Environmental Goals Operating Responsibly (BASELINE OF 2012 UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED)* 20 % 20 % To motivate Lilly to continually decrease our environmental impacts, we’ve launched a new set of goals for 2020. As in the past, we’ll continue to report our progress transparently. REDUCTION IN GREENHOUSE GAS IMPROVEMENT IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY** EMISSIONS INTENSITY**,*** Progress through 2014 Progress through 2014 1% improvement Essentially no change TOC 01 02 *Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward environmental 15 % REDUCTION OF PHOSPHORUS EMISSIONS IN WASTEWATER (WITH A BASELINE OF 2014)**** 20 % IMPROVEMENT IN WASTE EFFICIENCY† WHILE INCREASING RECYCLING RATE ABOVE 70% AND DECREASING WASTE TO LANDFILL BELOW 10% 03 goals is reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and OF TOTAL WASTE divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. Progress through 2014 **Per square foot of facility space. 33% decrease in efficiency 04 ***This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. ****In absolute terms. †Per unit of production or relevant index. Lilly’s waste goals do not include 05 materials that are deemed “reused.” Examples include coal ash reused for mine reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 91 How We Manage Environmental Issues regulatory requirements, and other external HSE business—ensures proper oversight and plays a central Operating Responsibly Policies and Standards standards to which the corporation subscribes. role in monitoring corporate performance and ensuring Several policies and standards define our commitments continuous improvement. The vice president of global • Our Global Engineering Standards govern many and guide our efforts: HSE works closely with the global HSE committee to environmental aspects of our operations, such as energy use and GHG emissions. set appropriate metrics and goals, assess company • Our Global Health, Safety, and Environment Policy sets performance, and oversee compliance with all HSE environmental expectations related to compliance and • Our Product Stewardship Standard provides a regulations, policies, procedures, and standards globally. environmental protection for our people and operations. systematic way to manage product and process risks The manufacturing HSE committee supports these • Our Environmental Standard provides more detailed in our supply chain and our operations, and during the efforts and drives ongoing improvement throughout the requirements and establishes the core governance use of our products. manufacturing organization. Executives and lead teams requirements to manage significant environmental and HSE Governance in each of our business groups and manufacturing, as energy-related aspects of our operations. Lilly’s formal HSE governance structure (see graphic) well as Lilly Research Laboratories and general and • Our Management System Standard and Verification ensures that management of HSE issues is integrated administrative functions, manage governance for HSE and Corrective Action Standard define requirements to companywide. Our global HSE committee—which in those areas. ensure compliance with Lilly HSE standards, applicable includes senior executives from key areas of the LILLY’S HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT POLICY LILLY HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Encourages and expects each employee to be environmentally responsible and to conduct work practices in a safe manner in accordance with established policies, standards, and procedures. BOARD OF DIRECTORS These practices are considered an essential measure of TOC performance for all employees. Builds health, safety, and environment considerations into 01 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE all phases of the business, including product and technology discovery and development, facility design, operation and maintenance, and product delivery. 02 GLOBAL HSE COMMITTEE Strives for an injury-free workforce and minimizes environmental impact through implementation of programs 03 GENERAL AND in our facilities and the surrounding communities that reduce LILLY RESEARCH BUSINESS UNITS MANUFACTURING ADMINISTRATIVE risks to employees, neighbors, the public at large, and LABORATORIES FUNCTIONS the environment. 04 Encourages and promotes waste minimization, the sustainable BUSINESS HSE MANUFACTURING LILLY RESEARCH LABORATORIES HSE use of natural resources, recycling, energy efficiency, resource 05 LEAD TEAMS HSE LEAD TEAM LEAD TEAM conservation, and resource recovery. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 92 Management Systems A total of more than $35 million has been approved management approval and demonstrate projects’ Operating Responsibly Relevant business areas have an HSE management for investment in more than 135 projects since 2006. cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. system aligned with our Management System Standard, This is in addition to the amounts spent by those which is consistent with third-party standards such Green teams engage in many activities to celebrate facilities independent of the global fund. These projects as International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Earth Day each April. In 2014, more than 80 employees collectively save more than 850 billion BTUs of energy 14001, Occupational Health and Safety Assessment at one manufacturing plant site in Indianapolis, Indiana, annually, avoiding about 106,000 metric tonnes carbon Series (OHSAS) 18001, and the American Chemistry partnered with a local environmental group to pick up dioxide equivalent (CO2e) of GHG emissions each year Council’s Responsible Care Management System debris along the White River near Lilly’s recreational and saving almost $19 million on an annual basis. In (RCMS®). Our global HSE management system is also park. Employees at several sites also brought in a total of 2014, examples included the following: certified to RCMS, and almost half of our manufacturing several metric tonnes of televisions, printers, computers, locations are certified to either ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, • Boiler enhancements and heating, ventilation, and air and other electronics for responsible recycling by a local Voluntary Protection Programs, or RCMS. conditioning improvements in Carolina, Puerto Rico; organization that provides workforce training to former • Cooling tower upgrades in Kinsale, Ireland; inmates. Globally, employees took a “No Print Challenge” Audits for the week and reduced the number of pages printed To assess performance, we audit a significant portion • Variable speed drive implementation on well pumps and copied on site by more than 20 percent. of our sites globally each year following the protocols in Clinton, Indiana, United States; outlined for each of our Global HSE Standards. We use • Boiler and heating hot water improvements in Erl The green team at our site in Morumbi, Brazil, held its a risk-based approach to determine which sites to audit Wood, United Kingdom; and second annual Environment Week to raise employee and then reassess those sites every one to five years. awareness about the importance of environmental • Sub-metering implementation at several locations Both external and internal auditors participate in each protection. Three days of activities included worldwide including in Sesto, Italy, and at the Lilly audit conducted. presentations on topics such as the 4Rs of waste Corporate Center in Indianapolis, Indiana. management (rethink, reduce, reuse, and recycle), TOC Energy, Waste, Water, and Natural Resource Use Reduction Fund Sustainable Culture at Lilly waste segregation, and water conservation. Employees Our employees play a key role in the ongoing success also participated in a trivia competition covering those Making capital investments in technology and physical 01 of our environmental efforts. Hundreds of employees, and other topics. plant operations can have a substantial, positive passionate about sustainability, make up dozens environmental impact. However, these projects compete To extend the benefits of strong environmental 02 of “green teams” globally. With the support of HSE for funding with other essential projects at each facility. performance beyond our operations, we also encourage representatives and management, these teams work to To address this challenge, we established an Energy, employees to act as better environmental stewards reduce environmental impact at Lilly sites and in their 03 Waste, Water, and Natural Resource Use Reduction outside of their work and provide them with information communities. The green teams also engage internal Fund. The Fund helps pay for capital projects at our and resources to do so. Examples include increasing and external experts to provide insight on environmental facilities globally and promotes the development of composting and recycling in their homes, upgrading 04 issues at work and at home. These teams implement environmentally superior, efficient technologies, and to more efficient lighting at home, and using public projects such as employee carpooling programs, best-practice sharing across our facilities. transportation when feasible to decrease impacts 05 energy-efficiency initiatives, and beverage container and from commuting. cardboard recycling. The green teams present ideas for LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 93 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Design for Environment The potential benefits of finding new and better ways to Operating Responsibly For pharmaceuticals, the majority of product make pharmaceutical products are substantial. Lilly’s Lilly takes a broad approach to understanding and environmental impacts are determined at the approach to green chemistry in our human health managing possible HSE issues across the product life development stage, during which we consider pharmaceuticals is twofold: cycle (see page 89). This improves our own performance environmental factors associated with the product. and demonstrates our values, while also meeting the • We seek improvements by reducing the amount of hazWe take into account the materials and processes we expectations of customers and other stakeholders who ardous material used to make a product, increasing overwill use to make products and their packaging. This are increasingly focused on Lilly’s progress in this area. all materials efficiency, evaluating chemical alternatives, integrated approach enables us to identify opportunities and avoiding use of the most hazardous substances. Lilly’s Product Stewardship Standard defines our HSE to improve product environmental performance. requirements for assessing Lilly products (see box). • We strive to advance the underlying chemistry and Innovations in Green Chemistry Numerous Lilly business areas and functional groups engineering technologies used to make medicines Traditionally, pharmaceutical manufacturers viewed contribute to implementing this standard across the entire through innovation, both internally and externally the use of hazardous materials as a necessary part of value chain—from product discovery and development; through partnerships. making medicine. Green chemistry, by contrast, works through manufacturing, sales and marketing, distribution To support these efforts, we have established guidelines to reduce or eliminate the use of hazardous materials, and use; to final disposal. The scope covers both internal for the quantity of materials needed to synthesize where possible, so protection, controls, and treatment and external value chain elements globally. This approach new products. These guidelines also restrict the are reduced or are no longer needed. is intended to integrate product stewardship deeply into Lilly’s business. LILLY’S PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP STANDARD We focus on the following areas: Reflecting the breadth of product-related sustainability issues, • Product packaging: Reducing the amount of packaging and • Using green chemistry and engineering to reduce the our Product Stewardship Standard covers the following areas: using environmentally preferable materials, when possible, TOC use of energy, water, and hazardous materials in our while satisfying regulatory and customer requirements, meeting • Emerging issues: Identifying, analyzing, and managing new development and manufacturing processes; marketing objectives, and preserving product integrity; and emerging issues; 01 • Distribution: Ensuring safe product transport and warehousing • Reviewing materials used in devices to reduce their envi• Procurement: Considering environmental factors in while reducing associated environmental impacts; ronmental footprint; purchasing decisions; 02 • Developing more sustainable packaging practices; • Product discovery: Reviewing internal and external research • Marketing and sales: Working with customers to enhance the patient experience related to product environmental operations to foster high HSE standards; • Using science-based environmental risk assessments performance; 03 to evaluate the potential impact of our products in the • Product development: Using inherently safer design principles • Suppliers, contract operations, and alliances: Evaluating such as green chemistry, as well as engineering innovations, to environment; and and influencing the HSE performance of suppliers, contract identify and reduce HSE hazards from new production processes 04 operations, and alliances (see page 69 for more information • Supporting responsible product disposal at end of life. where possible; about supplier management); and • Supply chain management: Establishing plans to ensure business 05 continuity and appropriate emergency response, if needed. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 94 use of materials that could significantly increase the We set PMI targets based on molecular complexity and Lilly has been a leader in the American Chemical Society Operating Responsibly environmental and safety risks of a process. These predicted product demand, helping us to identify the Green Chemistry Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable guidelines, along with other design criteria, are a highest return opportunities for waste reduction. In 2013, since it co-founded the Roundtable in 2004. During part of the Process by Design methodology used to for example, we applied this strategy to a development 2011–2013, we co-chaired its workgroup on green develop and assess the suitability of new processes project. Compared to the prior year, we reduced PMI for chemistry and engineering and contributed to several for future manufacturing. We then evaluate success in this project by 95 percent. As a result, during initial active guides published by the group. implementing these standards and share feedback pharmaceutical ingredient (API) production in 2013, we Lilly also worked through the IQ Green Chemistry with the development teams (see Environmental avoided nearly 450 metric tonnes of waste generation. working group, sponsored by the International Development Review on this page). Another target of our green chemistry efforts was Consortium for Innovation and Quality in Pharmaceutical We have integrated the routine use of green chemistry halomethylation chemistry, which generates byDevelopment, to co-author the article “Seven Important principles in our human health business. Our product products that are highly hazardous at all stages Elements for an Effective Green Chemistry Program: development objectives include the expectation to use of operation. During 2013 and 2014, we developed An IQ Consortium Perspective,” published in Organic green chemistry, along with other important criteria and implemented a lower environmental impact Process Research & Development in 2013. The such as quality and cost. Development teams are methodology that can be used to synthesize API document includes six examples from the company accountable for process efficiency and safety from the starting materials for two products in development. that demonstrate aspects of a strong green chemistry point when they select candidate molecules through program. It also provides a blueprint for other Lilly also focuses on the use of greener and safer the development of a manufacturing process, and we companies to develop green chemistry and solvents. We have replaced several hazardous solvents monitor progress at major development milestones. engineering programs. with safer alternatives over the years, and, in 2014, We outsource a significant amount of development work, we completed a Six Sigma project focused on several Environmental Development Review so we share guidelines with our partners to ensure additional solvents to replace. Following this initiative, Lilly uses an Environmental Development Review TOC consistent expectations between internal and (EDR) process in our human health pharmaceutical we issued new internal solvent selection and solvent external processes. replacement guides. The latter includes case studies business to evaluate potential environmental issues and 01 We have developed several innovative processes that on successful replacement of solvents to meet opportunities during the scale-up of medicine production improve environmental performance and enhance requirements of the European Union’s Registration, to manufacturing levels. The EDR process helps us 02 process safety by reducing the scale of the most Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals identify and address potential impacts of manufacturing hazardous manufacturing steps by more than one (REACH) regulations. We have also made significant and waste treatment, suggest process improvements, hundredfold. We measure progress in green chemistry at efforts to limit the use of dichloromethane (a hazardous and share learning as new medicines come through the 03 pipeline and transition into manufacturing. critical steps in the human health product development air pollutant), including the development of an amino process with material use efficiency metrics including acid-based approach to produce a key pharmaceutical An EDR conducted in 2013 identified significant 04 process mass intensity (PMI), a ratio of the total mass of intermediate. This process uses environmentally benign opportunities for the recovery and reuse of solvents raw materials (including water) used for every kilogram solvents and is considered nearly carbon neutral. This for the manufacture of a product in our pipeline. 05 of drug produced. new approach has decreased solvent-related GHG emissions from the process by 69 percent. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 95 Compared to incineration of these solvents, this reuse demand the highest standards of quality, sterility, and throughout the supply chain. We’re also collaborating Operating Responsibly would decrease predicted GHG emissions by more reliability to ensure patient safety. Assuring these with our distributors, retail pharmacies, and healthcare than 83 percent (equivalent to 4,300 metric tonnes high standards are met consistently is our top priority. providers to better understand the overall pharmaceutical CO2e per year), while recovering solvent worth up to $5 Although our environmental design and materials packaging footprint and practical ways to reduce it. million annually. The review of production at a contract selection efforts extend to this area, we use only virgin Our Product Stewardship Standard also supports these manufacturer that makes an intermediate for this raw materials in manufacturing to meet the standards efforts. It requires that in our procurement processes same process uncovered additional solvent recovery for these devices and minimize the possibility of we consider the use of post-consumer recycled opportunities that would decrease predicted GHG any impurities. materials, products from certified sustainable forests, emissions from incineration by 87 percent (equivalent to Packaging and materials derived from renewable resources. All 3,700 metric tonnes CO2e per year) at that facility, while Pharmaceutical packaging is highly regulated and must of Lilly’s paper stock suppliers in China, Europe, and saving $3 million annually. See more information about fulfill many functions, including protecting product integrity the United States have met our requirement to certify our environmental performance in manufacturing on during transit and storage, providing information, resisting that they source materials from sustainable forests as page 98. counterfeiting, and protecting contents from tampering accredited by Forest Stewardship Council or Global Chemical Management or access by children. Packaging is also a source of cost equivalent entities. Lilly, customers, and governments worldwide are and waste. Through our sustainable packaging efforts, we Pharmaceuticals in the Environment increasingly focused on the chemical substances used continually review packaging technologies and practices Advanced analytical testing technologies enable in products. Governments across many of the regions to reduce the amount of packaging used; utilize lower scientists around the world to measure trace residues where we operate have developed chemical management environmental impact materials, such as recycled content; of pharmaceutical products in the environment that legislation, such as the European Union (EU) REACH enhance recyclability; and reuse or recycle packaging were previously undetectable. These trace residues are regulation, which requires manufacturers and importers TOC of chemicals to collect and register information about the chemicals they manufacture or use. These regulations IMPROVING PACKAGING AND LOGISTICS FOR CLINICAL TRIAL MATERIALS may also require replacing the most hazardous 01 Each year, we ship about 30,000 orders of clinical trial materials to investigators in North America and Europe. Due to quality chemicals with safer alternatives when available. requirements, the materials were historically packaged in single-size foam boxes, with 10 cooling gel packs, inside a heavy We continue to assess the impact of these new and cardboard box. Investigators would then discard packaging after use. 02 emerging global chemical management regulations on In 2014, we qualified four different package sizes with superior cooling medium, vacuum-sealed panels, and corrugated plastic substances we manufacture and on our raw materials. protective shells. The variety of sizes allows for smarter shipping and has reduced the average number of packages per order 03 We are committed to ensuring our facilities and supply from 1.4 to less than 1.1. The lighter and smaller containers reduce shipping costs and are 100 percent reusable. chain remain in compliance with all relevant laws. We also implemented a reverse logistics process for returns of the packaging from the investigator sites. Last year, about 96 04 Materials Use percent of the boxes were returned to a refurbishment center, where they were inspected, cleaned, and returned to inventory. Lilly assembles injection devices that patients use The new solution reduces landfill waste by more than 300 metric tonnes each year and is projected to save Lilly $1.8 million 05 to administer some of our medicines—products that dollars over the next five years. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 96 widespread and found mainly in streams, rivers, and Lilly is working on a project to support collaborative Product End of Life Operating Responsibly other water bodies. The primary source of these residues research on pharmaceuticals in the environment with Medicines are intended to be used in their entirety by is from humans after use; trace amounts of medicines the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), Europe’s largest patients. Even when this does not occur, regulatory pass through the human body without being metabolized public-private collaboration, jointly undertaken by the requirements do not support the use of recovered and reach surface waters via municipal wastewater EU and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical materials in our products. As a result, typical models treatment systems. Industries and Associations. Using input from industrial of consumer take-back programs designed to capture and academic experts, participants in the IMI project will value from reused and recycled products (such as paper, Reported concentrations are extremely low—in some develop a predictive framework to identify potential risks beverage containers, or electronic equipment) after cases, less than one part per trillion (equivalent to about in this area. Tools from this project could eventually be use do not apply to our industry. With this in mind, we one teaspoon of sugar dissolved in more than 3,300 used to more effectively target environmental testing continue to work with customers and partners to better Olympic-sized swimming pools). Despite the very low requirements at the early stages of drug development, understand and ensure an effective approach to product concentrations, the presence and biological potency to better assess the environmental safety of new end-of-life issues. of pharmaceuticals raise questions about how to best products, and to prioritize legacy pharmaceuticals for evaluate associated human and environmental risks. We promote science-based policy decisions regarding the testing and monitoring. Many of these pharmaceuticals have been available for disposal of unused medicines, and we support educating treatment of patients for decades prior to their detection In 2012, we began to assess the ability of our programs patients and caregivers on how to properly dispose of in the environment. to further reduce potential risks related to wastewater unused medicines. See Lilly’s Position Statement on the discharges at external partners involved in active Disposal of Unused Medicines in the United States. At the levels currently detected, risks to human pharmaceutical ingredient production. We continue to health are considered very unlikely. The World We also support the proper disposal of syringes, evaluate program effectiveness and, following these Health Organization (WHO) evaluated investigations needles, and other sharps used in home settings to assessments, provide recommendations regarding conducted in Australia, the United Kingdom, and the mitigate potential public health and safety risks. Based TOC related business process improvements. United States and concluded that exposure to trace on feedback from patients and healthcare providers, we quantities of pharmaceuticals in drinking water is Lilly supports industry efforts to make information believe that education offers the greatest opportunity to 01 highly unlikely to pose risks to human health. WHO has about pharmaceuticals in the environment and the improve disposal practices for sharps. We are working cautioned interested parties to not let concerns over environmental characteristics of medicines readily to more effectively communicate this information 02 pharmaceuticals in the environment divert the attention available. Our scientists have published articles on these to patients through product user manuals, patient and resources of water suppliers and regulators from topics, presented at conferences, and participated in education programs, improved sales force awareness, other water quality priorities. meetings held by the U.S. National Academies National and updated information at The Lilly Answer Center. 03 Research Council, WHO, the U.S. Environmental Lilly applies product stewardship principles to manage Protection Agency, and European governmental 04 potential environmental risks from the manufacture sponsors. Summary results from environmental fate and and use of medicines. This process utilizes enhanced effect studies are available in our Safety Data Sheets and environmental risk assessment, increased awareness 05 are routinely updated. of related research, and control of effluent emissions from manufacturing. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 97 PERFORMANCE IN OPERATIONS change by setting and making progress toward aggressive IF WE IMPROVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REDUCE Operating Responsibly targets for improved energy efficiency and reduced GHG OUR GHG EMISSIONS We are committed to continually improving emissions. These efforts improve our environmental environmental performance across Lilly’s operations. 20% BY 2020, WE’LL: performance and decrease energy use, which represents This includes what we consider our most significant one of the most substantial operational costs for our areas of environmental impact—energy use, GHG research, manufacturing, and distribution activities emissions, water use, and waste. We are also dedicated (see page 99). Recognizing the connection between to maintaining compliance with applicable legal GHG emissions and water use, we have also conducted reduce CO2e, the equivalent standards, advancing our green procurement, reducing evaluations of water-stressed areas where we operate of planting non-GHG air emissions, and supporting biodiversity (see page 103). 20,000,000 efforts in communities where we operate. As a fundamental part of our approach, we establish, work During 2014, the company’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG toward, and share progress against HSE performance emissions equaled 1,540,000 metric tonnes CO2e, 4 trees* goals (see page 90). percent less than in 2013 (see graph on page 99). Lilly’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG emissions intensity improved by 16 percent through Climate change is compelling governments, companies, 2013 compared with 2007, surpassing the company’s goal save more than and citizens worldwide to act. We’ve responded to climate of a 15 percent improvement by that year.9 The decrease CLIMATE CHANGE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES $ $160,000,000* Lilly faces various climate change-related issues, risks, resources. This decreases climatic and other environmental TOC opportunities, and impacts in its global operations, which we impacts while making food safer, more affordable, and more avoid the use of energy integrate into the framework of our Corporate Responsibility abundant. For example, between 1977 and 2007, efficiencyequivalent to about and Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) strategies. enhancing technologies reduced the carbon footprint per 01 78,000,000 kilogram of beef produced by 18 percent, while also decreasing We regularly assess climate change-related regulatory risks related water usage by 14 percent and associated land usage and opportunities through our global environmental affairs team, 02 and physical and other climate change-related risks through our by 34 percent.10 gallons of gasoline* ERM process. Information from these assessments informs our To increase awareness about these benefits, we analyze and 03 business strategies across multiple components within communicate how improved animal productivity and health *Based on information available at www.epa.gov. the business. can help to reduce GHG emissions and the use of natural resources such as land, water, and fossil fuels. We share this 9 This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per square foot of 04 One set of risks and opportunities that Lilly focuses on relates information with food animal industry organizations; various facility space. to the production of animals used for human food consumption, 10  Capper, J. July 2010. “Comparing the Environmental Impact of the U.S. Beef non-governmental organizations; multistakeholder groups Industry in 1977 to 2007.” Abstract presentation at the American Society of due to our Elanco animal health product portfolio. Food animal such as Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef, U.S. Dairy Animal Science meetings. 05 production has a sizable impact on global GHG emissions, and Innovation Center, and National Pork Board; as well as our products and services help producers sustainably deliver companies operating within the sector’s retail supply chain. more food and address hunger globally while using fewer LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 98 in Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions between 2007 In 2014, Lilly achieved a CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) performance through new initiatives. Six affiliates Operating Responsibly and 2013 is equivalent to the annual emissions of more climate change disclosure score of 85, compared to the achieved the “Best in Class” level, and more than than 48,000 passenger vehicles.11 The company’s GHG average score of 75 in the healthcare sector and our 90 percent reached at least the “Good Citizen” level. emissions intensity remained essentially flat from 2012 company’s score of 65 in 2012. Our performance band During 2015, we plan to complete the replacement through 2014, not on track to meet our new goal of a 20 remained B. See Lilly’s recent CDP climate change of all company cars in Europe, and we will manage percent reduction by 2020.12 Greenhouse gas emissions submission for additional detail about the company’s those vehicles across the continent instead of at the will continue to be a key area of focus given our ongoing approach and performance in this area. affiliate level. This will decrease costs and allow for emphasis on energy efficiency. Decreasing Environmental Impacts in Sales and Marketing more consistent implementation of strong safety and This year, we again reported several categories of Scope We use a scorecard at our sales and marketing affiliates environmental standards. We anticipate that the new 3 GHG emissions, as included in the Environmental in the Americas, Canada, and Europe to identify and average emissions will decrease to approximately 100 Performance Indicators table on page 111 (and not assess progress reducing GHG emissions, energy use, grams CO2e per kilometer, 30 percent less than the included in the graph on this page). We are committed water consumption, waste, and transportation. Each rate in 2015. to continually expanding the scope and quality of our year, these affiliates look for opportunities to enhance Energy Use disclosure in this area. To support these efforts, we have their environmental performance by identifying and Improving energy efficiency and reducing overall initiated a project to gather energy and GHG data from implementing new projects and setting targets across energy use to save money and reduce our climate our key suppliers to more effectively assess our Scope 3 more than 40 dimensions. In 2013 and 2014, 26 affiliates impact are key priorities in our operations. Energy emissions and overall carbon footprint. assessed their performance level (the levels include assessments are central to our approach. Since 2006, Beginner, Follower, Good Citizen, Leader, and Best in we have conducted 32 assessments at our most Class). Based on this analysis, 80 percent improved energy-intensive sites, which we have used to identify PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL—GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS and prioritize energy conservation measures. TOC Additionally, Lilly has implemented several global 2,000,000 90 strategic initiatives to support these efforts, such as 01 2013 Goal 80 1,750,000 energy sub-metering to enable monitoring and METRIC TONNES CO2e/ 70 METRIC TONNES CO2e 1,500,000 benchmarking of facilities and utility equipment, use of 02 1,250,000 60 the Laboratory Energy Efficiency Profiler assessment 50 1,000,000 2020 Goal tool, and retrocommissioning13 of laboratory and 40 1,000 SQUARE FEET 03 750,000 administrative facilities. 30 500,000 20 According to www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/refs.html. 04 11 250,000 10 12 This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per square foot of 0 0 facility space. 2007 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Retrocommissioning” refers to a structured process for identifying suboptimal 05 13 performance in an organization’s lighting, heating, cooling, and other systems Scope 1 Scope 2 and making adjustments as needed. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 99 Operating Responsibly At four facilities worldwide, we generate electric power using photovoltaic (PV) arrays. A new 9.95-megawatt PV solar system covers TOC more than 40 acres and is one of the biggest of its 01 02 03 kind for an East Coast 04 non-utility company. 05 Lilly’s solar installation in Branchburg, New Jersey. We continue to use renewable energy to diversify our locations within facilities, helping us to more effectively Operating Responsibly 175 $MILLION energy sources and decrease GHG emissions globally, monitor processes and identify new energy-saving projects. using direct generation as well as direct and indirect To expand benefits companywide, Lilly employees share purchases of renewable energy from local utilities. At energy-efficiency best practices through channels such four facilities worldwide, we generate electric power as our regional networks and Engineering Technical using photovoltaic (PV) arrays. A new 9.95-megawatt Center. The latter is a group of experienced engineers PV solar system, completed in 2014, adjacent to our who provide consultation on operational issues, subsidiary in Branchburg, New Jersey, covers more than including energy forecasting and efficiency initiatives ENERGY COSTS LILLY SAVED 40 acres and is one of the biggest of its kind for an East to manage projected demand. We also conduct a yearly FROM 2007–2013 Coast non-utility company. The system generates 12.6 internal awards presentation for HSE performance million kilowatt hours of electrical energy per year and (which, similar to the initiatives described earlier in will provide 65 percent of the power needs of the largest $ this paragraph, also addresses water savings and facility on-site. That is roughly equal to the electricity waste reduction). used by 1,500 homes and will avoid 3,900 metric tonnes of CO2e emissions annually. Other educational opportunities include the following: Cogeneration, which involves using a combustion source • Energy-focused webinars and collaboration sites to generate electricity on-site while also recovering usable on the Lilly intranet, heat from the process, is another important part of our • Use of our internal social networking site to share approach. We currently feature three sites with 10-MW, $100 best practices and make suggestions, and equivalent to a stack of 4.3-MW, and 2.7-MW cogeneration units in operation. A TOC fourth site is constructing an 8-MW unit. • Global Energy Day, a widely attended annual employee event that includes poster presentations, videos, Over the past two years, we’ve installed electricity contests, guest speakers, and energy-focused 01 sub-meters at several locations worldwide. This technology informational booths to promote awareness of and enables us to measure energy consumption at specific progress toward Lilly’s companywide energy goal. 02 bills taller than ENERGY PROGRAM 03 THE STATUE OF LIBERTY We are committed to using energy in an efficient, cost-effective, • Conduct energy assessments and implement initiatives to enhance and environmentally responsible manner. To do so, we establish energy efficiency; 04 energy-efficiency goals and implement energy management • Utilize alternative energy sources, new technologies, and (ground to torch) practices globally. Our approach includes the following elements: best practices; and • Participate in local, regional, and/or national forums to 05 • Design for energy efficiency in new or updated processes and facilities; influence responsible and cost-effective decision-making • Operate our facilities and equipment efficiently; and policy development relative to energy. • Monitor and report energy consumption and resulting GHG emissions; LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 101 In 2014, Lilly’s energy use totaled 10,700,000 million Water Use we consume water for domestic uses in our offices Operating Responsibly BTUs, 4 percent less than 2013 (see graph). Our energy Water is a key input to our products and manufacturing (such as cafeterias, bathrooms, and landscaping). Our intensity14 improved by 17 percent from 2007 through 2013, processes and is essential to our business. Predicted Engineering Technical Center helps our sites to identify exceeding the company’s goal of a 15 percent reduction.15 future regional water scarcity, increased costs, water-saving technologies, and the sites can apply for The company’s energy efficiency improved 1 percent from and climatic changes have only strengthened our capital funding for projects through Lilly’s Energy, Waste, 2012 through 2014, as we work to meet our new goal of a commitment to use this resource wisely. Water, and Natural Resource Use Reduction Fund. 20 percent improvement by 2020.16 Manufacturing operations account for the majority In 2014, we used the World Business Council for Improving Energy Efficiency in Carolina, Puerto Rico of the water consumed by Lilly. Our operations that Sustainable Development’s Global Water Tool© and the We improved heating and cooling efficiency by setting produce injectable products require exceptionally highUnited Nations Environment Programme’s Vital Water target temperature for laboratories, offices, and exercise quality water, while our utility operations use substantial Graphics tool to evaluate water stress-related risks to rooms when they are unoccupied. In addition, we are amounts of water for cooling and to support steam our contract manufacturing. Using business-interruption installing motion sensors on fume hoods to decrease boilers. Some sites have updated to waterless cooling criteria, we estimated potential financial impacts for each airflow when personnel are not detected. These changes systems, and others have installed technology that type of risk and assessed whether it is significant to will save more than 3 million kWh of energy yearly, reclaims water for this purpose. To a lesser extent, the company. decreasing GHG emissions by over 2,700 metric tonnes CO2e and saving greater than $300,000 on an annual basis. PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL—ENERGY USE Developing Energy Management Capabilities in Suzhou, China Our East Lake Branch Office in Suzhou, China, began 14,000,000 700 commercial production of insulin in 2013. To support the MILLION BTUS/1,000 SQUARE FEET 12,000,000 600 launch of the facility, we established a Six Sigma team to TOC track energy usage on a daily basis, analyze and manage 2013 Goal 10,000,000 500 consumption, assess trends, and determine savings MILLION BTUS 01 opportunities. The team identified and implemented two 8,000,000 400 heating, ventilation, and air conditioning projects to reduce 2020 Goal energy use. Together, these initiatives have reduced energy 6,000,000 300 02 consumption at the site by about 7 percent, reducing GHG emissions by more than 600 metric tonnes CO2e and 4,000,000 200 03 saving nearly $110,000 each year. 2,000,000 100 04 14 Per square foot of facility space. 0 0 Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward environmental 15 2007 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 goals is reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and 05 divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. Direct Consumption Indirect Consumption Energy Intensity 16 Per square foot of facility space. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 102 We evaluated more than 100 contract manufacturing assess if the company’s current risk management Operating Responsibly sites to determine business risks that could arise if practices are adequate, and to determine if additional the sites experienced extended droughts. This analysis data is needed to support sound risk management covered a range of operations, from bulk active ingredient production sites that require the largest amounts of water decisions. This evaluation is still under way, and we plan to report findings in future CDP water submissions and Our to packaging sites that consume the least. Through this corporate responsibility reports. decrease assessment, we determined that extended periods of drought should not significantly impact our human health Learn more in Lilly’s 2013 CDP water submission. in water business. We use inventory management practices to mitigate these types of risks, and each of our facilities In 2014, Lilly’s water intake17 was 13.5 billion liters, a 6 percent increase from 2013 and a 31 percent reduction intake from creates a local business continuity plan that considers since 2007 (see graph below). This slight increase in 2007 through 2013 was many possible sources of business interruption, including water intake was primarily due to production increases. water availability. We will continue to look for opportunities to decrease 6.9 BILLION LITERS, In 2014 and 2015, Lilly worked with the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB), to conduct a water our water usage and will communicate our performance in our corporate responsibility reports, the CDP water which would fill stress analysis of one of our major pharmaceutical products using supply chain data. UCSB provided an submission, and other disclosures. In 2013, we introduced a new water quality goal to ABOUT 13,000 OLYMPIC-SIZED in-depth evaluation of contract manufacturing in waterreduce absolute phosphorus emissions in wastewater stressed areas using the World Resources Institute discharge by 15 percent by 2020, compared to 2014. This (WRI) Aqueduct tool and other reporting guidelines. will address an issue that is increasingly important to TOC We may be able to use this information to better communities, regulators, and investors. We believe that swimming pools understand water risks within our supply chain, to 01 PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL—WATER INTAKE 15 2013 Goal 02 (updated) 12 03 BILLION LITERS 9 “Water intake” is the total amount of water coming into a facility, including water 17 pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided 04 6 by a utility. It includes water used in processes, utilities, and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater pumped solely 3 for treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do not include 05 the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the groundwater 0 table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 103 significant source reduction will require phasing out and Since 2011, the site has improved its water-intake Waste Operating Responsibly replacing cleaning agents with non-phosphorus based efficiency while increasing its production significantly. Lilly uses the following hierarchy to manage waste: alternatives. Technical teams at Lilly are evaluating This saves money while preserving on-site water • Eliminate or reduce the amount of waste produced, existing cleaning processes and will apply learnings to resources, which will be increasingly important due to key sites worldwide. planned production increases in the coming years. • Reuse materials when possible (often multiple times), Reusing Process Water in Carolina, Puerto Rico • Recycle used materials to make new products, To inform its approach moving forward, the site has At our insulin manufacturing facility in Carolina, Puerto also installed about 45 water meters throughout its • Recover energy from waste, Rico, we use a filter system to remove water from liquid operations to track correlations between production • Treat waste to reduce toxicity and volume, and process waste. This system used significant amounts of levels and water consumption. Lilly will use that • Send waste to landfill only when the options above potable water to maintain filter press operations. To save information to determine when to modify its water are not feasible. resources, in 2013 we installed a system that receives systems, for example, by adding new wells or reject water from the filtering process and supplies it back upgrading its wastewater treatment plant. Total waste generation decreased by about 5 percent into the system. This reuse eliminated the need for potable from 2013 to 2014, primarily due to a reduction in Decreasing Environmental Impacts in Insulin Production water, decreasing annual use by 23,000 cubic meters demolition construction waste (see graph on page 106). In 2014, after performing a detailed environmental compared to 2012 and saving more than $50,000 each year. Between 2007 and 2014, however, total waste generation assessment, we launched a streamlined manufacturing Conserving Water in Sesto, Italy decreased by 23 percent. process in Indianapolis, Indiana, for the active In recent years, our site in Sesto, Italy, has increased pharmaceutical ingredient in one of our insulin products. During 2014, Lilly sent 6,300 metric tonnes of waste to its focus on conserving water, a primary input in insulin The new process aimed to increase manufacturing landfill, 29 percent less than in 2013 and an 80 percent production at the facility. capacity to meet projected future demand for this reduction from 2007 (see graph on page 106).18 During lifesaving drug. These changes reduced purified water the year, 16 Lilly sites globally reported “zero-landfill” TOC The location has adopted a multipronged strategy to usage and aqueous process waste both by 30 percent, status (indicating that they send less than 0.5 percent decrease water use: each decreasing by about 160 cubic meters per day. The of generated waste to landfill). 01 • Using collected rainwater (instead of well water) new process, with 50 percent higher throughput than the for landscaping, former approach, decreases the need to build additional In 2013, we introduced a new waste goal to achieve a facility capacity and will avoid corresponding energy 20 percent improvement in waste efficiency19 by 2020, 02 • Optimizing cleaning cycles, compared to 2012, while increasing our recycling rate use and GHG emissions. • Reusing clean industrial water for cooling towers above 70 percent and decreasing waste to landfill20 03 and other purposes, and below 10 percent of total waste. In 2014, Lilly achieved • Reusing reverse osmosis water discharges for a landfill diversion rate of 13 percent of total waste. 04 other processes. These data do not include construction and demolition debris, biosolids from 18 Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “reused” without 20 05 wastewater treatment plants, incinerator ash, coal ash if reused for mine extensive processing. Examples include coal ash reused for mine reclamation reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. 19 Per unit of production or relevant index. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 104 72 From 2012 through 2014, our waste efficiency decreased Promoting Recycling and Vocational Training Operating Responsibly by about 33 percent. This was primarily due to a shortin Indianapolis, Indiana % term operational issue at a large site. Material that was At our headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana, Lilly works previously reused was temporarily sent for disposal due with Noble of Indiana to process cardboard for recycling to a permitting issue. We will resolve this issue in 2015 from our research and cafeteria operations. Noble of and resume our normal reuse of this material. Indiana provides small work crews of individuals with developmental disabilities, supervised by a Noble staff Increasing Non-Hazardous Waste Recycling member, to collect and compact cardboard. In 2014, in Indianapolis, Indiana the crew sorted and processed more than 90 metric In 2013, Lilly removed more than 10,000 trash cans and tonnes of material for recycling. The benefits are not only decrease in WASTE TO LANDFILL recycling bins from our Indianapolis, Indiana, offices, environmental. Noble employees also develop valuable between 2007 and 2013 cubicles, and workstations, and replaced these with a pre-vocational job and social skills that enrich their lives greatly reduced number of centralized bins for recycling and our community. Watch this video to learn more. and waste. The objective was to increase our recycling rate, save money by decreasing custodial visits, and Reducing Waste to Landfill in Speke, United Kingdom further embed waste reduction and recycling in our Our site is Speke, United Kingdom, which produces the reduction is EQUIVALENT an animal health antibiotic, is one of Lilly’s largest to the amount of waste that corporate culture. As a result, can and bottle recycling would fill about 2,300 increased at these locations by nearly 50 percent, and contributors of waste to landfill. In 2012, the site sent 77 overall non-hazardous waste decreased by 20 percent. percent of the production waste it generated to landfill, These efforts also saved the company hundreds of more than 99 percent of which was mycelia (the leftover thousands of dollars over the year and improved cell mass as a result of fermentation). This facility will employee practices related to office waste. Watch this play a key role in helping the company meet its goal to TOC video to learn more. reduce overall waste to landfill to less than 10 percent of total waste by 2020. 01 Energy recovery is not a viable option with mycelia, due garbage trucks* to handling issues related to its chemical properties. 02 To assess the possibility of composting mycelia waste (an option that had been rejected previously by the local 03 environmental agency), the company worked with an external consultant to conduct a detailed environmental 04 assessment. This analysis demonstrated that the material was acceptable for composting and offered some agricultural benefits, due to the presence of 05 carbon, organic nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. *This assumes each garbage truck has a capacity of about 10 metric tonnes. LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 105 WASTE GENERATION After identifying an appropriate site to process the Operating Responsibly material, Lilly conducted several months of successful 350,000 25 tests to confirm the new approach. In 2014, compared to 2012, the site reduced its mycelia waste to landfill METRIC TONNES/MILLION $ REVENUE 280,000 20 from 100 percent to less than 10 percent and its total production waste to landfill from 77 percent to 7 percent. 210,000 15 Green Procurement METRIC TONNES Lilly continues to expand its green procurement efforts 140,000 10 to decrease the company’s environmental impacts and support markets for green products. Office supplies 70,000 5 remain an area of focus. We offer online purchasing tools globally that inform employees who order office 0 supplies if items with recycled content are available. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Our Master Services Agreement outlines the principles Hazardous Non-Hazardous Waste Generation that we encourage our partners to follow, including Waste Generation Waste Generation Intensity those related to energy, water, and waste. Many of our key suppliers have reduced their environmental PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL­—WASTE TO LANDFILL footprints through initiatives in logistics, materials, and services provided. We benefit from these efforts when 20,000 we travel, buy equipment, and use products provided TOC by these partners. 15,000 Since 2013, we have reduced printing and paper 01 2013 Goal (updated) purchases at our U.S. locations by almost 20 percent. Contributing factors included converting our sales force METRIC TONNES 02 to tablet devices (and reducing paper documentation), 10,000 encouraging employees to reduce the amount and 03 type of information they print, and expanding use of technologies that support paperless operations. 5,000 04 05 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 106 We have expanded our green procurement program to Between 2007 and 2014, our total air emissions (not Examples include the following: Operating Responsibly cover areas such as product transport, manufacturing, including GHGs) decreased by 36 percent, largely driven • Kinsale, Ireland – Our manufacturing facility launched and research. For example, in 2012 we transitioned our by changes in manufacturing processes. NOX and SO2 a long-term initiative in 2013 to protect, maintain, and approach to shipping products related to clinical trials emissions in 2014 decreased by 16 percent and 8 percent enhance biodiversity on 152 acres at the site through requiring refrigeration from one-way shipping containers respectively compared to 2013. VOCs and particulate various efforts. One project nearly doubled the number to reusable packaging. See details on page 96. matter each increased by 5 percent, resulting from of butterfly species at the site during the first two years increased production and improved calculations. by planting wildflowers to serve as natural habitats. Other Air Emissions Lilly tracks emissions of compounds that can affect air Biodiversity • Guayama, Puerto Rico – Since 1991, our manufacturing quality. Currently, the company’s most significant air Lilly has a long history of working collaboratively facility has designated about 10 acres of its grounds emissions, other than GHGs, include volatile organic to protect habitat and reduce the impact of our as a habitat conservation area to help preserve and compounds (VOCs) as well as sulfur dioxide (SO2) and operations on ecosystems. We pursue a decentralized restore vibrant plant life. The space is divided into three nitrogen oxides (NOX) resulting from the combustion of approach, recognizing that biodiversity challenges and main areas focused on education, reforestation, and natural gas, oil, and coal. opportunities vary based on location, and we engage preservation. Trained employees provide interpretive in conservation projects and habitat enhancements at services at the site as a part of guided environmental tours. many sites worldwide. We also support conservation • Indianapolis, Indiana, United States – As a part of efforts in the communities where our facilities are located. Lilly’s annual Global Day of Service, the company started a multiyear project in 2012 to educate our employees and the communities where we OTHER AIR EMISSIONS operate about local water resources. Part of a larger citywide collaboration called “Reconnecting to Our 2,500 NOx Particulate Matter SO2 Volatile Organic Compounds TOC Waterways,” this project helped Indianapolis meet U.S. Environmental Protection Agency requirements 2,000 by adding markers to 302 drains in 23 subdivisions. 01 Participants also removed invasive species and METRIC TONNES 1,500 improved aesthetics along several waterways. About 02 8,000 of our employees have participated each of the last three years. 1,000 03 500 04 0 05 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 107 In Kinsale, Ireland, our Operating Responsibly manufacturing facility launched a long-term initiative to protect, maintain, and enhance biodiversity on 152 acres at the site through various efforts. One project TOC nearly doubled the number 01 01 of butterfly species at the 02 02 site during the first two 03 03 years by planting wildflowers 04 04 to serve as natural habitats. 05 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 108 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE TOTAL REPORTABLE PERMIT-LIMIT EXCEEDANCES Operating Responsibly Lilly’s Health, Safety, and Environment Policy requires compliance with applicable regulations wherever we 10 do business. Where existing laws and regulations are inadequate, Lilly applies its standards consistent with this policy. We believe compliance is fundamental to maintaining our facilities’ “right-to-operate” in local 5 communities. (For more information about our HSE policies, standards, and management systems, see page 92.) If it is determined that we are out-of0 compliance, we work to remedy the situation as 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 quickly as possible and to continuously improve our performance. Using environmental capability assessments based on sophisticated statistical techniques, we routinely Environmental Awards and Recognition review more than 50 environmental compliance-related processes across Lilly. We use the results to continually improve these processes and maintain compliance. Reportable permit-limit exceedances decreased from TOC 43 in 2007 to 3 in 2014, a 93 percent reduction that Climate change disclosure score equals the lowest level ever reported by the company. Recognition of carbon-management Recognition of outstanding of 85, performance band B (2014) The three exceedances in 2014 had to do with waterprograms for United Kingdom environmental performance 01 operations (2014) in recycling (2014) related permits. See the Environmental Performance Indicators table on page 110 for detail. 02 03 04 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 109 Environmental Performance Indicators 21,22 Operating Responsibly 2007 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 1,840,000 1,620,000 1,560,000 1,560,000 1,610,000 1,540,000 (metric tonnes CO2e) Scope 1 527,000 479,000 446,000 426,000 476,000 445,000 Scope 2 1,310,000 1,160,000 1,130,000 1,160,000 1,130,000 1,100,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity 84.7 75.3 71.4 69.7 71.1 69.8 (metric tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity 98.7 70.2 64.3 69.0 69.6 78.8 (metric tonnes CO2e/million $ revenue) Energy Use Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 12,900,000 11,200,000 10,800,000 10,900,000 11,200,000 10,700,000 Energy Intensity (million BTUs/1,000 square feet) 594 521 495 488 495 484 TOC Energy Intensity (million BTUs/million $ revenue) 692 486 445 482 485 545 Direct Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 4,670,000 4,200,000 4,000,000 3,900,000 4,210,000 3,990,000 01 Coal (million BTUs) 1,410,000 1,280,000 1,170,000 690,000 1,340,000 1,300,000 Natural Gas (million BTUs) 2,480,000 2,230,000 2,300,000 2,770,000 2,430,000 2,250,000 02 Fuel Oil (million BTUs) 768,000 676,000 459,000 435,000 435,000 424,000 Liquid Propane (million BTUs) 18,600 23,000 15,900 700 700 2,400 03 Indirect Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 8,240,000 7,000,000 6,830,000 7,000,000 7,000,000 6,700,000 04 Purchased Electricity (million BTUs) 4,630,000 4,310,000 4,200,000 4,320,000 4,230,000 4,280,000 Purchased Steam (million BTUs) 2,990,000 2,200,000 2,240,000 2,200,000 2,310,000 2,430,000 05 Purchased Chilled Water (million BTUs) 619,000 491,000 445,000 491,000 450,000 4,500 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 110 Operating Responsibly 2007 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Scope 3 Emissions (not included in metrics above)23 Employee Business Travel (personal car, taxi, rental car, rail, and air travel) 65,000 72,000 67,000 99,000 94,000 68,000 (metric tonnes CO2e) Employee Commuting (metric tonnes CO2e) 76,000 72,000 71,000 72,000 71,000 72,000 Product Transportation and Distribution (contracted) (metric tonnes CO2e) 30,000 43,000 50,000 45,000 30,000 18,000 Waste Generated in Operations (metric tonnes CO2e) 103,000 68,000 72,000 74,000 88,000 103,000 Non-Kyoto Compound Emissions 14,000 23,000 55,000 15,000 17,000 28,000 (refrigerants, VOCs, etc.) (metric tonnes CO2e) Water Use Water Intake (billion liters)24 19.6 12.8 13.3 12.4 12.7 13.5 Municipal (billion liters) 6.5 6.6 6.0 6.6 6.8 Surface (billion liters) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 Groundwater (billion liters) 6.3 6.8 6.5 6.1 6.7 Water Intensity (million liters/million $ revenue) 1.05 0.555 0.549 0.549 0.562 0.688 Waste TOC Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 379,000 228,000 242,000 281,000 307,000 292,000 Hazardous Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 53,800 31,000 22,000 23,900 22,700 23,300 01 Non-Hazardous Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 325,000 197,000 220,000 257,000 284,000 269,000 02 Waste Generation Intensity (metric tonnes/million $ revenue) 20.3 9.88 10.7 12.3 13.3 14.9 Waste Disposition 03 Beneficially Reused (metric tonnes) 253,900 148,800 176,200 211,300 235,000 206,400 Recycled (includes incineration with energy recovery) (metric tonnes) 31,500 45,000 35,500 33,700 32,000 46,000 04 Treated (includes incineration without energy recovery) (metric tonnes) 49,100 12,300 13,300 16,300 18,200 28,600 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 111 Operating Responsibly 2007 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Landfilled (metric tonnes) 44,700 22,100 17,000 19,800 21,600 11,200 Landfilled (related to goal) (metric tonnes)25 32,000 15,900 10,900 12,300 8,900 6,300 Other Air Emissions Volatile Organic Compound Emissions (metric tonnes) 526 626 735 606 532 560 Particulate Matter (metric tonnes) 311 200 146 113 167 175 SO2 Emissions (metric tonnes) 3,137 2,015 1,660 975 1,844 1,694 NOx Emissions (metric tonnes) 1,205 877 794 741 1,057 885 Ozone-Depleting Substances Potential (kg CFC-11 equivalent) 1,425 790 3,718 1,168 995 1,830 Environmental Compliance Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances26 43 11 8 8 5 3 Number of Significant Spills27 0 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental Fines Paid ($) $ 96,900 $ 1,200 $ 340,00028 $ 732 $ 0 $ 0 Energy, Waste, Water, and Natural Resource Use Reduction Fund Expenditures ($ millions) $ 0 $ 4.1 $ 0.8 $ 1.1 $ 1.8 $ $ 1.6 TOC Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation 21 pumped solely for treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., “Significant spill” in this report refers to any unexpected, unintended, abnormal, 27 methodology and other factors. Some segments do not add up to totals due remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do or unapproved dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of a 01 to rounding. not include the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the substance that resulted in damage to the environment (i.e., human health, aquatic groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building life, or wildlife) or a material event requiring reporting to the U.S. Securities and Following World Resources Institute guidance, energy use, greenhouse gas 22 foundations. Data for breakdown of water intake by source are not available prior Exchange Commission. Damage means the actual or imminent alteration of the emissions (except Scope 3), waste, and water use data are reported on an to 2010. environment so as to render the environment harmful, detrimental, or injurious. 02 adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “reused” without 25 During routine inspections in 2006 and 2007, the U.S. Environmental Protection 28 extensive processing. Examples include coal ash reused for mine reclamation Agency identified potential weaknesses in our leak detection and repair program 23 These data do not include sales force travel using company vehicles, use of Lilly or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. at our Lilly Technology Center facility in Indianapolis, Indiana. In addition, in aircraft, or product distribution with Lilly vehicles. Those items are Scope 1 and 03 included in the data above. Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an 26 2006 we voluntarily reported to the state and city environmental agencies that we had exceeded an annual limit for air emissions. In response to these events, exceedance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the “Water intake” as used in evaluating our progress toward our 2013 water 24 we have implemented numerous corrective actions and enhancements to our regulatory authority. The reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or reduction goal is the total amount of water coming into a facility, including environmental programs. We paid a penalty of $337,500 in early 2011 to settle the in a routine compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in 04 water pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility. It includes water used in processes, utilities, and other harm to people or the environment. case. There was no harm done to employees, neighbors, or the environment as a result of these events. ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 112 Support for the United Nations Global Compact Principles (UNGC) Operating Responsibly Eli Lilly and Company is proud to voice our continued support for the UNGC principles. Our website, www.lilly.com, contains detailed information about our company policies, procedures, and programs that are related to the UNGC, including information on our workplace policies, ethics, and transparency, as well as our environmental impacts and programs. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Relevant Report Content: Managing Our Supply Chain, page 69 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Relevant Report Content: Supporting Strong Workplace Practices, page 78 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Relevant Report Content: Managing Our Supply Chain, page 69 Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation TOC Relevant Report Content: Diversity and Inclusion, page 79 Environment 01 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 02 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 03 Relevant Report Content: Environmental Stewardship, page 88 Anti-Corruption 04 Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Relevant Report Content: Conducting Our Business Ethically and Transparently, page 58 05 LILLY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UPDATE 2014 | PAGE 113
