Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Company Overview (As of March 31, 2014) Company name: Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. Operating revenue by business (YAMATO HOLDINGS CO., LTD.) Financial Business Autoworks Business Headquarters: 16-10 Ginza 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8125 62.7 billion yen 25.6 billion yen Established: November 29, 1919 e-Business Other businesses Registered: April 9, 1929 41.5 billion yen 7.0 billion yen Capital: 127,234,791,077 yen Home Convenience Corporate stock: Total number of authorized shares: 1,787,541,000 Business Total number of shares outstanding: 454,684,992 48.7 billion yen Fiscal Number of shareholders: 35,310 year ended BIZ-logistics March 2014 Number of employees: 193,146 Business Nature of business: Holds the shares of companies running various 90.2 billion yen 13,746 businesses including the trucking business, (¥100 million) Non-delivery governs the management of those companies, businesses Delivery Business and runs related service operations. 275.9 billion yen 1,098.6 billion yen Regions of business activity Number of employees by business (consolidated) Financial Business Autoworks Business North America 857 people 1,809 people Europe 32 offices e-Business 6,247 people Other businesses 11,332 people 18 offices Japan Home Convenience Business Fiscal year ended 6,840 offices 5,138 people March 2014 Asia Main office of overseas subsidiary BIZ-logistics Business 193,146 Delivery Business 5,380 people (people) 162,383 people 96 offices Major base Non-delivery businesses Delivery Business BIZ-logistics Business Home Convenience Business The source of the Yamato Group’s collective strength, the Delivery Business With a focus on logistics, the Biz-logistics The Home Convenience Business offers offers small parcel delivery services centered on TA-Q-BIN and Kuroneko Mail, Business offers services related to efficient moving services, delivers and installs as well as domestic air cargo transportation services. and constructive distribution and storage furniture and electrical appliances, and of goods in cooperation with overseas sells daily necessities, including food. subsidiaries. Delivery Business: Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. / Okinawa Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. / Yamato Global Express Co., Ltd. / Yamato Dialog & Media Co., Ltd. / Express Network Co., Ltd. / Yamato Contact Service Co., Ltd. / Yamato (China) Transport Co., Ltd. / Yamato Transport (HK) Ltd. BIZ-logistics Business: Yamato Logistics Co., Ltd. / Yamato Global Logistics Japan Co., Ltd. / Yamato Multi-Maintenance Solutions Co., Ltd. / Yamato Packing Service Co., Ltd. / Yamato Packing Technology Institute Co., Ltd. / Konan Industry Co., Ltd. / Yamato Transport U.S.A., Inc. / Yamato Transport Europe B.V. / Yamato International Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd. / Taiwan Yamato International Logistics Inc. / Yamato International Logistics Co., Ltd. / Yamato Transport (S) Pte. Ltd. / Yamato Transport (M) Sdn. Bhd. / Yamato Logistics India Pvt. Ltd. / Shanghai Wai Gao Qiao Bonded Logistics Zone Yamato Warehouse Co., Ltd. / Yamato Unyu (Thailand) Co., Ltd. / Pt. Yamato Indonesia Home Convenience Business: Yamato Home Convenience Co., Ltd. Aiming to be Asia’s No. 1 solutions provider in distribution and lifestyle support 1 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Editorial policy Table of Contents This report is created to deepen our stakeholders’ understanding Company overview and editorial policy ············································ 1 of the Yamato Group’s stance and initiatives regarding corporate Message from the President ·························································· 3 social responsibility (CSR). At present, the Yamato Group is working as one to advance Our Major Initiatives in Safety, Environment, and Society ············ 7 our long-term DAN-TOTSU Management Plan 2019. This report shows how our employees aim for “DAN-TOTSU” as they work Overview and major indicators of the medium-term Economy to fulfill our social responsibilities as a company. In reporting on management plan DAN-TOTSU Three-Year Plan STEP ······· 7 initiatives concerning Safety, Environment, and Society in particular, we worked to make the report easy to read and understand through Feature Creation of value through the format of employees’ responses to stakeholders’ questions. article the “value networking” design ·························· 9 The contents of this report, as well as activities and detailed data that are not contained in this report, are available on our With respect for human life as our top priority, Safety corporate website (a list of items available on the website is shown we are always striving to achieve safety. ························ 13 on Page 34). Please also refer to the website. Prevention of traffic accidents ················································· 15 Safety measures matched to local traffic conditions ························· 17 CSR in the Yamato Group: http://www.yamato-hd.co.jp/csr/ EnvironUnder the key word “Necology,” Guidelines, etc. referenced ment we are creating environmentally-friendly logistics. ··········· 19 G.R.I. (Global Reporting Initiative), “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” Development and promotion of environmentally-considerate (G3.1 and G4); Ministry of the Environment, “Environmental packaging materials ···························································· 21 Reporting Guidelines” (2012 version) Environmental impact reduction through cooperative transport ············· 23 Period covered in report Society We aim to earn the trust and respond Fiscal 2013 (April 2013 March 2014) to expectations of society. ············································ 25 Performance data is as of the end of March 2014, unless noted Promotion of CSV in partnership with local communities ···················· 27 Creation of workplaces to motivate employees ······························· 29 otherwise. (Some information from before the target fiscal year and after April 2014 is included in reporting on activities.) GoverWe aim to continue as a corporate group in which nance each individual holds a high sense of ethics. ··················· 31 Scope of report Corporate Governance / Compliance / Safety, environmental, social, and economic aspects of the activities Business Continuity Plan (BCP) / Information Security of the Yamato Group. Third-party opinion ······································································ 33 Publication Comments on the opinion / August 2014 (scheduled next publication: August 2015) Yamato Group CSR, Web version List of content items (Japanese Only) ···· 34 e-Business Financial Business Autoworks Business Other businesses e-Business is engaged in the development The Financial Business provides services The Autoworks Business provides vehicle Other businesses include of information systems and sales of system related to collection and settlement of bills maintenance services, vehicle management provision of mediumand packages. It also provides knowledge that at the time of delivery of goods in the systems, and insurance for truck and bus long-distance arterial transport supports the Yamato Group, both inside logistics system, and operates general operators. service, and shared services and outside the group. leasing business. that consolidate and integrate services provided by group companies. Organizations These organizations provide welfare services and offer benefit programs within the group. e-Business: Yamato System Development Co., Ltd. / Yamato Web Solutions Co., Ltd. Financial Business: Yamato Financial Co., Ltd. / Yamato Credit & Finance Co., Ltd. / Yamato Lease Co., Ltd. / Yamato Payment Service (HK) Ltd. Autoworks Business: Yamato Autoworks Co., Ltd. / Yamato Autoworks Hokushinetsu Co., Ltd. / Yamato Autoworks Okinawa Co., Ltd. / Yamato Autoworks Iwate Co., Ltd. / Yamato Autoworks Shikoku Co., Ltd. Other businesses: Box Charter Co., Ltd. / Yamato Box Charter Co., Ltd. / Yamato Staff Supply Co., Ltd. / Yamato Management Service Co., Ltd. / Yamato Multi Charter Co., Ltd. / Kobe Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. / Swan Co., Ltd. / Yamato Asia (S) Pte Ltd. / Yamato Tidiki Express Pte. Ltd. Organizations: Pension Fund of Yamato Group / Yamato Group Health Insurance Societies / Yamato Welfare Foundation / Yamato Self-support Center YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 2 Message from the President Contributing to Japan’s Growth Strategy by Evolving Logistics into a Mode of Value Creation Creation of Value through “Value Networking” Design In September 2013, we completed work on Haneda Chronogate, one of Japan’s largest integrated logistics terminals. The Yamato Group has established the “value networking” design. This design calls for evolving logistics services from cost center to mode of value creation through the restructuring of its domestic and international networks, while establishing new infrastructure to support Japan’s economic growth strategy through helping its customers carry out logistics reform, regardless of their sector or size of operations. Haneda Chronogate is a critical facility for achieving this “value networking” design. Together with the Okinawa International Logistics Hub, which enables next-day TA-Q-BIN parcel deliveries to Asia, and Atsugi Gateway, the first major logistics terminal for realizing same-day delivery within the Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka regions, Haneda Chronogate will help speed up logistics, enhance quality and lower costs (see pages 9 to 12). While opening up new avenues for corporate logistics and international shipping, we are also working closely with local governments to offer a service platform for regional revitalization and local residents, given changes taking place Origin of the Corporate Logo We will transport parcels as carefully as mother cat carries her kitten The origin of the black cats can be traced back to 1957. Our founding President Yasuomi Ogura took a liking to the cat logo used by Allied Van Lines of the United States, with which Yamato Transport had a business partnership, and after gaining the company’s permission, a person in charge of public relations designed the first corporate logo. The design the person chose was actually inspired by a drawing of a cat made by their child. Makoto Kigawa Representative Director, President and Executive Officer Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. 3 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 in social structure, such as Japan’s aging society and dedicated themselves with a strong conviction to achieving regional depopulation. We refer to this initiative as Project G zero traffic accidents and zero occupational accidents. This (Government). As part of this broad project, we are providing is because, as a corporate group of companies engaged in shopping assistance services and watch-over services for the the transport business that owns more than 50,000 vehicles elderly, and are currently reviewing the roll-out of some 630 and uses public roads, we prioritize the safety and peace of other related services. As of March 2014, around 150 of these mind of those in the local community above all else (see services have already been launched (see pages 27 and 28). pages 13 to 18). We refer to environmental conservation activities carry CSR Activities in tune with the Yamato out by the entire Yamato Group as “Necology” and our Group Corporate Philosophy environmental efforts are focused here. Our goal is to establish an environmentally-friendly logistics system in This year marks the 39th anniversary of the Yamato Group’s which logistics operations, such as packaging, transportation TA-Q-BIN business. In 2019 we will celebrate our 100th and delivery, as well as various other kinds of business anniversary since our founding. During this time, we have operation are continually improved from an ecological created shared value together with local communities perspective. In April 2014 we revised the Yamato Group’s through our TA-Q-BIN delivery service and have continually Environmental Conservation Declaration. In accordance with achieved innovations that have fostered a new culture. the philosophy of “Necology,” the revised declaration These efforts have been underpinned by the backbone of expands the scope of our environmental conservation efforts our corporate philosophy, “for the benefit of the world and in all of our business activities and clarifies important areas in of society,” which has been passed down as the founding which employees will assist our efforts (see pages 19 to 24). spirit of our company. This is manifested in the approach It is often said that Japan lags behind others when it and actions of each and every employee. We will continue comes to the promotion of diversity, but the Yamato Group to provide new value through this type of innovation. already employs a large number of women, people with The Yamato Group’s CSR activities closely follow the disabilities, and foreign nationals. Effective August 1, 2014 we 10 aspects of our corporate stance, including “respect for will establish the Diversity Promotion Office to foster a culture human life,” “promoting environmental protection,” and “a that capitalizes on its diversity and develop the necessary corporation trusted by the local community,” which form systems to accomplish this (see pages 29 and 30). the heart of the Yamato Group Corporate Philosophy. * Necology: “Neco” comes from the Japanese word for “cat,” found in the emblematic logo of the Yamato Group. We have given the name “Necology” Among these activities, we place particular emphasis to the movement by which this “Neco” (i.e., Yamato) engages in “ecology,” on safety and all employees of the Yamato Group have and are communicating that name to society. Yamato Group Corporate Philosophy Structural Diagram of the Yamato Group Company Precepts Corporate Philosophy 1. We ‘all’ represent the company 2. We deliver with a personal touch 3. We work with gratitude and politeness Customers Local Shareholders people Management Philosophy The Yamato Group helps enrich our society by enhancing the social infrastructure of TA-Q-BIN networks, creating more convenient services for comfortable lifestyles, and developing an innovative logistics system. Partners Employees Corporate Stance Employee Code of Conduct 1. Pursuit of customer satisfaction 1. Our role as a member of society Management Philosophy 2. Respect for human life 2. Action based on laws and ethics 3. The pleasure of work 3. Strict observation of workplace rules Corporate Stance 4. Adherence to laws and fair practices 4. Creation of a work environment that 5. A corporation trusted by the local respects human character community 5. Maintaining favorable relations with Employee Code of Conduct 6. Promoting environmental conservation business partners 7. Protection of personal information 6. Providing the best possible service to Yamato Group Corporate 8. Communication and mutual benefits customers Philosophy 9. Disclosure of corporate data and accountability practices Company Precepts 10. Response to allegations of corporate Founding spirit misconduct YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 4 Message from the President Commitment Embodied in Long-Term Management Plan DAN-TOTSU Management Plan 2019 Become Asia’s top provider of logistics and lifestyle support solutions provider Carry out the third innovation of using the “value networking” design Growth through the “value networking” design DAN-TOTSU 3-Year Plan Step Target Aim to achieve an average Speed Quality Cost annual growth rate of more than 10% for the non-delivery and international businesses Real annual average GDP growth rate of 1% Currently DAN-TOTSU 3-Year Plan DAN-TOTSU 3-Year Plan DAN-TOTSU 3-Year Plan HOP STEP JUMP (April 2011 to March 2014) (April 2014 to March 2017) (April 2017 to March 2020) Foster a sound corporate culture Build systems to Strengthen governance Enhance employee satisfaction improve reliability and trust and promote CSR * DAN-TOTSU: Derived from “danzen toppu” (meaning “the top by far”), this expresses our aim to achieve an overwhelming Number One position. Progress under the Medium-Term foundation for creating and growing businesses by Management Plan and Our Expanding strengthening governance and CSR activities. The goal will Social Responsibilities be to achieve a balance between both in our corporate management. The Yamato Group is aiming to become Asia’s top logistics During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we and lifestyle support solutions provider by FY 2019, our enjoyed an increase in earnings from every business 100th anniversary. In order to achieve this goal, we segment. Overall the Yamato Group recorded a ¥92.2 established the long-term management plan called billion yen increase sales from its TA-Q-BIN service in the DAN-TOTSU Management Plan 2019 in November 2011. delivery business, marking a record high, driven mainly by Then, in FY 2014 we launched the medium-term an increase in the number of mail-order related parcels management called DAN-TOTSU 3-Year Plan STEP as handled. Meanwhile, the number of TA-Q-BIN parcels phase two. handled internationally increased 40.6% year on year. Under this medium-term management plan, the entire In this manner, our TA-Q-BIN centered businesses Yamato Group will promote the “value networking” design, have become a social infrastructure indispensible to which will create multiple high value-added business models society. We are also fully aware that the Yamato Group’s through a group-wide restructuring effort. At the same time, social responsibilities will continue to grow in lockstep with we will foster a sound corporate culture that builds a stable the implementation of our management plans. 5 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Strengthening Governance and Promoting CSR In 2013, we found that company rules on temperature management used in the Cool TA-Q-BIN service were not followed properly. I would like to take this time to apologize to our customers for betraying their trust as well as for causing any trouble and worry. The main causes of this incident were inadequate management to encourage correct operations and an insufficient system to identify feedback from the frontlines that we lacked necessary equipment while incurring an increase in workload. As a solution, we will allocate Quality Training Directors across Japan who will be charged with providing feedback front the frontlines to senior management. We will also introduce a total value management system for TA-Q-BIN and increase the number of cooling units to ensure such an incident never occurs again. In conjunction with the growth of our international business, in January 2014 we established Yamato Asia Pte. development. It will also be responsible for strengthening Ltd. in Singapore to serve as our regional headquarters for governance at our other operating companies across Southeast Asia. This company will be charged with local Southeast Asia. As part of our globalization, in April 2014 market research, business development and network we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact, a unique strategic platform for companies to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship. We also announced our support for the UN Global Compact’s four focus areas of human rights, labor, the environment The Yamato Group’s CSR and anti-corruption, and the 10 principles. The Yamato Group’s CSR activities are deployed with a focus on The Yamato Group is continually enhancing its safety, environment, society and economy, in accordance with the corporate value through its activities closely rooted in local Yamato Group Corporate Philosophy. communities. However, corporate value is more than just We have established the strengthening of governance and promotion of CSR as one of the three pillars for our basic strategy in financial value. Collectively enhancing corporate value by the long-term management plan DAN-TOTSU Management Plan improving customer satisfaction, shareholder satisfaction, 2019 launched in April 2011. society’s satisfaction and employee satisfaction is a Efforts to continually build a sound corporate culture will contribute precondition for the growth and sustainability of any to business activities that comply with laws and align with social company. Within these efforts, CSR activities play a very norms. In turn this will make it possible for the entire Yamato Group to continue operations indefinitely into the future. For this reason, we important role. are committed to leveraging our collective strengths to promote CSR. The Yamato Group will make further efforts to become “a company most loved and trusted by society” towards the year 2019 when the group will celebrate its 100th anniversary. Your continued support is greatly appreciated. Safety Environment Society Economy Long-Term Management Representative Director, President Plan and Executive Officer Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. Yamato Group Corporate Philosophy YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 6 Our Major Initiatives in Safety, Environment, and Society As we advance our long-term management plan,, our social responsibilities are growing as well. The Yamato Group is advancing to achieve the DAN-TOTSU Management Plan 2019, a long-term management plan that aims to expand our delivery businesses, accelerate the growth of our non-delivery businesses, and strengthen our overseas expansion. The Yamato Group’s major CSR initiatives As we advance this long-term management plan, the responsibilities that we must fulfill, the expectations of Small parcel delivery business our stakeholders, and our impact on society will all grow Delivery centered on TA-Q-BIN and larger. As we advance our CSR of safety, environment, Kuroneko Mail-BIN, and domestic society, and economy, we have decided the details of our businesses air cargo transportation business initiatives based on their importance to the Yamato Group and to our stakeholders, their impact on society, and other factors. Logistics services between From here on out, we will make even greater efforts Non-delivery companies, moving business, bill settlement business, information to create mechanisms for managing and advancing these major CSR initiatives. businesses system development business, vehicle maintenance business, etc. Safety Environment TA-Q-BIN business, overseas Overseas moving business, logistics business, forwarding business, Society Economy businesses and other businesses, in 23 countries in Asia and elsewhere Long-term Management Plan Group Corporate Philosophy Overview O and major indicators of the medium-term management plan Economy D DAN-TOTSU Three-Year Plan STEP Through the long-term DAN-TOTSU Management Plan 2019 strengthen our business platform and networks. formulated in January 2011, the Yamato Group aims to become Under the DAN-TOTSU Three-Year Plan STEP that began Asia’s No. 1 solution provider in distribution and lifestyle support in fiscal 2014, we are leveraging the platform we have built during by 2019, the year of the Group’s 100th anniversary. In order to HOP and continue to strengthen our business platform and make our stakeholders’ satisfaction “DAN-TOTSU”, we are networks to enable a major leap forward in the final Three-Year advancing our business along the themes of “More globally” and Plan (JUMP). “Closer to local regions and people’s lives.” As we actively advance “value networking” design, we can We divided the 9 years from 2011 to 2019 into three firm up our cost restructuring through high value-added business phases: HOP, STEP, and JUMP. Under the first phase, the model creation and network innovation. At the same time, by DAN-TOTSU Three-Year Plan HOP, we worked to complete establishing governance aimed at fostering a sound corporate construction of the Atsugi Gateway and Haneda Chronogate, culture, we will execute balanced management that enhances which boast unprecedented added-value functions. We also the satisfaction of local communities, society, customers, worked to expand our international small parcel delivery network shareholders, and employees with respect to our business, using the Okinawa International Logistics Hub, and to otherwise quality, and cost structure. 7 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With respect for human life as Under the key word “Necology,” We aim to earn the trust and Safety EnvironSociety our top priority, we are always ment we are creating environmentallyrespond to expectations striving to achieve safety. friendly logistics. of society. Accident prevention CO2 emission Reduction of Initiatives to fulfill our reductions wastes responsibilities Prevention of traffic accidents P.15 Eco-driving Promotion of CSV in partnership with Promotion of local communities Adoption of lowrecycling emission vehicles P.27 Prevention of occupational accidents Promotion of Creation of workplaces to motivate modal shift employees Energy-saving P.29 initiatives Development Provision of services that support safe and promotion and relaxed living Environmental of environSupport for social education impact reduction mentally(Children’s Traffic Safety Workshop, through considerate the Music TA-Q-BIN, and other Safety measures matched to local cooperative packaging activities) traffic conditions transport materials Support for economic independence P.17 P.23 P.21 for people with disabilities Governance Compliance / Business continuity planning (BCP) / Information security Consolidated operating revenue / Operating margin consolidated operating income (¥100 million) Consolidated operating revenue 4.6% 5.8% 20,000 Consolidated operating income Fiscal year ended March 2014 Fiscal year ending March 2017 (forecast) 15,500 15,000 13,746 14,370 12,608 12,823 ROE (return on equity) 6.4% 10,000 Over 9.0% 1,000 900 Fiscal year ended March 2014 Fiscal year ending March 2017 (forecast) 666 662 630 700 500 Volume of international TA-Q-BIN parcels handled 1,665 million 0 Fiscal year ended March Fiscal year ended March Fiscal year Fiscal year ended March ending March Fiscal year ending March 1,820 million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 Fiscal year ended March 2014 Fiscal year ending March 2017 (forecast) (forecast) (forecast) YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 8 Feature article Creation of value through the “value networking” design Converting logistics into a means of generating value “Value networking” design The Yamato Group offers a new infrastructure to support the economic growth strategies of Japan through logistics reform in any industry, at any scale of business, by transforming domestic and foreign networks to evolve logistics from a cost center into a means of creating value. We call this overall concept “value networking” design. The five engines of “value networking” design The world’s first Logistics optimization Quickly connecting network for from both the recipients’ Any location, form, or Shared by sender and networks while adding the integrated and senders’ volume of shipment recipient value delivery of Non-stop Cloud-type refrigerated and Visibility of perspectives networks international logistics Demand chain logistics packages perspective Value networking Realization of greater speed, high quality, and lower cost in logistics through network innovation Overall concept of “value networking” design Customer Customer Customer Customer SD SD SD SD SD Base Base Base SD Base Base SD Atsugi Haneda Other Base Gateway Chronogate Gateways Base Okinawa Narita East Asia Southeast Asia Europe Americas IT LT FT SD: Sales Drivers IT: Information Technology LT: Logistics Technology FT: Financial Technology 9 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 The added-value functions provided by Haneda Chronogate, one of Japan’s largest logistics terminals Haneda Chronogate (Haneda CG), which lies at the core of “value networking” design, will transform customers’ logistics by providing value-added functions such as in-house repairs, assembly, processing, and cleaning, in addition to speedy transport taking advantage of its favorable location for linking regions around the country. When products arrive from overseas at Haneda CG can perform localization tasks Haneda Airport or Narita Airport, Haneda CG (Japanese labeling, attachment of product carries them in as foreign cargo for smooth manuals, etc.) for imported products even while processing of import customs clearance. these retain foreign cargo status. Speed customs Bonding and clearance localization On-demand printing ng Cross-merging Following receipt of orders, on-demand printers Haneda Chronogate Haneda CG consolidates, packages together, allow the printing and shipping of only the and ships products, components, and other required number of infrequently-needed goods manufactured domestically and overseas. pamphlets and DM pieces. This eliminates the need for inventory transfer One-stop handling, from the shipping of products between customer warehouses and Yamato received from customers together with printed Group sites, enabling speed shipping. items, to order procedures, printing, and delivery, Grouped arrival of shipments facilitates more will be possible. efficient delivery work at the destination. Kitting, assembly, Cleaning and maintenance of maintenance, and repair medical devices Night-time repair of items arriving by TA-Q-BIN allows return of the Through the installation of equipment for the cleaning and items in as little as 24 hours. maintenance of medical devices and medical machinery Haneda CG can import products and components from overseas, used by hospitals, and the setup of locations for stocking perform assembly and kitting, and smoothly deliver the items through inventory, Haneda CG enables shortening of lead-time and our domestic delivery network. reduction of logistics inventory. Aiming for harmonious coexistence with local communities At Haneda CG, we are adopting the latest equipment for using natural power, including photovoltaic power generation and reuse of rainwater, to significantly lessen our burden on the environment. In addition to a daycare center and sports facilities for community residents, the Haneda CG grounds encompass the Wanosato Park patterned after the “satoyama” regions Photovoltaic power Poppins Nursery School Yamato Forum bordering forests in Japan, along with a biotope that contributes generation panels Haneda, authorized by sports facilities to biodiversity and Swan Bakery, which aims to support the the Tokyo Metropolitan employment and independence of people with disabilities. Government YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 10 Feature article Creation of value through the “value networking” design Value-added services provided at Haneda CG For one thing, halving the days required to repair home appliances Before After End user End user Request for Request for product repair product repair Customer Yamato Multi-Maintenance Solutions Repair center Customer Customer Parts Repair request Main office Repair request shipment Main office acceptance Parts ordering acceptance Product Product Diagnosis warehouse warehouse Diagnosis Failure trend Repair Repair analysis report Inspection 5.3 days 2.6 days Parts Parts shipment shipment Shipment of repaired item End user Other company Other company Parts Repair center warehouse Inspection Inventory control Lead time From acceptance at center to shipment from warehouse: Shortened to half Possible through digitalization: Understanding of repair status in real time Failure analysis Optimal management of inventory End user Inventory control of parts Digital m management of repair status Call Center 11 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Consolidating all repair-related work at Haneda From a customer Chronogate and digitizing information improves work efficiency. In cooperation with the Yamato Group, we hope to provide even greater satisfaction to our customers. Yamato Multi-Maintenance Solutions has launched after-sales service for French-made cooking equipment and small home Takashi Ozawa appliances at Haneda CG. General Manager, Consumer Service Division Groupe SEB Japan Co., Ltd. The customer is the Japanese subsidiary of a French Japanese subsidiary of France-based Groupe SEB, a leading global manufacturer of cooking equipment and home appliances. manufacturer. In the past, call center work (acceptance of parts orders for appliances or repair, etc.), repair work (diagnoses, Our objective in the recent initiative repair, inspection, etc. of faulty products), and logistics work was to consolidate all functions of (warehouse stocking, shipment, transport, and inventory after-sales service into one location, management of parts needed for repair) had been divided among achieve an efficient service quality multiple sites by the company. At Haneda CG, the company is level, secure flexibility toward seasonal changes, and provide able to consolidate these operations at one location, and is also uniform service throughout the year able to manage data on information spanning acceptance of while controlling costs. faulty products to their return after repair. This has greatly The response from customers has been positive since we shortened the number of days required for a series of tasks. launched the initiative, and we are grateful to the efforts of the By digitizing information, the company was also able to Yamato Group in making this achievement possible. At present, optimize inventory volume for parts needed for repairs, and to we are considering web-based acceptance of repair requests as reduce costs. It can also analyze causes of failure and inform well as product sales, and expect to achieve even greater the manufacturer of trends, which is helpful in improving customer satisfaction by making use of the Yamato Group’s quality and developing new products. Furthermore, by using business infrastructure. TA-Q-BIN to gather and ship products, the company makes maximum use of the Yamato Group’s network to ensure Yamato Multi-Maintenance Solutions Manager sufficient time for repairs. In this way, the company is responding promptly and surely We will make the work of customers in Japan and to customers’ repair needs, while also contributing to end-user overseas more efficient by further improving our satisfaction and improvement of the manufacturer’s brand. staff’s knowledge and technical capabilities. From here on out, we will provide services that Kazuyuki Sugiura Center Director, Haneda Maintenance Center, Maintenance Solutions include proxy importing of parts. Department, Yamato Multi-Maintenance Solutions Co., Ltd. Yamato Multi-Maintenance Solutions Co., Ltd. performs planning, development, Our objective is to use the above success story as a model to proposal, and operational management related to services including appliance repair, make use of Haneda CG in providing after-sales service maintenance parts delivery, and collection of products in cases such as recalls. solutions to other customers as well. Our target is small and Our customers’ products cover about medium-sized foreign manufacturers without sufficient 300 items in 47 categories, including after-sales service networks in Japan. In May 2014, we electric kettles, pressure cookers, and contracted to provide after-sales service work for a second vacuum cleaners. In repairing these company at Haneda CG. items and delivering them to end users, Naturally, we will also propose solutions to further the knowledge and technical capabilities enhance added value for existing customers at Haneda CG. of concerned staff is vital. We create As an example, we envision not only logistics work and repair manuals for each item and strive after-sales service in Japan, but also proxy importing of to perform precise work. components and parts from overseas, and customs clearance Using Haneda CG, which consolidates the functions of the and storage making use of the bonded warehouses of Yamato Yamato Group, we are able to reduce time and costs, and make the work of customers in Japan and overseas more efficient. Our Global Logistics Japan. objective is to further improve our service mechanisms and Yamato Multi-Maintenance Solutions will offer high provide service to even more customers. value-added services for customers’ products to the company’s many customers within and outside of Japan, making full use of the functions of Haneda CG and the The electric kettle that is a key product of the customer capabilities of knowledgeable staff. has won over end users for its fast-boiling action, and has become a big hit. With cumulative sales in Japan exceeding 10 million units in 2012, repair needs are high, particularly in winter, requiring Yamato Multi-Maintenance Solutions to rationalize its handling of the product. YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 12 Safety With respect for human life as our top priority, we are always striving to achieve safety. The Yamato Group’s business depends on community streets and roads. For us, the safety and security of everyone in the community is of highest importance. Under the motto “Safety First, Business Second,” we strive for safe driving, work at measures aimed at safe transport, and make respect for human life the top priority at all times in our business. Formulation of safety plans Overseas rollout of Training measures to assure Prevention of Sales Drivers safety of traffic accidents Promotion Maintenance of safety of equipment awareness and safety among systems employees 13 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Major achievements and results in fiscal 2013 Initiatives Achievements and results Three major accidents (1 major traffic accident, 2 major occupational accidents) Under our aim of achieving zero traffic accidents, every year the Yamato Group drafts a plan to assure transport safety, and Formulation Plans to assure transport displays posters with information such as safety goals and alerts at all workplaces. of safety safety plans Safety Experts stationed throughout Japan: 246 Yamato Transport in Japan (Yamato Transport (J)) has stationed Safety Experts at every District Branch. These experts in safety measures provide safety instruction to Sales Drivers. Sales Drivers who have received ride-along instruction from Safety Experts: 29,430 Trainees who have taken classes from safety expert lecturers: 37,488 Training At all 69 District Branches in Japan, Yamato Transport appoints one instructor with expert knowledge, in each of three Education to improve skills areas: laws and regulations, practical traffic safety, and health and safety. of Sales Drivers Safety information magazine and safety calendar Yamato Transport (J) publishes the “Safety First” safety information magazine, the “Driver’s Safety Handbook” carried by all Sales Drivers, and the “Safety Calendar,” which aids in preventing recurrence of traffic and occupational accidents through analysis of past incidents. Implementation of the Zero Traffic Accidents Campaign P.15 Zero Traffic Accidents The Yamato Group implements the Zero Traffic Accidents Campaign every spring and autumn. Yamato Transport (J) has Campaign conducted the campaign continually since 1970. In the spring of fiscal 2014, the company commended 15 District Branches that achieved zero at-fault accidents involving persons or property during the Zero Traffic Accidents Campaign period. Long-Running No-Accident Commendation awardees: 10,399 Promotion Every year, Yamato Transport (J), Yamato Home Convenience, Yamato Global Express, and Yamato Multi Charter commend of safety Sales Drivers who excel in safe driving and who remain accident-free. awareness Commendations and contests among Yamato Transport Nationwide Safety Meet employees At the third in-house safety meet held by Yamato Transport (J), 32 winners of meets at 10 branches nationwide and at Okinawa Yamato Transport competed on safety consciousness and driving technique. Occupational accident prevention initiatives Toward the achievement of The Compliance and Risk Committee, in which all Yamato Group companies participate, drafts and promotes safety safe work environments measures aimed at achieving safe workplace environments. In addition, all Group companies implement measures such forklift safety seminars and the Safety Week event, which aims to improve safety consciousness. Completion of construction of the Superworks Nagoya Plant vehicle maintenance plant “Superworks” refers to Yamato Autoworks’ 24-hour, 365-day maintenance plants that feature greatly enhanced work efficiency. Of the company’s 71 plants nationwide, 22 have been designates Superworks. Vehicle maintenance Mechanics: About 840, including 530 with vehicle inspector qualifications Yamato Autoworks actively supports its mechanics’ acquisition of vehicle inspector qualifications in addition to normal Maintenance mechanic qualifications. This enables the mechanics to perform completion inspections and confirm that vehicles conform to of equipment safety standards following maintenance. and safety systems Adopting See-T Navi in delivery vehicles to support safe and Earth-friendly driving The See-T Navi vehicular system developed by Yamato Transport supports safe driving. Adoption of equipment and tools Enforcing driver’s license checks through the adoption of IT systems In addition to visual confirmation of licenses, Yamato Transport (J) uses IC card licenses to provide support for operation management work and to enforce compliance. Overseas rollout of Safety measures matched to local traffic Drivers’ Contest safety meet in Malaysia and Singapore P.17 measures to This contest was held at Yamato Transport (M) and Yamato Transport (S). assure conditions safety 4 1 2 3 1 Nationwide training for Safety Experts 2 Safety Experts ride along to provide guidance 3 Safety Meet competition for driving, inspection, and maintenance skills 4 Superworks Nagoya Plant, completed in April 2013 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 14 Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU”— “DAN-TOTSU” Safety Prevention of traffic accidents Safety First, Q Are there mechanisms in place for accurately assessing the skills of individual Sales Drivers? Business Second. Using our safety and ecological navigation Community streets and roads are the places where our A system, we thoroughly assess driving skills by visualizing them through data. (Osaka) company carries out its business activities. Embodying our basic spirit of keeping respect for human life as our The delivery vehicles of Yamato Transport in Japan (Yamato top priority, we strive to place safety first and business Transport (J)) are equipped with our unique See-T Navi safety and second. ecological navigation system. This creates data from SDs’ driving As such, we are working on a variety of programs such and makes issues visual, by acquiring and recording speed, as improvement of driving skills in the Sales Drivers distance, and time information. We evaluate driving skills based on (SD) who shoulder our TA-Q-BIN business, adoption of these data and rank skills on a seven-step scale from A to G. For safe driving support systems, and enactment of programs example, driving habits that present low risk of accidents and low to commend exceptional SDs to demonstrate the environmental impact, such as low-gear starts and observance Safety First. of safe driving speeds, raise the ranking. See-T Navi accurately diagnoses SDs’ driving skills to support safer driving. However, See-T Navi isn’t able to do the actual driving. The workplace has to devise ways of making use of the recorded data and evaluations. Interviewee The largest issue that the Hakodate District Branch, to Rikuou Osaka which I belong, faced in fiscal Manager, Social Contribution 2013 was the low skill ranking Hakodate District Branch, of part-time SDs. In response, Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. we analyzed data gained from Mr. Osaka is engaged in proposing and promoting measures as Manager, Social See-T Navi to create and enact Contribution, to achieve zero accidents instruction plans for safe driving. in the Hakodate District Branch See-T Navi installed in a delivery vehicle. 15 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Shouldn’t these exemplary safety Q initiatives be extended throughout the company? We use opportunities like Zero Accident A Commendation to present initiatives and best practices, so as to spread these to District In ride-along instruction by Safety Experts, we emphasize communication with SDs. We check their attitude toward work Branches nationwide. (Osaka) and their driving manners, among other things. Yamato Transport (J) has a Zero Accident Commendation system to recognize outstanding District Branches. Q What do you do to improve the driving skills of Sales Drivers? In fiscal 2014, our Hakodate District Branch achieved the top Diamond Award in Zero Accident Commendation. While we’re proud of our ongoing zero-accident record itself, these We are working on a variety of programs commendations encourage us further and heighten our motivation A such as including the company-wide Zero Traffic Accidents Campaign and measures to achieve safety. What we appreciated even more than the award, though, was the presentation of our initiatives at the devised at each District Branch. (Osaka) commendation ceremony. The Social Contribution Managers of other District Branches who heard the presentation eagerly took Every spring and autumn, the Yamato Group conducts the Zero notes so as to make use of our activities. Traffic Accidents Campaign. At the Hakodate District Branch, Achieving zero accidents is the goal of every one of over we have maintained a record of zero accidents during the 190,000 employees in the Yamato Group. To achieve this, we hope Campaign period, doing so for 9 times straight through fiscal that District Branches will learn from the exemplary initiatives of other 2013. To extend this record, from the second half of fiscal 2013 District Branches, and that best practices will spread nationwide. we’ve focused on guidance for part-time SDs, an issue that we learned of through analysis of data obtained from See-T Navi. Commendations in the Zero Traffic Accidents Campaign, Fiscal 2014 Spring Part-time SDs’ working hours are limited, and even when we release information related to safe driving, the SDs do not have Commendation Recipient (District Branch) the time to fully digest the information. In response, the District Yamagata, Hakodate, Eastern Tokyo, Gunma, Kochi, Diamond Award Eastern Hokkaido, Akita, Oita Branch as a whole prepared a system for man-to-man guidance aimed at part-time SDs. Gold Award Nagano We also strengthened our instruction method by which Aomori, Tokyo, Saitama, Yamanashi, Nagoya, Wakayama, Bronze Award Tsuyama Safety Experts ride along with all SDs, not only part-time SDs. District Di t i t Branches B h receivei the Diamond th Di dAAwardd ffor six i or more consecutive ti records d In addition, Guest Operators (GOP) performing acceptance and of zero accidents during the Zero Traffic Accidents Campaign period, the Gold other work created posters to make safety cautions and Award for five, the Silver Award for four, and the Bronze Award for three. dangerous areas of roads easily understood. Everyone at the District Branch worked as one to achieve zero accidents. Moreover, during the Campaign period, we cooperated From the Hakodate Metropolitan Traffic Safety Guidance Committee with the Hokkaido police, the Hakodate Metropolitan Traffic Safety Guide Association, and other external organizations to Please keep up your communityaddress traffic safety in the region as a whole. rooted safety awareness activities. As a result of the Yoetsu Arashida diligent activity by everyone Branch Director at the Hakodate District Hakodate Metropolitan Traffic Safety Branch, the driving skills and Guidance Committee, Minamikayabe Branch safety awareness of SDs, Minamikayabe, in the Eastern part of Hakodate City, has a robust including part-time SDs, kombu (seaweed) farming industry. Light trucks are vital for increased greatly. On top collection and transport of kombu. During the National Traffic Safety Campaign held every spring and autumn, persons engaged of that, in fiscal 2014 the in kombu farming decorate their light truck beds with traffic safety Hakodate District Branch flags, and parade in a line through the streets. We call this the achieved zero accidents Light Truck Parade. during the Campaign period Every year, the Yamato Transport Hakodate District Branch’s for the 10th time straight. Minamikayabe Center participates in the parade with a two-ton truck. We hope that the company will keep up its community-rooted safety awareness activities. Poster hand-made by GOP. YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 16 Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU”— “DAN-TOTSU” Safety Safety measures matched to local traffic conditions Safety First in Malaysia As the Yamato Group accelerates its development overseas, it is growing and expanding its TA-Q-BIN delivery business in Shanghai, Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, and other parts of Asia. Across the ocean, too, we take our principle of “Safety First, Business Second” seriously. SDs compete with each other on their driving skills. Do methods of delivery and skills Q for safe driving differ according to Q Are there opportunities to evaluate the skills of SDs? traffic conditions? Since traffic jams frequently occur in Drivers competed on driving skills at A Malaysia, motorbikes play an active A the “Drivers’ Contest” safety contest role here. (Fazroll) held in 2013. (Fazroll) Traffic conditions and road conditions differ by country. But On November 18, 2013, the second safety-related Drivers’ regardless of the country, the Yamato Group’s principle of Contest was held in Kuala Lumpur at Metro Driving Academy, “Safety First, Business Second” remains unchanged. one of Malaysia’s largest driving schools. The Contest, which In Malaysia, roads are under construction everywhere, has been held since 2012, represents one of the most advanced whether city or countryside. Maintenance of public transportation initiatives within the Yamato Group overseas. is also insufficient, and traffic jams occur frequently. Therefore, Gathering 20 SD representatives from all 7 branches in 40% of all delivery vehicles used by Yamato Transport (M) are Malaysia (10 branches as of August 2014), examinations were motorbikes, which are handy in traffic jams. This is a big held to test driving technique and knowledge in the divisions of difference between Malaysia and Japan. Trucks and Motorbikes. I entered the Contest as the Ipoh At Yamato Transport (M), Sales Driver Instructors (SDIs) Service Center representative in the Truck Division. It was a work to improve the driving skills of us Sales Drivers (SDs). very fruitful day, as I was able to assess my own level through Managers in charge of safety also visit each branch to discuss practical and paper tests, as well as exchange information safety with all SDs. and ideas about safety with other participating SDs. I gained more confidence by taking the top prize, and at the same time felt the importance of responsibility. Evaluation items in the Malaysia Drivers’ Contest 1. Practical test: Automobile and motorbike vehicle inspection skills 2. Practical test: Automobile and motorbike safe driving skills 3. Paper test: Knowledge of the TA-Q-BIN service, safety regulations, and general knowledge. 4. Practical test: Customer service (response methods) 5. Practical test: Driving aptitude check-up Safe driving skills test for motorbikes. 17 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Q What are your goals for the future? I plan to establish the principle The second Drivers’ Contest A “Safety First, Business Second” even in Singapore featured 18 participating SDs. more deeply. (Jookaplee) From a Sales Driver Instructor Actually, the Drivers’ Contest in Malaysia was first proposed by an SD in Yamato Transport (M), who suggested holding the We’ll create a Malaysian-style same sort of Drivers Contest conducted in Japan to improve “safety first, business second.” safety skills. It has been almost 3 years since the TA-Q-BIN service started in Malaysia. I feel that the employees’ awareness Katsuhiro Gokan towards safety has risen, and that the “Safety First, Business Sales Driver Instructor (SDI) Second” principle has taken root. Yamato Transport (M) Sdn. Bhd. I’ve heard that Yamato Transport (S) in Singapore, too, After gaining experience with Safety Instructors while working as launched a Zero Accidents Campaign similar to that in Japan. an SD in Japan, I was transferred to Malaysia in December 2010, Also, they began creating route maps, started interviews where I work as an SDI instructing local SDs. between SDs and a person in charge of safety and held Drivers’ Currently, Japanese staffs perform the role of SDIs, but in Contest twice since 2013. the future we would like the local staff the role take over. Our goal is to create a system letting local staff promote safety Even if the country differs, the desire to treat safety with initiatives on their own. Toward that end, I’m working hard to importance is the same. I believe that letting this principle take train SDI candidates, in cooperation with Jookaplee, the Manager firm root, while adjusting the systems to local conditions, will in Charge of Safety and CSR. lead to traffic safety in each country in Asia. My job is to firmly hand over the safety baton to my colleagues who shoulder the TA-Q-BIN service in this region. My colleagues and I will continue to create a Malaysian-style “safety first, business second.” Interviewee Interviewee Jookaplee Shaaibon Fazroll Nizam Bin Razali Manager in Charge of Safety and CSR Ipoh Service Center Yamato Transport (M) Sdn. Bhd. Yamato Transport (M) Sdn. Bhd. Mr. Shaaibon is planning and Mr. Razali is the winner of the Truck implementing Drivers’ Contests as the Division in the Second Malaysia Safety manager responsible for safety in Contest. Has worked as an SD for two Malaysia as a whole. and a half years. YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 18 EnvironUnder the key word “Necology,” ment we are creating environmentallyfriendly logistics. Yamato Group refers to our environmental conservation initiatives as “Necology” Environmental conservation is a part of a corporation’s responsibility to society and we encourage every individual employee to be constantly aware of environmental conservation as they conduct their daily tasks in addition to ensuring that our corporate activities remain environmentally-friendly. We establish environmentally-friendly logistics by thoroughly ensuring the environmental friendliness of all aspects, especially for “packaging”, “transportation” and “delivery”. We are committed to becoming a company that works hand in hand with the community to build a better society through the provision of these environmentally-friendly products and services. * Necology: “Neco” comes from the Japanese word for “cat,” found in the emblematic logo of the Yamato Group. We have given the name “Necology” to the movement by which this “Neco” (i.e., Yamato) engages in “ecology,” and are communicating that name to society. Eco-driving Energy-saving initiatives Promotion of modal shift Eco in Eco in Utilization of the nature power Adoption of low-pollution vehicles, etc. transport facilities Reduction of waste volume “Necology” Eco with Returnable materials Eco in local Local environmental protection activities Work efficiency products communiHosting of environmental classes, etc. ties 19 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Major achievements and results in fiscal 2013 Initiatives Achievements and results Every individual employee wll drive in an Adopting our unique safety and ecological navigation in delivery trucks environmentally-friendly manner each day. The unique See-T Navi vehicular system of Yamato Transport in Japan (Yamato Transport (J)) supports eco-driving. We strive to reduce gas emissions,such as Adoption of about 4,000 new three-wheelers (electric bicycles with trailers) C02, by introducing low-emission vehicles and Yamato Transport (J) is undertaking expansion of deliveries that do not use motor vehicles. conducting pickup and delivery using hand Adoption of about 21,000 low-emission vehicles (41.5% of all Yamato Group vehicles) Eco in pushed trolleys and New three-wheelers While pursuing deliveries with as little use of motor vehicles as possible, the Yamato Group is promoting the shift to transport (electric bicycle with a trailer). low-emission vehicles for those motor vehicles that are necessary. We strive to maximize the efficiency of Total railway and marine transportation: About 510,000 tons logistics by promoting joint operations Environmental impact reduction through cooperative transport P.23 with other logistics providers and modal The mobile management operation of the Fit Guard, Fit Board, and Fit Rack returnable materials used in the JITBOX shift using trains and seafaring vessels. Charter service, jointly developed by Box Charter and Yamato Packing Technology Institute, has been well-received and has earned the Prize for Technology Developed to Reduce the Environmental Impact of Freight Transport. Every individual employee will endeavor to minimize energy consumption and Displaying energy conservation posters at all Yamato Group workplaces We worked to conserve energy by enforcing light clothing in summer and by reducing unneeded lighting. practice energy saving activities. Completion of construction of Haneda Chronogate, one of Japan’s largest integrated We utilize renewable energy sources and logistics terminals Eco in promote the minimization of energy Incorporating cutting-edge environmental technology using natural energy, Haneda Chronogate is expected to facilities consumption at our facilities. reduce CO2 emissions by 46% compared with past facilities. In 2014, we were awarded the top prize at the 15th Freight Industry Environmental Awards. We strive to reduce waste by promoting green purchasing, recycling and a Green procurement rate: 80% or higher (improved from fiscal 2012) Where possible, we select and purchase items with the lowest impact on the environment. paperless office. We develop and promote environmentallyDevelopment and promotion of environmentally-considerate packaging materials P.21 friendly products such as returnable We have developed packaging material that does not require package cushioning, as well as packaging material Eco in packaging materials. that can be easily separated from other waste. products We contribute to our customer’s efforts to minimize energy consumption by offering Provision of services that leverage information communication technology (ICT) We supported customers’ work efficiency improvements in a variety of industries. solutions to streamline their operations. As a member of local communities, we Active participation in local cleanup campaigns Eco with participate in community environmental Companies in the Yamato Group participate in local cleanup activities. As an example, on August 3, 2013, Safety local conservation initiatives. Guides and other staff at the Yamato Global Express Co., Ltd. Kanto District Branch took part in the beach cleanup sponsored by the Yokohama Sports Association. communities We represent the importance of the environment We hosted the Kuroneko Yamato Environmental Class 241 times during the year, with by hosting events such as “environment class”. 20,700 children participating. About CO2 emissions In the Yamato Group overall, electrical power cost increases and the construction of new facilities accompanying business expansion resulted in an increase in CO2 emissions from fiscal 2012. However, Yamato Transport’s CO2 emissions per parcel are decreasing year by year as we implement high efficiency in deliveries. CO2 emissions in the Yamato Group CO2 emissions from per one hundred million yen operating revenue Yamato Transport (J) vehicles (including internal transaction), compared to FY 2009 CO2 emissions (thousand t-CO2) *1 (%) CO2 emissions per basic unit (g-CO2) *2 100 100 500 484 455 459 97.7 95.8 95 95.7 94.9 400 300 268 245 90 200 217 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 1990 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2013 (FY) *· Data cover 31 companies of the Yamato Group in Japan (as of March 2014). *1 Figures are calculated in accordance with the Ministerial Ordinance on Calculation · Figures include those calculated by converting from expenses, and estimating the of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Arising from Business Activities of Specified Emitters annual amount based on the amount of a specific month. (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Ministry of the Environment Ordinance No. 3, 2006). · Figures are calculated in accordance with the Ministerial Ordinance on Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Arising from Business Activities of Specified Emitters *2 Total CO2 emissions (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Ministry of the Environment Ordinance Number of parcels delivered via TA-Q-BIN service No. 3, 2006). Number of Kuroneko Mail + packs (TA-Q-BIN equivalent) CO2 emissions per basic unit 4 1 2 3 1 Deliveries using new three-wheelers 2 Uniforms made from recycled PET bottles 3 Participation in local cleanup activities 4 Hosting the Kuroneko Yamato Environmental Class YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 20 EnvironAiming for “DAN-TOTSU”— “DAN-TOTSU” ment Development and promotion of environmentally-considerate packaging materials Achieving protection of the environment. In particular, there is a growing need to eliminate the foam packing that has been used, and to confer shock mitigation capability on packaging using corrugated “Necology” board only. A major reason for this is that corrugated board is made from a material with established collection and recycling routes, and is easy to recycle. with packaging What have you devised to balance Packaging is a must when sending parcels. Q protection of parcels with protection Yamato Packing Technology Institute is engaged in of the environment? development of packaging materials that, while protecting We’re working to unify materials, customers’ important parcels, are easy to use, have high loading efficiency, and are easily recycled after use. A reduce volume, and secure shock mitigation properties. (Minami) The aim is to achieve ecology for logistics, our customers, and society overall. Yokogawa Rental & Lease Corporation, which provides PCs to companies through rental and other means, expressed a desire to get rid of the foam cushioning material they had been using as packaging material and to switch entirely to corrugated Q Is packaging material something that can be reduced? board, while making materials more compact at the same time. The company hoped to unify on corrugated board as a single material to facilitate recycling, and to increase the efficiency of We need to balance two types of protection storage and loading by conserving space, thereby reducing A through reduction of packaging and change of materials: protection of parcels and logistics costs and logistics-related CO2 emissions. What the company adopted to meet this need was our protection of the environment. (Minami) proposal to thermally bond a special film to corrugated board, with laptop computers secured between the film and board. In As an example, when transporting precision machinery or this way, PCs that have differing forms by model can be communication equipment, cushioning material to soften shocks packaged using a single type of material. We further doubled is a necessity. This increases the size of parcel boxes and the corrugated board lid, reducing the height of the exterior reduces loading efficiency in transport. However, taking that as box by 3 cm while maintaining the same shock mitigation a reason to reduce packaging more than necessary, or casually properties as foam cushioning material, and succeeded in switching to other materials, can prevent packaging from playing reducing the volume of the parcels overall by about 23%. This its important role in the protection of parcels from shocks. made the repeated packaging material design changes and In response, we conduct order-made development of the 100-plus hours of drop testing worthwhile. optimal packaging materials, matched to customers’ parcels and transport methods, which balance protection of parcels with Changes made to packaging materials Secure product by bending corrugated Bend both ends upward board until film is stretched tight Hold both ends and place inside Put cushioning lid in place PC placed assembled exterior box between film and corrugated board In drop testing, we drop packaging materials from a variety o of angles to measure the degree of shock transfer. 21 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Interviewee Interviewee Kana Ishikawa Yohei Minami Senior Associate Packaging Engineer, Senior Associate Packaging Engineer, Research and Development Division Research and Development Division Yamato Packing Technology Institute Co., Ltd. Yamato Packing Technology Institute Co., Ltd. Ms. Ishikawa joined the company four years ago. She aims Under the motto “simple is best,” Mr. Minami is to create packaging materials with value, leveraging the design engaged in design and development aimed at knowledge and technology that she has learned. minimizing packaging materials. Two years have already passed since use of this packaging Do the changes make the packaging Q material more complex and difficult material began. We have received a new request from the customer, asking whether we can create materials for packaging to use? several units at once – that is, a request for further reduction of We print procedures on the surface so that packaging materials. Shipments to large companies often A anyone can perform the task without exceed 100 units at once. Success in developing packaging mistakes. (Ishikawa) materials to meet this need will let us further reduce workload and environmental impacts, making this a worthwhile challenge. We devised the packaging material that we proposed to From here on out, we will continue to achieve “Necology” Yokogawa Rental & Lease Corporation so that the task procedures through Packaging. can be conveyed easily. No matter how well designed packaging material is, it can’t fully exhibit its functions if it’s not used properly. For that reason, we used illustrations on the corrugated board From a customer surface to explain assembly and how to put in the PC, to prevent mistakes regardless of who performs the task. We have expectations for the Yamato Group’s Naturally, before making explanations easy to understand, expertise in packaging materials. we first put full consideration into ease of packaging. We believe that reduction of worker labor and appropriate provision of Kazuo Kuroda information to end users, along with protection of parcels and Group Leader Hashimoto Tech, protection of the environment, are added values of packaging On-Premise Logistics Group materials. IT Business Unit, Rental Business Headquarters Yokogawa Rental & Lease Corporation Our company has set energy conservation and separation of wastes as themes for environmental preservation. Within this, we have positioned improvement of the packaging material we use in large volumes as a particularly important theme. The new packaging material proposed by the Yamato Packing Technology Institute not only reduces size from previous materials, but also allows easy packaging and easy folding of boxes. It has been well received by customers and is proving useful in creating differentiation from our competitors. The further reduction in size is effective in reducing transport costs for our major accounts. Light weight, low cost, high strength, and environmental friendliness are the requirements for packaging materials. Reducing transport costs is also an ongoing issue. We will We always design with consideration of continue to hold expectations for novel solutions that crystallize ow to make the explanation easy for end users to understand. how the Yamato Group’s expertise. YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 22 EnvironAiming for “DAN-TOTSU”— “DAN-TOTSU” ment Environmental impact reduction through cooperative transport Reducing CO2 Q How does cooperative transport in units of boxes reduce costs and CO2? through box-unit It raises loading efficiency, which A allows us to reduce the number charter service of trucks. (Nagai) JITBOX Charter service is an answer to customers who use Previously, transporting copiers and other large single-truck charter transport but find the empty space wasteful. precision equipment had required chartering an entire By transporting customers’ parcels in units of single roll box truck, meaning reduced loading efficiency and higher pallets, the service is able to provide quality on par with charter transport costs when cargo volume is low. services, at reasonable cost. To eliminate this wastefulness, Box Charter developed In 2006, Yamato Holdings established Box Charter Co., the JITBOX Charter service (JIT stands for “Just In Ltd. as a joint venture with 13 companies including Seino Time”) that operates on units of roll box pallets, not Holdings and Nippon Express, and launched the JITBOX trucks. This provides a service that is able to reduce Charter service. The companies accept parcels from customers both costs and environmental impacts through in units of roll box pallets, aggregate the parcels at sites for cooperative transport in cooperation with multiple arterial transport, and ship to destinations around the country. transport companies. This method eliminates empty space in truck beds and reduces the number of (Interior 104cm trucks on the road, allowing dimensions) 104cm us to reduce both transport cost and CO2 emissions during transport. 170 cm Interviewee Keiji Makimura Toshihiro Murakami Roll box pallet Assistant Manager, Leader of Network Planning (When used for “Fit Guard” Keihin Terminal Branch Box Charter Co., Ltd. and “Fit Board”) Seino Transportation Co., Ltd. Mr. Murakami is undertaking Mr. Makimura was involved in the improvement of the transport JITBOX Charter service launch as quality that is the essence of our a Seino Transportation manager. service, as well as the development of new services. Interviewee Yasuhito Nagai Director of Network Planning Box Charter Co., Ltd. Mr. Nagai is engaged in improvement of transport quality. He also worked on development of the “Fit Guard,” “Fit Board,” and “Fit Rack” returnables-only packaging materials. 23 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Q What are the next goals for the JITBOX Charter service? We want to incorporate the comments of A customers and employees, to make the service more convenient and more useful The roll box pallets picked up by the companies are gathered at major sites of the transport companies for society. (Murakami) in charge of arterial transport. The JITBOX Charter service has proven popular with customers. Reasons for the high loading efficiency of Rather than be satisfied with this, though, we plan to incorporate the JITBOX Charter service the opinions of customers and employees to enhance the quality Normal charter service Charter companies’ trucks of the service. For example, we’re considering making parcel location Space Transported by Company Tr Company A picks up remains A’s charter service information, which can now only be checked on PCs at offices, open in truck bed also visible to drivers over a variety of devices. The ability of Transported Tr by Company Company B picks up B’s charter service drivers to check the location of parcels in real time will lead to Gathering the roll box pallets picked up improved service. JITBOX Charter service by sales companies We don’t see JITBOX Charter service as having reached Company A Company D Arterial transport its final form. We hope to develop it into a service that is more Company B Mixed convenient and more useful for society. cargo in one company’s Company E Company C Gather and Company transport using trucks Company Companies participating in JITBOX Charter service A site Companyy A truckk A site Offices in charge of Picked up by companies each area perform delivery Loading efficiency is clearly Q increased. But does this reduce packaging materials? We’ve lined up a variety of specialty A materials that can be used repeatedly, allowing us to reduce customers’ packaging materials. (Nagai) From a company participating in JITBOX Charter service In order to make JITBOX Charter service a more environmentally Developing business opportunities by friendly service with higher transport quality, we’re developing a collaborating with transport companies. variety of optional services. An example is the “Fit Series” of specialty materials that can be used repeatedly, which we jointly developed with Yamato Packing Technology Institute. These include “Fit Guard,” a reusable cushioning material Yasuo Sogo Managing Director that makes use of the advanced form-fitting functions and and Deputy General Manager, shock-absorbing functions of the FLIX “magical wrapping cloth,” Sales Headquarters the “Fit Board” that uses belts to safely secure precision machinery Kurume Transportation Co., Ltd for transport in roll box pallets, and “Fit Rack,” which places As a transport company based in Kyushu, we operate our business machinery components and other loads on shelves with stretch film, under the motto “Transporting Sincerity.” Our business model of without stacking the loads. The use of these removes the need operating the JITBOX Charter Service together with major national for strict packing of parcels by customers, and enables reduction scale transport companies has turned out to be an innovative service. On the whole, JITBOX Charter service has proven popular of packaging materials. Our “Fit Guard,” “Fit Board,” “Fit Rack,” and with customers. To further boost customer satisfaction and service returnable mechanisms earned the Prize for Technology Developed volume, we plan to deepen our partnerships and information to Reduce the Environmental Impact of Freight Transport at the exchange with other participating companies, and improve 14th Freight Industry Environmental Awards offered by the Japan transport service in line with the properties of individual parcels. Federation of Freight Industries in 2013. We believe that “Necology” We hope that Box Charter will take the helm in making the product even more compelling, so that we can operate the – that is, the ecology practiced by the Yamato Group – has been service smoothly and can recommend and sell it to customers well received for its packaging materials as well. with assurance. YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 24 Society We aim to earn the trust and respond to expectations of society. The Yamato Group seeks to be a company that develops in a sustainable manner together with in our society, by being aware of our social responsibility, while putting importance on dialogue with all of our stakeholders. In addition, through our social contribution activities and businesses, we will continue to solve the problems faced by local communities. Customers Local people Employees Activities to fulfill our responsibilities SharePartners holders 25 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Major Achievements and Results of FY2013 Efforts Achievements and Results Implementation of customer service response competition (for customer Service Center operators and Improvement of response Customers quality Guest Operators) We judge operators in contact with customers on a daily basis, screening their telephone / response skills (facial expressions, conduct, way of speaking, diction etc.), product knowledge, and communication skills, and award those with high marks. Education / training and Training that matches career plans career development We conduct a variety of training including “Junior Leader School,” “Next Generation Leaders School,” and “Global Training”. 386 persons took childcare leave / 328 persons worked shorter hours for childcare At Yamato Transport in Japan (Yamato Transport (J)), employees can take childcare leave until the child become 14 months old, if their spouses are on childcare leave and shorter working hours for childcare can be taken until the child finishes fourth grade at elementary school. Work-Life Balance Certified by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a company that actively Employees supports the balance between work and family life. Yamato System Development was certified in FY2011, followed by Yamato Logistics and Yamato Transport (J) in FY2013. Promotion of programs for active engagement of female employees P.29 We have taken initiatives including conducting career development programs, and the active appointment of female Respect for diversity employees in executive positions. Employment of 1,999 persons with disabilities (Employment rate: 1.95%) We will continue to create a workplace easier for people with disabilities to work in, such as a barrier-free work environment. Fair and unbiased trading / Partners Collaboration for safety and Communication with about 240,000 TA-Q-BIN dealer stores Daily visits by Sales Drivers and issuing of information magazine “Kuroneko-Dayori”. improving service quality Appropriate and fair information Briefings for analysts held 4 times, and visiting institutional investors for briefing in North Shareholders disclosure / Enhancement of communication America / Europe / Asia Music TA-Q-BIN “Kuroneko Family Concert” held total of 283 times, with a total attendance of about 410,000 people. “Children’s Traffic Safety Workshop”: held 2,013 times per year, with about 224,000 participants. Social education support “Kuroneko Yamato Environmental Class”: held 241 times per year, 20,700 children participated. “8th Yamato Transport Business Seminar for High School Students”: held at 15 schools nationwide, with 74 participants (FY2013) Conducted “Shopping Assistance,” “Watch-Over Services for the Elderly” and “Crime and Disaster Prevention Support” all over Japan. Total number of cases: 630. Number of agreements for cooperative work entered into with local governments: 138. P.27 Promotion of CSV in Through our main business, we made efforts for the creation of value that can be shared by enterprises and society (as of partnership with local Local people June 30, 2014) communities Relocation promotion support for regional economic revitalization Yamato Home Convenience provided discounts for moving / “Ienaka” (at-home) services, and was appointed as the “special relocation support ambassador” for “Kochi-Ke”, the promotion campaign for relocating to Kochi Prefecture. Assisted in creating a workplace in which people with disabilities can be economically independent Through the Yamato Welfare Foundation, we implemented the “Bridge to Dreams Project (Yume E No Kakehashi Project)” to assist the preparation of “economic independence”. Support for economic independence for people Operation of 28 “Swan Bakery” stores nationwide, where people with disabilities work. Swan operates three directly managed stores and 25 chain stores of “Swan Bakery”. with disabilities 69,510,000 yen collected through “Natsu No Kampa (summer donation)” Donations were received from the 190,000 employees within the Yamato Group, which was donated to NPO Ashinaga and the Yamato Welfare Foundation. 4 1 2 3 1 The Contact Center where Customers’ calls are received 2 Music TA-Q-BIN “Kuroneko Kuroneko F Family Concert” delivers a full-scale classic concert 3 The “Children’s Traffic Safety Class” carried out all over Japan 4 A “Swan Bakery” store where people with disabilities work YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 26 Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU”— “DAN-TOTSU” Society Promotion of CSV in partnership with local communities Watching over Q What is the Watch-Over Support that Yamato Transport (J) has been undertaking in various locations? the elderly For example, in Kuroishi City, Aomori we deliver periodicals for elderly people living through TA-Q-BIN. A alone, and report to the local government if an elderly person is not at home for a certain Based on our idea of CSV (Creating Shared Value) of length of time. (Koshida) enterprises creating common values with the community In the area the Aomori District Branch is in charge of, which through our main business, Yamato Transport in Japan includes Kuroishi City, Aomori, more than a quarter of the (Yamato Transport (J)) is undertaking Watch-Over population is 65 years of age or older. Indeed, about 10% of all Services for the Elderly, Shopping Assistance, and households here are elderly people living alone. There has been Emergency Transportation Support During Disasters in a lot of media coverage of elderly people dying alone recently, cooperation with local governments all over Japan, and to prevent this, we need to regularly visit elderly people with which have been named the “Project G (Government) no family, and care for them. However, in Kuroishi City, social and promoted by the entire Yamato Group. workers that would normally do this are aging, and there is a Depending on the regional characteristics and the needs shortage in human resource. Therefore the city had been asking of local governments, the form of these services varies, private enterprises for cooperation to solve this problem. and so far we have entered into agreements with several So, in April 2013, Yamato Transport started the local governments nationwide. One of these is Kuroishi “Watch-Over Support Services for the Elderly”. We deliver by City, in Aomori, where we have been successful in TA-Q-BIN monthly periodicals published by the City aimed at implementing Watch-Over Support Services for the elderly people living alone. As the Sales Drivers (SD) deliver these Elderly, which could become a model for the rest of TA-Q-BIN in person to the elderly people, each SD could check Japan in the future. to see if they are at home, and if they have any health problems. We report to the local government if an elderly person has not been at home for a certain length of time. Kuroishi City highly appreciates this service, saying it can, ‘get regular insight into the status of elderly people living alone’, and the elderly people who use the service also appreciate the service saying, ‘we have peace of mind because the same SDs comes around the same time each month’. Some SDs have commented saying, ‘it makes our job worth while because we know there are people waiting for us’. Its no easy task for 10 SDs to cover nearly 1,000 homes, but the sense of duty that we are supporting elderly people keeps us inspired. Interviewee Mitsuru Koshida Branch Manager, Aomori-Minami Area Branch, Aomori District Branch, Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. Mr. Koshida came up with the plan for the “Watch-Over Support Services for the Elderly” in cooperation with Kuroishi City, when he was the Kuroishi Branch Manager. Currently, he serves as the Branch Manager in the neighboring Aomori-Minami Area Branch. The monthly periodicals for elderly people published by Kuroishi City. 27 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Mechanism for Watch-Over Support Services for the Elderly When at home Periodicals Yamato Transport Report monthly to the City delivers Office collective information of City Office periodicals SD Elderly City Office requests people elderly people social workers City Office consigns to make visits Yamato Transport to When not at home deliver periodicals SD Report to the City Office (monthly) Social workers anyone who is not at home SD: Sales Drivers for more than two days Yamato Transport meets regularly with Kuroishi City to address new issues. Q Isn’t the cost for Watch-Over Support really high? Is the “Watch-Over Support Services for Being able to detect any anomalies reliably, Q the Elderly” of Kuroishi City sought after in other areas? without difficulty, and at a low cost: That was A the intention of the Watch-Over Support Yes. We would like to continue to Services for the Elderly designed by Kuroishi A expand the Kuroishi City model City. (Koshida) across the country. (Koshida) As Yamato Transport has been engaged in the watch-over For this initiative, by deciding on the rough visiting dates operations through repeated trial and error all over Japan, some area-by-area, we were able to incorporate the delivery of challenges had emerged. periodicals into our TA-Q-BIN operation, which is our core For example, for the service that the SD informs the local business. I think the mechanism of Watch-Over for the Elderly governmental agency when something wrong is found during that can be operated without difficulty is something that is delivery of items shopped by senior citizens, the challenge is that required in other regions as well. Therefore, I am very pleased only those who received the delivery can be seen, and other that our initial plan, which we always thought was an amazing senior citizens cannot be checked. On the other hand, for the breakthrough, and something we wanted to be successful with, service that the SD informs local governmental agency of any is finally being realized. anomaly found with elderly people at home during regular delivery Our goal for the future is to spread the Kuroishi City model service, it’s an extra service and the burden on the SD is too large. all over Japan, and make it even better. Kuroishi City has asked So, in this case, Yamato Transport asked Kuroishi City to us whether we can increase the visits to twice a month instead publish a monthly periodical for elderly people living alone, and of just once. delivered it to the elderly people’s home with fees borne by It’s been more than a year since we started the Watch-Over the city according to the number of deliveries. In this way, by Support Services for the Elderly. Going forward we want to targeting the elderly people who need to be watched over, and improve the Kuroishi City model together with the City Office. by limiting the work of SDs only to the delivery and the reporting of absence information to the City Office, Yamato Transport has been able to create a mechanism by which local governmental From the Kuroishi City Office agency can detect any anomalies reliably, without difficulty, and at a low cost. This has been very helpful in understanding the status of the elderly people. Hideyoshi Muramoto Manager, Health and Welfare Department, Kuroishi City Office T unattended death of elderly people has been considered a The so social problem for several years now, and we have taken measures w where we can, including the installment of watch-over terminals in households. The proposal of the Watch-Over Support Services fo for the Elderly by Yamato Transport definitely matched the needs of our city. Over a period of months we discussed how we im implement it at a reasonably low cost. And then we started our co collaboration. Even though it is “Watch-Over” services, we do not want the elderly people to be too aware that they are being monitored. e W We know there are some who do not like being monitored. T The complete information provided by Yamato Transport has b been very helpful to us at the City Office to understand the si situation of elderly citizens. SDs hand over the packages in person, and check on the state of the elderly. YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 28 Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU”—“DAN-TOTSU” Society Creation of workplaces to motivate employees The power of women, the power of Yamato. About 67,000 women work within the Yamato Group. This means about 35% of all employees in our group are female. At Yamato Transport in Japan (Yamato Transport (J)), women are active in a variety of jobs, such as Guest Operators who correspond with customers at TA-Q-BIN Center, Sales Drivers responsible for the collection and Tablets are used for the “NekoPit” terminals, delivery of packages, and operators working at Contact making it even more convenient as customers can use handwriting for inputting information. Centers. We continue to create a workplace that utilizes the power of such female employees. Q What kind of jobs are the women of Yamato Transport active in? Q When do you feel that your work is rewarding? We are active in various jobs such When our customers express that a service A as Guest Operators and Sales Drivers. A is convenient as a result of some idea I came (Aoki) up with. (Hosokawa) There are about 13,000 women who work as Guest Operators I’ve worked for Yamato Transport for about 17 years, and I feel (GOP) like us at Yamato Transport. This is a job where most of these days that my job as GOP is rewarding and I enjoy it much the women work, but there are a variety of jobs besides GOP. more than ever before. Because when I come up with some idea There are also about 12,000 women who work as Sales Drivers for work, it makes the customers happy. (SD), and there are female SDs working cheerfully at the When elderly customers are struggling with filling out labels, Otsu-Ojiyama TA-Q-BIN Center where I work. Regardless of I always recommend them to register as a “Kuroneko Member,” their working hours and job type, each and every woman at which allows them to easily printout a label on the “NekoPit” Yamato Transport can demonstrate their abilities, and I think terminal. The customers love this system saying, “it’s simple that there is a culture that respects that in our company. and convenient”, and the NekoPit usage at the Sahodai-Nishi The main task of us GOPs is answering inquiries by telephone “TA-Q-BIN” Center has increased to about 85%. or customers who bring in packages to the TA-Q-BIN Centers. These down-to-earth efforts were praised at the “Smile In particular, in dealing with customers on the phone where we Solution Campaign*” targeted at GOPs and held within the cannot see them face-to-face, we try to answer by understanding Kansai Regional Headquarters. Our Sahodai-Nishi TA-Q-BIN the customer’s point of view, while always being aware of what it Center became number one in NekoPit utilization in the entire is they want to know. Kansai Regional Headquarters district. The award certificate I got at that time has become a piece of treasure for me. Wanting our customers to use TA-Q-BIN more conveniently: That was the simple thought behind this bit of ingenuity, and now that idea has turned into this achievement. This proved that I too was able to literally offer solutions to solve the needs of our customers. * Smile Solution Campaign: An initiative to improve customer satisfaction through ideas by all TA-Q-BIN Center. It is held twice a year within the Kansai Regional Headquarters. GOPs often strike up a conversation with regular customers when receiving packages. 29 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 From our superiors Q How do you balance your work and “life” such as child rearing? I want the employees to invigorate the branches so customers become The company and we ourselves constantly fans of Yamato Transport. A create a system and environment where Koji Onishi we can continue to work in. (Aoki) Branch Manager, Horen Area Branch, Nara District Branch The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare certified companies Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. within our group as “a company that actively supports the balance I want the employees who work as Guest Operators to invigorate between work and family life” based on the Next Generation the workplace of the branches, so all the customers who visit us Nurturing Support Measures Promotion Law. This certificate was become fans of Yamato Transport. In that respect, Ms. Hosokawa awarded to Yamato System Development in 2011, Yamato voluntarily goes around the other TA-Q-BIN Centers within the Nara District Branch, to give guidance and advice to GOPs, and Logistics in 2013, and Yamato Transport in 2014. Our in-house this has been very helpful. support systems are well equipped, and such systems are Yamato Transport has about 6,000 TA-Q-BIN Centers across explained in an easy-to-understand manner, and are easy to use. the country. Rather than just relying on the system that the company Employees also participate in the development of these makes, we want to continue to create a workplace where everyone systems. When I attended the “Nadeshiko School”, workshops can work comfortably, by every workplace coming up with their own ingenious ideas. for female employees within the Kansai Regional Headquarters, we discussed the theme of “building a workplace and system where women can work comfortably.” We talked about maternity A trusting relationship exists between leave and childcare leave and how it should be for the young employees and their people who will join the company in the future. These discussions superiors, where they can discuss have been utilized in the system. anything. I myself had to take sick leave for about a month after I had finished raising my children. I was able to return to my job with the cooperation and understanding of the people around me, and am grateful to them for that. “Kurumin” Next-Generation Certification Mark Interviewee Interviewee Hiroe Aoki Maki Hosokawa Otsu-Ojiyama TA-Q-BIN Center, Sahodai-Nishi TA-Q-BIN Center, Shiga District Branch, Nara District Branch, Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. Ms. Aoki is in her 15th year now as Ms. Hosokawa has assisted in GOP. She always keeps careful collection and delivery, and support towards customers in mind. currently works as a GOP. YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 30 GoverWe aim to continue as a corporate group in which nance each individual holds a high sense of ethics. Corporate Governance members of the Audit & Supervisory Board are independent officers pursuant to the Tokyo Stock Exchange Regulations, and Making the securing of sound management, and the their names are registered at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. achievement of prompt and accurate decision-making and business execution, our basic policy Compliance Yamato Holdings, a pure holding company, and its Group companies make the securing of sound management, and the Strengthening internal control for the Group overall achievement of prompt and accurate decision-making and The Yamato Group has established an internal control system in business execution, the basic policy upon which we are working order to promote sound corporate culture in the group a whole, to strengthen corporate governance. and to enable employees to perform their duties effectively and Yamato Holdings has established the Board of Directors, efficiently without any misbehavior or mistake. the Management Advisory Committee, and the Executive Yamato Holdings has stipulated its basic policy on the Committee as business management organizations involved in internal control system in accordance with the Companies Act, group-wide managerial decision-making, execution and supervision and each group company is working on strengthening internal in order to ensure prompt and proper decision-making on controls. important matters. In addition, in order to respond to the internal control report The Board of Directors consists of 7 directors (including 2 system pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, outside directors), who are supposed to serve a one-year term in which went into effect in April 2008, we created a post of order to clarify the responsibility of the management for each internal control manager in major group companies, and have business year. The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of 1 made efforts to review business rules and standardize operations. full-time member of the Audit & Supervisory Board and 2 outside Also, we have established a system in which the auditing section members of the Audit & Supervisory Board, who audit the of our company and the internal control section of each major performance of directors’ duties by attending important meetings. group company can check whether operations have been In addition, they periodically hold a group member of the Audit & effectively performed in accordance with the rules, and can seek Supervisory Board liaison conference where they discuss audit immediate improvement if they find any deviations. policy and methods with full-time members of the Audit & Internal control over the financial reporting of the Yamato Supervisory Board from major group companies with the aim of Group as of March 31, 2014 as considered valid, and a report enhancing group-wide auditing. All outside directors and outside was submitted to the Kanto Local Finance Bureau. Corporate governance promotion framework Setting the establishment of compliance management General Meeting of Shareholders as our highest-priority issue Elect Elect Elect To construct a framework to prevent corporate misconduct in Legal Advisor accordance with the laws and regulations and corporate ethics, the Yamato Group is making efforts to ensure compliance Elect The Audit & Audit Nomination and Supervise Supervisory Compensation management as a top-priority issue for CSR promotion. Board Board of Directors Committee We have formulated the Group Corporate philosophy that Management summarizes the Yamato Group’s corporate responsibility for and Advisory Committee Make decisions/ stance toward society, and have announced our Declaration of IndepenSupervise dent Report Auditor Compliance under which we declare our observance of the laws Executive Committee Legal and Present/ Report Report Conference CSR Division Report and regulations, corporate ethics, etc. In all business offices of Execute each group company, a poster of our Declaration of Compliance Present/ Accounting business Report has been put up to give a clear explanation in case of violations audit Internal audit using illustrations. It helps to raise employees’ awareness and Audit Division Group Companies call their attention to compliance. Officers and employees of the Yamato Group are required to act in good faith in accordance with the above-mentioned Establishing a Southeast Asia regional headquarters corporate philosophy. The departments responsible for compliance in Singapore. The Yamato Group has strengthened risk management of group companies, centering on the Compliance its governance in the Southeast Asia region. and Risk Committee of Yamato Holdings are working to ensure In January 2014, the Yamato Group established Yamato Asia their observance. Pte Ltd. in Singapore to act as our Southeast Asia regional headquarters. We also integrated three companies in the same We have also set up a Compliance Hotline and a Suggestion country into Yamato Transport (S). Box as points of contact in our whistle-blowing system, which While conducting regionally-appropriate market research enable us to directly obtain information on risks in the company and business development, we aim to strengthen our governance of companies in the region. by means of notification and consultation by phone or e-mail. They contribute to prevention of compliance violations. 31 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Compliance and risk management framework Information Security Customers, shareholders, media, etc. Group companies Putting forth our Information Security Assurance Information disclosure Declaration and promoting the acquisition IR/PR of certifications President Whistle-blowing Department The Yamato Group handles important personal information of Suggestion Box many customers. We had always maintained strict control over system (e-mail, letter, intranet) such information, and in March 2003, we announced our Audit The Audit & “Declaration on Ensuring Information Security” in view of the Division Supervisory social situation including frequent leakage of personal information Group company employees Compliance audit Board Audit from a company. Since then, we have reinforced information Outside lawyer Advice security with an emphasis on “protection of personal information”, (Outside attorney of the committee) Compliance Board of Whistle-blowing and “confidentiality of corporate information”, and “prohibition of Directors Risk falsification and concealment”. Compliance Hotline Committee system Direction For the purpose of ensuring proper and safe handling of Legal and Executive personal information, we will strive to familiarize employees with CSR Division Committee (secretariat of the committee) the information security rules, and to increase their educational Authorization for opportunities. By doing so, we believe we will be able to improve Awareness-raising Grasp of direct correction Direction and promotion efforts advice customer trust in our group. In order to meet social needs, we are actively working to Department responsible for President of compliance risk management a group company acquire various certifications regarding information security. Security-related certifications acquired by group companies (as of June 2014) Concerning inappropriate temperature management Year of in Cool TA-Q-BIN service Certification, Company name acquisition In October 2013, Yamato Transport received a report that sorting JISQ15001 (Privacymark System) of parcels in violation of internal rules had been performed in Yamato System Development Co., Ltd. 1999 the Cool TA-Q-BIN service. Investigation revealed that sites not Yamato Financial Co., Ltd. 2006 thoroughly following rules, including those having made even one Yamato Contact Service Co., Ltd. violation, numbered 1,269. We immediately launched a Cool Head Office 2006 TA-Q-BIN Service Quality Improvement Headquarters with Ikebukuro Call Center 2011 President Masaki Yamauchi as head, and drafted measures to Adachi-Saitama Call Center 2007 discover the causes of the violations and prevent recurrence. Miyakonojo Intelligent Contact Center 2010 Wakayama Call Center 2012 Specifically, we created an action structure by establishing Tottori Intelligent Contact Center 2013 a Cool TA-Q-BIN Service Quality Improvement Department, assigning Tome Contact Center 2013 Quality Training Directors nationwide, and appointing Cool TA-Q-BIN Kanto Mother Center 2014 Work Leaders at each site. In addition, we are putting personnel, Yamato Web Solutions Co., Ltd. 2007 equipment, and materials in place that are appropriate to the volume Yamato Logistics Co., Ltd. 2010 of arriving parcels, and are implementing controls over modes of Yamato Multi-maintenance Solutions Co., Ltd. 2010 transport. We are also engaged in concrete consideration of adoption Yamato Management Service Co., Ltd. 2011 of a “total volume management system” to assess in advance the total volume of Cool TA-Q-BIN parcels that can be handled ISO27001 each day, and to accept parcels within that scope of total volume. Yamato System Development Co., Ltd. Shin-Tokyo IDC 2004 See the Yamato Transport website for details. Osaka IDC 2002 http://www.kuronekoyamato.co.jp/info/info_131128.html Contactless credit card data processing services for large-scale affiliate stores 2009 Credit card terminal installation application form acceptance center operation 2012 CAT joint usage system 2013 Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Sorting and sending of account transfer request documents 2013 Member contact service 2014 Joint usage-type online statement notification service 2014 Leveraging our experience in the Great East Japan Proxy service for emergency invalidation procurement 2014 Yamato Packing Service Co., Ltd. Earthquake to effect improvements that will enable Head Office (human resources/general affairs, productivity/quality) 2005 appropriate response to major earthquakes Documents Logistics Company (Tokyo Plant, Saitama Plant) 2005 Yamato Contact Service Co., Ltd. The Yamato Group offers the TA-Q-BIN service as social Head Office 2007 Ikebukuro Call Center 2011 infrastructure, and is expected to keep offering the steady Adachi-Saitama Call Center 2007 service even under unforeseeable circumstances. In the wake of Miyakonojo Intelligent Contact Center 2010 Wakayama Call Center 2012 the emergence of novel influenza strain (H1N1) in May 2009, we Tottori Intelligent Contact Center 2013 formulated a business continuity plan (BCP). Yamato Packing Technology Institute Co., Ltd. Kanto No. 1 Branch, Operation Center, Business Management Division, Based on this BCP, formulated according to response Research and Development Office 2009 guidelines focusing on maximum priority on human life and ISO20000 on continuation of the TA-Q-BIN business, we addressed the Yamato System Development Co., Ltd. 2006 problems caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake that PCIDSS Yamato System Development Co., Ltd. occurred in 2011. Our aim is to prepare for an earthquake Credit card settlement service 2006 occurring directly beneath the Tokyo Metropolitan Area and an Web billing service 2011 earthquake along the Nankai Trough, which are likely to occur in Registration of Information Security Auditing Firms Yamato System Development Co., Ltd. 2004 the future and are expected to cause large-scale damage. YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 32 Third-party opinion Hiroshi Ishida Executive Director, Caux Round Table Japan Visiting Professor, Graduate School of Economics, Kyushu University The Yamato Group has continued steady growth, centered on Future expectations its delivery business. Now aiming to expand the sales ratio of its overseas-related business, the company is constructing a CSR While continuing to achieve its management strategies and system and activities geared to the global context, and has now grow, the Yamato Group use this report to explain, in easily reached a stage of foundation development able to respond to understood fashion, how it will respond to the expectations and potential risks. concerns of stakeholders. It will become more and more In particular, business development overseas, we must important for the company to identify the scope of and the key recognize that we face intense public scrutiny not only of issues in its CSR activities, and to advance those activities in environmental aspects, but also of whether our labor practices, the Yamato Group’s own way. including practices in our supply chain, have negative impacts With the signing of the UN Global Compact in April 2014, on human rights. Companies are now expected to assess, Yamato Group has taken a new step forward. However, from through appropriate processes including stakeholder here on out, the company’s specific activities will be of engagement, their own business activities and the economic, particular importance. Currently, many companies are starting environmental, and social impacts created by these, and then to to perform human rights due diligence in their own value chains, report on the process of appropriately addressing these issues. based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human With the above in mind, I would like to comment on Yamato Rights formulated by the UN Human Rights Council. When Group’s fiscal 2013 CSR activities. aiming to achieve a goal of 20% of sales from overseas-related business as stated in the DAN-TOTSU Management Plan 2019, Yamato Group must recognize its social responsibilities as Points for evaluation these expand in proportion to the company’s growth. In The Top Message makes the declaration that the company will particular, in the Asian region where the company aims to “Evolve Logistics into a Mode of Value Creation” in order to expand its business, it is vital that the company accurately contribute to Japan’s growth strategies. This indicates that the assesses inherent potential risks and, where necessary, Yamato Group will not only take up the challenge of addressing enacts preventive measures against these. social issues through the logistics business, but will also generate I believe that the company, with consideration of its supply new added value. In particular, its “value networking” design is chain as well, should in particular properly recognize the following tied to the idea of CSV (Creating Shared Value); I hope this will concerns of society with respect to the logistics industry. go beyond the reduction of social costs and also spur innovation in society. • Treatment in the workplace (long working hours; health and With regard to the temperature management issue that safety) occurred in the Cool TA-Q-BIN service, the apologies from top • Discriminatory treatment (differences in treatment based on management and the enactment of improvement measures to gender, educational background, nationality, etc.) prevent recurrence display a stance of sincerity. The key from • Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining here on out will be whether the company can continue performing • Relationships with countries with low recognition of human and communicating its activities aimed at restoring trust. rights Among its activities, Yamato Group is already engaged in • Bribery and corruption (facilitation payments) those involving “business and human rights” in the context of • Risk of direct involvement in transport of victims of human global CSR. trafficking First, the Shopping Assistance and the Watch-Over Services for the Elderly, which the company performs in The first step is to hold dialogs with stakeholders to properly partnership with local governments around the country, could grasp their expectations and concerns, and to understand be termed a collaborative project (with other organizations) that related social issues. The next step is to thoroughly examine involves CSV aimed at resolving problems of the aging society. whether the results of the dialogs mesh with the company’s In addition, the Swan Bakery shops, now numbering 28 existing initiatives, then to take inventory of these and identify nationwide, are an initiative aimed at the “equal opportunity” that key issues concerning the future. provides lifestyle opportunities to societally disadvantaged In the company’s fiscal 2013 CSR activities, there are areas persons. This win-win cooperation, which seeks to bring in which the reciprocal connections among initiatives remain independence to persons with disabilities, is deserving of praise. difficult to see. Connecting individual activities will enable the The company is working actively to support activity by Yamato Group overall to deliver a more clear message. women, who are working creatively in a variety of workplaces. In line with the globalization of the Yamato Group’s business, Women now make up about 35% of all employees. This can I hope that its CSR activities will also develop in a form matched be seen as demonstrating the company’s progress toward to global context, and will lead to the capture of further trust by achieving diversity. stakeholders. 33 YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Comments on the opinion Yamato Group CSR, Web version List of content items (Japanese Only) CSR News Message from the President (pages 3-6 in this report) Our Major Initiatives in Safety, the Environment, and Society (pages 7-8 in this report) Business overview of the Yamato Group Haruo Kanda Our CSR vision Representative Director and Senior Management plans Executive Officer Yamato Group corporate philosophy Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. Topics Creation of value through the “value networking” Thank you very much for your valuable opinions and suggestions design (pages 9-12 in this report) about the CSR Report of the Yamato Group. Economy To deepen understanding concerning the stance and initiatives of the Yamato Group with respect to CSR (corporate Safety social responsibility), in the report we covered a number of Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU” Prevention of traffic accidents (pages 15-16 in this report) specific episodes in the form of responses to questions from Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU” stakeholders. Safety measures matched to local traffic conditions The special feature introduced the “value networking” design (pages 17-18 in this report) for “Evolving Logistics into a Mode of Value Creation”, as well as Formulation of safety plans the added value that will be provided by the Haneda Chronogate, Training of Sales Drivers a key facility in the “value networking” design and one of the Promotion of safety awareness among employees largest integrated logistics terminals in Japan. Moreover, to Maintenance of equipment and safety systems resolve issues in communities such as depopulation and the Occupational health and safety aging of society, we are working to provide a platform for local Environment revitalization and services for citizens in the form of Project G Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU” Development and promotion of environmentally(Government). Within this, our Magokoro TA-Q-BIN service that considerate packaging materials provides Shopping Assistance and Watch-Over Support for the (pages 21-22 in this report) Elderly received the Grand Prize and the Minister for Internal Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU” Affairs and Communications Prize at the 2nd “Platinum Award” Environmental impact reduction through cooperative transport (pages 23-24 in this report) sponsored by the Platinum Concept Network and the Platinum Environmental management promotion structure Award Steering Committee. We are very pleased to have such an Overall picture of “Necology” activities initiative recognized as a “business and human rights” activity in Global warming countermeasures line with the context of global CSR. Yamato Transport’s three rules for reducing CO2 From here on out, we will respond to the risks that from transport accompany our business development, and, having reviewed the Initiatives in driving and transport key issues facing the Yamato Group together with changes in the Initiatives at workplaces structure of society, will make our individual CSR activities Resource recycling relevant to these as we actively pursue their execution. Never Environmental communication forgetting the spirit of “for the benefit of the world and of society” Society that we have carried on since our founding, we aim to become Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU” “the company most loved and trusted by society”. Promotion of CSV in partnership with local communities (pages 27-28 in this report) Finally, we would appreciate it if any readers could give us Aiming for “DAN-TOTSU” their candid opinions and comments on this report. Creation of workplaces to motivate employees (pages 29-30 in this report) Together with customers Improvement of response quality Responding to customers’ needs Editor’s note Together with employees Thank you very much for reading this “Yamato Group CSR Together with business and other partners Report 2014”. Together with shareholders and investors In addition to summarizing the four pillars of safety, Stakeholder communication Social contribution activities environment, society, and economy, this year we also wrote Initiatives for CSV about the creation of value through the “value networking” Safety education design. Moreover, to further increase understanding of the Education support Yamato Group, we structured the report to introduce a list of Contribution to environmental protection activity results and detailed case studies. Support for economic independence for disabled persons Our CSR activities are made possible by the cooperation Hosting of, cooperation with, and participation in events of stakeholders, whom we would like to thank here. We also Other regional contribution hope that you can visit the company website to see additional case studies not included in this report. We will strive to enrich Governance (pages 31-32 in this report) the CSR report reflecting the opinions we receive. Your continued Policy for Publishing CSR Information support will be greatly appreciated. Third-party Opinion (page 33 in this report) Yamato Group CSR Report Editorial Team Comparative table of guidelines YAMATO GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 34 [Highlights Version] This report describes major CSR activities conducted by the Yamato Group as a highlights version. For further details about activities, please visit our corporate website. For more information about this report, please feel free to contact us. Legal and CSR Division, Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. Address: 16-10, Ginza 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8125, Japan Telephone: +81-3-3541-4141 Facsimile: +81-3-5565-3427 URL: http://www.yamato-hd.co.jp E-mail: csr-report@kuronekoyamato.co.jp This brochure was printed with vegetable-based inks.
