Symsoft CSR Communication of Progress Period 2013-07-01 to 2014-06-30 Revision History Version Date Author Description V1.0 2014-09-03 Birgitta Jonsson First release VP CS & Lena Oldberg HR Manager Contents 1. Introduction 4 1.1 CEO statement of continued support for the UN 4 Global Compact and its ten principles 2. Labour Practices 5 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals 5 2.2 Implementation 5 2.3 Measurment of outcomes 6 3. Human Rights 7 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals 7 3.2 Implementation 7 3.3 Measurement of outcomes 8 4. Environment 8 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals 9 4.2 Implementation 10 4.3 Measurements of outcome 10 5. Fair Business Practices & Anti-Corruption 11 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals 11 5.2 Implementation 11 5.3 Measurement of outcomes 12 6. Sustainable Procurement 13 6.1 Assessment, policy and goals 13 6.2 Implementation 14 6.3 Measurement of outcomes 14 7. References 15 1. Introduction During the fiscal year 2013/2014 Symsoft has worked actively on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) questions. Symsoft strives to develop the business with maintained sustainability and is committed to continuously work on environmental questions to make as small environmental footprint as 1.1. possible. Symsoft believes that having excellent working conditions increases productivity and that it is important that our business conduct – as well as our partners and our suppliers business conduct holds high standards and always is fair. Symsoft shall have a sustainable and “green” growth. At the beginning of the fiscal year Symsoft started to prepare for a thorough CSR assessment by EcoVadis. The work involved staff from several departments, Human Resources, Customer Services, Sales, IT and ComSymsoft shall have mon Functions as well as from the Management team. Policies were enhanced and we started to work on KPI’s to be a sustainable and measured and followed up in the future. “green” growth CSR is tightly incorporated in the daily work at Symsoft, we believe that we have and will continue to have good processes in place covering the areas of: Environment, Labour practices, Human Rights, Fair Business practices and Supplier management. 1.1 CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles I am pleased to confirm that Symsoft actively works on Corporate Social Responsibility questions and continues to support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress report we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Compact’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Kjell Arvidsson CEO 2. Labour Practices 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation that uses forced, compulsory or child labour. All Symsoft employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms, conditions and base compensation. All newly employed staff is presented with the Employee Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, and compensation for overtime work, flexible working hours, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. The Employee Handbook is available at all times on the company intranet. Symsoft complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides relevant training to employees and other staff. Risk assessments are conducted and followed up regularly. Consultants are issued with contracts stating terms, conditions and requirements of their assignment, and work under the same health and safety regulations as regular Symsoft employees. All Symsoft employees and other staff have the right to form and/or join labour unions and to bargain collectively. 2.2 Implementation Symsoft has a range of Human Resources Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment, including Symsoft Code of Conduct[1], Symsoft Anti-harassment Policy[6], Symsoft Employee Health and Safety Policy[7], Symsoft Workplace Violence Prevention[8] and Symsoft Equal Employment Opportunity Policy[9]. 2.2 Implementation cont. All Symsoft employees have regular performance and development talks with their manager, where objectives and expectations are set and followed up and individual development plans are created. An employee satisfaction survey is conducted annually, where all staff can rate and comment on work environment, learning and development opportunities, management, business direction, internal communication and teamwork as well as social factors at the workplace. Symsoft has an Employee Health and Safety Policy[7] as well as work environment handbooks for local offices. Health, safety and work environment are handled in a work environment committee with employee representatives. The committee has biannual meetings and works systematically to sustain a good work environment on all Symsoft locations. Risk assessments are conducted at least annually, and overtime work and sick leave are monitored continuously. Minutes from committee meetings are made available for all employees on the company intranet. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes All employees have had performance and development talks with their manager. Individual development plans have been created, and training 100% requirements have been met provided that they are in line with the comemployee pany policy. talks completed The result of the annual employee satisfaction survey has improved, from employee 2,94 on a scale of 1-4 in 2013 to 3,2 in the spring of 2014. Action plans satisfaction have been created to ensure an even better result for 2015. + ‌6.5% Overtime work and sick leave have decreased during 2014, and no emin 2014 ployee is on long-term sick leave. In the spring of 2014, 22 employees 0% long term were trained in CPR and how to use a heart defibrillator. We have also sick leave just started a project to remodel parts of our headquarters, to further improve the work environment. 22 trained in CPR Symsoft has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other & Defibrillator relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. 0 investigations Symsoft has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or or prosecutions in the last year. legal cases 3. Human Rights 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. Symsoft has policies for Anti-Harassment[6], Equal Employment Opportunity[9] and Workplace Violence Prevention[8] and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Symsoft will not tolerate victimisation, bullying or harassment in the workplace. 3.2 Implementation All Symsoft policies are easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff. All new employees are required to read through the policies and confirm their compliance. We are planning to set up a training program. As we expand our operations internationally, all efforts are made to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Staff consultation is run where organisational changes are being implemented to ensure staff are informed and have an opportunity to influence outcomes. Symsoft has a range of Human Resources policies which reflect our pro-active stance on human rights including Symsoft Code of Conduct[1], Symsoft Anti-harassment Policy[6], Symsoft Employee Health and Safety Policy[7], Symsoft Workplace Violence Prevention[8] and Symsoft Equal Employment Opportunity Policy[9]. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes Symsoft has during the year reviewed and enhanced all policies, including those on human rights and will train all staff on the new policies in a formal training program. In the past year Symsoft has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Symsoft’s system makes it possible to communicate without travelling or sending paper documents. Thanks to our systems, people can communicate via SMS, MMS or email, instead of sending letters, pictures or documents via postal services. Symsoft systems make it possible to have conversations between parties 4. in different cities or countries without having to Environment travel. In this way Symsoft helps others to reduce their negative impact on the environment. 4.1 Assessment, policys and goals Symsoft’s system makes it possible to communicate without travelling or sending paper documents. Thanks to our systems, people can communicate via SMS, MMS or email, instead of sending letters, pictures or documents via postal services. Symsoft systems make it possible to have conversations between parties in different cities or countries without having to travel. In this way Symsoft helps others to reduce their negative impact on the environment. 4.1 Assessment, policys and goals cont. Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact: Principle 7 “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes”; Principle 8 “Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility”; and Principle 9: “Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies” Symsoft complies with applicable local environmental laws and internationally recognized standards. Symsoft has a policy on Environment and Sustainability [5], furthermore Symsoft Code of Conduct[1] also covers Environment and Sustainability questions. Symsofts is targeting to set up an Environmental Management System. We are working on identifying KPIs that corresponds to the greatest environmental impact by our company, in order for us to start measuring and work on continuously improving. 4.2 Implementation Symsoft Code of Conduct[1] and Symsoft Environment and Sustainability Policy [5] are easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff. All new employees are required to read through Symsoft Code of Conduct[1] and Symsoft Environment and Sustainability Policy [5]. We are planning to set-up a training program. Symsoft Management Team, headed by CEO, is ultimately responsible to see to it that Symsoft Code of Conduct[1] and Symsoft Environment and Sustainability Policy [5] is followed. Symsoft strives to minimize its environmental impact and to ensure that finite resources are used responsibly and carefully. Symsoft promotes operational practices that reduce any environmental burden associated with our activities. Symsoft continuously improves and seeks innovative environmental friendly solutions in products and services If possible we meet over phone or over internet based Medias rather than travel. When travelling is needed we choose train if possible. 4.2 Implementation cont. Symsoft measures its energy consumption and monitors it. Symsoft has taken actions to keep it down, and will continue to work on this. Among other things our office is fitted with various innovative power saving features. Symsoft has water saving features installed. Symsoft has recycling system in place for paper, card board, aluminum, batteries and glass. Discarded electronic equipment is sent to licensed recycling stations. Symsoft thinks about sustainability and environment when selecting suppliers and has accordingly chosen to rent office space from a very environvental conscious, company, Vasakronan. Vasakronan prioritiezes environment and climate work highly. They are a carbon neutral company and also Sweden’s first property company to offer green leases and green offices. Vasakronan works according to the ten principals outlined in the UN Global Compact, and has the following environmental certificates: BREEAM, Green Building, ISO 14001, LEED, Miljöbyggnad. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes Symsoft has during the year enhanced our company policies and as well as our code of conduct documents as a first step towards implementing an Environmental Management System. We have also had our policies and code of conduct documents and related reports reviewed by EcoVadis as part of the Corporate Social Responsibility assessment of Symsoft, where we reached Silver level in their CSR rating. Measurements from fiscal year 2012 compared to 2013 shows that Symsoft has reduced travelling by 11% from 2012 to 2013. Instead we are using phone meetings and web meetings more often, all according to Symsoft Code of Conduct. Since our travelling has reduced significantly we’ve also reduced CO2 emissions. Measurements from fiscal year 2012 compared to 2013 shows that Symsoft has reduced transportation by staggering 45% from 2012 to 2013. We have changed our business model so that we whenever feasible purchase HW in country of Customer site rather than shipping HW to our factory in Sweden for assembling the HW and then ship to customer site. This has meant that our transportation has reduced significantly and there by reduced CO2 emissions. 5. Fair Business Pratices & Anti-Corruption 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact Principle 10; “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery” Symsoft supports the UN Convention against corruption and does not operate in countries or with organizations that are corrupt. Symsoft Code of Conduct clearly describes what could be considered bribery in terms of business operation. The policy also covers gifts, hospitality, extortion and money laundering. Symsoft’s goal is to continue to have no cases with unfair business practices, bribery or corruption. 5.2 Implementation Symsoft Code of Conduct is easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff. All new employees are required to read through Symsoft Code of Conduct. A training program for all relevant staff groups is planned. Symsoft Management Team, headed by CEO, is ultimately responsible to see to it that Symsoft Code of Conduct is followed. 5. 2 Implementation cont. At Christmas time Symsoft has chosen to give a contribution to the charity organization “Hand in Hand”, instead of sending suppliers, customers, business partners or others gifts. “Hand in Hand” reduces poverty through job creation via Social Mobilization, Business Training, Access to credit and linking entrepreneurs to markets. Most of our Suppliers and Customers do the same as we do; they give contributions to charity organizations rather than sending gifts to their business associates. Any gifts from Suppliers or Customers, typically its smaller things like chocolates for Christpictures courtsey mas or candies for Easter Holidays, are put on the coffee table for of the staff to share. Symsoft has a separate Procurement Policy as well as a Procurement Process. When selecting suppliers, Symsoft has a Supplier Code of Conduct, which we expect our suppliers to comply with. See section about Sustainable Procurement for details. 5.3 Measurement of outcomes Symsoft accounts are subject of yearly external audit. This is used as one of the methods of finding any suspicious business transactions. Symsoft has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption, extortion, money laundry or bribery. 6. Sustainable Procurement 6.1 Assessment, policys and goals Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact 10 Principles. We expect our suppliers to run their business according to equivalent principles; this is described in “Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct”[2]. Symsoft believes we have made, and will continue to make, proper provision for the Health, Safety and Welfare of our employees at work and of others who may be affected by Symsoft’s activities. Symsoft cares for the environment and is committed to good environmental practices. Symsoft strives towards achieving high standards of business conduct and we expect the same approach from those with whom we do business. Symsoft mainly delivers Software, however sometimes we also deliver Hardware components needed for the Software. The Hardware deliveries, stands for a larger part of the indirect environmental impact from our business. A majority of all non-software goods delivered by Symsoft are procured from external manufacturers. Thus, Symsoft Suppliers indirectly impacts the social, financial and environmental impact Symsoft has where we conduct business. When procuring goods and services in a sustainable way keeping high standards and requiring the same from our suppliers, we believe Symsoft’s actions can influence the social, financial and environmental environment also of our suppliers. To conduct our business, Symsoft procure goods and services both in the technology sector for IT infrastructure – primarily for re-distribution to customers and from other sectors, such as facilities, office disposables, refreshments, etc. Our goal is to continuously work on this, to evaluate new suppliers against “ Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct”, to follow up regularly on existing suppliers, in order to make sure that our main supplier’s lives up to our standards and expectations. 6.2 Implementation Symsofts Procurement Policy[3] and Symsoft Procurement Process[4] is used when selecting suppliers and subcontractors, no matter what type of product of service we are purchasing (it might be anything from call centers, data centers to IT equipment or other things for internal use or to delivered to Symsoft customers). We are assessing our suppliers against Symsoft Code of Conduct[1] in order to make sure that they are measuring up to our standards when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility. 6.3 Measurement of outcomes To address this area Symsoft has reviewed where our main suppliers stand when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility questions. Furthermore we have developed a separate policy for this area, Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct[2] and updated our Procurement Policy and our Procurement Process accordingly. The assessed suppliers follow UN Global Compacts 10 principles or equivalent. In addition our main suppliers are ISO 14001 certified. All major technology suppliers that have a direct contractual relationship with Symsoft adhere to the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct or equivalent. References [1] Symsoft Code of Conduct [2] Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct [3] Symsoft Procurement Policy [4] Symsoft Procurement Process [5] Symsoft Environment and Sustainability Policy [6] Symsoft Anti-harassment Policy [7] Symsoft Employee Health and Safety Policy [8] Symsoft Workplace Violence Prevention [9] Symsoft Equal Employment Opportunity
