GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 G L O B A L C O M PA C T / C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S / 2 015 w h ite . se COntent C O M M I T M E N T 5 contact Anna Graaf A B O U T us 6 Hållbarhetschef / Director Sustainability H U M A N R I G H T S 8 White Arkitekter AB Box 2502 P ro j ect / Hospital S imon B oli var 10 SE-403 17 Göteborg L A B O U R 12 Direct: +46 (0)31-60 86 28 Mobile: +46 (0)70-510 16 62 P ro j ect / koggens gr ä n d 16 anna.graaf@white.se E N V I R O N M E N T 18 f ollo w us on twitter.com/whitearkitekter P ro j ect / P O C K E T PA R K 22 instagram.com/whitearkitekter facebook.com/whitearkitekter A N T I C O R R U P T I O N 22 linkedin white.se P ro j ect / M o v ing Kiruna 24 2 3 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S / G L O B A L C O M PA C T / 2 015 whITE.SE COMMItMent P h OTO G R A P h E R / I L L U ST R ATO R : Å k E E :S O N L I N d M A N , f E L I X G E R L AC h , w h I T E v I E w, M I R , f R E d R I k h j E R L I N G . 1 in July 2014, White arkitekter AB was the first Swedish architecture company to commit to UN Global compact. in this, our first communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the principles of Global compact into our business and daily operations. white is the largest architectural company 2014 has been a successful year for in Scandinavia and our goal is to be the white. The Cultural Centre in Umeå was leading Scandinavian architecture business awarded with the Swedish architectural in the international market. The company award, the kasper Salin Award. we have is entirely owned by its employees and been qualifi ed for prestigious projects a strong social commitment has always such as the Governmental quarter in been the core of the company’s culture. Oslo and we have drawn attention abroad Our responsibility for sustainable developthrough projects, seminars and exhibitions. ment is integrated in our vision, our business we were represented at the Biennal in plan, our projects and the management of venice and Rotterdam, with projects the company. from kiruna, Nairobi and New york. Our The assignments we carry out and the success is not only valued in money. we way we act as a company demonstrate are passionate about architecture that how we take responsibility for a more can contribute to a better world. 2 sustainable society. we believe our I am pleased to confi rm that white commitment to UN Global Compact is arkitekter AB will continue to support the as important as it is natural fi tting; a 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. statement which emphasizes our focus we will communicate this report to our on corporate sustainability. stakeholders via our website white.se and Since we joined Global Compact, we the UN Global Compact website. have launched a Code of Conduct which is based on the 10 principles of Global 4th of july, 2015 Compact and the guidelines of ISO 26000. As architects, we are convinced that it is through our projects we can make a true difference for a sustainable development. Monica von Schmalensee Therefore we have implemented the prinCEO, White arkitekter AB 3 4 ciples of our Code of Conduct in the procedural methods for our practice at all levels; from the tender and contract to the design phase and delivery of the project. 1. Väven, White and Snøhetta’s Kasper Salin Prize-winning culture house (2014), in Umeå, North Sweden. 2. Slussplan, Awarded Best Urban Development by Malmö City 2014. 3. Regeringskvartalet, Oslo. Prestigious parallel commission for the new governmental quarter. 4. Bristol Arena, UK. Low carbon footprint 4 and creating a social hub for use all day round was the theme for our proposal in this international competition. 5 G L O B A L C O M PA C T / C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S / 2 015 w h ite . se ABOUT P h otograp h er / I llustrator : Å k e E : son L in d man , I van B ro d e y, W h ite T engbom T eam . us 2 White arkitekter AB was founded in 1951 in Gothenburg, Sweden, and has today 14 offices in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and UK. We are proud of being an entirely employee owned company, and among our almost 750 employees, about 500 are shareholders. We work within a wide scope of various fields, ranging from urban planning, landvarious disciplines. In addition to architects 1 3 1. Umeå School of Architecture, Sweden, is the result of close, unpretentious collaboration between White and Henning Larsen Architects from Denmark. 2. Billing School, Sweden. White won the competition for a new F-6 school in Skövde with the ”Oculus” proposal. 3. New Karolinska Solna University Hospital (White Tengbom Team) is one of Sweden’s biggest ever hospital projects and a crucial investment n bringing to fruition the vision of the Stockholm / Mälardal region as the world’s foremost region within life sciences. scape design, housing, schools, offices, and engineers, we have a wide range of retail and healthcare to sports and leisure competencies, such as project managers, facilities. urban planners, landscape architects, social anthropologists, environmental O ur v ision and energy specialists, light designers and logical, social and economic variables. construction sector and society in general; We are convinced that architecture can interior designers. We are convinced that to be able to and we want to be at the forefront of influence the society and make a better succeed in sustainable development, sustainable development. White is engaged world. As an employee-owned company O ur P rocess collaboration is necessary; between in several organisations, such as the we are able to dictate our own values; to In our Code of Conduct we describe different actors in society but also between Green Building Councils in Sweden and allow them to permeate our entire organithe expectations and demands we have competences. The White Innovation Denmark, the Network for Sustainable sation and every assignment we pursue. on ourselves and our business partners. Process (WIP) is our method and tool for Business (NMC) and the Swedish Centre We have three goals: To create emotive arWhite has three fundamental policies: involvement in early stages and identifying for Innovation and Quality in the Built White chitecture, to constantly challenge ourselThe Employee Policy, Quality Policy and various needs. Environment (IQ Samhällsbyggnad). We creates engaging ves to improve the way in which we practiSustainability Policy. Our business Sustainability needs to be incorporated are committed to the Nordic Built Charter, ce, and to explore the field of architecture management system, WhiteQ, is certified from the early inception, throughout the an initiative from the Nordic Ministers architecture that with dedicated applied research. to ISO 9001 and 14001 and supports our design, and in the delivery of every project. for Trade and Industry to accelerate the encourages a projects as well as our administration. Our We call it Sustainable Integrated Design. development of sustainable building O ur team dedication to continuously improve upon concepts. sustainable We believe in pursuing our work with a our practice includes internal and external O ur engagement life-style, placing collaborative approach, and in order to audits twice a year. As a leading architectural business we betackle the challenges of sustainability, our White has a holistic approach on suslieve we have not only the opportunity, the human being at explorative method spans a multitude of tainability, taking into consideration ecobut the responsibility to influence the the centre. 6 7 G L O B A L C O M PA C T / C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S / 2 015 w h ite . se HUMAN P h otograp h er : S igne Fin d L arsen , T h omas Z aar , W h ite . RIGHTS 1 3 Principle 1 / Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 / 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1. Hasle Harbour Bath, Denmark. 2. Workshop for a new cultural centre in Nairobi, Kenya. OU R APPROAC H healthy for the manufacturers as well as 3. Internship for a week at In our projects respect for human rights the end-users. our office in Stockholm. implies ensuring that the environments we plan create a foundation for equal I N PR ACT I CE conditions, take children’s perspectives Based on Freedom House’s analyses of and needs into account or contribute to the risk of human rights violations, we expertise in healthy indoor environments the suburb Biskopsgården in Gothenburg safe and welcoming places for everyone. perform individual country based risk covers areas such as healthy materials, was awarded by the City of Gothenburg The end-user is central to White’s analyses for all of our assignments outside natural daylight and good air quality. for exemplary form of social engagement. vision. People are different in many ways of Scandinavia. We renounce projects White has taken initiative to pursue and we need to harness this diversity in in high risk countries, unless the project E VA L U AT I O N the issue of social requirements in the order to create a sustainable society. itself may contribute to improve the condiWe reflect upon our social engagement in supply chain and is now leading the We base our design on the varied needs tions for the inhabitants, like offering healtseveral ways. In 2014, one of our specialists working group for defining social criteria We want to of people. We want to create physical hcare or education. See example Simon in social sustainability was awarded for the industry-wide building material environments that manifest human wellBolivar Hospital in Bogotà. Sweden Green Building Award for exemdatabase (Byggvarubedömningen). create physical being, stimulate social interaction, and To be able to tackle social sustainability plary contribution to sustainable urban The criteria will be launched later this environments that can contribute to a sustainable, healthy and the issues of human rights in our development. Via debates and many year and will be an important step for the lifestyle. This also includes healthy indoor projects we have in-house specialists, projects we have discussed the importance construction sector in putting pressure manifest human and outdoor environments, with low noise i.e. a team of social anthropologists. Our of considering social aspects in urban on manufacturers and make it easier well-being, stimulate levels and fresh air. approach is explorative, and we strive to development; it has been highlighted to choose responsibly sourced The manufacture of construction involve people in an early stage, especially at a national level, e.g. by the Swedish materials. social interaction, materials has significant impact on exposed groups, through e.g. dialogues association of architects. See for example and can contribute different players throughout the supply or involvement of young people. We offer our project in Kiruna. chain. The aim is that the materials strategic consultation and social conseOur collaboration with a school for to a sustainable, we suggest for our buildings are quence analyses in urban planning. Our offering internships for young people in healthy lifestyle. 8 9 <s f sa f Hospital Simon Bolivar Bogotá Humana is the recently adopted epithet of Colombia’s capital city. Aligning our approach with this sentiment, White was commissioned to develop a feasibility study and to deliver a long-term development plan to modernize and expand the Simón Bolívar Hospital in Colombia. Simón Bolívar Hospital provides care and Between the hospital entrance floor and services to a wide range of demographics the main access road we create a plaza, in the surrounding areas, and represents which is a new public space for the a significant socio-economic value to the neighbourhood. community; it maintains a well-respected The overall edifice is designed as a reputation within the region. Our approach single volume featuring a façade specifically places the patient at the centre; a primary adjusted to the local climate. The hospital’s goal has been the integration of this newly refurbished sustainable terraces hospital’s service provision in the context can become an interactive new landmark of Northern Bogotá, contributing to for a Northern Bogotá with an enclosed socially sustainable societal functions, green heart. education, mobility and entrepreneurship. This feasibility study was funded by the To fully develop a human centered plan we Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and involved the medical staff, the management is administered by the Nordic Investment of the hospital and local consultants. As Bank. a result we were able provide a plan that meaningfully transforms the hospital into what the area was in poignant need of; Client: Nordic Investment Bank, a communal hub. Ministry for Foreign Affairs The proposed new building of 65,000 Area / size: 65,000 m² square meters more than doubles the Project start: 2015 capacity of the current healthcare facility. Illustrator: White 11 G L O B A L C O M PA C T / C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S / 2 015 w h ite . se LABOUR P h otograp h y : T h omas Z aar . Principle 3 / Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 2 Principle 4 / the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 / 1 3 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 / the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OU R APPROAC H ment. Our twelve clusters within, for This is performed anonymously and constudents for 6-12 months. We are also Our employees are the core of the company instance, Housing, Healthcare and cerns management, working conditions, collaborating with schools for offering and their creativity and competence is our Education, enable us to generate and disequality, sense of influence and the career 1-2 week internships for younger students. most important asset. Our leadership is seminate knowledge internally and to our environment. These issues are also followed This gives us an opportunity to gain insight based on delegating and on challenging clients or other stakeholders. Our employees up annually with every employee in indiviin the life of young people in various types ourselves through open, inspirational are encouraged to conduct research via dual reviews. of neighbourhoods, but hopefully it might dialogue. We strive to be an equal workour research foundation ARQ or White White’s Staff Foundation aims to promote also inspire some of the students to work place, free from any kind of discrimination, Research Lab. employees’ well-being and personal devewith architecture in the future. where people of different gender, ethnical lopment. The foundation contributes to study backgrounds, ages and professions have I N PR ACT I CE trips and subsidies for continuous education E VA L U AT I O N the same opportunities to develop. Our We respect and follow the International or sport activities, such as gym passes. White is an attractive company. A survey employees shall perceive their work environLabour Organization requirements on As we believe in a collaborative culture among students in 2014 shows that White ment as being positive and safe, and we working conditions. These requirements and working together we once a year is the most popular architecture company strive to create a work culture that enables a are regulated through legislation and gather all our employees for the “Whitefor architects as well as engineers. good balance between work and private life. collective agreements. Our employees day”. This very inspiring day present a In the beginning of 2015 White had 1. ”White architectural festival Our shared ownership is essential for We have several plans and guidelines possibility to get to know each other and 734 employees, of which 61% are 2015” at our office in Stockour culture as every employee, from day are the core of share knowledge and new perspectives. holm. An initiativ open for evefor ensuring our employees working architects and 32% engineers. The ryone in the city consisting of one, has the possibility to be a shareholder. environment and wellbeing: The Plan for the company and Every year we also offer study tours with average age is 41 years and the percentage seminars, exhibitions, discusThis creates a unique engagement for the Health and Safety is followed up annually different themes. These also give a good women is 52% to 48% men. An employee company and we have the possibility to at all offices. Our Equality plan includes their creativity and opportunity to meet people from different survey was carried out in spring 2015 and sions and activities for all ages. 2. White-day in Gothenburg dictate our own targets and reinvest in the goals and an action plan to countering competence is our offices, be inspired by new environments our Equality Plan has been evaluated and 2013; exploring the new development area by bike. company and its employees. discrimination and is followed up and and share experiences. updated. We have an explorative culture with our revised every third year. An employee most important We have a well-established program In 2014 we offered study tours to 3. White-day in Trollhättan 2014. Workshop about own platform for Research and Developsurvey is carried out every second year. asset. for internship and every year we employ New York or Berlin. The theme was social sustainability. 12 13 G L O B A L C O M PA C T / C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S / 2 015 w h ite . se P h otograp h er : T h omas Z aar . “Gentrification” and the aim was to study Uppsala, which has the greatest photothe driving mechanisms and the consevoltaic coverage of any residential quences for a city or neighbourhood when building in Scandinavia. Read more they are gentrified. The “White-day” in about our research in our Annual Report spring 2015 was held in Stockholm with 2014. the theme “The power of telling a story”. Writers were invited and various creative E M P L OY E E P O L I C Y workshops were held. Our ambition shall be to attract and Our investments in research and develop the best employees in the development is expanding. In 2014 we industry. established a professor in Digital design at Every employee will be provided with the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockcareer possibilities on the basis of their holm, with which we have had a professor in potential for professional and personal Sustainable architecture for several years. development for the benefit of both the At Chalmers University of Technology in company and the individual. Gothenburg we have two professors and two researchers in Urban Development This requires that: and at the Centre for Healthcare archi– Our company culture is characterised tecture respectively. We also have by openness and participation. expertise in daylight design at the – A highly competitive base salary is University of Technology in Lund. complemented with potential for The White Research Lab resulted employees to gain from the in several interesting studies in various company’s value growth through areas. One of them is a concept for a ownership shares. pocket park as a way of integrating – We shall be a knowledgeable ecosystem services in the city (see company with qualified leadership. example). Another one is a concept for the interior design of bathrooms for disabled We shall profitably offer cutting edge people. A third is about integrating photopersonal skill development through, White-day in Stockholm 2015. voltaics in the design, like in the award among others, a broad knowledge base Improvisation workshop. winning housing project Frodeparken in and an extensive range of opportunities. ”How to tell a story”. 14 15 koggens gränd White has taken the initiative of creating one of Sweden’s first largescale, owner-occupied apartment buildings. A unique, innovative project in which White is responsible for the entire process – from concept to finished apartments. As White is acting as both architect and All materials have been evaluated to client on the project, we have been able ensure sound materials with low envito engage many of our competences. The ronmental impact. A healthy indoor enbuilding has achieved the highest rating, vironment has been ensured by perforGold, in the Swedish environmental asming daylight and climate simulations and Kund: vvsfs sessment system Miljöbyggnad. The quarevaluations. Projektstart/slut:sfsfs ter has been part of the national program All apartments has a grinder for bioloFärdigställt: for development of sustainable cities and gical waste, which is gathered in the baStorlek/yta: the city of Malmö has had extensive envisement and collected for central producFoto/illustration: ronmental requirements for the develoption of biogas. Sustainable transports are ment; including energy, indoor climate and encouraged by biking facilities on site and urban biological diversity. car share facilities in the area. The energy demand is low, ensured by The intention for the building is to make good insulation. The energy system cona coherent, robust impression, while at sists of district heating, distributed via unthe same time being playful and dynamic. derfloor heating. Each apartment has meThe distinct framework of white concrechanical heat recovery from air. Hot water te is defining each individual apartment is partly produced by solar panels on the and internal ceiling heights vary between roof. The apartments have individual me2.70m and 4.40m. All openings onto the tering of heat, water and electricity and large balconies are consciously positioenergy data can easily be read via a disned to provide maximum flexibility concerplay in each apartment. The property is ning floorplans; all of the apartments can served by green, renewable electricity. be unique. The enhanced biological diversity is The project was nominated for Swedish manifested by varied vegetation in the Green Building Award 2014. courtyard, nests for birds and bees, local storm water management and a pergola Client: White with climbing plants. The roof terrace has Project start/end: 2009 2012 different kinds of plants, a tree and dead Completed: 2012, evaluation 2014/15 wood for insects. Apartments/rooms: 31 apartments; 44–123 m² 17 G L O B A L C O M PA C T / C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S / 2 015 w h ite . se ENVIRONMENT P h otograp h er : Å k e E : son L in d man , G ot h ia Tow ers , T h omas Z aar . Principle 7 / Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 2 Principle 8 / undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 / encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OU R APPROAC H system services, materials, climate 1 3 We have a holistic perspective on change adaptation and indoor climates. sustainability and integrate environmental We have certified specialists in environvariables in all parts of the design process, mental assessment system for buildings, from concept to in use. We strive to create like the Swedish Miljöbyggnad, BREEAM, built environments that reduce impact LEED and Passive House. on the ecosystem, prevent the use of To be able to be at the forefront in hazardous substances, use resources sustainable architecture many of our efficiently, and promote recycling of research projects are focused on reducing materials, energy and water. The challenges the environmental impact in the built are global, but we can act locally in our environment. The knowledge and results E VA L U AT I O N This has resulted in a manual which has projects every day for promoting more are implemented in our projects and Many of our projects have been highlighbeen extensively spread to communal autsustainable development. spread to our stakeholders, e.g. at ted during the year because of their high horities and other stakeholders. seminars. environmental focus. The amount of proWe have extended our research and I N PR ACT I CE At our offices we work continuously We have a jects being certified according to Milmethodology in daylight design and creIn our projects, it is our protocol to systeto reduce our environmental impact. holistic perspective jöbyggnad, BREEAM or LEED have ated a research platform for designers, matically identify the most important enviWe have targets for reducing energy significantly increased, which is an ackengineers and architects. Wood is a susronmental aspects; integrating solutions consumption, the amount of waste we on sustainability nowledgement to our competence in sustainable, low carbon material which can 1. Naturum national park for reduced impact in our design process. produce, climate impact and we committed and integrate tainable design. be used much more in different applicaKosterhavet, Sweden. A visitor Requirements are integrated in our tools ourselves to only using green electricity. The future promises an increase in the tions and we have established a cluster centre designed according to and procedures and we educate our We have a policy to prioritize sustainable environmental densification of cities worldwide, and thefor exploring the possibilities and benefits Miljöbyggnad Gold. Nominated for WAN award and the employees in environmental issues. transports and climate-compensate the variables in all refore an increased focus on ecosystem of timber construction. We are continuing Swedish Kasper Salin award. We have a strong and long engagement impact of all travels. We have environmental services is important, not only for increato develop our research in Digital Design in sustainable design and since 1998 requirements for the purchase of goods parts of the sing the urban ecology but also as a tool as this gives possibilities to optimize the 2. Hotel Gothia Towers, Gothenburg. Hotel and we have had environmental specialists and services for our offices and for lunches design process, for tackling climate changes. White has use of materials, energy, daylights and to exhibition centre certified Breeam Very Good. in-house. Today we have more than 30 and events we only serve organic, lead a research project, financed by Vincreate healthy environments adapted to environmental specialists, who have vegetarian food. from concept nova, in defining how ecosystem services future climate changes. 3. Frodeparken, Scandinavia´s largest PV-facade at a extensive expertise in e.g. energy, ecoto in use. can be implemented in the urban planning. residential building. 18 19 G L O B A L C O M PA C T / C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S / 2 015 w h ite . se POCKET PARK More than a green oasis. In a growing and densified city, parks and other green spaces will soon be rare. We are also facing climate changes and to prevent negative impact from heavy rains, high temperatures and flooding, ecosystem services should be integrated in the urban planning. This concept shows how unused spaces The concept Pocket Park has been in the city can be optimized into multitemporarily built in full scale at a few functional pocket parks where flora, fauna places in Stockholm and is shown at and humans can thrive in equal measure. the Museum of Architecture and Design As well as providing a green oasis where (ArkDes) in Stockholm during summer city residents can relax, meet and rest, the 2015. Related to this concept is the larger pocket parks will regenerate the city itself, research project “Ecosystem services in providing a variety of benefits to the local urban planning” which has turned into a ecosystem, including purifying the air and handbook with guidelines for local authorities water, and detain water run-off. Measuring and planners. only 13m x 15m this pocket park contains green walls which act as acoustic buffers to noise pollution, a surface water pond to Client: White purify precipitation, lamp posts clad with Project start/end: 2014 2014 nesting boxes to attract birds, beehives Completed: 2015 for bees to thrive, producing honey and Area/Size: 13 x 15 m² pollinating the area’s plants. Illustrator: White View 20 21 G L O B A L C O M PA C T / C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S / 2 015 w h ite . se ANTIP h otograp h er : T h omas Z aar . CORRUPTION Principle 10 / Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OU R APPROAC H E TH ICAL RU LES OF THE SWED ISH CONSTRUCTION SECTOR * We oppose corruption, strive for 1. Those involved in the Swedish construction sector shall not undertake competition on equal terms, promote assignments that conflict with the public perception of justice or that social responsibility in the value chain, may otherwise be considered publicly unacceptable. Parties shall and respect ownership. make efforts to favour healthy competition and to observe good All employees are required to act marketing practices. according to the ethical rules of the Swedish Construction Sector and Swedish 2. Cooperation with other parties within the framework of an assignment Architects. We decline assignments and shall be characterised by correct business relations, clear agreements collaborations that we deem to be unand mutual respect. democratic, corrupt or where human rights are infringed. 3. Those involved in the Swedish construction sector shall adopt a strict stance with regard to measures undertaken to establish contacts and I N PR ACT I CE business relations, such as inappropriate gifts or travel. Based on the analyses of Transparency International, we perform country based 4. Those involved in the Swedish construction sector may not engage risk analyses for assignments outside of or cooperate with unreliable parties. Illegal labour shall be actively Scandinavia. We expect our business counteracted. partners to act either according to the Swedish Ethical rules (above) and/or the 5. Those involved in the Swedish construction sector shall perform their Global Compact principle. An evaluation assignments professionally and within the bounds of good business is performed before an agreement is practices. All assignments shall be conducted utilizing the requisite signed. expertise and resources necessary for the task. E VA L U AT I O N 6. Those involved in the Swedish construction sector may not harm the We have not been involved in any form reputations of colleagues or other parties by making gratuitous and of corruption. unsubstantiated critical statements regarding their situation. 7. The Ethical Council for the Swedish Constructions Sector has a specific directive to monitor adherence to these ethical rules. * (Samhällsbyggnadssektorns etiska regler) ”White architectural festival 2015” at our office in Stockholm. 22 23 <s f sa f Moving Kiruna The city of Kiruna, in the north of Sweden, is about to undergo one of the biggest urban transformations of our time. The mining activity on the western border of the city is causing deformation which will soon reach the city centre. The entire city will be moved approximately 12 miles east. This is a huge challenge, provoking anxiety and anticipation among the citizens of Kiruna. Unprecedented in its ambition the project by the mining activity, combined with wind raises the question: is it possible to move turbines to generate energy and a city to a new location whilst preserving recycling infrastructure to reduce freight the unique identity of the city and its and waste. The Kiruna Portal will be an extra residents? -large communal shop and construction The challenge attracted architects recycling depot, where remnants of the from around the world. A total of 57 teams old city can be reused, recycled and retroshowed interest, of which 10 were selected fitted into the new. to participate in the competition. White’s Central to White’s strategy are the winning proposal titled “Kiruna 4-ever” citizens of Kiruna. A continuous dialogue creates a sustainable vision for the 100between the Municipality, master planners Kund: vvsfs year expansion of the city. and residents of Kiruna is vital to the Projektstart/slut:sfsfs The character of the former Kiruna will success of the transformation. White’s Färdigställt: be retained through the re-use of materials methodology is exploratory, conducted by Storlek/yta: from demolished buildings, and some of our social anthropologists, to reach Foto/illustration: the culturally significant built elements, beyond the expected and realise desired including a historic church, will be relocated out-comes. Engagement with the commuunaltered. New housing developments will nity has informed the masterplan, and an be built in addition to the 3000 homes that ongoing dialogue will be implemented in will be relocated. The old Kiruna will be two ways. The Kiruna dialogue; formal and gradually phased out and once the town informal discussions and feedback with becomes more vibrant further to the east, the community; The Kiruna Biennale to the community will relocate. exhibit the vision for the city and host The relocation presents an unparalleled events to share the story. opportunity for Kiruna to transform itself into a more environmentally, socially and Client: Kiruna kommun economically sustainable city. Kiruna has a Project start/end: 2012 2040 sub-arctic climate. The new development Completed: 2040 will be designed to a carbon neutral Team: In collaboration with Ghilardi+Hellsten agenda. The new masterplan will utilise arkitekter, Spacescape, Vectura Consulting AB, resources efficiently, harnessing the Evidens BLW AB enormous amounts of waste heat generated Illustrator: Tegmark 25 Väven, White and Snøhetta’s Kasper Salin Prize-winning culture house, in Umeå, North Sweden, is a new concept in cultural buildings – one that symbolizes the city’s ambition to entwine a whole series of disciplines within a cluster of flexible spaces. P h otograp h y : Å k e E : son L in d man f ollo w us on t w i t t e r. c o m / w h i t e a r k i t e k t e r instagram.com/whitearkitek ter facebook .com/whitearkitek ter linkedin white.se
