Warsaw, 15 December 2015 2015 EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 1 EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 2 Introduction Overview 1. EDF Polska joined the UN Global Compact ONZ on 31.12.2013. This report, concerning communication of progress, is the second document of this type. 2. Issues associated with Corporate Social Responsibility and the main priorities of EDF Polska for the year 2015 include: a. Works on unification of the Collective Labour Agreement (CLA), buyouts of employee benefits while maintaining social order and a high level of social dialogue. b. Focus on safety-related issues. c. Development of diversity and Women’s Network. d. Unification of healthcare plans and services for all employees of EDF Group in Poland. e. Evaluation of jobs and update of job descriptions. f. Continuation of development schemes, such as Direction: Development, Healthy EDF, Summer Academy and Internal Trainers’ Academy. g. Participation in the campaign and becoming an ambassador of “Equality in business”. 3. Communication concerning Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) with employees: a. Publication “EDF Group in Poland – activities and corporate responsibility” b. We have a special tab on the intranet dedicated to CSR activities. c. Additionally, we are focused on social dialogue, which was particularly visible this year due to negotiations concerning buyouts of employee benefits. d. Active role of representatives of trade unions and different councils elected by the trade unions and employees, ethics committees within the scope of promotion and compliance with CSR principles. e. The guide contains a chapter on sustainable development for the purpose of adaptation of new employees. These principles are communicated in certain companies from EDF Group in Poland through guides for visitors to these companies, the so-called fundamental H&S and environmental principles. f. Articles in the internal journal and on the intranet. g. E-learning courses. h. Workshops dedicated to work-life balance and healthy EDF. i. Internal publications in EDF Wybrzeże Branch. j. Presentation during open meetings with employees. k. Information boards for employees. EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 3 Businesses should support and respect the Principle 1 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Within the scope of protection of human rights, all companies from EDF Group in Poland not only operate in accordance with the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but they also actively undertake actions in order to adopt internal policies (e.g. Codes of Ethics, Occupational Health and Safety Policy), which reflect both international and domestic provisions. As a result, our employees are aware of the importance of human rights as well as of the necessity to support and respect them. Outlined below are only some of the activities conducted by EDF Group in Poland within the scope of the first Principle of the UN Global Compact. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 1. One of the key principles on which all companies from EDF Group base their activity is aiming for perfection in the area of Occupational Health and Safety. Each employee of Group in Poland is responsible not only for their own safety, but also for the safety of their colleagues. One of the flagship principles of the H&S Policy adopted in all of our companies is the principle of the managers’ responsibility for the health and safety of employees, subcontractors and visitors present at the plants. 2. Companies from EDF Group all over the world collaborate in order to achieve the ratio of “zero accidents”. A platform for exchange of best practices, knowledge and information is provided by the H&S Community in EDF Group, whose participants include representatives from all countries where EDF has its presence. Moreover, at the turn of 2014 and 2015, more than 20 representatives of EDF Polska from all locations participated in expeditions to EDF Energy, whose objective was to learn in practice and directly based on power facilities, about the decisive factors thanks to which EDF Energy has the best results in terms of safety as well as numerous examples of success in this area. Such an exchange is a good tool for ensuring safety and developing a safe environment based on the best examples and practice. 3. At the turn of 2014 and 2015, EDF Group in Poland initiated the process of creating and strengthening partnership in relationship with its contractors. Common safety culture, represented by all parties, supports and strengthens the sense of community, striving for a common goal and, most of all, solidifies the team’s responsibility for safety. The fact that this issue is of key importance to EDF Polska is demonstrated by the “Partnership for safety” project, created on the initiative of CEO Thierry Doucerain, and personally supervised by him. The project’s ambition is to shape a culture of safety together with our partners. Since the very beginning of the project, our partners and subcontractors have been involved in the process of identifying issues and have been participating in EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 4 planning measures as a part of the project. One of the key events was a full-day seminar in September 2014. It was attended by several hundred people from several dozen companies. The seminar was followed by establishment of 12 task sets dedicated to individual subjects. The person in charge of each task set is a member of the top management. March 2015 saw an H&S seminar organised with the Group’s partners. Its purpose was to discuss and accept actions taken as a part of the “Partnership for safety” project. The framework of the project as well as the manner of implementation of its first stage were positively received. The anticipated duration of the project is 3 years. Task sets of the “Partnership for safety” project: 1. System of recognition of positive behaviours: • A programme of identification and rewarding safe behaviours of contractors’ employees — “Work sensibly” — Implemented 2. Fair conditions — Social facilities • Audit of social facilities and plan of short-term measures — Implemented • Rights charter of suppliers’ employees – finalisation • Defining responsibilities for social facilities of subcontractors (Prime contractor) — Implemented • Social facilities management system (dedicated supplier responsible for maintenance) and investments in plants — in progress 3. Modern H&S promotion tools • Professional H&S campaign, “Work sensibly” (23 large-sized banners, more than 1,000 posters and more than 8,000 brochures) — Implemented (subsequent campaigns are being prepared) • Implementation and widespread communication of life-saving principles (posters, films, banners, billboards, etc.) — Implemented 4. Attractiveness of induction trainings • Survey on evaluation of induction trainings (the trainings obtained positive ratings in 2 surveys conducted 3 months apart) — Implemented • Improvement of the contents of induction trainings (multimedia, soft competences, manual) — Implemented • Improvement of competences of coaches — Implemented 5. Development of relationships with contractors based on trust • Development of a supply chain management system — in progress 6. Strengthening of the relationship between top management of EDF Polska and contractors • Standard within the scope of cooperation between top management of EDF and top management of the contractors — in progress • H&S Newsletter for contractors (bhp@edf.pl) 7. Improvement of coordination and supervision over works within the scope of project tasks EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 5 • Implementation of an IT tool into WOPs in order to improve their quality and supervision over them — Implemented • New H&S inspection system — innovation within the scope of reporting “correctness” — Implemented • Visual identification of team leaders — Implemented • The SOWA Programme — Implemented • Improvement of supervision over schedules — in progress • Pilot programme of an additional coordinator in 6 main projects and superior instruction in Gdańsk — Implemented 8. Improvement of work admissions • Development of a package of measures within the scope of improvement of the system of PNP and admissions — Implemented (implementation in progress) 9. Friendly documents • Simplification of the organisation of H&S documents on the eB2B platform — in progress • Development and making available of more than 100 work standards on the eB2B platform — in progress 10. Zero Accidents Centre • Standard within the scope of organisation and equipment of the Centre — in progress • Preparation and equipment of the centre in locations — in progress 11. IT tools improving access to H&S knowledge • 3 IT terminals with access to H&S knowledge in Gdańsk and Krakow — Implemented • IT terminals in remaining locations — in progress 12. In-depth collaboration with the SLI • Skill improvement and incentive system — in progress 4. In 2015, like in previous years, the Week of EU-OSHA (European Agency for Safety and Health at Work) was organised. Moreover, e-learning courses took place, we promoted health and safety of employees through daily safety messages at the beginning of business meetings (anti-stress messages once a weeks). Additionally, we organised a competition on H&S knowledge at the local and central level. 5. In order to identify the main priorities of EDF Group in Poland, we carry out multi-range risk audits that involve employees at all management levels, together with H&S employees as well as contractors, we launch H&S management systems dedicated to projects, we organise the day of safety at construction sites. 6. Companies from EDF Group in Poland also develop many local initiatives for safety based on the reference model of safety culture. EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 6 HEALTHY EDF 1. EDF Group in Poland not only observes the labour law within the scope of occupational medicine and prophylaxis, but also conducts its own activities promoting healthy lifestyle among employees. In this manner, EDF reaches a broad range of employees and takes active, constant part in developing the culture of healthy lifestyle of its employees. Another distinguishing characteristic of these undertakings is their diverse offer aimed at drawing interest and curiosity of as many recipients as possible. 2. One of the flagship initiatives of EDF Polska in this area is the “Healthy EDF” project launched in 2013. The objective of the project is to promote work-life balance and a healthy lifestyle. The project involves annual organisation of two large campaigns — “Healthy Week” in October and “Healthy Spring”, which lasts two months. This year’s “Healthy Spring” campaign involved 7 jogging workshops and 6 diet workshops. 120 people participated in the campaign “Generating energy for spring”, which involved encouraging employees to undertake outdoor physical activity. An additional incentive for the participants was the opportunity for providing selfless help in collecting funds for the “Switch to health, stop DIABETES” programme. 3. 8 training sessions with approximately 80 participants took place during the “Healthy Week”. The theme of the trainings was designed so that information and knowledge obtained during the trainings helped employees make changes for the better and maintain healthy habits. 4. What is more, every month, the employees receive articles on healthy lifestyle; thematic campaigns are also organised. Additionally, EDF promotes work-life balance. To this end, a tab has been created on the intranet where employees can find both information about self-management over time, stress prevention or occupational burnout, as well as practical exercises minimising the effects of stress. COUNTERING DISCRIMINATION 1. All issues related to discrimination in the EDF Group in Poland are regulated in the Work Regulations, the Collective Labour Agreement (CLA) and in the Labour Code. 2. According to the internal procedures, all employees have the right to report any observed cases of discrimination to their superiors, correspondents and ethics councils (e.g. at EDF Polska S.A. Wybrzeże Branch, EDF Toruń S.A. or Kogeneracja S.A.), Directors for Social Affairs elected by employees, the Ombundsperson by sending an e-mail to a dedicated address. 3. Companies from the EDF Group take actions to support equal treatment at work. In 2015, a campaign against stereotypes was conducted. EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 7 4. The year 2015 saw continuation of the activity of Interp'elles Polska Women’s Network. Projects implemented as a part of this initiative are aimed at promoting women within structures and at different levels of organisations as well as supporting their professional development. The Network’s ambition is to become, in a long-term perspective, a driven group with real impact on the shape and direction assumed by the Company with regard to promoting women in the Group’s structure and with the ability to “lobby”, among others, for equal opportunities in terms of taking up managerial positions in the organisation. In 2015, Women’s Network organised, among others: • 3 “Reach for more” sessions for 42 participants • Parental guide — an internal initiative of creating a handbook for future parents that includes a guide to the applicable provisions, presents their rights and their obligations towards the employer. • Women’s Day — development trainings in March for approx. 100 women • Issuance of the Career Development Inspirer — a compendium on the 4 pillars of women’s success. 5. During the Employee Engagement Survey — conducted every year — one of the aspects rated by the employees of EDF Polska Group is discrimination in companies. It should be noted that every year the employees confirm that discrimination does not exist in the Group. 6. In 2015, Trade Unions signed the Diversity Charter. DIVERSITY 1. EDF Group in Poland agrees that diversity opens the doors to new opportunities. 2. Every year in May, we organise the Diversity Day, aimed at promoting diversity among employees. The Diversity Day involves organisation of workshops aimed at increasing the awareness of diversity in all companies. 3. In 2015, EDF Group adopted the Diversity Guide for managers. The guide outlines how to consciously manage a diverse team by stimulating its creativity, using the advantages of a team comprising individuals working consciously towards the common success and development of the company. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 1. EDF Group in Poland is aware of the importance of development of knowledge and skills of its employees; therefore, it takes all necessary actions to create a friendly environment for employee education. 2. Pursuant to the provisions of the Training Procedure, EDF companies provide their employees with both internal and external trainings as well as supplementary courses at all levels of education. EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 8 3. EDF Group in Poland offers different programmes and actively supports activities for development of both the current employees as well as programmes for students — potential future candidates for work in our companies. In 2015, we implemented, among others: Summer Internship Programme — addressed to students and graduates from 8 cities in Poland. The interns qualified for the programme work on dedicated projects and are responsible for their final results. The development and work of each of them is overseen by a supervisor and a manager, who lend their knowledge and experience. In 2015, we received 1,800 applications. 31 interns were chosen from among them. 8 people from this group were employed within the Group’s structures. “Direction: development” — a programme whose main objective is the development of the managerial potential of employees identified as individuals with high development potential, currently occupying specialist positions, who could take on the role of managers in several years. It comprises sessions during which programme participants have the opportunity to improve their competences and skills in areas such as project management, communication, presentation, team leadership skills, etc. 22 employees who worked on 4 business projects took part in the third edition of the programme. “DESIGN your future with EDF” and “Master’s thesis with EDF” — employer branding initiatives aimed at developing a strong brand of the employer as a leader in the industry with respect to technical, technological and business matters. The project involves the managers selecting topics which are important to us from a business point of view. These specific issues are then proposed to the students. In the case of “Design your future with EDF”, students develop a solution to a specific problem and their works are assessed by our experts. On the other hand, the laureates of “Master’s thesis with EDF” are invited to write their thesis in cooperation with EDF. By organising merit-based competitions, we want to show students that EDF is a place where experts in their fields work — people who want share their knowledge, skills and become mentors to young people who want to become acquainted with the world of power industry. EDF Academy — new programmes for managers and specialists, including emotional intelligence, leadership, time management for managers programmes addressed to sales employees, such as Customer Service Academy and Sales Academy Learning expedition which focused on the best practices in overhauls and project management Principle 2 Make sure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 9 Mechanisms and actions taken in 2015 in order to ensure propagation of EDF’s corporate values and the Code of Ethics (protection of human rights is of key importance) among our employees: 1. Awareness of corruption throughout the Group through promotion of positive values. Preparation of a gift acceptance policy is in progress. 2. Values communicated on the website of EDF Polska S.A. and regularly in “Wspólna Energia” journal. Development of the “Energy of values” project aimed at familiarising employees with 3 values of EDF — solidarity, respect and responsibility — by jointly developing their definitions. 3. Officially implemented ethics provisions: Corruption Countering Policy, Practical Corruption Prevention Guide, Code of Ethics (implemented in July 2013 for 100% of employees at all organisational levels), Anti-mobbing Policy. 4. Approval of anti-mobbing policy by the Management Board and its implementation in 2 first companies of EDF Group in Poland. Planned anti-mobbing training for employees. 5. Centralised system of policies and procedures describing the control process in EDF Group in Poland 6. Numerous internal control mechanisms implemented at the formal level, relating to with processes, procedures and IT. 7. Ethics Correspondents appointed in all entities of EDF Group in Poland, Ethics Council at the level of EDF Polska. 8. Ombudsperson for Employee Rights watching over ethics-related issues. The Company observes the basic statements of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) with respect to freedom of conscience and religion, freedom to have and manifest opinions, the right to proper and beneficial work conditions. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 3 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 1. EDF presents and respects freedom of association and freedom of assembly; it guarantees to its employees active dialogue with social partners. 2. There are 21 unions in the Group, associating approximately 53% of employees. Each of them has its own management board and is independent from the employer. Regular meetings are held with representatives of trade unions as a part of social dialogue. Social partners are regularly informed about all actions which may affect the interests of employees, such as work and employment conditions, earnings, benefits and other aspects. 3. The key topics touched upon in 2015 as a part of social dialogue include: EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 10 harmonisation of Collective Labour Agreements and purchase of employee benefits (e.g. anniversary award, energy discounts) Ready for Future project — aimed at preparing the company for the year 2020. After outsourcing ash management, we continued activity with coal handling departments 4. Trade unions and employees of EDF Group in Poland are represented in the EDF European Works Council, where freedom of association and assembly is monitored on an ongoing basis. Naturally, an appropriate level of such activity or cooperation with trade unions and employees is possible thanks to Polish legal provisions, which guarantee freedom of association and freedom of assembly. 5. EDF uses the following channels in manufacturing relationships and communication between employees and managers: a. Periodical meetings between CEO and the employees, unit, division and individual meetings with the superior (information cascading). Seminars are organised for employees working on shifts, during which superiors (and sometimes CEOs) give the employees current information concerning the company and implemented projects. During these meetings, specialists from different maintenance departments discuss their activities, which also constitutes an element of trainings for other people. b. A meeting with all unions is also organised at the level of EDF Polska; sometimes, EDF Polska invites trade unions and other times — the trade unions invite the management board of EDF Polska to a meeting. c. There are also preparatory meetings with members of EWC and members of the Supervisory Board elected by the employees. d. Representatives of trade unions meet, on a cyclical basis, with representatives of the management (usually once a month) in order to discuss all current issues and projects or to negotiate. e. Exchange takes place according to previously established schedule, usually once a month (trade unions + management). Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 1. In 2004, EDF Polska signed the CSR Agreement. This agreement promotes, among others, voluntary work and stipulates principles that we are obliged to follow. These principles have been partially included in the Work Regulations applicable in all companies. HR procedures have also been specified in such a manner so as to rule out the possibility of taking actions which are not in line with international conventions, in particular when it comes to observing children’s rights, compulsory labour, women’s rights, combating discrimination or freedom of association. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour is implemented through: a. Contracts of employment on fair terms EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 11 b. Employees being able to freely terminate the contract c. Voluntary recruitment process d. Written contracts that are known before commencement of work e. Respect for the principles of working time f. Respect for the retirement age (including early retirement for the energy sector) 2. We have implemented updated and simplified EDF Group Codes of Ethics in all our companies. 3. We also promote 3 values: respect, solidarity and responsibility. We also have a declaration of compliance with ethical principles, which should be signed by our employees. 4. Implementation of these provisions is monitored through audits and self-controls aimed at verifying compliance with requirements resulting from obligations. 5. The role of the Ombudsperson for Employee Rights is, among others, to counter all violations of employee rights, if any are reported. 6. All agreements with subcontractors include provisions concerning CSR and H&S. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Prohibition of child labour is a fundamental principle and the objective of the most important declaration of human rights and appropriate legal provisions. EDF Polska S.A. does not employ any individuals under 18. The elimination of discrimination in respect Principle 6 of employment and occupation 1. In 2015, the Management Board of EDF Polska formally approved the procedure of preventing harassment and discrimination. So far, it has been implemented in two companies. This procedure stipulates the principles and the mode of action that EDF Group in Poland applies in order to prevent and counter discrimination and harassment at workplace. This procedure includes detailed instructions for the mode of action in which every employee who believes they are the target of mobbing, harassment, unequal treatment and discrimination can submit a written complaint in the following manner: a. Step One: an application to the superior, if the matter does not concern them b. Step Two: reporting the matter to the local Ethics Council or Correspondent, if the matter concerns the superior or if the superior was unable to resolve it. The list of contact details is available on the intranet. EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 12 c. Step Three: reporting the matter to the Ombudsperson for Employee Rights. d. Step Four: The Ombudsperson for Employee Rights, if they believe that the matter requires it, hands over the matter to the Anti-Mobbing Committee (the Committee is appointed to resolve the employees’ complaints in every company from EDF Group in Poland). 2. The aforementioned procedure also includes a description of the actions, principles of preventing mobbing, discrimination, sexual harassment, as well as the results of the action. It determines responsibilities and rights of employers (including trainings), managers, the Ombudsperson for Employee Rights, Members of the Management Board / Ethics Correspondents elected by employees and employees. 3. An anti-mobbing training is planned by the end of the year. 4. The remaining obligations, agreements or charters concerning all forms of discrimination: a. All issues concerning discrimination are regulated in the Work Regulations, the Collective Labour Agreement (CLA), the Labour Code and in the charter. b. EDF Polska is a signatory of the Diversity Charter in Poland. c. Moreover, there is a set of ethical principles and HR documents. d. The Code of Ethics and the following values: respect, solidarity and responsibility.1 e. Employees can report every case of discrimination they notice to their superiors, ethics correspondents and councils (e.g. in EDFW, EDFT or Kogeneracja), Directors for Social Affairs elected by employees and Ombudsperson for Employee Rights. f. For the last 7 years, during the Employee Engagement Survey, the employees have assessed the issue of discrimination in the companies. Every year, employees confirm that this aspect does not exist. g. Special e-mail address dedicated to ethics-related issued (rpp@edf.pl). h. Ombudsperson for Employee Rights available to all employees. 5. Actions taken in 2015 to promote all forms of diversity (ethnic origin, skin colour, sex, religion, political option, nationality, social background, sexual orientation, etc.): a. In Poland, we focus primarily on diversity in respect of sex and age since we have no problems with other aspects of diversity in our company. b. We have introduced a special term to agreements with recruitment agencies, according to which short lists should include at least 30% of women. c. Any materials concerning the employer’s brand at universities and technical universities. d. In 2015, we have been developing the activity of the Interp’elles Womens’ Network, whose objective is to promote development of women in EDF Group in Poland. e. Trade unions have signed the Diversity Charter. EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 13 f. We have become the ambassador of the “Equality in business” campaign, organised by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. g. In May 2015, we organised a campaign against stereotypes focused on gender, disability, age and access to managerial positions. h. We are preparing an employer branding campaign addressed to women. i. Creating special parking spaces for pregnant women at all our branches. j. We are preparing an e-learning course in diversity k. “Diversity management guide for managers”, created in 2014 and translated into English and French in 2015, which promotes, among others, equal opportunities for men and women. The guide is a tool supporting diversity during different HR activities, i.e. recruitment, motivation, communication and annual evaluation. l. Signature of a declaration of support for women’s development by members of the management board. m. Since 2015, managerial reports on fluctuation, recruitment, promotions, absenteeism and trainings have been prepared separately for men and women. 6. Actions taken in 2015 in order to promote jobs for people with disabilities (recruitment, integration, career support, adjustment in the case of occurrence or progression of disability): a. At KOGENERACJA S.A., through continued participation in the “Wrocław for everyone” project, aimed at changing the way people with disabilities are perceived by the local community and motivating people with disabilities to actively participate in social and professional life — among others, 140 plays discussing issues of people with disabilities, staged at schools and in kindergartens. b. An integration picnic for employees and people with disabilities, organised by EDF Polska Branch No 1 in Krakow. c. Voluntary service for employees in Rybnik, organised in collaboration with Special Olympics Poland — sports competitions together with people with disabilities. d. Cooperation with the Occupational Workshops Therapy for people with disabilities in Rybnik:  Organisation of fairs for employees, during which people with disabilities sell their products. e. Programmes implemented by EDF Polska Foundation in Rybnik. f. National integration sports competitions for people with disabilities:  EDF Cup — Polish Championship in Disabled Alpine Skiing (February / March), 11th edition,  EDF Tour — Polish Championship in Disabled Road Cycling (September), 6th edition. g. Local sports competitions for people with disabilities:  Wrocław Cup — International Wheelchair Tennis Tournament,  Żylewicz Memorial — an athletics event with competitions for people with disabilities, EDF Polska Wybrzeże Branch,  Cooperation with Special Olympics in Silesia,  Cracovia Marathon. EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 14 7. A correspondent for people with disabilities has been appointed in certain companies. Wherever they have not been appointed, their function is fulfilled informally by the Director for Social Affairs or, sometimes, by the President. 8. Since 2013, Ombudsperson for Employee Rights has been operating in EDF Group in Poland. One of their tasks is to supervise integration of people with disabilities for those employers from EDF Group in Poland who have not established such a function. Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 7 approach to environmental challenges 1. EDF Polska influences the environment directly and indirectly through its manufacturing process. We maintain a constant dialogue with our employees, subcontractors and customers concerning quality and environmental issues. The main sources of our impact include: burning fuel (emissions from the power generation process) usage of natural resources chemical hazards waste produced during manufacturing and maintenance processes. 2. The company systematically implements new technologies and procedures to improve “cleanliness” of production; it also improves the quality of the process of reducing their environmental burden. The main means of developing power generation with lower environmental impact are related to the construction of wet flue gas desulphurization (IMOS) and DeNOx systems in our subsidiaries, constant improvement of the efficiency of power generation process, increase of the share of cogeneration process and replacement of coal with natural gas and biomass. We emphasize positive impact on the environment (treatment) and security of deliveries. Desulphurization systems in our companies were launched in Q4 of 2015. In 2016, considerable reductions of SO 2 and dust emissions are anticipated. DeNOx facilities will be commissioned at the end of the year. Construction of a gas turbine has commenced in Toruń. It will replace HOB coal boilers. At EC Krakow and EC Gdynia, gas-oil boilers are being built, which will replace peak load coal boilers. 3. Our plants also apply the best available techniques, which ensure clean power generation and constant reduction of emissions, reduction of usage of natural resources (such as water), waste water treatment, waste management and defect prevention. Monitoring systems and the ISO Integrated Management System in every company ensure control over environmental impact. Thanks to implementation of the Lync system in all companies holding meetings through conference calls, we have limited the number of business trips. We have created the Golden Rules of Printing, thanks to which we reduced usage and purchase of paper by 4% as compared to 2014. EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 15 4. Moreover, a considerable risk of climate change has been included in the risk assessment / management processes at the level of EDF Polska. Undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8 environmental responsibility 1. In connection with the sustainable development strategy adopted by our company, creating environmental awareness among the employees is one of the main objectives of managers. This is why, every year, we conduct trainings concerning environmental protection, climate changes and biodiversity. 2. At all locations, as a part of communication campaigns, we also organise Open Days during which the principles of electricity and heat generation are presented and hazards related to the use of our assets are emphasized. Educational campaigns, conducted primarily through websites, are concerned with hazards associated with electricity and direct use of household equipment and tools by end customers; their objective is to reduce these hazards. We continue educational campaigns (Biodiversity Day, Picnic for Health, etc.) as a part of educational programmes addressed to employees, schools and institutions in order to raise awareness of issues related to energy efficiency and environmental responsibility. 3. 48 projects were implemented in 2015. 21 of them will receive white certificates. We have implemented projects which improve energy efficiency of end users (thermomodernisation, warm tap water) and we have reduced transmission losses. In support of sustainable development of cities where we operate, we have signed agreements on cooperation with Krakow, Gdańsk, Gdynia, as well as a letter of intent with Zielona Góra. In November, we signed a trilateral agreement with the city of Wrocław and Fortum, a heat distributor. The purpose of these agreements is to ensure sustainable development of cities, primarily by limiting low emissions, promoting pro-ecological activities and contributing to the comfort of living of the inhabitants. 4. Every investment is analysed while taking into account improvement of environmental conditions and safety. Companies also have in place a system for monitoring legal requirements based on internal ISO procedures, which ensures identification of legal requirements concerning companies and monitoring of changes in requirements, as well as their implementation in companies. Encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 9 environmentally friendly technologies EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 16 1. Taking into account the natural environment, while planning its projects, EDF Polska S.A. considers the following factors:  increasing the energy efficiency of manufacturing assets,  electricity generation and heat co-generation — in order to improve generation efficiency,  reduction of use for internal needs,  reduction of emissions,  modernisation of certain manufacturing assets,  reduction of losses of district heating systems managed by subsidiaries of EDF Polska. 2. Measures implemented in 2015:  start-up of a desulphurization system and denitrofication system to meet the requirements of the IED Directive, which come into force in 2016, and improvement of air quality in Polish cities (the average level of SO2 emission reduction in the Group is 70%; dust emission reduction — 55% and the average level of NOx emission reduction in the Group is 55%),  commencement of construction of a gas turbine at EDF Toruń to replace the current coal boilers in 2018 (ecological effect at EDF Toruń — reduction of SO2 emissions by 99%, NOx emissions y 83% and dust emissions by 93%),  replacement of coal boilers with gas-oil boilers at EDF Krakow and EC Gdynia plants (the effect: reduction of SO2 emissions by 90%, NOx emissions by 75% and dust emissions by 92%)  modernisation projects under the National Investment Plan in order to improve energy efficiency of the current installations and reduce CO2 emissions (modernisation projects implemented in 2009–2015 allowed for reduction of CO2 emissions by approx. 130,000 tonnes annually),  continuation of the Nowy Rybnik project implementation — adaptation to the requirements of the IED Directive and extension of the useful life,  implementation of the ash valorisation project,  increase of biomass co-combustion,  reduction of environmental impact through minimisation of use of electric power, heat and water for internal purposes. Businesses should work against corruption Principle 10 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 1. EDF Polska implements its strategies based on the Business Risk Management system, in which all key aspects of activity have been determined, evaluated and assigned. It EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 17 includes all aspects and risks related to fraud, extortion and bribery. EDF Polska implements a management plan minimising such risks on an ongoing basis. The plan is directed at improving the ethical environment at the company, establishing stronger internal control and ensuring regular evaluation of the system. Involvement of managers takes into account the key aspects of the tender process, the commercial process and support. 2. A Code of Ethics has been implemented in EDF Group in Poland with a solid and clear indication of requirements relating to the employees’ behaviour. The Code of Ethics includes a reference to the UN Global Compact and the requirements relating to its observance. 3. EDF Group in Poland operates based on internal environmental procedures which have been determined while considering the requirements of European and local provisions. The management system is supported by the internal audit function, which performs regular reviews of control systems based on risks. The Supervisory Board and the Management Board of EDF Polska are informed, on an ongoing basis, about the work results and progress of internal control processes. 4. A Policy for preventing fraud and a Practical guide for preventing fraud are in place at the company. The Policy was updated in September 2015. Trainings dedicated to countering fraud are organised. Conclusions EDF Group in Poland wishes to continue described actions and consequently continue efforts to achieve UN GC Advanced level. For the companies from Energy sector, environmental issues should be especially important. That is why EDF is actively fighting to improve the quality of air in the regions of its activity. Supporting programs aiming at low emissions reduction, investments allowing EDF’s assets to accomplish new European environmental norms or dedicated programs developed in the frames of sustainable development agreements signed with the municipalities – these are examples of actions already realized by EDF in Poland and on which the company wants to concentrate in the future. EDF Polska S.A. – Raport Global Compact za rok 2015 18
