Sustainability Report 2013/2014 MTU Aero Engines AG GER 07/15/MUC/00000/DE/XX/E MTU Aero Engines AG Dachauer Straße 665 80995 Munich • Germany Tel. +49 89 1489-0 Fax +49 89 1489-5500 corporateresponsibility@mtu.de www.mtu.de Table of contents Contact information Publisher MTU Aero Engines AG Eckhard Zanger Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Project management and contact point for questions regarding content Ute Schwing Senior Manager Corporate Online Services, Internal Communications and CR corporateresponsibility@mtu.de www.mtu.de Photo credits Cover page Airbus Pages 4-5 MTU Aero Engines Pages 6-7 MTU Aero Engines Pages 8-9 Bombardier, Boeing, Foreword 4 1 Strategy 10 2 Economics 20 3 Product 28 4 Environmental manage5 Responsibility 56 6 Commitment 70 Airbus, MTU Aero Engines Pages 10-11 Bombardier, responsibility ment in production toward employees to society MTU Aero Engines About this report 6 Pages 12-17 MTU Aero Engines Pages 18-19 Fotolia, MTU Aero Engines MTU Aero Engines AG 8 1.1 Management approach 11 2.1 Management approach 21 3.1 Management approach 29 4.1 Management approach 45 5.1 Management approach 57 6.1 Management approach 71 Pages 20-21 Airbus Page 22 Convent Kongresse GmbH 1.2 Stakeholder dialog 16 2.2 Risk management 23 3.2 Mobility today: efficient 4.2 Energy management 48 5.2 Occupational health 6.2 Research & training 73 Pages 23-29 MTU Aero Engines engine technologies 32 and safety 60 Pages 30-31 Airbus 2.3 Compliance and 4.3 Emissions 50 6.3 Corporate citizenship 74 Pages 32-33 Airbus, MTU Aero Engines corporate governance 24 3.3 Mobility in the future: 5.3 Employee qualification, Pages 34-35 MTU Aero Engines, 4.4 Water use 52 Lufthansa, MTU’s climate strategy 33 education and training 64 2.4 Supplier management 26 Bauhaus Luftfahrt 4.5 Material efficiency 54 Pages 36-37 MTU Aero Engines, Airbus 3.4 Aircraft noise 37 5.4 Diversity 66 Pages 38-44 MTU Aero Engines 3.5 Product quality and Goals and goal 76 Page 45 Designstudio Monoflosse Pages 46-75 MTU Aero Engines safety 39 attainment for 2013/2014 Geared Turbofan™ is a trademark application of Pratt & Whitney. GRI-Index/ 80 GC-Principles 2 3 Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer Dear readers, Developing aircraft engines that consume less fuel and produce less pollution such as CO2 and noise—this tops our list of priorities. The Geared Turbofan™ exemplifies our product responsibility. We are playing a decisive role in the development of this clean, quiet and fuel-efficient engine technology, which will be used in five new aircraft families. The Geared Turbofan is the linchpin of our Clean Air Engine technology agenda, on which we have made further progress over the past two years. Sustainability requires targets. Our aim with the Clean Air Engine agenda is to use our engine products to substantially improve the environmental sustainability of aviation by 2050. Climate change, mobility and scarcity of resources are global megatrends of our time, and we want to actively respond to these challenges with Clean Air Engine. Our roadmap for the future targets a 65 % reduction in noise emissions and a 40 % reduction in CO2 emissions. The CO2 emissions of our products will therefore continue to be a main theme of our sustainability work. We want to make our position on climate change even clearer for stakeholders, and last year we devised and published a separate climate strategy based on Clean Air Engine. Sustainability requires values. We place a high value on the sustainability of our business practices. We have committed ourselves to upholding the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, fair Reiner Winkler working conditions, environmental protection and anti-corruption, and we want to further improve their implementation within our sphere of responsibility. Our solid performance in international rankings—our Prime Status from oekom research AG is a good example—confirms that we are on the right track. Receiving the German Investors’ Award for Responsible Business Practices in 2014 was an especially gratifying validation of the progress we have made. Sustainability requires partners. At MTU, employees are very much a part of corporate responsibility. Together we work hard to make progress in sustainable development inside and outside the company. Sustainability-related issues such as co-determination, equality of opportunity, diversity, safety, health, and employee training and qualification are cornerstones of our HR policy and important reasons why our approximately 9,000 employees work together so successfully. Currently we are giving managers greater responsibility, supported by various further training measures such as a new Leadership Feedback tool and the International Leadership Program. As defined by responsible sourcing, we are placing a stronger emphasis on upstream value creation. Since 2014, we have been laying down binding labor, social and environmental standards in a Code of Conduct that governs our cooperation with our worldwide suppliers. These standards are based on the principles of the UN Global Compact. Sustainability requires dialog. We have compiled this third Sustainability Report, which for the first time contains our UN Global Compact Communication on Progress, in order to provide transparent information about our achievements and goals. Through our initiatives to facilitate communication on sustainability, we have learned more about stakeholders’ opinions and expectations. We incorporate this valuable input into our sustainability management. Yours sincerely, Reiner Winkler Chief Executive Officer MTU Aero Engines AG 4 5 Reporting principles Key performance indicators (KPIs) All data and information was collected by the About this report responsible departments for the reporting period using representative methods. Environmental KPIs were collected via the environmental management systems at the individual locations and then consolidated in the CR database according to agreed criteria. Using an electronic HR management system, the HR KPIs were collected and evaluated centrally at the headquarters in Munich for Germany and at MTU Aero Engines AG UN Global Compact— the Rzeszów location for Poland. Once the data Communication on Progress was evaluated, it was sent to the CR database. Sustainability Report 2013/2014 All other data was requested from the CR cenThe new MTU Aero Engines sustainability For the first time, Communication on Progress ter coordinators in the relevant departments report provides information about corporate according to the principles of the UN Global and compiled centrally in the CR database. responsibility (CR) within MTU. The report Compact has been integrated into this susFinancial KPIs were collected and published in details the company’s CR strategy and objectainability report. We have done this to give accordance with the International Financial tives and describes the main thrust of its susstakeholders a better overview of CR-relevant Reporting Standards (IFRS). tainability performance in 2013 and 2014. It information. In the GRI Index at the end of the continues where the last sustainability report report, you will find cross-references to the in 2012 left off and is available for download UN Global Compact’s ten principles. The inteExternal validation of report on our website as a PDF in both German and grated sustainability report is due to be pubEnglish. lished annually in the future. The CR reporting for this sustainability report is not subject to external auditing or validation. Click here for the sustainability The majority of corporate processes that report (German version) Scope of validity underlie data collection for CR reporting are certified. Click here for the sustainability The reporting period spans the 2013 and 2014 report (English version) calendar years (January 1 to December 31 in View all Certifications each case), which also correspond to the 2013 and 2014 financial years for MTU Aero Reporting in accordance with GRI Engines AG. In order to better organize how information is presented and to provide explanFurther information The 2013/2014 Sustainability Report was atory context for readers, activities from outdrawn up in compliance with the Global Reside the reporting period are also cited in some You can find supplementary information, more porting Initiative guidelines, GRI G3.1. In our cases. The report covers MTU’s European locadetailed analyses and older sustainability pubestimation, the report satisfies the requiretions that are treated as fully consolidated in lications online: ments for Application Level B. We report on the company’s fiscal reporting. This includes MTU Aero Engines headquarters in Munich. selected indicators from all categories of the MTU Aero Engines, the company’s headquarCorporate Responsibility at MTU guidelines (to facilitate comparison, tables and ters in Munich, MTU Maintenance in Hannover, diagrams are cross-referenced to the correMTU Maintenance Berlin-Brandenburg in LudOur Corporate Responsibility Reports sponding indicator) and explain our managewigsfelde near Berlin, and MTU Aero Engines Forward-looking statements ment approach for the six principle spheres Polska in Rzeszów, covering the majority of Compliance at MTU of activity as defined by GRI. The GRI Index at the MTU Group. As regards the workforce, the This report contains forward-looking statethe end of the report provides an overview report applies to almost 90 percent of employMTU’s Quality Standards ments. These statements reflect the current of the indicators and the extent of reporting. ees. understanding, expectations and assumptions MTU Maintenance Hannover A materiality matrix presents the topics releMTU’s portfolio of technologies of MTU Aero Engines and are based on the MTU Maintenance Berlin-Brandenburg vant to sustainability for MTU and how they are for the future information available to management at the The joint venture MTU Maintenance Lease MTU Aero Engines Polska weighted from an internal and external perServices B.V. in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, present time. Forward-looking statements prospective. It serves as the basis for selecting is not included in the report, because it has no Work at MTU vide no guarantee that certain results and the performance indicators and topics for this measurable effect on MTU’s sustainability perdevelopments will actually occur in the future, report. MTU has commenced preparations for formance. The JV is responsible for leasing airIn addition, we regularly report on important and they are associated with risk and uncerthe new reporting standard G4, which will be craft engines, with MTU Maintenance Hannover sustainability topics in central MTU publicatainty. Consequently, the actual future results binding from 2016. handling operational implementation of the tions and communication channels. of MTU Aero Engines may deviate substantially leasing agreements. The key performance from the expectations and assumptions exindicators in the report refer to the scope of pressed here for a variety of reasons. MTU validity specified above; any deviations from Aero Engines assumes no obligation to update this are indicated. the statements contained in this communication. We are gradually broadening the scope of our reporting and are striving to encompass all MTU’s next integrated sustainability report the MTU Group’s fully consolidated locations is expected to be published in the summer of step by step over the next few years. 2016. 6 7 Company Profile To gird for the future, MTU has taken stakes Global player for commercial The Munich headquarters in a number of significant engine programs engine maintenance and is well positioned in the marketplace. Munich is home to MTU Aero Engines’ corpoMTU Aero Engines AG Among these future programs are the GEnx engine to power the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and Boeing 747-8 long-range wide-body airliner MTU Maintenance, a division of MTU Aero Engines, is one of the top five providers of maintenance services for aircraft engines and rate headquarters. This is from where the group’s subsidiaries and most of its research and development activities are controlled and and the GE9X for Boeing’s 777X. industrial gas turbines. With more than 30 enwhere engine components are produced in gine types, it boasts one of the largest portvarious shops. Munich also is home to MTU’s The advanced geared turbofan™ technology folios worldwide, including the bestsellers military programs. A new leading-edge blisk is applied in Pratt & Whitney's PurePower® V2500 and CFM56, and the world’s largest manufacturing system, combined with one of engine family. To date, five major aircraft manuengine, the GE90-110/-115B. New engine the world’s most advanced machine pools, is facturers have selected the PW1000G models programs are continuously added to offer accommodated at the company’s headquarter. In the aviation industry, three simple letters Commercial engine business With its products, MTU has content on engines to power their latest aircraft. Airbus is offering customers the most popular variants and to The new blisk competence center will allow stand for top-notch engine technology: MTU. in all thrust and power categories, from powerthe PW1100G-JM for the A320neo. Bombardier secure the company’s position in the afterMTU to expand its production capacities from Germany’s leading engine manufacturer has As part of its commercial activities, MTU Aero plants for small business jets to the world’s has chosen the propulsion system as the sole market for next generation engines. currently 800 to as many as 4,000 blisks a been providing propulsion systems to power Engines designs, develops and manufactures most powerful jetliners. The company is a engine choice for its CSeries, as has Mitsubishi year by 2016. aircraft for more than 80 years now, having engine modules and components. Its technorisk-and-revenue-sharing partner in the major for its MRJ regional jet. Irkut will equip its MTU Maintenance in figures become an established global player. The logical expertise in the field of low-pressure commercial engine programs. Under the partMS-21 with the engine. Last, but not least, The Munich site in figures About company engages in the development, manuturbines, high-pressure compressors and turnership arrangements, MTU assumes full Embraer has opted for the PW1000G family as facture, marketing and support of commercial and military aircraft engines and industrial gas bine center frames as well as manufacturing processes and repair techniques have made development and production responsibility for the components and modules forming part of the exclusive powerplant for its second-generation E-Jets. 4.000 employees 500.000 square meters turbines. Operating affiliates all over the world, MTU has a local presence in major regions MTU a leading manufacturer of subsystems and components in the global engine business. its work share. Its cooperation partners are the world’s big-league players in the engine In the military arena, the company is the Over 15.000 shop visits 4.700 employees and markets. industry—Pratt & Whitney, GE Aviation, and German Armed Forces’ major industrial partner MTU Aero Engines in figures The engine programs of MTU that currently yield the highest sales Rolls-Royce. for practically all engine types flown by them. MTU provides a full range of services, from 35 years of company history MTU program work shares depending on maturing enabling technologies through devel9,000 employees and V2500 for the A320 familiy of aircraft the valuation of the module oping and manufacturing engines and engine components, to providing maintenance and Apart from its outstanding technical and engineering know-how, customer proximity is 3.9 billion euros in sales in fiscal 2014 GP7000 for the A380 4 -25 % comprehensive customer support services. one of MTU’s greatest strengths. A network of locations in Europe, Asia and North America GEnx for the B787 and B747-8 as well as representative offices, IGT service centers and joint ventures around the globe PW2000 and ensure that its customers’ expectations are fulfilled timely and with the same high standard of quality. These include dedicated CF6-80 for mediumand long-haul airlines centers of excellence, e.g. for parts and accessory repairs. In addition, on-site teams are able to carry out repair jobs at every corner of the world at short notice. 8 9 Strategy 1 Strategy 1.1 Management approach Materiality analysis We identify important sustainability topics We can look back on more than 80 years of using a materiality analysis. This involves correcompany history, a period over which MTU lating significant economic, environmental Aero Engines has established itself as a major and social challenges for our business with player in the industry. As well as being the their relevance for stakeholders. At the same number-one engine manufacturer in Germany, time, the materiality matrix forms the basis we also play a decisive role internationally for our sustainability strategy. Priority activity as one of the world’s leading subsystems proareas are those that are very important both vider. We have grown to become a global highfrom an internal company perspective and tech company and technology leader, which from the point of view of the main stakeholders. calls for particular corporate responsibility In 2014, we reviewed the materiality matrix (CR) on our part. Here we take an integrative and updated the list of topics from an internal approach that incorporates environmental and perspective as part of a workshop (involving social considerations into the company’s ecothe CR steering committee, CR coordination nomic performance. Responsible corporate and CR specialist coordinators) and from an management strengthens the bond of trust external perspective based on the results of a with stake-holders and guides the MTU brand stakeholder survey. successfully into the future. > The stakeholder survey is described in the We have integrated sustainability into the Stakeholder Dialog section on page 18. company and established it as an overriding principle. The main tools for implementing this approach are group-wide MTU Principles, a “MTU is a sustainable company. binding Code of Conduct for all employees, Commercial success isn’t the managers and Executive Board members, and only thing that matters to us— CR management that is rooted in organizasocial and environmental tional practices. concerns are important too.” Sustainability strategy Reiner Winkler, We can make our biggest contribution to susChief Executive Officer tainable development through eco-efficient MTU Aero Engines AG engine technologies. Aircraft engines have a service life of several decades; compared against their entire life cycle, it is during this usage phase that the effects of our products on the environment and climate are the greatest. Climate change, mobility and scarcity of resources are three global megatrends that affect our business. Consequently, we have placed product responsibility at the heart of our sustainability strategy. We pursue productOur main topics: oriented environmental and climate goals in our Clean Air Engine (Claire) agenda. In a clieco-efficient engines, mate strategy embedded within Claire, we pursue concrete, staggered climate protection innovation, objectives. We have already made very good progress toward our first target to be achieved product safety by 2020. Other areas that MTU is focusing on include product safety and long-term value creation. • Code of Conduct for approx. 9,000 employees worldwide > For more on MTU’s climate strategy, see • Code of Conduct for approx. chapter 3 Product Responsibility, page 28. > For more on long-term value creation, see 4,000 suppliers worldwide chapter 2 Economics, page 20. • Member of UN Global Compact 10 11 Strategy Strategy For the most part, topics remained in the same Meanwhile, the CR specialist coordinators in order of priority following the reassessment, the various business areas play a key role: Materiality matrix: important sustainability topics for MTU Aero Engines although there were shifts in the evaluations namely, to implement CR activities in their demade by stakeholders. The current survey partment or location and to play a major part revealed that stakeholders attributed greater in designing and developing the company’s importance to health management, human CR strategy. They are also responsible for rights, site development, occupational safety measuring the success of the defined goals and research collaborations than before. These within their areas. The network was expanded Long-term value creation very high topics were already rated as having high to during the reporting period, and the site in very high relevance for MTU in our 2012 pubRzeszów, Poland was integrated in 2014. Our Eco-efficient engines Innovation Product lication. The focal points of the CR strategy in long-term goal is to incorporate all MTU sites. safety the categories of product responsibility (safety, innovation and eco-efficiency) and long-term Relevant data and information regarding MTU’s value creation were confirmed as the most commitment to sustainability and the progress Site important topics. However, the topics of demoit has achieved are collected by the CR speHuman rights development Research collaborations graphic change and diversity were weighted cialist coordinators and then pooled together differently this time around. Demographic by the CR coordination team into an integrated Environmental Compliance Relevance for stakeholders change is becoming increasingly important for database for combining, verifying and evaluatmanagement MTU in light of the aging workforce in Germany. ing key CR data and information. The CR corAttractiveness as employer Accordingly, we consider the integration of all porate bodies meet regularly to exchange age groups to be an ongoing challenge that will information, agree on measures and approve gain even more importance over the coming goals. high Employee training and development years. At the same time, it is a decisive part of Responsible sourcing our efforts to create a diverse workforce and At the end of 2014, MTU’s CR coordinators Health management is currently the focus of the company’s work took part in a Europe-wide workshop to familOccupational safety on this topic. We have therefore strengthened iarize themselves with the requirements of the relationship between the topics of diversity the new reporting standards of the G4 Global Corporate citizenship and demographic change in the matrix. MTU Reporting Initiative, which will replace the will continue to promote equality of opportuexisting GRI 3.1 standard starting in 2016. In Demographic change nity in the future, which includes other impor2015, MTU will start the preparations needed Work-life balance “We are guided by the following tant aspects such as different genders and to ensure that the company continues to comquestions: What topics are cultures. ply with the internationally established stanDonating/Sponsoring medium important for us and our stakedard and guarantee transparency in reporting holders? Where can we achieve Current developments show that supplier in the future. Regional dialog Diversity the most? Product responsibility management is being accorded ever greater is therefore at the heart of our importance regarding responsible business To raise employees’ awareness of sustainability sustainability strategy.” practices. For this reason, MTU has decided to issues and inform stakeholders about our CR include it in the company’s CR strategy and to strategy and management in a more structured Eckhard Zanger, elevate responsible sourcing to its own cateway, we are planning CR training courses for CR Steering Committee and gory. In earlier reports, this topic was subselected employee categories. Training courses Senior Vice President Corporate sumed under other categories, such as human for HR managers and purchasers are in prepamedium high very high Communications & Public Affairs rights, compliance and environmental protecration and are due to start by the end of 2015. Relevance for MTU Group MTU Aero Engines AG tion. CR management MTU’s CR management system Clear structures are the means by which susPrinciples and guidelines It is based on five pillars: tainability is established within the MTU Board of Management All MTU employees and business units are • Products, technology and growth Group’s organizational practices. A CR manexpected to uphold binding ethical principles. • Cooperation and conduct agement system that encompasses the comOf fundamental importance to us is the need • Staff and management pany’s sustainability strategy, achievements CR Steering Committee to safeguard human rights; to observe labor • Partners, customers and shareholders and goals has been in place since 2009. A CR CR Coordination laws; to maintain fair working conditions, busi• Environment and society steering committee responsible for sustainness relationships and high health and safety ability strategy is made up of the directors of CR Divisional Coordinators standards at work; to refrain from corruption; Subordinate principles flesh out the MTU the Corporate Communications/Public Affairs and to ensure employees have suitable qualifiPrinciples and formulate values such as resand Corporate Quality departments and reports cations. Managers have a particular responsiponsibility, diversity and mutual respect and directly to the Executive Board at regular interbility and act as role models when it comes to appreciation. They apply for all employees vals; the board then makes decisions about observing laws, regulations and internal guideworldwide. the sustainability strategy. A centralized CR lines. coordination team, under the auspices of the Corporate Communications department, MTU Principles directs the sustainability strategy’s implemenAn overarching set of principles is a major tation in CR activity areas and is responsible component of MTU’s corporate culture and for reporting. helps the company to act in a consistent, reliable manner. It was created in its current form in 2009 and articulates the aspiration that guides our business activities: “We help shape the future of aviation.” 12 13 Strategy Strategy Codes of Conduct International standards A Code of Conduct ensures sustainable and We have been a member of the UN Global responsible behavior throughout the MTU Compact since 2011; as such, we have underGroup, both within the company and in its taken to uphold the ten principles of this imdealings with the outside world. The principles portant worldwide sustainability initiative to laid down there cover topics such as integrity, protect human rights and the environment, conflicts of interest, insider trading, responsipromote fair working conditions, and combat bility in industrial relations, environmental procorruption. As an active member, we report tection and fair business practices and apply annually on our observance of these internato all employees, managers and board memtionally recognized principles and on the probers. Behavior that violates laws or regulations gress we have made in the company. The is not tolerated by MTU, and we investigate present Sustainability Report integrates this any indications that such breaches might have Communication on Progress. A cross-referencoccurred. To facilitate the flagging of improper ing of the report’s contents to the principles behavior, employees and external stakeholders of the Global Compact can be found in the can contact an ombudsman confidentially. GRI Index on page 80. MTU is committed to punishing violations with appropriate penalties. We are guided by the following internationally recognized principles: These internal norms are supplemented by • The ten principles of the UN Global Compact the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which was • The UN’s Universal Declaration of Human designed to establish these standards in the Rights supply chain as well. • The principles set out in the International Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) core labor The Codes of Conduct for employees standards and for suppliers • German Corporate Governance Code Our success is founded on the commitment and know-how of our employees. An MTU expert checks the fan of a CF34 engine. Human rights Created in 2014 and incorporated into MTU’s MTU respects the human rights internationally contracts, the Code of Conduct for Suppliers recognized in the United Nations Universal requires partners to refrain from using child Declaration and ensures that they are safelabor. Should it emerge that a supplier has guarded within the company. MTU is commitused child labor in the manufacturing process ted to respecting the individuality and dignity for goods they deliver, MTU is entitled to termiof all, maintaining equality of opportunity in nate all existing legal transactions with the recruitment and preventing discrimination. The supplier without notice. During the reporting company promotes employment diversity and period, MTU introduced various measures and the integration of employees with disabilities. a monitoring system to prevent conflict minAs the employer of some 9,000 people worlderals from getting into the supply chain. Some wide, we create fair working conditions based conflict minerals come from Central African on legally binding employment contracts. Promines and can be used to finance armed contecting human rights is a cornerstone of our flicts that involve human rights violations. social responsibility. As such, it is built into our Codes of Conduct for employees and for > For more information, see Chapter 2 suppliers. Economics, Supplier Management, pp. 26-27. > For more information on diversity and workNo business activity containing a risk of ing conditions in the company, see Chapter 5 compulsory or forced labor could be detected Employees. during the reporting period. MTU considers the risk of human rights violations occurring in the company’s business operations at its European locations (Munich, Hannover, Berlin and Rzeszów) to be low, because they are governed by the provisions of German and Polish law, which vouchsafe human rights. In the reporting period, there were no complaints relating to human rights infringements. We create fair working conditions throughout the company. An MTU employee inspects the largest aircraft engine in the world, the GE90 Growth. 14 15 Strategy Strategy 1.2 Stakeholder dialog Business partners and customers Sustainability topics in dialog with key Capital market We involve stakeholders in our commitment Topics Communication channels stakeholders Topics Communication channels to sustainability. Our continuous interaction • Product quality and safety Voice of the customer • Product innovations/ AGM with them allows us to identify the expectations • Sustainable technologies Trade fairs eco-efficiency Investor and analyst and requirements they have of the company (noise, CO2, emissions) Customer magazine • Responsible corporate conferences and develop suitable responses. Systematic • Product efficiency in terms of Sustainability Report governance Investor discussions, stakeholder dialog, which we structure based fuel economy Internet • Product responsibility road shows on openness and mutual trust, helps us iden• Human rights • Human rights Trade fairs tify and set trends. • Compliance • Compliance (e.g. Executive Press releases Board compensation) Sustainability Report and Our key stakeholders include employees, cus• Environmental management Annual Report tomers, business partners, suppliers and share(e.g. resources) Ratings holders. We are also in regular contact with • Risk management Internet representatives from science and research, Suppliers • Supplier management analysts, journalists, politicians, industry asTopics Communication channels sociations, employee representatives, our • Product quality and safety Supplier portal neighbors and local government authorities. • Environmental protection Audits We use various communication channels and • Responsible sourcing Supplier surveys • Compliance with MTU Sustainability Report Media standards (above all the Code Topics Communication channels of Conduct) • Innovation and technologies Press releases • Aviation sector/eco-efficiency Press conferences and • MTU as employer briefings • Financial Plant tours • Site development Sustainability Report Employees • Compliance Internet/Social Media Topics Communication channels Trade fairs • Health and safety Employee newspaper, intranet • Career and further education Sustainability Report opportunities Surveys • Compensation and benefits HR services • Work-life balance MTU Principles events Politics, public agencies MTU exhibits its innovations at international air shows. • Equality of opportunity Company suggestion scheme Topics Communication channels • Co-determination Health management • Developing and promoting Parliamentary evening • Diversity technology Plant visits by politicians • Environmental regulations, International trade fairs, climate protection, eco-effiair shows ciency Sustainability Report • Policies on aviation taxes Political discussions Region and duties MTU SkyLounge Topics Communication channels • Mobility concepts (background talks) • Social commitment Corporate communications • Site development Bonn Evening • Environmental protection media • Demographics, ensuring the Visits by political delegations • MTU as employer Sustainability Report continued supply of skilled Internet • Site development Museum open house days labor • Compliance Collaborations • Economic, labor market Internet/ Social Media and educational policies In dialog with shareholders: Annual General Meeting of Globalization MTU Aero Engines AG. • Compliance forms of dialog to interact with different target groups in ways that are suitable specifically Science and research for them. To engage with our stakeholders, we Topics Communication channels use online and print media, surveys, expert • Developing new technologies Joint research projects Associations and organizations discussions, workshops, conferences and trade • Promoting research and Work in MTU centers of Topics Communication channels fairs, for example. One important tool is our teaching excellence • Eco-efficiency in aviation Meetings and committees regular employee survey; the next one will • Networking between industry Trade fairs • Innovations and technologies Sustainability Report take place in 2015. In addition, we participate and research Sustainability Report • Promoting technology Internet in associations, committees and sustainability • Study of engineering and Work experience, student initiatives such as the German UN Global Comscientific disciplines research projects pact Network. Through numerous member• Recruiting Work-study programs ships, we contribute our expertise to a range • Economic and labor policies of specific issues. We are a founding member both of the Bauhaus Luftfahrt think tank and of the Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany (aireg e.V.). 16 17 Strategy Strategy Political dialog Memberships The German aviation industry is greatly affected • Algae Biomass Organization (ABO) by political decisions at the national, European • Association of German Engineers (VDI) and international levels—more so than many • Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in other sectors. It is therefore important for Germany e.V. (aireg) companies to keep informed about develop• Bauhaus Luftfahrt e.V. ments in the political-administrative sphere • BavAIRia e.V. that are relevant to their businesses. Contact • Employers’ Associations for the Bavarian persons are legislators and decision-makers Metalworking and Electrical Industries in ministries at the EU, federal and state levels (bayme and vbm) as well as in subordinate government agencies • Chamber of Commerce and Industry for and the German armed forces. Maintaining Munich and Upper Bavaria dialog with politicians and administrative bod• Deutsches Verkehrsforum e.V. (industry ies about the company’s interests is one of association for all modes of transport) the responsibilities of MTU’s office in Berlin. • Enterprise for Health Relevant topics include innovation, technology • European Aerospace Quality Group development and promotion, sustainability, • Federation of German Security & Defence eco-friendly technologies, noise reduction, the Industries (BDSV) social relevance of air transport, site devel• Forum Luftund Raumfahrt e.V. opment, economic and labor market policies, (forum for the aerospace industry) and support for exports. • Friends and Sponsors of the Deutsches Museum We represent industry-specific interests • German Aerospace Center (DLR) through membership in associations, including • German Aerospace Industries Association the German Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) (BDLI) and the Bavarian business association • German Association of Environmental (Vereinigung der Bayerischen Wirtschaft). Management We are in continuous dialog with our stakeholders and increasingly use social media for this purpose. • German Society for Aeronautics and All activities are subject to the applicable laws Astronautics (DGLR) and guidelines and the MTU Code of Conduct. • IATA Strategic Partnerships As a fundamental principle, political dialog • Münchner Bildungsforum gem. n. e.V. is conducted on a non-partisan basis, with all (Munich-based network for employee We have expanded our dialog with stakeholders Communicating with stakeholders via social parties and factions. We do not make any training and HR development) during the reporting period, and for the first media is gaining in importance. During the financial donations. • Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft time we organized an online survey to ask reporting period, MTU further reinforced and (sponsors’ association for German science) stakeholders for their perceptions and opinions internationalized its social media presence. In • Trace International, Inc. of corporate responsibility at MTU. As we 2014, the company added the international • UN Global Compact wanted to reach as many stakeholder groups LinkedIn network to the platforms it uses and • Vereinigung der Bayerischen Wirtschaft e.V. as possible, we decided to make the survey now has over 4,200 followers there. We have (Bavarian business association) open and international. More than 100 people also attracted new fans on Facebook, who took part. In a second step, we asked over now number just under 9,000. In 2014, MTU 200 selected representatives from all MTU’s joined Kununu (www.kununu.com), the Gerrelevant stakeholder groups to evaluate the man-language portal for rating employers, and company’s sustainability topics and achievehas already received over 80 ratings. We foster ments and CR reporting. Here we were keen an open feedback culture, treat criticism to ensure that all stakeholder groups were with seriousness and respect, and respond covered. In the eight-part questionnaire, we constructively to suggested improvements. also asked stakeholders to weight the topics in our materiality matrix on a multi-level scale in Social Media@MTU order to identify relevant sustainability topics. The survey achieved a response rate of approximately 32 %, and its results are reflected in the We want to intensify our dialog even further updated materiality analysis and are factored in the future through CR training courses for into sustainability management. employees in roles that involve direct contact with relevant stakeholder groups. > For more on the results of the stakeholder survey, see the Materiality Analysis section in this chapter. We also have more detailed information on our website about our compliance activities, our compliance structures, and our rules regarding conflicts of interest and insider trading. Compliance at MTU MTU places high value on open and trust-based dialog. Michael Schreyögg, Chief Program Officer, talks with media representatives. 18 19 Economics 2 Economics 2.1 Management approach Key financial figures EC1 MTU has 14 principal sites across the globe. As an employer, purchaser and investor, we promote economic development in the regions where we operate. Our operations are sustainRevenue (EUR bn) able, responsible and geared toward long-term value creation. Forward-looking investment and 2013 3.6 adequate financial room for maneuver form 2014 3.9 the basis for profitable growth. Our commercial activities are backed up by a risk and opporOperating profit* (EUR bn) tunity management strategy that opens up new areas of business, minimizes risks and 2013 377 punctually addresses economic, environmental 2014 383 and social challenges. Responsible corporate governance throughout the company is reliant Earnings after tax* (EUR bn) on the observance of the applicable laws, regulations and internal guidelines and is im2013 239 plemented through compliance structures. For 2014 253 MTU, sustainable management incorporates the supply chain. As the first step in doing so, Earnings per share** (EUR) the company’s supplier management enshrined corporate responsibility (CR) standards for 2013 3.27 cooperation in supplier contracts. Only through 2014 3.84 sustainable management will MTU achieve lasting economic success and competitiveness Dividend per share (EUR) in the engine manufacturing market, which is based on long-term plans and goals. 2013 1.35 2014 1.45 Economic performance As a company that is listed on the stock ex* Adjusted change, we are committed to increasing the ** Undiluted, reported value of our business over the long term and want to be an attractive capital investment for our shareholders. MTU achieved this goal in the value of its shares has roughly quadrupled, the reporting period. The company was able while revenue has grown by 6.9 % on average. to continue its strong economic performance This demonstrates the long-term success and build on its record-breaking successes of of MTU’s business model and the company’s 2012. Revenue increased to 3.6 billion euros growth potential. Our main topics: in 2013 and on to 3.9 billion euros in 2014— both of which represented all-time highs. In For 2015, we have targeted an increase in sustainable investment, 2014, adjusted earnings were also higher than revenue of around 4.4 billion euros, and we ever before. Shareholders—institutional and estimate that operating profit will be around compliance, supply chain private investors—are an important stakeholder 420 million euros and earnings after tax will group for MTU, and we were delighted to be around 285 million euros. This will keep • German Investors’ Award for Responsible reward their trust in our securities with the MTU on a solid, long-term growth course. highest dividend in the company’s history in Business Practices 2014 2014. In total, MTU paid out around 74 million • Company-wide compliance structures euros to shareholders for the business year. • 31.5 % of employees in Germany received Since the company went public ten years ago, compliance and anti-corruption training in 2014 • Sustainable guidelines for working with suppliers based on 10 principles of UN Global Compact 20 21 Economics Economics Value added in 2014 (in million euros) 2.2 Risk management Our sustainable business EC1 relationships are based Risk is part and parcel of any entrepreneurial on compliance with laws and regulations. 1 Net value added 903.4 activity, and seizing opportunities always 2 Material costs/Other expenditure 2,839.5 involves a certain degree of risk. MTU’s inte3 Depreciation 158.0 grated opportunity and risk management system, which is embedded in the company’s Breakdown of where value added went organizational and management structures, is designed to eliminate risks that threaten the company’s existence, circumvent avoidable 67.5 % Employees risks and limit necessary risks. The system ensures that legal regulations are observed and 3 Wealth created 1.7 % Creditors is based on the leading international COSO II ERM framework. 2 3.913,9 1 9.2 % Exchequer For the MTU Group, the systematic considera8.2 % Shareholders tion of significant risk factors is a fundamental basis for value-oriented management and 13.4 % MTU Group sustainable business success. MTU identifies risks, analyzes their possible consequences and develops measures to limit them. MTU mitigates the risks of the aviation sector requirements have to be strictly observed. Our In 2014, MTU Aero Engines’ net value added increased to 903.4 million euros (792.8 million euros with a long-term business model, a balanced environmental management system, which is in 2013). The lion’s share of 67.5 % goes to employees. We consider management philosophy, integrity product mix with stakes in various market segcertified to EMAS and to DIN EN ISO 14001, and ethical values as well as comprehensive ments and engine types, and a technological minimizes these risks. employee qualification to be crucial factors for edge. Moreover, we regularly analyze the opSustainable investment The company achieved above-average ratings successful risk management. Under the “Staff portunities and risks of climate change. For > For more information on our environmental MTU is also regularly assessed by the capital in all categories (Environment: 76.9%, Social: and Management” heading in the MTU Prinexample, Bauhaus Luftfahrt, a research institumanagement system, see page 44. market and independent experts in respect of 82.2%, Governance: 92.7%). ciples, the following principle for a no-blame tion funded by MTU and other partners, is curnon-financial indicators. During the reporting culture within the company states: “We capirently preparing a study on climate change’s Compliance risks can arise in all areas of the period, the company was listed in sustainability In addition, oekom research AG, one of the talize on opportunities, assess risks and deal technological, environmental and social imcompany. We can define them as the danger indices and received various awards that obworld’s leading rating agencies in the sustainconstructively with mistakes.” This promotes pacts on aviation up to 2050. During the reof managers or employees failing to observe jectively accredit our achievements, among able investment segment, awarded MTU Prime an open attitude to weak points and enshrines porting period, we discussed and evaluated laws or regulations or violating internal comthem the German Investors’ Award for ResponStatus with a C+ rating at the end of 2013. By a no-blame culture as the basis for successful what climate change will mean for MTU in an pany guidelines. Compliance measures instisible Business Practices in December 2014. doing so, oekom certified that MTU met the risk management. The company’s constant internal CR workshop. The workshop concluded tuted by MTU include a central Compliance Citing the company’s systematic progress in minimum standards defined by the agency. The efforts to better itself are reinforced by our that the company was on the right track with Board, a company-wide Code of Conduct and CR performance, the jury recognized MTU’s analysts evaluated environmental and social CIP (Continuous Improvement Program) strucits sustainability strategy focused on product special training courses that address particuimpressive leap in the rankings. performance based on over 100 selected sustures. responsibility and its existing risk and opporlarly sensitive topics and teach employees tainability criteria as applied to the aviation tunity evaluation. The greatest risks for MTU how to avoid compliance breaches. MTU improved its Environment Social Goversector. Control and monitoring reside in air transport restrictions because of nance (ESG) ranking from 61st to 8th. The MTU’s risk assessment encompasses all busienvironmental pollution. Yet at the same time, MTU is not currently involved in any legal or award is presented annually by the German MTU is also regularly evaluated by the consulness units and all the risk factors to which the stricter environmental regulations for aviation arbitration proceedings that might have a publishing house DuMont Verlag and Deutsche tancy imug in cooperation with EIRIS, by the company is exposed. At the corporate level, present opportunities. Our products substansignificant influence on its general economic Asset & Wealth Management to companies leading European rating agency Vigeo, and by a cross-divisional Risk Management Board tially reduce the emissions, fuel consumption situation. that are particularly responsible in their treatTransparency International. For 2015, MTU is performs centralized control and monitoring and noise of aircraft engines. The company ment of the environment, employees, society planning to take part in the Dow Jones Sustainfunctions. At its quarterly meetings, the board views climate protection as an important driver > For information on possible risks in the value and other stakeholders. ability Index for the first time. discusses the interactions between individual of innovation in the market. A further outcome chain, see also the Supplier Management secrisks, ensures that all risks have been reported of the CR-workshop is to strengthen MTU’s tion in this chapter. MTU was included in the STOXX ESG Leaders For more on MTU’s ratings and in full, and assesses the risk exposure of the positioning in relation to climate change by indices for the first time in September 2014. awards group as a whole. The Executive Board redrafting and publishing a climate strategy based ceives a risk report once a quarter about the on existing eco-efficiency goals in product group’s current risk situation. development. The risk management system is monitored and > For more on MTU's climate strategy, continuously refined through measures such as see Product Responsibility chapter on regular checks by the internal auditing departpages 33-36. ment and monitoring by the Supervisory Board and by external auditors. On top of this, MTU is subject to a large number of environmental laws and regulations. Our Risks and opportunities in CR spheres use of chemical substances in manufacturing of activity and the emissions from our test benches could MTU’s risk management incorporates sustainsee us faced with additional investment costs ability topics, such as product responsibility, or make it necessary to replace substances the environment and compliance, into risk we currently use if the relevant environmental assessment. protection and industrial safety restrictions are tightened. MTU requires special authoriza> For more on how MTU assesses the risk sittions for certain production equipment and uation and identifies risk factors, see 2014 the associated restrictions and documentation Annual Report, p. 115 ff. MTU CEO Reiner Winkler (left) received the Investors’ Award for Responsible Business Practices in Frankfurt at the end of the year 2014. 22 23 Economics Economics 2.3 Compliance and corporate from anywhere in the world by e-mail Compliance instruments (ombudsmann@mtu.de). Employees can also governance visit the ombudsman in person or make conFor MTU, it is self-evident that we should tact through any of the usual communication respect the prevailing laws and regulations channels. The identity of the whistleblower Riskwhen conducting our business. It is an imporand the information he or she imparts are training management tant basis for responsible dealings with our treated in strict confidentiality. And it goes employees and business partners. The binding without saying that whistleblowers acting in legal frameworks MTU imposes on all parties good faith are not penalized by the company inform that operate on our behalf strengthen the in any way. In addition, employees can confide confidence of our stakeholders, bolster our in the familiar contact points within the comgood international reputation and safeguard pany, such as their superiors, the legal departour long-term success. ment and security officers. Employees Compliance audits The company acts as a fair employer, business No breaches of the Code of Conduct were dispartner and client, and advocates transparent covered during the 2013/2014 reporting Compliance Board competition where all parties are on an equal period, and once again there were no indicafooting. Integrity and responsible behavior are tions of possible corruption at MTU. key values in our corporate culture and are binding for all employees and managers by Furthermore, MTU was not the object of any virtue of our Code of Conduct. These obligasignificant monetary fines or criminal proceed“At MTU, compliance is for tions also explicitly apply to board members. ings, nor were such proceedings pending. everyone. Board members and Whenever violations are proven, we always managers lead by example, and MTU denounces corruption, including bribery duly punish them. Breaches of the law or of we support employees in key and extortion, and all other forms of whiteinternal guidelines are not tolerated by MTU. positions with training courses collar crime. It observes all applicable compeon prevention. This approach tition, antitrust and commercial legislation Compliance and anti-corruption training inform has been successful: we don’t as well as all laws and regulations relating to Another of the Compliance Board’s key duties have a single breach to report.” consumer and data protection. is to prevent misconduct and raise employees’ awareness of what constitutes misconduct. Reiner Winkler, Compliance structures First and foremost, this takes the form of comChief Executive Officer As the chief operating decision maker, the CEO pliance and anti-corruption training courses MTU Aero Engines AG is responsible for business ethics and antifor all employees, with special courses for emStakeholders corruption policies in the company. The key ployees and managers in positions of trust. Ombudsman instrument for rooting compliance in organizaThese courses are repeated at regular intertional practices is an MTU-wide Compliance vals. During the reporting period, compliance Board, which is made up of the heads of the and anti-corruption training courses for manalegal department, Corporate Audit and Corpogers and employees in positions of trust took rate Security. The Compliance Board reports place in Germany; in 2014, this training took directly to the Executive Board and the Superplace at MTU’s site in Rzeszów, Poland. In adBusiness partners and compliance Compliance in dialog with stakeholders visory Board every quarter. Working alongside dition, special compliance and anti-corruption To ensure that business relationships are sound As part of the rating process carried out by the central Compliance Board are group oftraining is compulsory for all new employees and dependable, the Compliance Board inoekom research—which awarded MTU Prime ficers for individual topics, such as data proworking in areas with customer contact. In spects consultancy contracts for potential Status for its overall social and environmental tection, environmental protection or IT security. 2014, around 31.5 % of administration employcorruption risks before they are signed. These performance—the external analysts rated ees in Germany and 10.5 % of employees at contracts are also assessed by TRACE, an inMTU’s compliance measures as “good.” While the Compliance Board regularly inspects the MTU site in Poland took part in compliance dependent organization specialized in business all divisions for signs of possible legal breaches and anti-corruption training. The Compliance practice transparency and due diligence reIn 2014, MTU was evaluated and compared or compliance risks, the group officers are Board also offers individual advice and training views of agents, intermediaries and consulagainst other companies by Transparency responsible for making sure that specific statto all employees and Executive Board members tants. Only once the Compliance Board has International, a non-governmental organization utory regulations are observed and that unias required. given a positive recommendation does the that promotes transparency and the fighting form standards are established across the CEO approve the conclusion or extension of a of corruption. The findings were published in whole company and that these meet the releIn 2015, a compliance and anti-corruption contract. Independently of these assessments, April 2015 in the form of the Defence Comvant legal requirements. In addition, MTU’s training course will take place Germany-wide TRACE also carries out an audit every three panies Anti-Corruption Index, and MTU was internal auditors conduct regular compliance for around 2,000 employees from corporate years. able to repeat its good result from the first “We don’t tolerate any violations, audits, in which they scrutinize business prounits. The Executive Board will be explicitly inrating in 2012. In particular, MTU’s careful apand we don’t use unfair practices cesses and procedures in the company for cluded in these training courses. Another plan We also expect our business partners to reproach when dealing with intermediaries and to be successful. We gain legal conformity and adherence to internal for 2015 is to provide training to employees spect the law. Since 2014, a binding Code of sales consultants was classed as very good. our advantage solely through guidelines. In 2013, MTU’s internal auditing from selected units at all MTU’s sites in the Conduct for Suppliers has been a fixed part of first-class products and the outdepartment was itself audited by the German Americas. contracts. The code prohibits corruption in all standing work of our employees.” Institute of Internal Auditing (DIIR) and its forms when cooperating with MTU, incluachieved an overall average score of almost ding the offering and acceptance of bribes and Ulrich Passow, 90 %. other improper benefits. Should a supplier Member of the Compliance Board and engage in any such practices while dealing with Senior Vice President and In our global whistleblower system, an omor carrying out orders for us, MTU is entitled General Counsel MTU Aero Engines AG budsman acts as a confidential point of conto terminate the cooperation without notice. tact to whom employees and external stakeholders can report suspicions of corruption > For more on MTU’s sustainable business or illegal activities or breaches of the Code of relationships, see the Supplier Management Conduct. The ombudsman can be contacted section in this chapter. 24 25 Economics Economics Memberships in anti-corruption initiatives 2.4 Supplier management Suppliers for MTU’s European sites in 2014, by region • Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe MTU has expanded its sustainable business • UN Global Compact strategy to the supply chain in order to take • TRACE better account of value creation upstream. In early 2014, a binding Code of Conduct for During the reporting period, we also expanded Suppliers entered into force. The purchasing our dialog with stakeholders in order to boost and legal departments drew up suitable guideawareness of the importance of compliance lines that were included in our contracts with issues. See our website for detailed informaall suppliers throughout the MTU Group. In all, East Europe (EU) tion about our compliance organization and the European locations work with around 4,000 West Europe related measures we have undertaken. suppliers worldwide. Among the criteria to North America 83.9 % 10.2 % be fulfilled as part of the Code of Conduct for 5.4 % Israel Asia Compliance at MTU Suppliers, and in compliance with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, are respect0.2 % 0.2 % Mexico ing human rights, condemning and avoiding Responsible corporate governance any form of forced or child labor, refraining 0.1 % Corporate governance is all about company from corruption and protecting the environmanagement and control guided by the princiment. Suspicions that the Code of Conduct ple of responsible-minded, long-term value may have been breached can be reported to creation. It is an integral part of MTU’s identity MTU’s ombudsman (ombudsmann@mtu.de). and encompasses all areas of the company. Should a supplier be implicated in corruption, As a company with global operations, MTU extortion, the granting of improper benefits or observes national and international standards. child labor while dealing with or carrying out In Germany, where MTU has its headquarters, orders for us, MTU will terminate the cooperathe bulk of these rules are laid down in the tion without notice. If other principles of the Stock Corporation Act, the Co-Determination code are violated, the supplier must demonAct and the German Corporate Governance strate that suitable corrective measures have Code. MTU complies with all recommendations been initiated and implemented and must of the German Federal Ministry of Justice’s guarantee this in writing. Corporate Governance Code in its version All suppliers of production material and indirect material for OEM segment (manufacture of engines, engine modules and spare parts) at the Munich, Hannover, Berlin and dated June 24, 2014. Code of Conduct for Suppliers Rzeszów sites. In total: 4,011 suppliers. Status: 15/6/30 > For the full corporate governance report, see 2014 Annual Report, p. 28 ff. Conflict-free raw materials potentially containing conflict minerals and MTU is committed to using socially responsible asked them to present all the necessary inforFollowing the recommendations of the German raw materials in its value chain and to ensurmation about where the minerals came from Corporate Governance Code, we have aligned ing the traceability of conflict minerals, such as stipulated in the EICC-GeSI conflict minerals Executive Board remuneration with the longas tantalum, gold, tin and tungsten. Many of reporting standard. In addition, MTU has adterm success of the company. these are mined in the Democratic Republic justed its procurement guidelines accordingly of Congo or neighboring states. Tantalum, tin in order to ensure that the value chain also > For details on Executive Board remuneration, and tungsten can be found in some MTU encontains only conflict-free raw materials be“We want to create sustainable see 2014 Annual Report, p. 33 ff. gine components. MTU does not procure any yond the direct supply stage. This includes products with the cooperation conflict minerals directly; they reach our prosystematic monitoring. Every year, MTU surof our suppliers in long-term The Supervisory Board, which appoints, overduction sites through a complex, multi-stage veys all suppliers about their observance of relationships based on trust. sees and advises the Executive Board, is made global supply chain. the company’s guidelines. MTU is unaware of That is why the same internal up of shareholder representatives and employany breaches of the Dodd-Frank Act. standards for responsible ee representatives in equal measure in accorSince the adoption of the Dodd-Frank Act in business practices also apply dance with the German Co-Determination Act. the USA in 2010, listed U.S. companies are to the supply chain.” In total, it comprises twelve members. required by Section 1502 to disclose the origin of conflict materials and to acquire them only Rudolf Michl, The composition of the Executive from mines or master alloy producers that CR Coordinator, Board and the Supervisory Board are found on the Compliant Smelter List Procurement & Logistics (www.conflictfreesourcing.org/). The goal of this regulation is to prevent the financing of armed groups—and the associated human rights violations—in the Democratic Republic of Congo or in neighboring states via the extraction and trading of raw materials. U.S. partners have passed on this requirement to MTU as a supplier of engine components and parts. In an assessment carried out during the reporting period, the company identified We have expanded our sustainable business strategy to cover the supply chain. A binding Code of all direct suppliers who provide components Conduct for MTU suppliers has been in place since 2014. 26 27 11 Product responsibility 3 Product responsibility 3.1 Management approach we have put eco-efficiency at the heart of our product strategy and are pursuing it through MTU Aero Engines is Germany’s leading engine concrete objectives laid down in our Clean Air manufacturer, and our core competencies lie Engine (Claire) technology agenda. With a cliin low-pressure turbines, high-pressure commate strategy that is embedded in Claire, we pressors and turbine center frames—all key are responding specifically to the challenges components of aero engines. We understand of climate change and reducing the carbon our product responsibility in the broadest emissions of our products. CO2 carbon emissense, encompassing development, manufacsions and noise are the main levers for MTU ture and repairs in all applications, processes and make up the main thrust of the Claire and systems. However, for us it is first and agenda; its far-reaching targets are to be foremost about developing new engine conachieved by 2050 and help us in our long-term cepts and technologies that meet the most product orientation. Such long-term planning rigorous quality and safety demands and enviis necessitated by the long production times ronmental standards. This priority is reflected and service lives—more than 20 years in each in the materiality matrix for identifying relevant case—of aircraft and engines. sustainability topics: eco-efficient engines, product safety and innovations were attributed > More information on the Clean Air Engine the greatest importance by the company and agenda and our climate strategy can be found its stakeholders. in this chapter from page 33. > For more on the materiality matrix, see We are taking our first major step toward acChapter 1 Strategy, page 12. complishing the goals of our Clean Air Engine agenda and climate strategy with the Geared Product responsibility is therefore our primary Turbofan™ engine we are developing together corporate responsibility objective. We can with Pratt & Whitney. In 2013, we won two make our biggest contribution to society by prestigious awards for the high-speed lowdeveloping outstanding innovations to make pressure turbine, a key component of the new eco-efficient, safe engines and increase the engine concept: the F.A.Z. Institute’s 32nd resource efficiency of aviation. This sustainable German Industry Innovation Award and the product development is enshrined in the MTU German Innovation Prize. Principles: “Our products for the aviation industry burn less fuel and cut down on noise and harmful emissions.” Accordingly, every new engine we work on is more fuel-efficient, produces lower emissions, and makes less noise than its predecessor model. Eco-efficiency Mobility, globalization and climate change are 21st-century megatrends that have an impact on aviation. Rising passenger numbers, inOur main topics: creasing scarcity of resources, and growing environmental consciousness among travelers climate strategy, aircraft pose challenges for the aviation industry. On average, passenger numbers worldwide are noise, safety and quality rising by around 5 % every year. According to current estimates, between 60,000 and 70,000 aircraft will be in operation in 2050— • 40 % reduction in CO2 by 2050 more than twice as many as today. Sustain• 65 % reduction in aircraft noise able and innovative solutions for the future are needed to minimize the impact of this by 2050 growth on our environment. As a recognized • EUR 195.3 m spent on Research & technological leader, we want to play an active Development in 2014 role in finding these solutions. Consequently, • 2,779 patents in 2014 28 29 Product responsibility Product responsibility Clean Air Engine: The Geared Turbofan Our system of intellectual property manageInvestment in product and technology development to improve • New engine concept in which a gear couples ment ensures that we protect our technologieco-efficiency (in EUR m) the fan and low-pressure turbine cal expertise. At the end of 2014, the MTU EN30 • Selected for five new aircraft families for patent portfolio encompassed 2,779 property shortand medium-haul routes rights covering various areas of technology, in(Airbus A320neo, Mitsubishi Regional Jet, cluding manufacturing, compressors, turbines, Research and development costs Bombardier CSeries, Embraer E Jets, and maintenance and engines in general. Each year Research and development costs relating to eco-efficiency goals Irkut MS-21) we register some 400 new patent applications. • Significant improvements in eco-efficiency: Approximately one thousand MTU employees 2011 261.9 -15% CO2*, -55% NOX**, -20dB dB noise*** work directly in engineering worldwide. 2012 241.4 • Some 7,000 orders and options ahead of 2013 193.2 market launch in 2015 As aviation involves cooperation to a large 2014 195.3 • Milestones in 2013/2014: first flight of extent, and given MTU’s leading role in the A320neo in September 2014; U.S. Federal sector, the company sees it as its duty to conThe lion’s share of MTU’s investment in the development of new technologies and engines goes Aviation Administration (FAA) certification in tribute its expertise to collaborative efforts toward the objectives of saving fuel and reducing weight. This directly improves the environmental performance of new MTU products, as it reduces emissions of CO2 and other pollutants. Special December 2014; Transport Canada Civil Avithat shape the industry’s future. For example, technology programs and developments focus on reducing noise. ation (TCCA) certification in February 2013 MTU played a major part in drawing up the “The Geared Turbofan sets new technology roadmap presented by the German standards in environmental * compared to predecessor Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) in We respect our customers’ individual requireOver the past two years, we carried out a friendliness. As the engine for ** below current statutory CAEP/6 limit 2014. The goal of the roadmap is to better ments, legal and regulatory stipulations and total of 1,136 audits at the European locations *** compared to statutory Chapter 4 noise standard the new A320neo family, it coordinate and network industry projects and internal demands along the entire value chain. containing quality aspects. In 2013 and 2014, reduces CO2 emissions by www.mtu.de: PW1000G research activities by 2050. We also work constantly to improve and develthere were no breaches of statutory regula15 percent and cuts perceived op our products, processes and services—and tions in connection with the purchase or opernoise levels by almost half!” Product quality and safety this is what guarantees our competitive adation of our products, nor were any fines imWe combine the Clean Air Engine technology As the world’s largest subsystem provider on vantage. At all of MTU’s sites and at each stage posed on MTU. Dr. Stephan Bock agenda with comprehensive research activithe aircraft engine market, MTU sets the highof production, rigorous quality standards are Chief Engineer for Geared Turbofan, ties and initiatives. MTU invests substantial est quality and safety requirements for prodclosely monitored. Our integrated management > For more on product safety and quality, MTU Aero Engines AG amounts of money in research and developucts, services and suppliers. MTU guarantees system (IMS) makes sure that legal and regusee pages 39-43. ment—195.3 million euros in 2014. The intenconsistent quality and safe operation over our latory stipulations are respected and that ressity of our research and development efforts products’ entire lifecycles. The company has ponsibilities are clearly assigned within the for eco-efficient engine technologies is imall the requisite approvals and certifications company. This allows us to guarantee our cuspressive, particularly when quantified as a from national aviation authorities to develop, tomers the same level of quality at each MTU proportion of our revenues. manufacture and maintain flight-ready engine site across the world. Regular official monitorparts and modules. ing and internal and external audits make sure that these quality standards are being upheld. MTU’s approvals and certifications 30 31 Product responsibility Product responsibility 3.2 Mobility today: efficient The Airbus A380 has an average fuel con3.3 Mobility in the future: sumption of less than three liters per hundred engine technologies passenger kilometers. At the beginning of the MTU’s climate strategy Commercial aircraft transport people and 1990s, average consumption was around the Climate change is one of the greatest global freight over continents in a matter of hours. six liter mark. Our highly efficient low-pressure challenges of our time. It is generally accepted Reliable and powerful engines are essential for turbine contributes significantly to the A380’s that CO2 emissions caused by human activity the operation of fleets. Moreover, engine effifuel efficiency. Many turbine technologies have are largely responsible for global warming, ciency is a decisive factor in an aircraft’s envigone into the A380’s GP7000 engine. The and that the increasing mobility of the human ronmental performance. We are a partner in quad-jet aircraft also meets the most stringent population is a contributing factor. According numerous modern engine programs—from ICAO Chapter 4 noise standard. Moving over to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate short-haul to long-haul and from business jets to Boeing, its 787 Dreamliner also features a Change (IPCC), global air traffic accounts for to widebody aircraft. Some 30 % of all aircraft major engine component from MTU: the turapproximately 2% of all man-made CO2 emisin service worldwide today have MTU modules bine center frame for the airplane’s GEnx ensions. on board. In addition to key components such gines. By using the most up-to-date materials as high-pressure compressors and low-presand the latest processing techniques, we have Industry analysts predict that the aviation secsure turbines, the company develops and significantly reduced the weight of this structor will grow by 5% each year until at least manufactures many other engine components tural component. The GEnx generates 15% 2020. In response, the aviation industry has such as innovative brush seals. Our compoless CO2 and is significantly quieter than its set specific targets to reduce its impact on nents are highly efficient, and our products predecessor model. the environment through various initiatives have played an important role in improving the (SRIA, IATA). MTU aims to meet this goal by efficiency of aircraft engines by 40 % over the We also offer upgrades that improve the energy designing engine components that in the past decades. As far as specific fuel consumpfootprint of established engines. The V2500 medium term will help the aviation industry to tion is concerned, engines with MTU involveSelectOne and V2500 SelectTwo are upgraded grow without increasing its CO2 emissions, ment have always been at the top of their versions of the basic V2500 engine and conand even reduce them in the long term. Our respective thrust class. As well as the ecosume 1 and 1.5 % less fuel respectively while responsibility to protect the planet is anchored nomic benefits to aircraft operators, there are also boosting time on wing by 20 %. Among in our MTU Principles, where we state our comalso environmental advantages to increased other things, we are responsible for the lowmitment to reducing emissions and limiting Our goal is to design our engine products so that they help bring about a long-term reduction in efficiency, as there is a direct correlation bepressure turbines, which we have optimized in consumption of natural resources and energy. CO2 emissions from aviation. tween lower fuel consumption and lower CO2 terms of improved environmental technology These principles apply in equal measure to emissions. ratings. our products and our production processes. > For more information, see Sustainable Our climate change strategy will enable us to consists in reducing CO2 emissions through product lifcyle in this chapter. gain a decisive edge over our competitors. This eco-efficient compressor and turbine modules. is because engines with a lower carbon footAs the combustion chamber is not a core print consume less fuel and thus help reduce competence of the company, emissions of customers’ costs, as kerosene fuel accounts NOX, CO, hydrocarbons and soot during flight for 30 % of an airline’s total operating costs. In lie outside MTU’s sphere of influence. addition, the strategy will help us meet the emissions requirements defined by aviation authorities. Impact of aviation on climate Targets of the Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) Flying has an impact on our climate. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) CO2 emissions and fuel SRIA 2020 SRIA 2035 SRIA 2050 investigated how aviation affects climate and burn identified several mechanisms for how it does so: generating carbon dioxide (CO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOX) emissions and producing cirAir traffic per passenger-kilometer -43 % -60 % -75 % rus clouds and contrails. Of these, the greatest impact on climate change is produced by CO2 of which airframe -20 % -30 % emissions, which have already fallen by 70 % -68 % per passenger kilometer over the past 50 of which propulsion system -20 % -30 % years. Modern turbofan engines have played a major role in bringing about this reduction. of which air traffic management -7 % -12 % -12 % Higher bypass and overall pressure ratios have cut the CO2 emissions of these engines by of which operation -4 % -7 % -12 % over 40 %. Pollutants such as NOx, carbon monoxide (CO), unburned hydrocarbons and soot are produced when kerosene is burned NOx emissions Vision 2020 SRIA 2035 SRIA 2050 in the combustion chamber. Emissions of these pollutants have also fallen over the past decades and can be further reduced by means of new combustion chamber designs. Since Air traffic per passenger-kilometer -80 % -84 % -90 % flight altitude is one of the main factors behind the creation of contrails and cirrus clouds, Margin rel. to ICAO CAEP6 requirement -60 % -65 % -75 % they can be either avoided or significantly reduced by modifying flight routes or flying at a lower altitude. But that is a job for air traffic as against the year 2000 in each case MTU technology on board: the A380 consumes less than three liters per hundred passenger kilometers. management; the main leverage point for MTU The improvements will necessiate innovations in the fields of aircraft and engine design and air traffic management (e.g. flight routes), and will also demand the cooperation of the airlines concerning their daily airport operations. 32 33 Product responsibility Product responsibility Our goals for a Clean Air Engine* Alternative fuels As part of the burnFAIR research project, we Sustainably sourced alternative fuels with a helped Lufthansa introduce biofuels in schedCarbon reduction of aircraft engines positive net carbon footprint constitute anothuled flights for the first time. MTU’s propulsion er important approach in efforts to reduce system specialists analyzed the engines’ beaviation-induced CO2 emissions. At present, havior during test flights and confirmed the 2020 -15 % two synthetic fuels are authorized for standard fuel’s conformance with requirements. The flight operations—as so-called drop-in fuels, final report was published with the cooperation they meet the specifications for conventional of MTU in September 2014. kerosene and can therefore be used in all air2030 craft. The decisive factors determining CO2 Final report of burnFAIR -25 % reduction are the base substances and the manufacturing processes used to produce (German version only) these fuels. Bio-based fuels absorb the same Scientists in the EU-funded SOLAR-JET amount of CO2 from the atmosphere while the research project successfully manufactured 2050 -40 % biomass is growing as they release again dursynthetic kerosene from sunlight for the first ing combustion, permitting significant CO2 time in 2014. MTU is involved in researching reductions compared to conventional kerothis innovative production process for renewsene. However, the crops involved must not able aviation fuel. Since 2014, the company has * We have set these goals in our technology roadmap Clean Air Engine (Claire). They are in have a negative impact on food production or also been supporting the InnoTreib project line with the targets of the Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) by the European compromise biodiversity. Such problems can sponsored by the German Federal Ministry for aviation industry and the research community. be addressed by selecting suitable species. Economic Affairs and Energy. Due to run until 2016, the project was set up to research MTU actively promotes the introduction MTU promotes efforts to spread the use of synthetic fuels with enhanced properties such of sustainable fuels in aviation and helped Lufthansa carry out a field test. Climate protection goals Stage 1 biofuels in numerous ways: by commissioning as reduced pollutant emissions and higher The European aviation industry and research As well as the ultimate 2050 goal, there are studies at Bauhaus Luftfahrt, by supporting energy densities for greater ranges. community has committed itself to ambitious also interim targets, the first of which we engine and combustion chamber tests, and as climate protection goals, which it has laid intend to achieve this year. In the first stage, a founding member of the Aviation Initiative “As part of our climate strategy, down in the Strategic Research and Innovation the Geared Turbofan will reduce fuel confor Renewable Energy in Germany (aireg e.V.). we’re working to improve Agenda (SRIA). sumption—and therefore CO2 emissions—by up This non-profit association was established by the carbon footprint of to 15 % by the end of 2015. MTU along with airlines, manufacturers and aircraft engines. Our goal: Back in 2009, the International Air Transport research organizations to bring together all a 40 percent reduction in CO2 Association (IATA), the world’s leading airline Stage 2 relevant activities and technical expertise in emissions by 2050.” representative body, formulated long-term tarFor the next stage, conceptual studies have Germany. gets for the global aviation fleet, which take shown that further improvements are possible Michael Schreyögg, expected growth into account: based on the Geared Turbofan. By 2030, the www.bauhaus-luftfahrt.net Chief Program Officer • Efficiency to be improved by 1.5 % per engineers want to achieve an even higher bywww.aireg.de MTU Aero Engines AG annum (2009-2020) pass ratio, for instance, and further improve • CO2-neutral growth starting in 2020 the thermal efficiency of the core engine by • Total CO2 emissions from aircraft to be means of higher pressure and temperature halved by 2050 (baseline 2005) ratios. The goal is to reduce fuel and CO2 by 25 % in the second Clean Air Engine stage. MTU Strategic Research and Innovation is working to achieve this target within the Agenda framework of new European research projects International Air Transport Association such as ENOVAL and Clean Sky 2, which began during the reporting period. No other sector of the transportation industry has taken on such a wide-ranging voluntary Stage 3 commitment to mitigate climate change. As In the third and final stage of Clean Air Engine, the required improvements are substantial, revolutionary new features will make their they will necessitate innovations in the fields first appearance, such as integrated and disof aircraft and engine design and air traffic tributed fans to increase thrust efficiency or management, and will also demand the coophighly efficient heat engines. The latter comeration of the airlines. bine gas turbines with piston engines for extremely high pressures and temperatures or Clean Air Engine 2050 recuperate energy from exhaust gas using We measure our performance on the basis of heat exchangers. The goal is to reduce CO2 by the European SRIA agenda, which accords to 40 % by 2050, and initial studies have already a large extent with the IATA requirements and begun at MTU. forms a binding part of our climate change strategy. Our product strategy pools all our research and development activities in sustainable engine concepts and new technologies under the Clean Air Engine (Claire) agenda. Through Claire, we have set ourselves ambitious goals regarding future passenger aircraft, including that of reducing CO2 emissions by 40 % between now and 2050. The Bauhaus Luftfahrt think tank came up with a particularly interesting aircraft concept for the future in the Claire Liner. “Claire” stands for Clean Air Engine. 34 35 Product responsibility Product responsibility Research activities MTU participation in EU research pro3.4 Aircraft noise As an integral part of our research activities, grams (selection) we regularly compile interim reports in which • Clean Sky, Clean Sky 2 The noise that aircraft produce also contribwe compare our progress to our objectives • ENOVAL utes to their environmental impact. Engines and measure our goal attainment. Long-term • LEMCOTEC produce the most noise during takeoff, but the technology development programs are con• E-BREAK aircraft itself is also a noticeable source of ducted ahead of product development, mainly noise because of turbulence generated at the within the framework of national or EU reMTU’s technology programs and fuselage, wings and landing gear. Most of the search projects. In addition, we have built up research partnerships noise generated by the engines comes from a nationwide network of research partners in the fan and airflow. Since the 1960s, aircraft which we cooperate with selected universities Through our climate change strategy, we wish noise has been drastically reduced thanks to on subject areas of special interest. to play an active role in efforts to reduce engines with ever higher bypass ratios. Acthe aviation industry’s carbon footprint. Our cording to figures from the German environ> For more detailed information, see Chapter 6 products put us in an excellent position for ment ministry, for example, the percentage of Commitment to Society/Research & Education. reaching this goal, given that by far the highest people in Germany who feel bothered by airshare of CO2 emissions from aircraft engines craft noise has sunk over the past twelve years A new European research project, ENOVAL, arises during the in-service phase of the profrom 15 % to 6 %—despite rising passenger was launched in the reporting period; led by duct lifecycle, which can last for several denumbers. MTU, it will run for four years. Its objective is cades. But we also intend to take appropriate to reduce CO2 emissions by 5 % by developing measures to improve the CO2 balance of airnew technologies for the low-pressure system craft engines during the production phase. in aero engines. In addition, the Clean Sky 2 New engines with Geared Turbofan™ technology, such as the PW1100G-JM for the A320neo, offer program was launched in July 2014 as a followProduction improvements in the double-digit percentage range for fuel consumption, emissions and noise. up to the current Clean Sky initiative. MTU is In operating our production sites around the one of the founding members of Clean Sky 2, world, we consume raw materials and elecwhich is scheduled to run for eight years. In tricity and use various resources to generate various research and demonstration projects, energy. Our long-term goal is to maximize the program is providing the technological energy efficiency and minimize the consumpAircraft noise compared with everyday noises basis for the development of the next generation of natural resources. We have already EN26 Sound pressure level dB(A) tion of greener and more cost-effective aircraft. taken steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our Munich location by launching the 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Press release: Clean Sky 2: MTU Aero Clean Air Industrial Site (CLAIR-IS) program, Dripping tap Engines takes on the role of lead through which we aim to slash CO2-emissions partner by 25 % by the year 2020 (baseline 1990). Press release: EU technology As the largest site in our manufacturing netTicking alarm clock program ENOVAL work, Munich accounts for around 71 % of the (1 meter) group’s gross profit (2014). All our Clean Air Engine agenda projects are Normal conversation currently on schedule and we have been able > For measures taken and successes achieved (1 meter) to meet our targets to date. in production, see Chapter 4 Environmental Protection in Production/Emissions, see Television Pages 50-51. (1 meter) Lawnmower (10 meters) Airbus A320neo GTF At distance of 650 meters (take-off) Car (10 meters) 60 km/h Bus (25 meters) 60 km/h Intercity Express train (25 meters) 250 km/h Truck (7.5 meters) 75 km/h Freight train (25 meters) 100 km/h Jackhammer (7 meters) 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 ENOVAL-Geared Turbofan of MTU Aero Engines with ultra-high bypass ratio. Aircraft noise compared with everyday noises: the volumes of various noise sources are expressed here as dB(A) sound pressure levels in order to obtain anapproximate frequency weighting (A-weighting filter) in line with human perception. Source: MTU Aero Engines AG. 36 37 Product responsibility Product responsibility Aircraft and their engines must meet the noise Engines in which MTU is involved are always Every time MTU redesigns or optimizes an Reduction of aircraft noise (at landing and take-off) emissions limits set down by the International among the quietest on the market, coming in engine, it incorporates measures designed to EN26 Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) as part of significantly below the legally prescribed limits. reduce noise. Our acoustics experts are inthe certification process. Furthermore, at Both the V2500 for the A320 family and the volved at every stage of product design. almost every airport in the world the fees GP7000 for the A380 represented significant charged for landing and takeoff are dependent advances when they came onto the market. Through our Clean Air Engine agenda, we are 30 Stage 2 on the noise generated by the aircraft. There Scheduled for launch in 2015, the PW1000G achieving a leap forward in lessening aircraft B737-200 Noise level (cumulative margin in EPNdB 4) are more and more restrictions on operating Geared Turbofan engine will also deliver subnoise at the source. The new Geared Turbofan 20 noisy planes. A new noise standard (Chapter 5) stantial improvements. After all, noise reducengine produces significantly less noise thanks is currently in preparation. tion is an active goal for MTU engineering. to its large, slowly revolving fan. MTU’s highStage 3 10 speed low-pressure turbine turns three times B747-100 A300 faster than a conventional turbine. As a result, Stage 4 0 A310 A320 CFM56 it does not generate the low-frequency noise B737-800 that is so poorly absorbed in the atmosphere. A320 -V2500 Stage 5 Substantial reduction of the 75-decibel noise contour area thanks to the The Geared Turbonfan’s noise footprint (the -10 A340-600 new Geared Turbofan™ (GTF) engines (Munich Airport) distribution of aircraft noise in the area surA380 EN26 rounding an airport) is 70% smaller. This is -20 A320neo GTF thanks in no small part to MTU’s expertise. today’s GTF 1 Moreover, perceived noise levels are cut -30 ACARE 2020 target almost in half. And future generations of the SRIA 2035 Geared Turbofan will be quieter still: we esti-40 mate that noise can be reduced by as much 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 as 50 % by 2030 and 65 % by 2050. Year of aircraft certification Aircraft noise has fallen continuously since the 1970s. To be certified, engines and aircraft must meet noise emissions limits, which have become progressively stricter over time (Chapters 2-4). The Chapter 5 standards are in preparation. 1 All-new aircraft design with first generation GTF * The sum of the differences at all three measurement points between the maximum noise level according to the aircraft certificate and the maximum noise level according to the regulations. 3.5 Product quality and safety further processing and so accrue more added value. Engine components increase in value All MTU products are examined for their impact throughout the course of their production, on health and safety throughout their developwhich means a lot of capital is tied up in the ment, production and operation lifecycles. expensive end product. So manufacturing to Accordingly, we cover all life stages 100 %. Our the highest quality standards is not merely aviation products are subject to very strict important for safety reasons, but also for eco0 1 2 Miles safety and environmental requirements laid out nomic ones. by the industry’s regulatory authorities. These requirements must be demonstrably met in the We have equally high expectations of the qualiAircraft with conventional turbofan engine early stages of planning new aircraft engines ty provided by our suppliers and their vendorfor later use. This includes being able to guarsupplied parts. As soon as any finished or antee safe operation during a bird strike or unfinished parts arrive they must pass through hailstorm, and complying with strict limits on our goods inspection department, where we pollutant and noise emissions. We have to examine them using a wide variety of different validate these capabilities using appropriate technical methods before releasing them for testing methods. MTU components exceed further processing. Each supplier must be aviation authority requirements. In addition, approved by MTU: we pay site visits to take a the manufacture and assembly of engine parts close look at their manufacturing process and modules in our production halls meets all from start to finish, and expect our suppliers Our ultra-modern test rigs allow us to carry out required standards concerning occupational to extensively document their activities. We engine tests under operating conditions. The picture shows a PW1000G being perpared for a safety and environmental protection. conduct regular audits at our suppliers’ locatest run. tions to check that they are upholding these Product safety standards. In 2013 and 2014, our purchasers Comprehensive quality and safety testing is of and quality controllers carried out for our the utmost importance in manufacturing for European locations a total of 689 audits at all the aviation industry. MTU components must major suppliers, including inspections and meet comprehensive quality specifications interviews on site. before they can be delivered, let alone incorporated into aircraft. Safety-critical compoStrict requirements also apply to new materials nents are subjected to particularly rigorous and technologies. Fail-safe materials are a 0 1 2 Miles testing, for example using extensive non-debasic prerequisite for safe engines and aircraft. structive ultrasound and x-ray examination We employ comprehensive testing programs methods. Each component goes through difinvolving test builds and series tests on new Aircraft with Geared Turbofan™ ferent testing stations during the course of the engines to verify the safety and airworthiness production process to check that it is being of new technologies. All the materials we use Sound Exposure Level (SEL) footprint (dB) manufactured in precise accordance with set must be approved by the appropriate aviation 75 80 85 90 95 tolerances. Only once these standards are authority. Takeoff/landing runway Flight track verified can the component be released for 38 39 Product responsibility Product responsibility Certified quality systems or components for which MTU has Any and all components used in an engine design responsibility. These measures allow must be certified. Our principle is that “Safety us to fulfill the requirements of the aviation takes priority in what we do” and that is why authorities and of our partners and customers. we use only approved, fault-free and clearly identifiable components. This refers to parts Export compliance that have been approved by the appropriate In the OEM segment, MTU partners with aviation authority, are based on approved deGeneral Electric and Pratt & Whitney/Pratt & velopment documentation and have been proWhitney Canada on developing and producing duced or overhauled in compliance with the engines for commercial programs. Both of applicable aviation regulatory processes by a these companies are among the biggest aero company that is authorized to do so and has engine manufacturers worldwide. In the milithe supporting documentation to prove it. tary segment, MTU develops and produces The aviation sector has strict rules governing important systems and components for all the documentation requirements in order to verify main European programs, as well as being the airworthiness of components and engines. involved in U.S. engine projects. All suppliers There must be no gaps in documentation, a and recipients involved in the purchase or sale principle to which we adhere at each stage of of engine components are reviewed by MTU the production process. in advance in what’s called a sanctions list check. Our military customers include the deThere are also regulations in place governing fense ministries of individual customer nations the handling and storage of documents, data as well as the companies that work with these and records. This applies to any documents ministries. Any delivery of military equipment that contain information on the following: the must be cleared by the German federal governquality of operations or products delivered; ment to ensure that the buyer and the recipient effective, integrated management systems; the of the goods are trustworthy. Without this requirements of aviation authorities, partners clearance, there can be no delivery or export and customers; and environmental protection of engines and parts for military use. and workplace safety. Specific examples of documents that fall under this rule are design “Product quality and product reviews, design verifications, supplier assesssafety are key for us. The ments, inspection records, records of faulty aviation sector has very high products and certification documentation for requirements, which we meet at all stages—from component development through to delivery.” Dr. Rainer Martens, The innovative techniques that we have developed in-house enable us to repair components to an extent that is unique worldwide. Our ability to repair parts that others would Chief Operating Officer simply replace means that we conserve material and resources. MTU Aero Engines AG Sustainable product lifecycle Generally an engine will complete between Today’s engines have a very long service life 20,000 and 30,000 flight hours before it is of some 20,000 cycles (a cycle corresponds taken off the wing and has to be given its first to one flight). This means that an engine can overhaul. MTU Maintenance operates a netspend up to 30 years in service. This extremely work with sites across the world to handle long service life is one of the design specificathese shop visits. All MTU shops have the requitions for engine design, meaning that the sersite certifications, such as the EN9100 series, vice life of each component has to match that ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. MTU Maintenance of the engine. Components that are subject has developed its own range of innovative to extreme heat and mechanical stress cannot repair processes, which means that it can normally be made to last throughout the enrepair components in many situations where gine’s entire service life, and so these lifeothers resort to buying new ones—in fact, it is limited parts must be replaced in due course. unique worldwide in terms of this capability. However, by using improved materials and This translates into materials and resources design tools as well as refined production and saved. MTU is continually expanding this repair testing techniques, MTU has successfully excapability and investing in R&D to develop the tended—and in some cases even doubled—the special processes required. service life of these life-limited parts. Making use of the latest coating techniques to offer MTU offers its own system for monitoring enprotection against erosion, oxidation and sulfigines in flight: MTUPlus Engine Trend Monitoring dation is also critical to a longer service life. (ETM). The system monitors operating paraMTU’s ERCoateco erosion protection for commeters to provide an overview of how all the pressor blades and vanes extends service life components are functioning. The ETM systems in desert regions while cutting fuel consumpwarns of any malfunctions or drop in engine tion by making the parts wear-resistant. We performance and means that appropriate repair offer this special coating for various engine work can be undertaken at an early stage. This types. makes engines much more efficient in operaSafety comes first at MTU: we use only properly certified, fault-free and clearly identifiable tion and hence better for the environment. components. 40 41 Product responsibility Product responsibility If an engine can no longer be overhauled, it Customer satisfaction must be disposed of. Given the high value of Our definition of product responsibility is a the materials that go into aircraft engines, question of not only guaranteeing high quality almost everything is recycled. As a supplier of and safety in our products, but satisfying our engine modules, MTU has no direct influence customers and partners as well. Customer over the scrapping phase, which is carried out satisfaction is one of the key yardsticks of a by specialist companies. The front section company’s success. As in previous years, MTU of engines is made of titanium alloys, while received the Supplier Gold Award in 2013 and the high-temperature area consists mostly of 2014 from Pratt & Whitney’s parent company nickel-based alloys and, to a lesser extent, United Technologies Corporation (UTC) in steel, aluminum and plastics. On account of recognition of its outstanding achievements in the high prices for titanium and nickel and quality, on-time delivery and customer satisthe extremely high prices for some alloying faction. Pratt & Whitney is an original equipelements and coatings such as platinum and ment manufacturer (OEM) of aero engines rhenium, aero engines are so full of valuable and a strategic partner for MTU. In our new materials that they are almost completely engines and spare parts business (OEM segmelted down for reuse. As the engine is being ment), we achieved an on-time delivery rate dismantled, components that have not yet of over 90 % in 2014. This figure is set to reach reached the end of their service lives are set 96 % across all engine programs in 2015. aside and reused as spare parts. Certain materials can also be taken and directly employed MTU Maintenance offers maintenance and in non-aviation applications. Material suppliers additional services for aero engines and indusgenerally melt down the remaining materials trial gas turbines. Customers include airlines and put them back into circulation. and energy producers—in other words, its activities involve direct business to end customers. To deliver even better customer care, MTU Maintenance uses an IT-based customer relationship management system. One important component of the system is the “voice of the customer” survey, which measures current Generally an engine will complete between customer satisfaction. The survey takes place 20,000 and 30,000 flight hours before it has to given its first overhaul. We use feedback from our customers to further improve our performance and to align ourselves more closely with their wishes. once a quarter and was extended to all mainteIn 2014, MTU Maintenance won Aircraft Technance sites and customer segments during nology Engineering & Maintenance magazine’s the reporting period. Customers regularly use “Best Engine MRO Provider” award for the this opportunity to provide feedback on our second time—an acknowledgement of MTU’s product quality, service, logistics and price excellence by customers and partners. The structures. In turn, we use the feedback to jury was made up of aviation industry experts, further improve our performance and to posiincluding top managers from international airtion ourselves even more closely in line with lines. our customers’ wishes. Our goal is to constantly increase levels of customer satisfaction so that we can remain competitive. We also continued “Response” corporate development Customer satisfaction has top priority—and that goes for maintenance of industrial gas turbines program at MTU’s biggest maintenance site in such as the LM6000 as well. Hannover, which is designed to improve product quality and increase customer satisfaction. 42 43 Environmental management in production 4 Environmental management in production 4.1 Management approach attaining high recycling rates at our production sites for years (e.g. approximately 83 % at our Protecting the environment is something we Munich site). Our goal is to maintain this high place great value on at MTU. Not only is envirecycling level as capacity utilization rates inronmental protection explicitly enshrined in crease. our Code of Conduct and the MTU Principles, it is also a permanent feature of our annual We are committed to the principle of integratcorporate goals and the object of a dedicated ed environmental protection. For us, this comprogram of environmental measures. We view prises the following: our environmental responsibility as encom• Continuous improvements passing products themselves as well as their • Precautionary approach development, manufacture and maintenance, • Employee involvement and this broad understanding of our environ• Restriction of environmental impact mental responsibility informs our business • Careful compliance with statutory limit decisions. The biggest contribution we can values and requirements make to protecting the environment is by • Processes that use resources and energy means of ecologically efficient products. We sparingly are advancing the use of environmentally “We manage resources carefully friendly aviation technologies within the longand use energy, water and raw term Claire (Clean Air Engine) technology materials sparingly in production agenda. In addition, we are pursuing a reducand maintenance.” tion in harmful CO2 emissions as part of our climate strategy, which itself is embedded in Martin Schäffner, Claire. The strategy focuses on MTU products CR Steering Committee and but also includes production. Senior Vice President, Corporate Quality MTU Aero Engines AG > For more on MTU’s climate strategy, see Product Responsibility chapter on pages 33-36. MTU pursues the goal of energy-efficient production and maintenance operations that minimize the consumption of raw materials and the emission of greenhouse gases and pollutants. We strictly observe the specifications for approvals of installations and the statutory emissions limits for airborne pollutants when operating manufacturing plants and test rigs and document this compliance by means of regular measurements and calculations. We also keep noise pollution as low as possible. When manufacturing and repairing products, we use re-sources such as raw materials, energy and water with care. In times of rising production volumes, MTU either maintains Our main topics: existing levels of energy consumption or manages to significantly limit their increase. For CO2-emissions, waste materials, the company has a systematic recycling policy that follows the circular ecoenergy management nomy principle. As a result, we have been • 25% reduction in CO2 at main plant in Munich by 2020 • Approx. EUR 6.6 m investment and expenditure on environmental protection in 2014 44 45 Environmental management in production Environmental management in production Certified environmental management requirements. This monitoring is supplementCurrent expenditure for environmental protection in 2014 (in thousand euros) Company-wide environmental protection is ed by internal inspections and audits. In its EN30 given top-level management priority through controlling and monitoring role, MTU’s mandirect reporting to the Board of Management. agement carries out regular management reA certified environmental management sysviews and directly steers development of the tem, in which all processes, responsibilities management system. Waste management 901 and goals are defined, ensures that consisWater pollution control 945 tently high standards are upheld throughout During the reporting period, there were no Air pollution control 146 the company. Internal standards correspondincidents at MTU sites with a negative environConservation and landscape 14 ing to laws, ordinances, permissions and mental impact. In such cases, emergency manmanagement other regulations are binding for MTU’s sites agement plans kick in. Systematic environUse of renewable energy 3.062 and in some instances exceed statutory commental management meant that once again in (CHP operation in Munich) pliance. The stringent environmental criteria 2013 and 2014 the company did not have to Total 5.068 apply to all divisions, processes and systems, pay any fines for breaches of statutory requireextending from an engine’s development ments relating to the environment. We are Investments in environmental protection in 2014 (in thousand euros) through to production and repair. These critepreparing for new legal requirements such as EN30 ria are described and regulated within docuthe EU’s REACH regulation for substances of mented process flows and special standards very high concern (SHVs) so that we can fully applying to the company’s production units. implement them on time. Energy-efficiency measures 464 Certifications for integrated environmental, MTU involves its employees in its environmental Water pollution control 572 quality and occupational safety management protection endeavors and promotes environClimate protection 462 at European sites in 2013/2014 reporting mentally aware behavior by means of informaEmission prevention/reduction 73 period: tion campaigns, action days and similar initiaNoise reduction 6 tives. In addition, employees are invited to Total 1.577 Munich submit their ideas for improving environmental • EN 9100:2008 protection through the company suggestion An overall monetary quantification covering all European sites is currently not possible. Data on the German sites • ISO 14001:2004 program. from 2014 onwards is compiled in a database. • EMAS Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 (Eco Management Audit Scheme) Action days for environmental protection • OHSAS 18001:2007 during the reporting period Environmental protection in the supply improve environmental compatibility, but also • GQA Certificate • Environmental Information Day chain pay dividends in the form of lower energy (Hannover, annually) MTU’s environmental protection efforts also costs. We invest primarily in modernization, Hannover • Eco Day for Apprentices (Munich, annually) extend to its suppliers. With the new Code of the use of renewable energies, and in new • EN 9100/91010:2008 • Health, Safety and Environment Conduct for Suppliers, which entered into force buildings that are planned according to strict • ISO 14001:2004 (HSE) Days (Ludwigsfelde, annually) at the start of 2014, we set out environmental environmental criteria. During the reporting A certified environmental management system • EMAS Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 requirements for cooperation with suppliers, period, for example, we commissioned a new ensures that uniformly high standards apply (Eco Management Audit Scheme) In addition, we promote greater environmental who must: logistics hall in Hannover and a new logistics throughout the company. • OHSAS 18001:2007 protection in industry and business through • Observe laws and international standards center in Munich, while expansion of MTU’s our membership in various initiatives. • Apply the precautionary principle in dealing Polish plant was completed at the start of Berlin with environmental problems 2015. • EN 9100:2008 Memberships in environmental protection • Commit themselves to promoting a greater • ISO 14001:2004 initiatives sense of responsibility • OHSAS 18001:2007 • German Environmental Management • Support the development and spread of Association environmentally friendly technologies Rzeszów • Bavarian Environmental Pact • EN 9100:2008 • Energy Efficiency Network for Munich and > For more on the new Code of Conduct for Upper Bavaria Suppliers, see Chapter 2 Economics, 2.5 All certifications were successfully verified in Supplier Management, pages 26-27. audits during the reporting years. The public is regularly informed about measures, results and successes relating to enviDuring the reporting year, the oekom research Click here for an overview of ronmental issues through statements issued rating agency awarded MTU its Prime Status, certifications at all MTU sites by MTU for its two largest sites, Munich and which recognizes—among other distinctions— Hannover. the sustainable nature of the company’s enviThe environmental protection management ronmental achievements. MTU also achieved officer holds a senior position within the comOur environmental statements an above-average rating (76.9%) in the environpany’s organizational structure and is respon(German version only) mental category of the STOXX Leaders indices. sible for implementing the environmental manIn their award citation for MTU in 2014, the agement system. Individual managers are jury of the German Investors’ Award for Resdirectly responsible for environmental protecponsible Business Practices praised the comtion and are advised and supported in occupany’s progress in the efficient use of raw pational health and environmental protection materials and energy. by their site’s relevant specialist departments. Independent external auditors and environ> For more information about ratings and mental consultants conduct annual reviews awards, see Chapter 2 Economics, page 22. to confirm implementation of and adherence to the applicable environmental protection Investing in environmental protection MTU invests a great deal in protecting the The new blisk hall at MTU’s site in Munich is particularly energy-efficient, thanks to heat recovery, environment, since the resources saved cutting-edge ventilation technology and well-water cooling. through energy-efficient production not only 46 47 Environmental management in production Environmental management in production 4.2 Energy management renovating old ones, the company places high value on measures that ensure efficient energy We are committed to the principle of energysupply. Our goal is to achieve significant imefficient supply in order to limit our energy provements compared to comparable existing demand, and we consider security of supply, buildings. cost effectiveness and environmental sustainability when choosing energy resources. As Progress in energy management primary energy sources, we use natural gas, 2013-2014 aviation fuel, diesel/biodiesel and to a small • Efficient use of heat energy: new logistics extent heating oil. However, we use renewable hall heated by waste heat from the comenergy wherever possible. For example, a pressed-air-system (2013, Hannover) cogeneration plant that runs on vegetable oil • Energy consumption around 20 % below and permanently covers a portion of the site’s statutory limits defined under German energy requirements has already been in Energy Savings Ordinance (EnEV): special operation in Munich for several years now. In insulation of new logistics hall addition, the Hannover site uses solar thermal (2014, Munich) technology as well as using the waste heat • Use of well water for process cooling, heat from compressors for heating purposes. recovery (-70 % heating energy) and LED illumination in new logistics hall Consumption of electricity and gas—the chief (2014, Munich) energy sources—is managed and controlled • Conversion to LED illumination through a comprehensive energy management (since 2013; Ludwigsfelde, Hannover) External wall insulation reduces heat loss from the logistics hall at the MTU site in Hannover. strategy. We continuously measure energy • New insulation of façades consumption as the basis for using it more (2014, Hannover) efficiently. This is accompanied by a concept that promotes sustainable buildings and proEnergy consumption (in MWh) cesses: when constructing new buildings and EN3, EN4 Scope 1 conventional (natural gas, aircraft fuel, diesel/biodiesel, heating oil) 2011 120,815 2012 125,667 2013 143,929 2014 124,539 Scope 1 renewable (palm oil) 2011 9,811 2012 13,631 2013 9,812 2014 10,134 Scope 2 (electricity, district heating) 2011 108,356 2012 107,570 2013 108,362 2014 108,150 As of 2013, energy budget includes site in Rzeszów, Poland. Natural gas, district heating, biodiesel and palm oil are used to heat buildings and At MTU Maintenance Hannover waste heat from the compressed-airwater. The demand for heating energy varies considerably according to weather consystem is used to heat the new logistics hall. ditions and the severity of the colder times of year. This affects how much energy we consume. Aircraft fuel is essential for performing engine tests; the type and duration of these tests are the only factors affecting how much aircraft fuel is consumed. Our use of green electricity is determined by the extent to which our suppliers either procure or themselves produce electricity from renewable sources (Munich: 35 %, Hannover: 33 %, Berlin: 29 %). To save energy, LED lighting was installed in the new logistics hall at MTU’s Munich site. 48 49 Environmental management in production Environmental management in production 4.3 Emissions from natural gas and aviation fuel are classed Measures to implement energy-efficient of CO2 (greenhouse gas) emissions annually as direct emissions (Scope 1), which arise production in 2013/2014 (based on average emissions over the last MTU pursues the goal of energy-efficient profrom sources that are owned by the company. • Making greater use of well water as a three years). This equates to an average annual duction that minimizes the amount of CO2 and Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) coolant in production processes reduction of 1.5 %. These measures are also other emissions that get into the air. However, originate from the consumption of purchased • Modernizing the district heating network designed to reduce electricity consumption by the biggest positive effect we have on climate electricity or district heating. The demand for • Improving thermal insulation 30 % (based on revenues in the period from protection is achieved by our products through electricity, natural gas and aviation fuel is de• Deploying building automation systems 2010 to 2020). In addition, a portion of the our climate strategy. pendent on production workloads. • Using renewable fuels electricity we purchase for production and • Using a more energy-efficient compressed maintenance comes from renewable energy > For more information, see Product The Clean Air Industrial Site program (CLAIR-IS) air supply sources, in other words from CO2-neutral Responsibility chapter from page 28. was initiated in 2009 at MTU headquarters in • Installing more energy-efficient lighting production (Munich 35 %, Hannover 33 %, Munich. CLAIR-IS sets climate objectives for systems Berlin 29 %). We measure emissions at MTU’s European manufacturing processes that are similar to the production sites in accordance with the intercompany’s product-oriented climate strategy. The use of non-potable well water as a coolant We are also seeking to make continuous imnational standard of the Greenhouse Gas The long-term aim is to cut CO2 emissions for machines, for example, saves 3,900 tons provements in our climate performance in the (GHG) Protocol. From several sources, MTU from product manufacturing and maintenance of CO2 emissions every year. Back at the start area of logistics. Measures include optimizing emits greenhouse gases that have an effect activities at our main plant in Munich by 25 % of 2007, MTU put a cogeneration plant into logistics routes for in-plant transportation, such on the climate as defined by the Kyoto Protoby the year 2020 (compared to figures from operation at the Munich site, which is fired as the logistics hall on the factory grounds in col. CO2 emissions alone make up a sizeable the year 1990)—and to do so despite continuexclusively by renewable raw materials and Hannover since 2013, and using vehicles with part of this. The majority of CO2 emissions ously increasing production rates. The Munich therefore does not emit any harmful CO2. better environmental performance. In addition, (63 %) comes from the principal energy source, headquarters generated around 71 % of the Through its heating plant, MTU reduces its MTU also promotes sustainable commuting electricity, followed by natural gas (21 %). In group’s gross profit in 2014. MTU’s sustainclimate change impact while also producing practices among its employees through measaddition, CO2 emissions are produced by aviaable energy management was recognized at highly efficient electrical energy. The cogenerures such as bus services to and from plants. tion fuel kerosene (15%), which is used at MTU the “econique” networking summit in 2014, ation plant is powered using climate-neutral From 2015, we want to introduce further susMTU aims to significantly reduce CO2 emissions for test runs of aircraft engines. According to where it achieved second place in the Energy vegetable oil, thus saving around 7,400 tons of tainable logistics measures. produced by the manufacture and maintenance the GHG Protocol, greenhouse gas emissions Masters Award. CO2 a year. For several years now, modernized of products at its Munich site by 2020. ventilation systems featuring the latest rotary heat exchangers have gradually increased the CO2 emissions from energy source (in tons) amount of heat retained indoors, saving around EN16 1,500 tons of CO2 emissions each year. In total, these measures save around 23,000 tons Scope 1 (natural gas, aircraft fuel, diesel, heating oil) 2011 26,950 2012 27,401 2013 32,060 2014 27,439 Scope 2 (electricity, district heating)* 2011 50,884 2012 50,653 2013 58,479 2014 48,426 As of 2013, emissions budget includes site in Rzeszów, Poland. * Scope 2 carbon emissions for Rzeszów cannot be determined yet. CO2 emissions for 2011-2012 exclude district heating Other airborne emissions (in tons) EN20 Carbon monoxide (CO) Sulfur dioxide (SO2) 2011 33 2011 23 2012 37 2012 23 2013 38 2013 24 2014 35 2014 21 Nitrogen oxide (NoX) Dust 2011 124 2011 2 2012 118 2012 2 2013 131 2013 2 2014 103 2014 2 Emissions of airborne pollutants for Rzeszów, Poland cannot be determined yet. We are very careful in how we use resources, and our employees ensure that production is energy-efficient. 50 51 Environmental management in production Environmental management in production 4.4 Water use in production. There has been a significant drop in water consumption over the past few Water is an increasingly scarce natural reyears thanks to measures such as the systemsource that we treat responsibly when manuatic use of well water for cooling processes, facturing and maintaining our products. We the use of water-saving technology and the use water in production and maintenance prorecirculation of process water. In 2014, we cesses and employ a closed-loop system for achieved a water usage ratio of 2.1 % drinking process water as much as possible. In addition, water to 97.9 % groundwater. MTU has inwe consume drinking water chiefly in sanitary creased the amount of well water used at its facilities and cafeterias and to a small extent Munich headquarters. Groundwater is extracted Water budget (in m3 ) EN8, EN21 Water intake Drinking water Ground water 2011 2012 129,218 134,443 5,112,218 4,983,000 5,786,443 5,652,000 2013 2014 129,822 147,611 6,373,563 6,243,741 6.953.148 7,103,759 6,956,148 In production and maintenance processes, we employ a closed-loop system for process water as much as possible. Discharge Sewers Surface water Ground water 2011 2012 179,607 199,297 5,342,607 5,163,000 5,514,297 5,315,000 We manage resources like the increasingly scarce water carefully when manunfacturing and maintaining our products. 2013 2014 216,721 150,768 from MTU’s own on-site wells, and used for we observe the statutory limits. In engine 6,167,713 1,319,482 6,994,127 1,442,397 cooling in production processes. This Quatermanufacturing, electroplating involves certain nary water, which is not classed as drinking coating processes that use water-based chemi4,631,510 5,400,962 water, is pumped from a depth of 25 meters cal process baths. Ion exchange plants are and piped throughout the site. Compared to used to create rinse water circuits that enable conventional cooling, this method reduces large volumes of water to be reused. Only More water used in 2014 due to rise in production volume. As of 2013, water budget electrical power requirements and avoids the 3 % of the total water used is discharged into includes site in Rzeszów, Poland. The quality of the discharged waste water meets use of environmentally damaging coolants. The sewers as treated waste water. Process water the requirements of the official permits at the respective sites. gradual expansion of water extraction plants used for crack detection facilities is also fed means that the company can now extract into the water recirculation system, whereby 12.8 million cubic meters every year. most of the water is reused and only a small amount of waste water is treated and disWe want to progressively reduce the discharged into municipal sewers. In addition, charge of waste water into bodies of water MTU has undertaken a systematic inspection and municipal sewers. In this regard, strict and renovation of the well water and sewer monitoring of water discharge ensures that duct networks. 52 53 Environmental management in production Environmental management in production 4.5 Material efficiency as of September 2017. Chromium trioxide, Waste management (in tons) ammonium dichromate, sodium dichromate EN22 MTU strives to use basic and raw materials and potassium chromate are the substances economically in production and maintenance. used at MTU that are affected by the regulaOur manufacturing and maintenance processes tion. An implementation project has been are geared toward efficiency and waste reduclaunched to achieve this, and the affected Waste reused Harmful waste reused tion. The manufacturing and repair methods components and the corresponding tools and used by MTU, many of which were developed jigs have been recorded and possible solutions 2011 4.270 2011 1.027 in-house, are particularly efficient in their analyzed. SVHCs are to be replaced insofar as 2012 3.892 2012 898 use of energy and materials. One example of possible, and new applications that use SVHCs 2013 3.512 2013 837 this is waterstripping, which removes thermal will be rejected in the future. Implementation 2014 3.599 2014 737 coatings from engine parts without using is progressing according to plan at all the MTU chemicals. Group’s European locations; the company’s Waste disposed of Harmful waste disposed of sites outside Europe are not affected by these We have decided to harness the potential of regulations. 2011 430 2011 386 the new additive manufacturing methods for 2012 566 2012 528 engine production. This completely new techWe will complete implementation of the EU’s 2013 693 2013 516 nology involves making components directly CLP regulation for the classification, labeling 2014 767 2014 670 from a powder bed via laser melting based and packaging of chemical substances and on CAD data, which delivers major material mixtures (which aligns the EU system with the Building waste reused As of 2013, waste budget includes site in Rzeszów, Poland. Increased building waste savings. During the reporting period, MTU UN’s Globally Harmonized System (GHS)) in in 2013 due to new building projects. manufacturing specialists were able to initiate 2015 as required by statutory provisions. 2011 8 series production of the first components 2012 62 made using additive processes. We plan to Progress in material efficiency 2013-2014 2013 356 We place value on manufacturing and repair widen the range of parts manufactured by • Recycling of engine alloys in new collabora2014 39 techniques that reduce the amount of material additive methods in the future. tion with specialized companies used and therefore conserve resources. (since 2013; Hannover) Wherever possible, we want to avoid using • Approx. 585 liters of jet oil (Type II) saved environmentally hazardous materials in manuduring test runs annually resources as well as materials that would have facturing and repair processes and in MTU (since 2013; Ludwigsfelde) been used in the manufacture of new parts. products. The company has developed a new • Reuse of packaging materials for transWe continuously develop our repair expertise chromium6+-free paint for coating engines, porting parts and channel considerable investment into which is now used as standard for components (since 2013; Rzeszów) research and technology in consistent pursuit throughout MTU, and the use of hazardous of our “repair beats replacement” approach materials such as mercury and cadmium was MTU’s high-tech manufacturing and repair towards identifying the processes required. discontinued many years ago. The company’s processes are second to none. As leaders in Around 70 % of all engine blades can already process experts are currently working on findthis field across the aircraft engine industry, now be reused two, three or even four times. ing alternative solutions to replace certain we achieve a depth in engine repair that is substances containing chromium6+ that qualify unique worldwide. Special techniques we ourWaste accumulation as substances of very high concern (SVHCs) selves developed enable us to repair engine We adhere to a sustainable waste disposal as defined by the EU’s REACH regulation. Use parts that other maintenance shops have to concept aimed at recycling the greatest possiof these substances is subject to authorization replace with new ones. This saves valuable ble proportion of our waste and follows the circular economy principle wherever possible. This dovetails with the EU’s five-tier waste Material consumption hierarchy as implemented in Germany’s Waste EN1 Avoidance, Recycling and Disposal Act (Kreislaufwirtschaftsgesetz, §6): • Avoid the production of waste wherever possible Nickel-base alloys (in tons) Technical gases (in tons) • Reuse any waste material • Recover material from waste 2011 1,979 2011 2,349 • Recover heat from waste 2012 1,732 2012 2,316 • Eliminate waste 2013 1,703 2013 2,229 2014 2,061 2014 2,309 This approach allows us to achieve high recycling ratio. This figure was 83 % at our Titanum-base alloys (in tons) Packaging (items packaged) Munich site in 2014 (2013: 83 %). 2011 121 2011 325,859 2012 99 2012 278,712 2013 128 2013 356,001 2014 255 2014 397,801 Raw materials, consumables and supplies (in tons) Consumption figures refer to the German sites; quantification for all of Europe is not yet possible. We have a sustainable waste disposal policy that attains high recycling rates at our locations. 2011 6,032 2012 5,639 2013 5,474 2014 4,232 54 55 Responsibility towards employees 5 Responsibility toward employees 5.1 Management approach Regional distribution LA1 As a high-tech company and technological leader in the aviation sector, MTU’s success is founded primarily on the expertise and commitment of its approximately 9,000 employees Employees in Germany worldwide. We want to keep this knowledge in Employees in Poland the company and attract new talent in order 5.5 % 6.1 % to remain competitive over the long term and achieve our ambitious growth objectives. We 2011 94.5 % 2012 93.9 % are currently approaching production ramp-up in ten programs to develop engines for new aircraft models. It is a huge task, and we will be 6.3 % 6.8 % able to master it only as a team of motivated, well trained and highly efficient employees. 2013 93.7 % 2014 93.2 % That is why we invest in the employability, capabilities and productivity of our employees with comprehensive qualification and development opportunities and targeted preventive Fair working conditions healthcare. We offer attractive and secure jobs As a responsible employer, we provide socially based on legally binding employment contracts responsible terms of employment that reward “Employees are our most and combine this with above-average comperformance and respect union pay scales, valuable asset. In the aircraft pensation that rewards employee performance. and we foster a workplace atmosphere that is engine industry, the know-how MTU has various measures in place to create based on mutual respect and appreciation and and skills of every individual a tolerant working environment with a wide excludes all forms of discrimination. MTU crecount. For us, the qualification, range of opportunities to join the company ates fair working conditions for its employees motivation and job satisfaction and gain promotion, as well as flexible workthroughout the organization. We are committed of employees are crucial—and ing times and a variety of different jobs for a to respecting employees’ rights and safethat’s just as true in Poland as it diverse workforce. We have devised offers guarding their freedom of association. When is in Germany.” specifically to encourage new female talent. drafting employment contracts, we observe To help employees achieve the right work-life statutory requirements as well as internal Renata Markowska, balance, we give them the flexibility they need. company agreements. We place our trust in Director, Human Resources at We are continuously further developing our long-term, secure employment relationships. MTU Aero Engines Polska offers and schemes to make MTU a workplace Our commitment to fair working conditions that is ready to meet the needs of the future. includes strict opposition to forced or child Demographic change and a shortage of skilled labor in any form along with the safeguarding workers in Germany are among the biggest of human rights. We have enshrined these challenges we face, and we are addressing employment and social standards in binding them with a responsible long-term HR strategy. form for the entire organization in the MTU Code of Conduct. For employees in Germany, there are also internal guidelines on cooperaOur main topics: MTU employees in Europe tive and fair conduct that prohibit bullying, LA1 occupational safety, sexual harassment and discrimination. In these guidelines, MTU undertakes to punish violaattractiveness as employer, tions with appropriate measures. Defined processes have been established to deal with education and training 2011 2012 7,454 7,715 reported breaches of the Code of Conduct and internal guidelines. Employees at any MTU 2013 7,765 site who suspect infringements can report • +24 % employees since 2005 2014 7,752 their concerns to an ombudsman, who can be • 14.2 % women in the company contacted confidentially by e-mail at any time. Total workforce at MTU’s locations in Europe at year end. • Investing in further education and Personnel numbers have remained at a constant level. > For more on this subject, see Chapter 1 We want to keep our employees long term in order to training of EUR 2.3 m in 2014 secure our technological leadership and the associated Strategy, pages 14-15. • Top Employer Germany know-how. • Top Employer Poland 56 57 Responsibility towards employees Responsibility towards employees In Germany, moreover, the General Act on Remuneration and benefits Human resources policy MTU received further positive feedback from Equal Treatment (Allgemeines GleichbehandThe right to appropriate remuneration is one Responsibility for issues relating to employits employees in a 2013 study carried out by lungsgesetz) is legally binding, which prohibits of the pillars of MTU’s social policy and is ment lies with the executive board member in Focus, a German weekly news magazine, and discrimination against employees. Once again enshrined accordingly in the Code of Conduct. charge of human resources, finance and IT. the XING professional networking platform. in 2013 and 2014, there were no complaints A standardized, transparent compensation Since 2014, this has been the CEO Reiner Employees at all hierarchy levels were asked under the General Act on Equal Treatment at structure ensures that employees receive Winkler. The human resources center sets to rate companies in terms of working environMTU’s German locations. Neither were any competitive remuneration that reflects their policy that is in line with the overall corporate ment, career prospects, salary and leadership cases of discrimination reported at our Polish performance. The remuneration of pay-scale goals and long-term growth targets for each culture. The results put MTU 19th among subsidiary MTU Aero Engines Polska during employees is based on collective bargaining year as set out in MTU’s corporate strategy. Germany’s best employers, while it placed the reporting period. agreements. Compensation for senior manRegular updates are given to the Board of fourth in the sector-specific ranking. agers is tied to the company’s long-term perManagement on how human resources policy In Germany, works agreements negotiated with formance. There is a consistent methodology is being implemented. Responsibility for sucIn 2014, MTU was able to confirm this positive employee representatives supplement the for evaluating performance at all levels of the cessful implementation resides with the local perception. In the Universum Young Professtatutory foundations in defining working conhierarchy. The performance criteria are based HR departments and the respective specialist sionals study by the German business journal ditions. These collective agreements apply to on company, center or department objectives departments and managers. All managers un“Wirtschaftswoche,” MTU was ranked the 30th all employee groups with the exception of and measure how employees and each mandergo performance reviews based on achievemost popular employer for engineers. In addisenior management, who have their own repager contribute to reaching these goals. ment of their personal targets. Leadership style tion, graduates of engineering disciplines put resentative body. In 2014, 98.3 % of employees is governed by the leadership guidelines laid MTU in the top third of the available companies in Germany were covered by collective agreeMTU also provides various supplementary down in the six MTU Competences, which are in the employer ranking by the trendence ments (2013: 98.4 %). In accordance with the benefits, such as a company pension scheme derived from the MTU Principles. It is the job institute in Berlin. German Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfor all employees. In the fiscal year 2014, the of managers to ensure that company agreeIntercultural cooperation is valued and promoted fassungsgesetz), each of MTU’s locations in company made social contributions totaling ments are properly observed on a day-to-day MTU also achieved positive ratings among at all MTU sites. Germany also has a works council. Manage96.3 million euros (2013: 98.8 million euros). basis in their areas of responsibility, and the potential applicants and its existing employees ment and worker representatives maintain The scope of these contributions derives from company supports them through a variety of on kununu, the largest German-language regular, open and trust-based dialog with each the company’s own range of employment management training programs and communievaluation platform for employers, where it other. In Poland, elected employee represenbenefits in addition to statutory requirements. cation forums. Since 2014, special information received Top Company status for companies tatives look after the interests of the workMTU enables its employees to participate in events have deepened communication and with positive evaluations. MTU has had its own force in dealings with management and the the company’s success through various profitexchange between executive management and presence on kununu since 2014. applicable employee rights form the basis of sharing programs, which are available to the senior managers. In addition, a new Leadership employment contracts. workforce as a whole and defined in special Guide for managers at the Munich site has Overall, there has been a more international rules for each employment group. For example, been communicating important information slant to MTU’s branding activities for employer In accordance with statutory requirements, an employee stock option program in place at about individual management topics since positioning in the reporting years. For example, 50 % of the Supervisory Board of MTU Aero the Munich, Hannover and Ludwigsfelde sites 2013. the company has had a LinkedIn presence Engines is composed of delegates who repreachieved a take-up rate of 20.6 % in 2014—the since 2014, where the number of its followers sent employee interests. highest participation since the scheme began. We regularly review our HR policy measures has grown steadily to over 4,200. LinkedIn is Employees invested a total of 9.3 million euros with the goal of adapting to new legal regulaa good means of better integrating the comClick here for the composition of the in 2014. tions. This exercise also serves us as we strive pany’s international locations and employees. supervisory board to continuously improve additional benefits and offers to facilitate a better work-life balance Audits and certifications and increase the company’s attractiveness as • Top Employer Germany an employer. Secondary benefits also undergo • Top Employer Poland Employee structure (in %) regular external certification. • trendence Graduate Barometer LA1, LA13 • Universum Ranking Attractive employer • Chief Learning Officer It is important to MTU to be considered an attractive employer by both existing and potenFor more on MTU’s awards and 86.7 Core workforce 85.8 Core workforce tial employees and in comparative analyses certifications 3.3 Employees on temporary contracts 3.5 Employees on temporary contracts with other companies. In the reporting period, 2011 4.6 Apprentices 2011 2012 4.5 Apprentices MTU once again performed very well in the In 2015, we plan to carry out the next emTotal 2.1 Students on work experience/ GesamtTotal 2.5 Students on work experience/ Top Employer Germany evaluation, particularly ployee survey at MTU’s European locations in workforce Holiday staff interns belegschaft workforce Holiday staff interns in the Secondary Benefits & Work-Life Balance order to get important feedback on topics such 2.9 Interns, degree candidates and 3.4 Interns, degree candidates and 7,047 doctoral candidates 7,248 7.047 doctoral candidates category. For the first time in 2014, the MTU site in Poland also took part and achieved Top as motivation, management, communication, efficiency, continuous improvement and health. 0.4 Employees on temporary part-time 0.3 Employees on temporary part-time Employer Polska status at the first attempt. For employees, regular surveys are an opporcontracts, on parental leave contracts, on parental leave This acknowledges MTU Aero Engines Polska tunity to further improve corporate culture and 5.5 Part-time workers 6.2 Part-time workers as one of the 39 best companies to work for to help shape their own workplace. in the country. In particular, top marks in the 86.3 Core workforce 86.4 Core workforce categories of Secondary Benefits & Work-Life 3.6 Employees on temporary contracts 3.1 Employees on temporary contracts Balance and Corporate Culture recognize the 2013 4.4 Apprentices 2014 2011 4.9 Apprentices above-average range of additional benefits Total 2.2 Students on work experience/ Total Gesamt2.1 Students on work experience/ available to employees at the site, such as a workforce Holiday staff interns belegschaft workforce Holiday staff interns health service and flexible work models to help 3.2 Interns, degree candidates and 3.1 Interns, degree candidates and 7,765 doctoral candidates 7.047 7,752 doctoral candidates employees attain a better balance between working and private life. We seek this status 0.3 Employees on temporary part-time 0.4 Employees on temporary part-time for the European countries every year and have contracts, on parental leave contracts, on parental leave already been able to repeat the achievement 6.1 Part-time workers 6.4 Part-time workers for 2015 with an even better rating. Encompasses almost 90 % of employees in entire MTU Group from 2013 following integration of the Rzeszów, Poland site in CR reporting. The total workforce does not include temporary agency employees or member of the cooperation with the German armed forces. 58 59 Responsibility towards employees Responsibility towards employees 5.2 Occupational health and safety 2014, we were sorry to record an increase in Occupational saftey work-related accidents at the Munich site. LA7 MTU places high value on occupational safety Accident hotspots could not be identified and employee health, which are anchored in there. That drove up the average number of our business processes and enshrined in the accidents per 1,000 employees across Europe MTU Principles, in the Code of Conduct and in to 2.6. All accidents were recorded, evaluated Reportable workplace accidents* our corporate goals. and investigated. In addition, there is a system in place for recording near-misses. 2011 14 1 6 – Compliance with national regulations on occu2012 14 6 4 – pational safety is mandatory for all internaOur management systems and certificates 2013 11 2 0 0 tional MTU subsidiaries. Occupational safety for occupational safety 2013/2014 2014 22 2 2 1 officers are appointed for each of the compaMunich Hannover Berlin Rzeszów ny’s European sites. The management systems • Munich: OHSAS 18001:2007, in which the required measures, goals and GQA Certificate responsibilities are defined are certified exter• Hannover: OHSAS 18001:2007 There were no fatal industrial accidents at MTU’s European sites between 2011 and 2014. nally in accordance with international stan• Berlin: OHSAS 18001:2007 dards. In 2013 and 2014, major production • Integrated Management System (IMS) for Days lost as a result of reportable accident** sites were validated according to the standard quality, occupational safety and environfor industrial safety management, OHSAS mental protection at all MTU locations 2011 529 16 127 – 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety As2012 481 286 40 – sessment Series), with the result that almost Our occupational safety strategy also focuses 2013 240 32 1 0 90 % of the workforce is covered by an OHSAS on prevention and raising awareness among 2014 483 35 24 21 18001 certified occupational safety manageemployees. The local specialist departments Munich Hannover Berlin Rzeszów ment system. Internal occupational safety regularly report on important occupational safestandards are regularly reviewed and improved. ty issues and promote safe behavior through In 2014, all occupational safety officers from consciousness-raising campaigns. An initiative Accident rate per 1,000 employees** MTU’s sites worldwide came together in starting in fall 2015 at the Munich headquarHannover to exchange experiences and inforters will highlight ways of staying safe when 2011 3.0 0.6 9.6 – mation at a Corporate Environmental Health traveling to and from work. 2012 2.9 3.3 5.1 – and Safety Meeting. 2013 2.4 1.1 0.0 0.0 Occupational safety is one pillar of our social Prevention initiatives in the reporting 2014 4.7 1.0 2.8 2.0 responsibility. All certifications of MTU period Munich Hannover Berlin Rzeszów • Safety on Foot (particularly on stairs) (Munich, 2014) Among the company’s comprehensive occu• Fit for Future (Hannover, 2014) * Excluding commuting accidents pational safety activities are advising and • Noise Level Register in Production ** For accidents that entail more than three days lost (not counting the day of the accident) Encompasses almost 90 % of employees in entire MTU Group from 2013 following integration of the Rzeszów, supporting managers and employees, safety (Rzeszów, 2013) Poland site in CR reporting. In order to protect personal data, no further statistical analysis is carried out training, first aid training and workplace risk • “The Safest Department” competition concerning accidents and days lost. Further distinctions based on such factors as gender is therefore neither assessment. Each individual workplace is (Rzeszów, annual) possible nor intended. MTU is not aware of how many applications have been made and accepted that classify thoroughly checked and evaluated for any risks an illness as being of occupational origin. and hazards present both before work begins and regularly thereafter. The entire workforce at our sites in Europe is fully represented at the locally organized occupational safety committees, the composition of which reflects the legal requirements in the respective countries. We aspire to continuously bring down the number of work-related accidents and reach a level of prevention that seeks to eliminate any and all accidents (zero-accident vision). Our ongoing prevention work and analysis of accidents and near-misses is bringing us ever closer to this goal. In 2013, the average accident rate per 1,000 employees was 0.9 for the European sites (almost 90 % of all MTU employees represented in the reporting). In We place great value not only on product quality, but also on the use of safe methods and processes in manufacturing and maintenance. 60 61 Responsibility towards employees Responsibility towards employees Health management Special offers to prevent health problems and Health rate workplace health and minimizing possible Healthy employees are an important prerequivarious campaigns to promote healthy lifeLA7 negative factors. In Munich there have been site for maintaining our company’s economic styles are already part of the company’s health six pilot teams since 2013, while a mental performance. MTU is taking a step-by-step management. One focus of these efforts is stress analysis was carried out in 13 departapproach to developing holistic and sustainhealthy eating, which we promote with continments in Hannover. The process is based on able health management. As the company’s uous activities. A light meal option is available the recommendations of the German Federal largest site, Munich will lead the way, but all at the company restaurants in Munich and 2011 95.1 % 2012 94.7 % Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. locations will be included in the medium term. Rzeszów. In Munich, this option is chosen by As an accompanying measure, the 2015 emA cross-learning network has already taken up to a third of employees. We are continuously ployee survey will be expanded to include its first steps toward tailoring measures and developing the catering offers there at present mental health issues for the first time. establishing uniform standards throughout toward an “aktiv&vital” healthy food line. At MTU. Initial health-promoting offers such as the end of 2014, new vending machines were 2013 95.6 % 2014 95.0 % At the Munich site, vibration training is firmly the back coach and extended risk assessment installed across the site. established. Open to all employees, it gives are already up and running across locations. them the opportunity to efficiently build up MTU is no stranger to the challenges posed Health services cover occupational and emermuscles in training courses near their workby an aging population. A large proportion of gency medicine as well as general preventative We consider our effort to be successful if we are able place. MTU is unique among employers in the its workforce (around 87 %) works in Germany, medicine. Counseling services offer employees to keep our health rate constant despite an aging Munich region in offering vibration training for workforce (since 2013 health rate including Rzeszów/ where the average employee age is over 44, support with work and performance-related its employees. Poland). reflecting an increase of nearly 2 % over the issues, and answer questions on matters such five years up to 2014. Yet the longer employees as mental health. Among the additional items work for MTU, the more valuable their many MTU offers are an on-site health club or speA new addition to the program is a Health Day years of professional experience and expertise cial deals with gyms, physiotherapy, tips on devoted to resilience—in other words, improving are to our highly specialized business. This ergonomics in the workplace and departmentpersonal stamina and managing stress. This is why we want to identify strategic areas of specific Health Days. module will be offered for the first time in action within the context of health manage2015. In Poland, a Health Week focusing on ment for 2015 and 2016 and develop key In 2013, we expanded the range of MTU back, wrist and hearing issues is planned for operational indicators for maintaining effectivedepartmental Health Days. The new structure 2015. ness and employability. In addition, managers is designed to ensure more sustainability, Advice, prevention and campaigns to promote a are to be supported in their special responsiwith the three-step modular concept (awareHealth-related action days in the reporting healthy lifestyle all form part of the company’s health management approach. bility for health matters with measures that ness, deepening of knowledge, self-reflection) period Dr. Rolf-Wilhelm Neuser is the chief raise awareness and transfer knowledge and stretching over three years. The Health Days • Men’s Health initiative (Munich, 2013) medical officer at MTU in Munich. skills. program offers lectures from experts and • Coronary Health initiative (Munich, 2014) He and his team are responsible for activities in line with the individual needs of • Health Day for Apprentices (Berlin, 2014) preventive, occupational and emergency medicine. each department on topics such as nutrition, • Health Week (Rzeszów, 2014) exercise, stress or relaxation. • Health, Safety and Environment Day (Berlin, 2014) • Fit for Future (Hannover, 2014) The back coach and extended risk assessment pilot projects were continued in this reporting period and rolled out at other sites. A back coach observes work situations and analyzes employees’ movements and posture in the workplace to help them identify daily activities that overtax the joints or result in poor posture. Together with the employee, a physiotherapist then develops methods to prevent these unhealthy practices and to encourage healthier behavior. To complement these measures, training in ergonomic seating positions was carried out covering a large area in the fall of 2013. Extended risk assessment evaluates physical and psychological risk factors in the workplace. Managers work with their staff to develop and implement appropriate strategies for improving At MTU in Munich, there is a health club right beside the plant. MTU employees can rely on fast, optimum care even in emergency situations. 62 63 Responsibility towards employees Responsibility towards employees 5.3 Employee qualification, lingual online tool, compliance with these At our newest location, Rzeszów in Poland, we criteria is assessed by the managers, as well are working on the introduction of long-term education and training as their direct supervisors and the employees development programs for employees. In 2014, At MTU, we make it a priority to offer our emunder their supervision. The entire feedback we also initiated training courses on compliployees a wide range of opportunities and process is voluntary and anonymous and is ance for units particularly affected by these avenues for personal development. Qualificasupervised by an independent consulting firm. issues and on employment law for managers. tion of employees is established in the MTU As an additional feedback tool, Team Barometer Around 20 % of employees have already reCode of Conduct as a principle of corporate was launched in 2014. Unlike Leadership ceived training on these topics; if the demand social responsibility. All MTU employees Feedback, the new tool is all about gauging is there, we want to continue these training throughout Europe regularly receive an evaluthe mood within a team. Managers meet courses at the site. ation of their performance. To this end, managewith their teams in a workshop to collectively ment is required to conduct an interview with identify ways to improve how they work Investing in the future workforce every single employee once a year about their to-gether. For managers, Team Barometer We see the fostering of new talent as an investtraining development. Our “campus” frameprovides regular feedback and is a useful supment in the company’s future. We give trainees work of staff training and career programs plement to the employee satisfaction survey. a solid grounding that goes beyond professiosystematically covers all levels of employee nal qualifications to include methodological, development. The campus concept is about Through a broad qualification drive in the social and environmental components and learning and continuous further development, reporting period, we have also deepened transmits MTU’s corporate values. In this way, and all employees can access the campus managers’ understanding of interrelationships their training is designed to help them learn course schedule over the MTU intranet. in the financial economy and capital markets to embrace and embody the spirit of our in order to bolster the business foundations corporate culture. Examples of such activities We want to strengthen trustful cooperation of their thought and behavior. The Business during the reporting period were the environwithin the company and create open and Challenge initiative will be continued in 2015. mental and Health Days organized specifically constructive communication. Since 2013, a for apprentices. specially designed feedback tool has given Qualification programs managers at all levels throughout the company • Building on Talent Traditionally, apprentices have always made valuable input about their role and their per• International Building on Talent up a large percentage of MTU‘s workforce. In Highly motivated and qualified employees are sonal opportunities for further development. • International Leadership Program 2014, they accounted for approximately 5 % essential in engine manufacturing. Leadership Feedback is based on the MTU • Leadership Feedback (new) of the total workforce in Europe. As of the end We are particularly active in fostering female talent, and provide support and encouragement Competences, which are derived from the MTU • Team Barometer (new) of 2014, 381 apprentices were employed. All through a variety of initiatives and models. Principles and describe the company’s main • Business Challenge (new) apprentices who successfully complete their requirements for all managers. Using a multitraining are offered a permanent contract with MTU. Knowledge management Employee qualification Apprentices at MTU MTU is actively involved in numerous educaMTU’s age structure, coupled with Germany’s LA10 LA10 tional projects and initiatives aimed at getting shifting demographics, highlights the imporyoung people excited about technology and tance of knowledge management. This extends aviation and introducing them to science and not only to top positions within the company technology professions: or to individual specialists, but to a broad specTraining days total Number of apprentices at year end • Training Night trum of posts in which MTU-specific knowledge • Science Exhibition in Hannover must be safeguarded. We are responding to 2011 21,141 2011 321 (IdeenExpo Hannover) this demographic shift in a timely manner by 2012 23,801 2012 328 • Nature and Technology Days continuously developing systems and methods. 2013 21.507 2013 343 • Long Night of Museums For example, valuable company know-how is 2014 20,012 2014 381 • Teachers in Industry being gathered together in electronic wikis, in • Work placements for high school students, which the store of knowledge is growing all Training days per employee Percentage of total workforce discovery weeks the time. At the end of the reporting period, • Patronage of selected schools there were 49 wikis from different areas of 2011 3.0 2011 4.6 the company. Our innovative work concepts 2012 3.4 2012 4.5 In the reporting period, MTU Aero Engines ensure that key expertise is shared among 2013 2.7 2013 4.4 Polska initiated a patronage arrangement with employees of different generations, while also 2014 2.5 2014 4.9 a vocational-technical school in Lezajsk. Withoffering new models such as those easing the in this arrangement, the theoretical education transition from work to retirement (part-time Investment in further education and training* Encompasses almost 90 % of employees in entire MTU provided in the school will be more closely positions for older employees). (EUR million) Group from 2013 following integration of the Rzeszów, interwoven with practical work at the MTU We place great emphasis on training specialist Poland site in CR reporting. site by means of workshops, internships for Our knowledge management strategy involves personnel ourselves. 2011 3.9 teachers and students in the plant, and the giving managers the support they need to 2012 4.2 coordination of teaching content. The patronidentify which positions within their depart2013 3.3 age is part of MTU Aero Engines Polska’s ments are of particular importance. Such 2014 2.4 active cooperation with schools and universipositions are characterized by expertise that ties to promote the give and take between is unique to MTU, and by empirical knowledge * Excluding travel costs business and education. built up over many years. Various measures MTU assumes the costs of continued training measures. designed to safeguard the wealth of MTU knowAs stipulated by a works agreement, supervisors are We place special emphasis on encouraging how have been introduced, such as a know-how required to conduct an annual training interview with with each member of their staff. new generations of female talent, including buddy system and knowledge maps that help Encompasses almost 90 % of employees in entire MTU measures aimed at schoolchildren and studirect the exchange of expertise. Group from 2013 following integration of the Rzeszów, dents (Girls’ Day, Research Camp for Girls) Poland site in CR reporting. Qualification of employees includes temporary agency > For more on this subject, see the Gender employees and members of the cooperation with the Diversity section in this chapter. German armed forces. 64 65 Responsibility towards employees Responsibility towards employees 5.4 Diversity Nationalities We also offer intercultural training and, as a employees’ skills, knowledge, strengths and LA13 company that operates worldwide, we encourattitudes. We rely on our managers, both at MTU is committed to diversity and equal opage employees to spend time working abroad local and non-local levels, to set the tone. portunities in the company and implements a during their education. Trainees and students At the MTU site in Poland, the management variety of measures to establish the requisite on work-study programs have the opportunity positions are filled almost exclusively by local structures and environment. For us, there is no Total workforce to take part in international exchange propersonnel (80 %). In Europe, the proportion of better expression of diversity than employees grams. Lasting up to three months, the placeforeign employees in management positions of different generations, genders, cultures ment abroad takes place in the UK, Denmark, was 4,2 % in 2014. and countries all working side by side, not to Finland, France, or the Netherlands depending mention integrating people with disabilities. 2011 6.0 % 2012 6.0 % on the particular studies and includes work at When properly recognized and used, diversity international partners and customers. Students within a company leads to higher performance on work-study programs can obtain a placeand creativity. ment at an MTU site abroad. 2013 5.4 % 2014 5.1 % Consequently, a diverse workforce enhances The vast majority of employees at each site MTU’s capacity for innovation and plays a come from the surrounding area and we emdecisive role in the company’s future. MTU’s ploy local managers wherever possible. As Code of Conduct also explicitly commits the Managers a high-tech company, MTU needs specialist company to equality of opportunity and equal knowledge and innovative strength. Our suctreatment for employees. In addition, we have cess is built on the collective force of our enshrined the topic of diversity in the MTU 2011 5.0 % 2012 4.7 % Principles, where we set ourselves the goal of enhancing our innovative capability by employing a workforce that includes different cultures, different age groups and a broad base of specialist expertise. It is important for technology 2013 4.8 % 2014 4.2 % companies like MTU to recognize and make As role models, our managers have a particular the most of employee potential. responsibility. Percentage of foreign employees at the European locations at year end. Encompasses almost 90% of Our commitments employees in entire MTU Group from 2013 following • Charter of Diversity integration of the Rzeszów, Poland site in CR reporting. • UN Global Compact • Munich Memorandum for Women in Management employees made up 5.8 % (2013: 5.1 %) of the workforce at MTU’s German locations. In Managers have a particular responsibility here Rzeszów, inclusivity is a major objective for and should act as role models. Effective MTU even without statutory requirements. changes cannot be achieved by means of rules Keeping all our employees healthy and able to and targets alone; managers must support work is a key part of expanding specialist and diversity in their area of responsibility and help technical knowledge as well as of strengthenincorporate diversity into everyday working ing each individual’s interpersonal and social life at MTU by creating a suitable working enskills. vironment. As part of our occupational reintegration Against the backdrop of an aging population, management, we help employees return to the individual employability becomes an important workplace after an extended absence. At our issue, and this includes the integration of emHannover site, we are testing a new model in ployees with disabilities. In 2014, disabled a pilot project, which will also be introduced at the other MTU locations if successful. Age groups Cultural diversity LA13 For MTU, internationality is not only an expression of diversity: it is typical for the engine business, which is strongly characterized by < 30 year olds transnational cooperation at all stages, in30-50 year olds cluding development, manufacturing and main> 50 year olds tenance. We are working to intensify internaAs a proportion of core workforce tionalization through various measures. These include our international development pro13,6 % 13,8 % grams, such as the International Leadership 31,2 % 32,6 % Program and International Building on Talent. 2011 2012 Through the new International Leadership 55,2 % 53,6 % Program (ILP), MTU is expanding cooperation and communication among managers around 12,7 % 12,7 % the globe. The ILP consists of two training modules, each of which takes place at one of 2013 31,5 % 2014 31,5 % the MTU locations worldwide. Launched in 55,7 % 55,7 % 2013, the program sees international project teams working on tasks derived from the corEncompasses almost 90 % of employees in entire MTU porate strategy over a period of several months. Our knowledge management system helps us keep valuable know-how within the company. Group from 2013 following integration of the Rzeszów, Poland site in CR reporting. 66 67 Responsibility towards employees Responsibility towards employees Gender diversity Women in A career program for women comprises The value of equal opportunities is something management position measures that will take time to bear fruit. The we consider to be self-evident. Remuneration LA13 principal focus is on securing more female levels and promotion prospects are determined talent for the company and offering female solely by the job to be performed; qualificaemployees better support throughout their tions are the deciding factor, not gender. This Total workforce career journeys through mentoring programs was confirmed by an internal screening we and career advice. MTU has undertaken to carried out. In order to better unlock talent significantly increase the proportion of female and innovation potential, we have specific employees at the company, including at 2011 13.1 % 2012 13.7 % policies that foster the placement of women management level. With our targeted employer in technical and management roles and branding strategy and the continuation of our encourage the hiring of new female employees. measures and programs, we are committed to At the end of 2014, women made up 14.2 % of bringing about long-term change. the total European workforce (2013: 13.9 %). 2013 13.9 % 2014 14.2 % When it comes to the hiring of young employees Our programs and initiatives promoting in Germany, the figures are even more the advancement of women heartening: the proportion of women increased • Munich Memorandum for Women in over the past few years to reach around a Managers Management third of newly filled positions. For manage• Cross-Mentoring Munich ment positions, the figure was 9.2 % in Europe (a program organized by the city of Munich) at the end of 2014. 2011 8.0 % 2012 8.0 % • The MTU “Studienstiftung” foundation to support young women studying for engineering and scientific careers Our goal is to significantly increase the proportion of female employees at the company—both in • Germany-wide Girls’ Day management and in the workforce in general. • Research Camp for Girls in Bavaria 2013 8.1 % 2014 9.2 % • Engineers in High Heels • The “Niedersachsen Technikum” initiative to encourage young women to study STEM Work-life balance Encompasses almost 90% of employees in entire MTU Group from 2013 following integration of the Rzeszów, (science, technology, engineering and MTU has a variety of offers designed to help Poland site in CR reporting. mathematics) subjects its employees achieve a healthy work-life balance and is increasingly focused on At MTU’s site in the southern Polish city of responding to their different life phases and Rzeszów, MTU Aero Engines Polska launched particular needs. These offers include: a new initiative to promote the advancement • Flexible working hours and flextime of women. Kicking off the initiative was an accounts event aimed at female students at the aca• Part-time employment in over 50 models demic high school in Rzeszów, who were given • Educational leave (new from 2013) an inside look at technical professions at the • Teleworking company. The event took place as part of the • Sabbaticals European “Innovative Economy” project. • Part-time work for older employees • Job-sharing In 2014, the third-ever meeting of MTU’s • Services that assist families German female management staff took place (e.g. childcare, nursing services) in Munich. On the agenda were presentations • Mobile working (new from 2015) and discussions on the topics of diversity and innovation along with reflection on their own We want to press further ahead with our workleadership role. The meeting helped female life balance goals. Consequently, we regularly managers to network better with each other. monitor our offers and constantly expand and In addition, meetings with external groups develop them in order to increase the amount and MTU managers facilitated discussion and of control employees have over their time and exchanges on diversity within the company. the amount of decision-making flexibility they Over ten years ago now, MTU set up a nonenjoy. During the reporting period, for example, profit foundation, the MTU “Studienstiftung,” we created a measure that gives employees with the aim of actively supporting the peran opportunity to take educational leave. It is sonal development of female students in the designed to support MTU employees in their STEM disciplines (science, technology, engiindividual professional development path or in neering and mathematics) and preparing them achieving their career reorientation goals. The for their careers. In addition to providing expart-time model for educational leave is flexible tensive professional and personal counseling, and can be used for up to 36 months—in exthe foundation also functions as a platform for ceptional cases, for even longer. dialog and exchange. It encourages young women to make the most of their strengths in In 2015, MTU concluded a works agreement technical disciplines, thereby supporting MTU’s on mobile working for selected job categories goal of raising the percentage of women in at the Munich location. We have taken this technical professions. step in order to lay an important foundation for greater autonomy and personal responsiwww.mtu-studien.stiftung.org bility within MTU’s working environment. The new model to create greater flexibility in when and where employees work is currently in force Company policies specifically foster the placement of women in technical and management roles and encourage the hiring of new female employees. in pilot areas and is due to be further expanded following the trial period. 68 69 Commitment to society 6 Commitment to society 6.1 Management approach Our commitment to society focuses on research, education and training activities. In “MTU acknowledges its social responsibility a technologically advanced industry such as outside of the company.” MTU views itself as aviation, maintaining a continuing dialog with a corporate citizen, a self-image that we find the scientific community and harnessing the enshrined in our MTU Principles. As a corpolatest research developments is fundamental rate citizen that takes an active role in the to our research and development work. In regions in which it operates, the company terms of corporate responsibility, our focus accepts responsibility for the common good. lies on product innovation, eco-efficient This includes ensuring that we comply with en-gines and product safety—areas in which applicable laws and regulations in all our busiwe are able to help make aviation a safer and ness activities. A binding Code of Conduct more sustainable mobility solution. Our active sets out the ethical principles that provide a pursuit of research collaborations takes foundation for employees across the entire high priority on the materiality matrix of key organization. These principles impact society sustainability topics, just as it does for our by serving to minimize the risk of corruption stakeholders. And it is by linking our commitand unlawful conduct within the company. MTU ment to education with our core business that also has a central Compliance Board to deal we do the most to help advance our society. with such issues. Our Code of Conduct establishes rules governing our relationships with > For a materiality matrix and analysis, please competitors and business partners. MTU comsee Chapter 1. plies with all applicable commercial and antitrust laws, as well as the relevant regulations on pricing, competition and consumer and data protection. Our Code of Conduct At our four European sites in Germany and Poland, MTU is a key employer and provider of training in the region, offering attractive jobs and training opportunities at a fast-paced, high-tech company. We promote diversity in the workforce and aim to permanently increase the proportion of women in the company. The number of trainees within the company has traditionally been high, particularly at the German sites. Our site in Rzeszów has only been operational since 2009. We offer all our trainees a permanent job once they have completed their apprenticeships. We opt for long-term working arrangements Our main topics: and are always striving to develop our sites, whether it is investing in new equipment for science & education our production facilities or to qualify our staff. In 2014, we invested a total of 2.3 million euros in the education of our employees in Europe. • 24 centers of excellence and 2014 also saw the opening of a new MTU partnerships with universities logistics center in Munich, representing a local • Apprentices 4.9 % of workforce investment of around 10 million euros and securing jobs in the area. During the reporting in 2014 period, work also commenced to expand the • Donations and sponsorship for site in Poland, an investment of approximately almost 80 projects in 2014 40 million euros that will enable us to increase our capacity and provide more employment opportunities. 70 71 Commitment to society Commitment to society Our active commitment to research and Corporate citizenship as we understand it also 6.2 Research & training Cooperation with universities and centers of competence education also strengthens our contact with means protecting the environment around our potential new recruits. We maintain numerous sites. We endeavor to avoid any negative enCollaborating with universities and research Centers of competence Cooperation with close partnerships with universities and vironmental impact on the surroundings, or at institutes is a mainstay of our research and universities research institutions, and have established least to limit it as much as possible. We inform development work and a clear area of priority RWTH Aachen competence centers across Germany, each the public about the ecological impact of our if we are to fulfill our obligations to society. Compressor technology BAM Berlin with their own specialized area of research. We operations through initiatives such as the We create strategic alliances with research DLR Berlin also established a chair in structural mechanics environmental impact assessments published partners to foster the links between universiUni & LZ Hannover TU Berlin in aircraft engines at the University of Stuttgart. yearly for Munich and Hannover, our two ties and industry and to safeguard MTU’s Maintenance Repair Overhaul TU Braunschweig biggest sites. All engine test rigs are fitted with capacity for innovation. Together with its partBTU Cottbus > For more information, please refer to the sophisticated soundproofing to keep noise ners from the scientific community, MTU runs DLR Cologne TU Darmstadt Research & training section of this chapter. emissions as low as possible. Once again six competence centers across Germany, each 2010 plus engine TU Dresden there were no complaints from residents in with its own research focus. Uni Erlangen We use the resources available to us to do 2013 and 2014. We run all our engine producBauhaus Luftfahrt FHG Fürth what we can to serve the community and suption and maintenance facilities in accordance Together with its partners, MTU founded the Munich TU Göttingen port projects on a local and regional scale, with the requirements imposed by our official internationally oriented think tank Bauhaus Future concepts TU Hannover working to promote, sponsor, and provide permits. Luftfahrt e.V, which conducts unconventional, TU Heidelberg ac-cess to a network of contacts. This contriholistic and interdisciplinary research and in TU Munich KFA Jülich bution is geared toward the long term and MTU fulfills all legally imposed thresholds and which industry and research work together Structural design and TH Karlsruhe includes our employees’ corporate volunteering submits regular measurements to the authoriunder one roof. Main topics include the study production Uni GH Kassel Umwelterklärung 2015 aktualisiert über das Berichtsjahr 2014 für den Standort München der activities. We actively seek out dialog on a ties to verify compliance. This applies equally of the socio-economic, political and environDLR Stuttgart MTU Aero Engines AG regional level to provide information about our to our intake and discharge of ground water, mental aspects of aviation, the design of UniBW Munich MPA Stuttgart activities in a transparent manner. Similarly, where numerous samples have shown that revisionary aircraft concepts, the search for future More Electric Engine our collaboration with local authorities and sults are often well below the prescribed limits. technologies, and knowledge management. associations is based on mutual trust. Tours University of Stuttgart of our production facilities provide insights > For details about environmental protection, The company also offers support to young Turbine technology into the company, as do regular opportunities please see Chapter 5, p. 44 ff. scientists in the form of the MTU “Studienfor the public to visit our company museum. Stiftung” foundation, which assists talented Visiting groups cover the whole range of stakeMTU also has a management plan in place young women studying in the scientific and holders relevant to us. to cope with accidents and emergencies, entechnical fields. Our aim is to help them to also help to ensure that topics and trends in suring maximum safety for employees and further develop their career-relevant, personal the aerospace sector are communicated to Our stakeholder groups also include represenresidents in critical situations. This includes and methodical skills as well as to learn to the public in a balanced and appropriate way. tatives from the German, European and world regular staff drills and instruction on what to make the most of their strengths. In addition political communities. Activities within this do in case of an emergency. MTU has comto financial support, the foundation offers proWell-grounded training political dialog are managed in compliance with prehensive fire protection measures in place fessional and personal advice to help students Offering equal opportunities is one of our top existing laws and guidelines, as well as with that implement all legal directives on fire prolaunch their careers. In 2014, we organized priorities. We are committed to providing open our Code of Conduct, and we adopt a nontection. the 14th annual development course for 16 access to training opportunities, which we partisan approach. female students. Over two days, the particibelieve should first and foremost provide our MTU Studien-Stiftungstage für MINT-Studentinnen During the reporting period, no relevant or pants had the opportunity to learn about the own young employees with a solid grounding 07. – 09. Oktober 2015 > Learn more about the groups we are in conreportable environmental incidents or events multidisciplinary qualifications required for in their chosen profession. Our investment in Andere träumen davon. Du kannst es haben: Eine Förderung durch die MTU Studien-Stiftung! In einem interaktiven Workshop lernen Sie auf „jeder Bühne“ souverän und professionell aufzutreten und zu gewinnen. Bereits seit 15 Jahren fördert die MTU Studien-Stiftung tact with on p. 44 ff. took place at any MTU production facilities. future employment and network with interesttheir comprehensive training not only covers talentierte Studentinnen aus den Bereichen Luftund Raumfahrttechnik, Maschinenbau, Wirtschaftsingenieurwesen, Elektrotechnik, Informatik und Mathematik. Dazu gibt es Spaß und nette Leute zum Austauschen und Networken. Nach den Stiftungstagen kann sich bei beiderseitigem Die Studentinnen verbindet dabei einiges: Alle bringen Similarly, no environmental fines were levied ing contacts. their professional qualification but also the herausragende fachliche Leistungen mit, sind aufgeschlossen für Neues und haben den Anspruch, Dinge zu bewegen. Interesse eine weitere Förderung durch die MTU Studien-Stiftung anschließen. Das Spektrum der Förderung reicht dabei von persönlicher Beratung bis zur Unterstützung bei Praktika. against the company. social issues and attitudes that contribute to „Selbstbewusst kommunizieren“ zu diesem Thema lädt die MTU Studien-Stiftung wieder zu ihren Stiftungstagen ein. Bitte bewerben Sie sich online bis zum 31. Juli 2015 mit Ihrem Lebenslauf, Zeugnissen und einem Motivationsschreiben, in dem Sie uns überzeugen, warum wir Sie Mit Unterstützung einer erfahrenen Trainerin entdecken zu den MTU Studien-Stiftungstagen einladen sollten! MTU research specialists are often invited to their development as individuals within our und entwickeln Sie Ihre eigenen Stärken und werden Ihre Durchsetzungsfähigkeit üben. Wir freuen uns auf erlebnisreiche Tage mit Ihnen! give lectures and guest presentations at unicorporate culture. We familiarize our trainees versities. Groups of students from German with all aspects of business and working life, and international universities regularly visit such as health, environmental protection, MTU to gain insights into the workings of an social values and our no-blame culture. MTU industrial company. The company offers stuis also active in numerous education projects dents the opportunity to write their bachelor, and initiatives focusing on children and young master or Diplom theses or doctoral dissertapeople, activities that further an understandMTU Studien-Stiftung Dachauer Str. 665 80995 München weitere Infos und Bewerbung: tions at the company, and offers internships ing of technology and sustainability. www.mtu-studien-stiftung.org and work student positions. Lectures given by MTU specialists at Brandenburg Technical > For more on our education initiatives, see University in Cottbus make up a significant pages 64-65. part of the only engine technology degree course offered in Germany. The company awards the annual Wolfgang Heilmann Prize, named after the former head of development at MTU and professor at the University of Karlsruhe, to young researchers active in the field of aircraft engines. As an industrial sponsor of the renowned Deutscher Journalistenpreis für Luftund Raumfahrt, awarded each year to a non-specialist journalist writing on aerospace topics, we We endeavor to limit any negative environmental impact on the surroundings: Our engine test rigs are fitted with sophisticated soundproofing equipment in order to reduce noise emissions. 72 73 Commitment to society Commitment to society 6.3 Corporate citizenship Examples of our commitment to society 2013/2014 An internal MTU directive has set out clear • Funding of the parent-run initiative day-care rules governing sponsorship and donations. center TurBiennchen e.V., Munich MTU supports social institutions that con• External rescue operations carried out by tribute to community life—as a rule, these are MTU’s on-site fire brigade, Munich non-profit organizations that preferably have • Support for flood victims in the Philippines a socio-cultural remit. Specific projects take • Support for Wings of Help, a project priority over general institutional funding. Each emergency aid for refugees organization selects and carries out its work • Support for “Die Arche” (“The Ark”), independently, since familiarity with local a project devoted to improving the lives of conditions is essential to long-term efforts children, Potsdam near Berlin that have a genuine impact. We select our • Support for Irenechildren’s home, Hanover projects carefully and do our own research • Support for Fundacja Wspierania Edukacji to assure ourselves that the organization is Stowarzyczeniv Dolina Lotnicza, Rzeszów acting strictly in the common interests of the public. One thing we look for is that the project in some way relates to the company, be it on a regional, local or thematic level. Local activities are approved centrally by Corporate Communications and Public Affairs. This approach ensures compliance with the rules. In 2014, we supported almost 80 projects in total with cash or in-kind donations. In addition, MTU provides honorary judges for labor and social welfare courts, or examiners for Chamber of Industry and Commerce exams. Civic engagement: the plant fire brigade also participates in operations off of the company premises. MTU employees regularly involve the company Our commitment to corporate citizenship is in their charitable activities. MTU supports centered on a long-term strategy, and is contheir dedication to a good cause by providing sistent with our understanding of social resour employees with paid leave if, for example, ponsibility. Given the difficulty of measuring they choose to run in charity races or particisuch activities and their effectiveness in the pate in operations coordinated by the German short term, we have yet to implement a sysFederal Agency for Technical Relief. tem for monitoring our progress. Donations and Sponsorship in 2014 Community 69 % Research/Training 20 % Technology/Environment 8% MTU supports greater compatibility of familiy and working life with a variety of measures such as providing a childcare place near the company ground at Munich. Arts and Culture 3% 74 75 2013-2014 goals and goal attainment 2013-2014 goals and goal attainment Environmental management in production Goal Status/Deadline Comment (based on the reporting period) Reducing consumption of 25 % reduction in CO2 emissions at Munich plant as 2020 energy and resources part of Clean Air Industrial Site program Strategy/Economics (compared to year 1990) Reduction in resource consumption and CO2 emissions Ongoing Goal Status/Deadline Comment from business trips through increased use of modern Dialog with stakeholders Option of contacting the employee responsible for CR Achieved We are continuously communication technologies such as video and phone directly by e-mail to ask questions related to CR renewing this offer. conferencing Stakeholder survey on sustainability performance and Achieved We are continuously Energy conservation measures Reduction in energy needed to run buildings Ongoing Compared to existing builsustainability communication has been launched renewing this offer. dings, MTU’s new buildings Better access to sustainability information based on an Achieved This Sustainability Report used approx. 1,520 MWh less integrated report in accordance with the GRI standard complies with GRI 3.1 and electrical energy overall in and the principles of the UN Global Compact integrates the UN Global 2012/2013, saving around Compact Communication on 310 t of CO2 a year. Progress. Renovation and replacement of lighting installations Ongoing Power savings in production Compliance Regular compliance audits to ensure business processes Ongoing halls of 270 kWh and 138 t comply with laws and guidelines CO2 a year Employee training Ongoing Expansion of the program to Switching off machines and systems during longer Ongoing Savings of electrical energy of include the location in stoppages 1,710 MWh and 920 t CO2 Rzeszów in Poland. In 2015, Savings through measures to improve efficiency in Ongoing Reduced power consumption, we are training employees in compressed air generation savings of approx. 83 MWh Germany (refresher courses) and 45 t CO2 and in North America. Use of groundwater for cooling Ongoing Reduced CO2 emissions of Sustainability management Location in Rzeszów in Poland has obtained Achieved around 3,900 t a year compaand sustainability communiCR qualification within the MTU Group red to conventional cooling cation (training of local CR coordinators) Employee training courses on sustainable resource Ongoing Focus of CR report expanded to include all of Europe Achieved consumption and the company’s environmental Further expansion of reporting to include locations Ongoing Started for environmental activities outside Europe reporting Material efficiency Sustainable manufacturing concepts: applying new Ongoing We plan to widen the range of CR reporting in accordance with G4 From 2016 Preparation workshop in 2014 laser-based additive manufacturing techniques to parts manufactured by additive make series-produced components directly from a methods. powder bed using CAD data. Significant reduction in Launch of CR training for employees 2016 Available to selected HR and the amount of material used purchasing employees Development of materials such as titanium aluminide Ongoing Inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 2015 with improved temperature resistance and weight, Listing in external sustainability ratings Ongoing leading to less fuel consumption and lower pollutant Supplier management Mandatory code of conduct for suppliers Achieved emissions Amendment of purchasing guidelines and supplier conAchieved Material consumption Implementation of EU’s REACH regulation 2017 Implementation is progressing tracts to include provisions for conflict minerals under according to plan at all the the Dodd-Frank Act (reporting and disclosure standards MTU Group’s European locatirequiring companies to disclose the country of origin of ons; the company’s sites outthe raw materials) side Europe are not affected Annual request to all suppliers for information related to Ongoing by these regulations. compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act Sustainable construction Inauguration of new energy-efficient buildings: the Achieved logistics hall in Hannover and the logistics center in Munich Product responsibility Expansion of Rzeszów site in Poland 2015 Environmental certifications Certifications to ISO 14001 and EMAS validation Annually The Hannover and LudwigsGoal Status/Deadline Comment felde sites are certified to ISO Climate strategy* Reduction in CO2 emissions according to our Clean Air 2015 14001; the Munich and Engine technology agenda: Hannover sites have EMAS 15 % reduction in CO2 emissions through first Geared validation. Turbofan generation Annual environmental statements for biggest locatiOngoing 20 % reduction in CO2 emissions through second Geared 2025 ons, Munich and Hannover, documenting observance Turbofan generation of EMAS requirements in accordance with Regulation 30 % reduction in CO2 emissions through third Geared 2035 (EC) No. 1221/2009 of the European Parliament Turbofan generation Aircraft noise 20 dB reduction in noise emissions (cumulative, measu2015 red against the ICAO’s latest, most stringent ‘Chapter 4’ noise standard) through first Geared Turbofan generation -11 dB by 2035 (according to SRIA) 2035 -15 dB (corresponds to -65%) by 2050 (according to SRIA) 2050 (both figures compared to 2000 baseline) Alternative fuels Supporting the introduction of sustainable fuels with Ongoing MTU engine expertise via participation in research projects, studies and practical tests Product quality and safety Successful completion of monitoring and recertification Ongoing audits for quality management systems * The year 2000 is the baseline for climate strategy targets 76 77 2013-2014 goals and goal attainment 2013-2014 goals and goal attainment Employees Commitment to society Goal Status/Deadline Comment Goal Status/Deadline Comment Occupational safety Target: 21 (2013)/14 (2014) reportable workplace acci88 % goal attainThe goal for 2014 was clearly Continuation of current social Making it easier for employees to do volunteer work, Ongoing dents max. within the MTU Group; actual: 24 (2013)/27 ment in 2013 missed as a result of an commitment measures such as taking part in charity runs or helping out in (2014) 52 % goal attainupward trend in accidents at missions by the German Federal Agency for Technical ment in 2014 the Munich location. Relief Extended risk assessment to be conducted at all company Partly achieved The method has been Investing in future workforce MTU foundation for female students in science and Ongoing locations in Germany reviewed at all German comtechnology courses pany locations and will be Award to support young scientists Annually applied on a case-by-case Sponsoring science journalism Sponsoring the Deutscher Journalistenpreises für LuftAnnually basis as actually needed. und Raumfahrt (German aerospace journalism award) Occupational safety campaign Ongoing Monitoring and recertification audits in accordance with Achieved From 2015 on, the Munich OHSAS 18001 passed within the MTU Group at company location will no longer seek locations that are already certified certification in accordance with OHSAS 18001. Occupational health Vibration training offered to all employees in Munich Achieved We are continuously renewing this offer. Expansion of health management services to company Partly achieved Initial steps have been taken, locations outside Germany and the offers are now being harmonized. “Good leadership practices to promote employee Achieved The topic is integrated in the health” established company’s health management program. Back Health Coach services on offer to help with the Achieved We are continuously renewing ergonomic design of the workplace this offer. Cooperation with Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) Achieved in Munich on vibration training for older employees (45+ project) Initiatives in place to promote a healthy diet Ongoing Development of control metrics for more specific mea2015/2016 sures to maintain the health and improve the ability to perform of all employees Inclusion of a set of questions relating to mental health 2015 in the employee survey MTU as an attractive Employer branding with a stronger international focus Ongoing employer Further development of work-life balance offer Ongoing Top Employer awards in Germany and in Poland Annual Partner of the “Sommerkinder” holiday childcare program Ongoing Independent agency service for home assistance Ongoing Offers are constantly being reviewed and further developed. New offers for employee mobility Ongoing Since 2015, we have offered transit tickets e.g. for employees in Munich. Launch of Mobile Work pilot project 2015 Diversity Marked increase in the percentage of female employees Ongoing and of women in management positions Participation in initiatives designed to promote young Ongoing female talent, such as the Girls’ Day or Camp for Female Researchers Training and continued New qualification offers to add further momentum to Partly achieved Expansion of international training the company’s international drive cooperation as part of the International Building on Talent program Employer/employee dialog Employee surveys at the European company locations, 2015 with further developments being based on the insights gained from the last surveys conducted Company improvement suggestion scheme to put Ongoing employees’ ideas for improvement into practice MTU Award to honor outstanding employee performance 2015 Every other year 78 79 GRI Content Index • Profile GRI Content Index • Profile 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement GRI-Indicator GC Principle Reported Reference* 4.1 1-10 –– Corporate governance/Governance structure AR 2014, pp. 28ff. 1. Strategy and Analysis 4.2 –– Independence of Chair of Supervisory Board AR 2014, p. 30 4.3 –– Number of members of the highest governance body that AR 2014, p. 30 GRI-Indicator GC Principle Reported Reference* are independent 1.1 1-10 –– Statement from the Board of Management SR 2013/2014, p. 5 4.4 –– Co-determination right of employees and shareholders SR 2013/2014, pp. 16-18, 57-58 1.2 –– Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities SR 2013/2014, p. 23 4.5 –– Linkage between compensation for Board of Management AR 2014, pp. 33ff. AR 2014, pp. 115ff. and the organization’s sustainability performance 4.6 10 –– Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interest are AR 2014, p. 30, SR 2013/ 2014, p.14 2. Organizational Profile avoided 4.7 1-10 –– Qualifications of the members of the highest governance SR 2013/2014, pp. 11-14 GRI Indicator GC Principle Reported Reference* body in relation to sustainability topics 2.1 –– Name of the organization SR 2013/2014, p. 8 4.8 1-10 –– Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and SR 2013/2014, pp. 13-14 2.2 –– Primary brands, products, and services SR 2013/2014, p. 8-9 principles relevant to sustainability 2.3 –– Operational structure of the organization AR 2014, pp. 64-65 4.9 1-10 –– Oversight of sustainability performance and risks by the SR 2013/2014, pp. 11-14 2.4 –– Organization’s headquarters SR 2013/2014, p. 9 Board of Management 2.5 –– Countries where the organization operates AR 2014, pp. 65 4.10 1-10 –– Evaluating the highest governance body’s own perforAR 2014, pp. 33ff. 2.6 –– Nature of ownership and legal form AR 2014, pp. 22, SR 2013/ 2014, p. 8 mance, particularly with respect to sustainability 2.7 –– Markets served AR 2014, p. 148 4.11 7 –– Explanation of whether and how the precautionary AR2014, pp. 115ff, 2.8 –– Company profile/Scale of the organization SR 2013/2014, p. 8-9 approach or principle is addressed by the organization SR 2013/2014, p. 23 2.9 –– Significant changes regarding size, structure, and Transformation of MTU Aero Engines 4.12 1-10 –– Externally developed economic, environmental, and social SR 2013/ 2014, pp. 14, 19, 26, 35, –– ownership Holding AG into MTU Aero Engines AG charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 36, 46, 66, 74 2.10 –– Awards SR 2013/2014, p. 22, 43, 50, 59 organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 1-10 –– Memberships in associations and advocacy organizations SR 2013/2014, p. 19 4.14 1-10 –– Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization SR 2013/2014, pp. 16-19 3. Report Parameters 4.15 –– Basis for selection of stakeholders SR 2013/2014, pp. 16-19 4.16 –– Approaches to stakeholder engagement SR 2013/2014, pp. 16-19 GRI-Indicator GC Principle Reported Reference* 4.17 1-10 –– How the organization incorporates and addresses queries SR 2013/2014, pp. 16-19 3.1 –– Reporting period 2013/2014 and concerns on the part of stakeholders 3.2 –– Date of most recent previous report 2013 according to GRI, 2014 communication on progress UNGC 3.3 –– Reporting cycle SR 2013/2014, p. 7 Economic 3.4 –– Contact point for questions regarding the report SR 2013/2014, Contact information on p. 3 GRI-Indicator GC Principle Reported Reference* 3.5 –– Process for defining report content SR 2013/2014, p. 6, 11-13 1, 4, 6, 7 Management approach SR 2013/2014, pp. 11-15, 21-22, 23 3.6 –– Boundary of the report SR 2013/2014, p. 6 EC1 –– Direct economic value generated and distributed SR 2013/2014, p. 22 3.7 –– Limitations on scope of the report SR 2013/2014, p. 6 EC2 7 –– Financial implications of climate change SR 2013/2014, p. 23 3.8 –– Basis for reporting on joint ventures SR 2013/2014, p. 6 EC3 1, 6 –– Organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations SR 2013/2014, p. 58 3.9 –– Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations SR 2013/20142012, p. 7 EC7 6 –– Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired SR 2013/2014, pp. 66-67 3.10 –– Re-statements of information SR 2013/20142012, p. 6 from the local community 3.11 –– Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, SR 2013/20142012, p. 6 EC8 –– Development and Impact of infrastructure investments SR 2013/2014, pp. 73, 74-75 boundary, or measurement methods and services 3.12 –– GRI Content Index SR 2013/2014, pp. 80 3.13 –– External assurance for the report SR 2013/2014, p. 7 GRI= Global Reporting Initiative GC= United Nations Global Compact *SR 2013/2014 = Sustainability Report 2013/2014 AR 2014 = Annual Report 2014, Page numbers refer to the print version –– This indicator is reported in full – This indicator is partially reported 80 81 GRI Content Index • Indicators GRI Content Index • Indicators Human Rights GRI-Indicator GC-Principle Reported Comment Reference* 1-6 Management approach SR 2013/2014, p. 13-15, 57-59 Environmental HR2 1-6 –– Supplier screening on human SR 2013/2014, p. 15, 26-27 rights GRI-Indicator UN-Principle Reported Comment Reference* HR4 1, 2, 6 –– Discrimination SR 2013/2014, p. 15, 57-58 7, 8, 9 Management approach SR 2013/2014, pp. 45-47 HR6 1-5 –– Operations with significant SR 2013/2014, p. 15, 57-58 EN1 8 – Materials used by weight or SR 2013/2014, p. 54 risk for incidents of child volume labour EN3 8 –– Direct energy consumption SR 2013/2014, p. 49 HR7 1-5 –– Operations with significant SR 2013/2014, p. 15, 57-58 EN4 8 –– Indirect energy consumption SR 2013/2014, p. 49 risk for incidents of forced EN5 7, 8, 9 –– Energy savings SR 2013/2014, pp. 48, 50-51, 77 and compulsory labour EN6 8, 9 –– Energy-efficient products and SR 2013/2014, pp. 32-33 HR8 1, 2 –– Security personnel training on 100 % services aspects of human rights that Service provider employees EN8 8 –– Total water withdrawal SR 2013/2014, p. 52 are relevant to operations are also given relevant instrucEN16 8, 9 – Direct and indirect greenSR 2013/2014, p. 50 tions. house gas emissions HR11 1, 2 –– Number of grievances related SR 2013/2014, pp. 15, 57-58 EN18 7, 8, 9 –– Initiatives to reduce greenSR2013/2014, pp. 33-36, 50-51 to human rights house gas emissions and reductions achieved EN20 8 – NOX, SOX and other significant VOC emissions data for SR 2013/2014, p. 50 Society emissions 2013 and 2014 are not available for all reporting GRI-Indicator GC-Principle Berichtet Comment Reference* sites. 10 Management approach SR 2013/2014, pp. 71-72 EN21 8 –– Total water discharge SR 2013/2014, p. 52 SO2 10 –– Business units analyzed for SR 2013/2014, pp. 23-25 EN22 8 –– Total weight of waste by type SR 2013/2014, p. 55 risks related to corruption and disposal method SO3 10 –– Employee training regarding SR 2013/2014, p. 24 EN26 7, 8, 9 –– Initiatives to mitigate environSR 2013/2014, pp. 32-39, 54 anti-corruption mental impacts of products SO4 10 –– Anti-corruption measures SR 2013/2014, pp. 23-25 EN28 8 –– Significant fines and sanctions SR 2013/2014, pp. 46 SO5 10 –– Public policy positions and SR 2013/2014, p. 19 for non-compliance with participation in public policy environmental laws development and lobbying EN30 7, 8, 9 – Environmental protection SR 2013/2014, pp. 31, 47 SO6 10 –– Financial contributions to SR 2013/2014, p. 19 expenditures and investments political parties and politicians SO8 –– Fines for non-compliance SR 2013/2014, pp. 23-24 with laws Labor SO9 –– Significant potential or actual SR 2013/2014, pp. 71-75 negative impacts on local GRI-Indicator GC-Principle Reported Comment Reference communities 1, 2, 3, 6 Management approach SR 2013/ 2014, pp. 57-59 SO10 –– Prevention and mitigation SR 2013/2014, pp. 71-75 LA1 – Total workforce by employInformation concerning the SR 2013/ 2014, pp. 57-58 measures implemented ment type, employment conpercentage of female emtract, and region ployees categorized by type of employment and contract is Product Responsibility regarded as confidential. LA4 1, 3 –– Collective bargaining agreeSR 2013/ 2014, p. 58 GRI-Indicator GC-Principle Reported Comment Reference* ments 1, 8 Management approach SR 2013/ 2014, pp. 29-31 LA6 1 –– Occupational health and SR 2013/ 2014, p. 60 PR1 1 –– Life cycle stages in which SR 2013/ 2014, p. 39 safety committees health and safety impacts of LA7 1 – Rates of injury, occupational SR 2013/ 2014, pp. 61 products and services are diseases, lost days, and abassessed senteeism, and total number PR3 8 –– Product and service informaSR 2013/ 2014, p. 39-40 of work-related fatalities tion required by procedures LA8 1 –– Education, training, counseSR 2013/ 2014, pp. 62-63 PR5 –– Customer satisfaction SR 2013/ 2014, pp. 42-43 ling, prevention, and risk-conPR8 1 –– Data protection There were no notifiable SR 2013/ 2014, p. 24 trol programs in relation to breaches of data protection serious diseases in 2013 and 2014. LA10 – Education and further training Training days and costs are not SR 2013/ 2014, pp. 64-65, 73 PR9 –– Significant fines none SR 2013/ 2014, p. 31 measures broken down by gender and employment type. We consider GRI= Global Reporting Initiative Financial Reports of MTU Aero Engines AG these data confidential. GC= United Nations Global Compact LA11 –– Skills management and lifeSR 2013/ 2014, p. 65 *SR 2013/2014 = Sustainability Report 2013/2014 UN Global Compact long learning AR 2014 = Annual Report 2014, Page numbers refer LA12 –– Regular performance and SR 2013/ 2014, p. 64 to the print version Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) career development reviews LA13 1, 6 – Diversity of employees and Information concerning the perSR 2013/ 2014, pp. 66-68 –– This indicator is reported in full governing bodies centage of female employees – This indicator is partially reported categorized by type of employment, contract or age groups is regarded as confidential. 82 83
