Executive Statement I am pleased to confirm that LeBLANC International continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. The LeBLANC business has undergone an extensive restructure including the sale and closure of business units across the globe, and relocation of key personnel. Though this has considerably altered our organisational footprint, we are not deterred from promoting the good governance and underlying fundamentals as espoused with the Global Compact framework. This report is our initial effort, albeit we are in our infancy in formalising our position, LeBLANC believes responsible and principled behaviour is paramount. Jonathan Perry Managing Director LeBLANC Group of Companies Business Overview LeBLANC Communications (LeBLANC) provides engineering and infrastructure solutions to the telecommunications sector. Globally, LeBLANC has relationships with all major vendor and operators. LeBLANC has established manufacturing in the Middle East and Asia and has also developed supply channels in China. LeBLANC was incorporated in 1962 in North America and grew to reach across a number of continents. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d18oJd9Ez10) UN Global Compact COP 2015 Reg: 200203801C LeBlanc International PTE LTD 61 Club St Singapore P a g e |1 Human Rights LeBLANC International (LeBLANC) is committed to support and protect the internationally proclaimed human rights legislation (e.g. UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights) as well as all relevant legislation where it has operations. LeBLANC strives to ensure that its’ supply channel partners uphold similar principles through their operations and supply chains where practical. We are committed to the view that we are not complicit in any form of human rights abuses through neither direct, nor beneficial nor silent complicity. Our corporate and social responsibility policy is integrated into our daily business activities. Consideration to human rights and discrimination is also given in our Equality Policy which is fully implemented throughout the business. All our operations work within the framework of international standards including ISO9001:2008 and OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 where relevant. This systematic framework endeavours to ensure the integrity of day to day practice. Implementation CSR Logo was adopted to promote all facets of our objective to align ourselves to the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. Orange balanced approach to work and life, connected; Blue social commitment, fair practices, compliance and the community; Green environmental and sustainable practices; Our core operation in Australia has achieved and sustained both ISO9001:2008 and OHSAS 18001 and these frameworks are utilised across manufacturing activities with our primary partner in Qingdao, China. Measurements LeBLANC intends to introduce 3rd party support in order to provide statistical affirmation of our supply channel compliance to Human Rights principles. Continuous education and development of staff, partners and ultimately clientele will also be recorded for annual review in line with annual assessment of policies and procedures. LeBLANC will also evaluate the possibility of becoming a member of EICC Code of Conduct and adopting facets of the code where appropriate. Labour LeBLANC has a diverse employee profile, whereby not only are there educational disparities, ethnic differences, divergent spiritual beliefs but also contrasting management needs. LeBLANC has been able to accomplish a relatively cohesive and collaborative environment via reinforcement of its core values and the promotion of mutual trust. LeBLANC undertakes to comply with national legislation and regulations relating to the application of the relevant international charters and declarations wherever it operates and/or undertakes its business activities; mainly relating to discrimination (in any form), employment, working condition, freedom of expression and association and reporting of human rights and other violations. Compliance with legislation on labour is strictly followed as the foundation on LeBLANCs’ procedures on labour principles. LeBLANC has no objections for employees to join trade unions and follows the procedures on freedom of association and collective bargaining. UN Global Compact COP 2015 Reg: 200203801C LeBlanc International PTE LTD 61 Club St Singapore P a g e |2 All LeBLANC employees are issued with a Contract of Employment clearly stating their terms and conditions of employment with clearly stated pay rates, sick leave, maternity and paternity leave, etc. This we consider as fair, just and fully in compliant with Laws and Regulations. Implementation Workplace, Health and Safety is fundamental to the LeBLANC business. Active participation in compliance with OHS18001 is promoted; an intranet facility, has been adopted to not only provide a centralised publishing portal, but to also promote feedback and notification. LeBLANC has not only adopted non-conformance review as a rectification practice but importantly as a learning mechanism. LeBLANC fosters professional development, promoting continuous learning for which a professional development register is maintained and all costs borne by LeBLANC and time availed for participants to actively engage. Professional Development Register Example. LeBLANC is furthering its’ focus on cooperative learning by implementing its’ own change framework – The LTQ Methodology. This not only defines a framework for which to manage change but is also an affirmation of LeBLANCs’ underlying fundamentals. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BvW0HHfm9vA) LeBLANC will also be undertaking a review of its supply chain in order to seek support from its partners in not only abiding by relevant codes, statutes and regulations but to also the 10 principles. Measurements LeBLANC has regular audits of its standards qualification by external qualified and competent auditors. LeBLANC has not had an incident requiring legal interjection over Human Rights matters. LeBLANC retains records of all training and education of its employees and risk registers where required. UN Global Compact COP 2015 Reg: 200203801C LeBlanc International PTE LTD 61 Club St Singapore P a g e |3 LeBLANC wishes to employ and appoint employees with the right professional and personal qualifications for the job, irrespective of sex, age, disability, ethnic or religious background. LeBLANC wishes to promote equal opportunities by giving men and women the same opportunities for promotion to senior positions. Labour Overview Australian African European Aisan Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Executive 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 2.1% Management 2.1% 6.3% 4.2% Professional 6.3% 4.2% 2.1% 12.5% 4.2% Skilled 2.1% 29.2% 4.2% Unskilled 4.2% 4.2% 12.50% 2.08% 4.17% 8.33% 2.08% 54.17% 16.67% Environment LeBLANC is committed to continuously improve our environmental performance. We will achieve this through the efficient use of the resources, preventing pollution, minimising waste and the promotion of recycling. LeBLANC has and will continue to support and work closely with suppliers and customers to help each other in achieving mutual targets on sustainability. LeBLANC has implemented an Environmental policy and complies with all relevant environmental legislation and regulations. The environmental policy is understood by all personnel. All employees are made aware of the risk to the environment by accidental release of the chemicals. This is included in the induction of every new employee and reinforced during everyday activities. We continue to seek opportunities to reduce our environmental impact in all facets of our business. Implementation LeBLANC personnel are undergoing Lean Six Sigma training as an initial step towards looking at various facets of our operation in order to garner not only a competitive edge but in line with environmental and safety objectives. The following benefits have been garnered with the introduction of a Cradle based packing system:  Reduced shipping container and delivery truck requirements o reduced cost to company financially o ultimately less environmental impact as a result of less containers shipped;  Reduced WHS risk as material is bundled and packaged within a framing system;  Reduced load/unload time at distribution, thereby reduced financial, environmental and likelihood of WHS incidents. LeBLANC Cradle Example UN Global Compact COP 2015 Reg: 200203801C LeBlanc International PTE LTD 61 Club St Singapore P a g e |4 LeBLANC is constantly reviewing its’ engineering deliverables and looking at all areas of practice in line with minimising environmental impacts. It will be necessary for LeBLANC to put some more formalised framework in place in order to assess outcomes. LeBLANC will look to doing this in line with seeking supplier support in also adopting these methodologies. Measurements LeBLANC is reviewing methodologies as to best attain statistical representation of its environmental practices. Clearly reduced shipping costs and then an appropriate algorithm for calculating greenhouse offsets would suffice with respect to the packing implementation, but other areas of environmental activities will require 3rd party intervention to provide a formalised reportable outcome. Anti-Corruption It is LeBLANCs’ policy to conduct business without the utilisation of corruption and/or bribery. This is LeBLANCs’ position towards the issue as well as a legal obligation. Corruption is a criminal offence, and corrupt acts expose LeBLANC and LeBLANCs’ employees to the risk of prosecution, fines and imprisonment whilst also endangering LeBLANCs’ valued reputation. LeBLANC gives the utmost importance to the anti-bribery policy adopts a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption by any of our employees and other stake holders. Implementation LeBLANC has adopted a formalised policy for which forms part of an Employees’ induction procedure. In turn, it is LeBLANCs intent to rollout an “Anti-Corruption Declaration” to all or primary and secondary stakeholders. This will be retained on record. LeBLANC will also be reviewing an online mandatory e-learning portal for both internal and external stakeholders, to promote good governance, integrity and best practice. Measurements LeBLANC can state that it has been informally presented with opportunities to undertake works should it be complicit in antcompetitive behaviour. Albeit, seen to be the “norm” in various regions, LeBLANC has refused to undertake such works and have stated categorically as to its negative opinion on such, to the extent that we are no longer active in areas of Sub Sahara Africa or Asia. LeBLANC will retain a Stakeholder register, updated annually for its’ Anti-Corruption Declaration, further, we will review a formal process of incorporating our policy position in future RFQs (Request for Quotations). UN Global Compact COP 2015 Reg: 200203801C LeBlanc International PTE LTD 61 Club St Singapore P a g e |5
