In the Vanguard Annual Report 2015 Year Ended March 31, 2015 The LIXIL Group’s transformation Since its relaunch under a new name in 2012, the LIXIL Group has implemented major change at every level, from identity to business area to business model. Identity transformation The LIXIL Group has evolved from a housing-related company that manufactures and sells a broad range of housingrelated products to a technology-driven comprehensive living and housing solutions company. During this transition, however, our corporate philosophy of “contribute to improving people’s comfort and lifestyles” throughout the world has not changed. Housing and building Technology company materials manufacturer Target market transformation Overseas company acquisitions made in our drive to become a global leader in the living and housing solutions industry pushed our overseas sales ratio up to about 24% in the fiscal year ended March 2015, from less than 5% in the fiscal year ended March 2012. 4% 24% Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2014 ¥1.29 trillion ¥1.67 trillion Japanese sales Overseas sales Business model transformation In place of a Japan-centric business model, we have embraced an operating model pursuing growth as a truly global company. In April 2015, we restructured Group operations under four technology businesses, moving on from our previous manufacturing function-based approach with three businesses. LIXIL Water LIXIL Housing LIXIL Building LIXIL Kitchen Distribution and Housing Services Technology Technology Technology Technology Retail Business Business Metal Building Material Business Plumbing Fixtures Business Other Building Materials and Equipment Business Distribution and Retail Business Housing, Real Estate and Other Businesses 01 Contents Annual Report 2015 In the Vanguard   02 The LIXIL Group in a snapshot 32 LIXIL Group’s operations in brief: 04 The LIXIL Group’s products our four technology businesses and market positions 34 Business policy 06 Financial highlights LIXIL Water Technology 08 Market environment LIXIL Housing Technology  LIXIL Building Technology 10 To LIXIL Group stakeholders LIXIL Kitchen Technology The LIXIL Group continues LIXIL Japan Company / its evolution toward becoming Distribution and Retail Business a truly global technology company Housing Services Business  40 Review of operations Groupwide initiatives Metal Building Material Business Plumbing Fixtures Business Other Building Materials and Equipment Business Distribution and Retail Business Housing, Real Estate  and Other Businesses 16 Executive officers Overseas Business   18 Special feature 48 Message from the Chairman of the Board In the vanguard of global Report on governance technology businesses 50 Board of Directors 54 Status of corporate governance 58 Compliance and internal control system 59 Investor relations 60 Business risks and risk management  62 Message from the CFO 64 Consolidated 11-year summary 66 Management’s discussion and analysis 70 Business risks 18 The innovation of operating models 72 Principal Group companies 22 LWT’s potential 74 Number of sales and manufacturing bases Interview with the CEO of LWT 75 History 24 LWT on the ground 76 Shareholder information 30 HR strategy underpinning 77 Corporate data the operating model Message from the Chief HR Officer   The brand name LIXIL is derived from the combination of “LI” in two words that represent our business: “LIVING” and “LIFE.” About the cover The cover of this annual report shows the automated sanitary ware line at Cautionary Statement with Respect to Forward-Looking Statements LIXIL’s Enokido plant in Tokoname-shi, Aichi Prefecture, Japan. Finished saniStatements made in this annual report with respect to plans, strategies, and future tary fittings emerge from the production line after a wide range of processes, performance that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. LIXIL including mixing clay and other materials, forming, drying, glazing, and firing, Group Corporation cautions that a number of factors could cause actual results to and quality checking. differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. LIXIL Group Corporation 02 The LIXIL Group in a snapshot The LIXIL Group in a snapshot Year ended March 31, 2015 Principal products and services Net sales LIXIL Water Technology (LWT) Sanitary ware, spa-toilets, water faucets, washstands, bathtubs, unit bathrooms, washstand fixtures, washstand cabinet units, etc. ¥400.3 billion LIXIL Housing Technology (LHT) Metal building Housing window sashes, entrance doors, various types of materials s­ hutters, gates, carports, banisters, high railings, tide barriers, smoke insulated screens, etc. Wooden interior Window frames, wooden furnishing materials, interior decorative ­furnishing materials materials, etc. ¥599.7 billion Other building External tiles for houses and buildings, internal decorative tiles, materials siding, stone materials, roofing materials, precut products, etc. Interior fabrics Curtains, etc. Other Solar photovoltaic systems LIXIL Building Technology (LBT) Curtain walls, building sashes, store facades ¥335.9 billion Ph.: ©ROCKET-PHOTOS LIXIL Kitchen Technology (LKT) Kitchen systems ¥113.7 billion Distribution and Retail Business (D&R) Home centers Household products, DIY products, building materials, etc. Comprehensive building Building materials, tools, hardware, etc. material stores ¥198.8 billion Housing Services Business (H&S) Housing solution Developing homebuilding franchise chains, construction on businesses order, housing defect warranty liability insurance services, ground inspections and improvements, etc. Real estate Land, buildings, real estate management services, support for development of real estate franchises, etc. ¥59.9 billion Nursing home business Nursing homes Financial services Housing loans business LIXIL Group Corporation The LIXIL Group in a snapshot 03 Major Japanese and global brands of the LIXIL Group Operating income (loss) Operating income (loss) margin ¥ 28.9 billion 7.2% ¥ 36.6 billion 6.1% ¥ 9.3 billion 2.8% ¥ (1.0) billion (0.9)% ¥ 7.1 billion 3.6% ¥ 4.2 billion 7.0% LIXIL Group Corporation 04 The LIXIL Group’s products and market positions The LIXIL Group’s products and market positions No.1 Global market leader in water technology products The LIXIL Group’s LIXIL Water Technology business is a leader in the field of plumbing fixtures, with annual sales of about US$5.0 billion. The company’s dominant market position derives from its multi-brand range that includes GROHE, the global leader in luxury water faucets, and American Standard Brands, the top sanitary ware brand in North America. It is establishing a powerful presence across global markets with sales channels throughout North America, Asia, Europe, and Africa, meeting local needs with a product portfolio that spans all market segments, from the luxury to the valuefor-money ends of the spectrum. 21% Market leader in North America with a share of roughly 21% Boasting strong brand recognition and a proud tradition stretching back 143 years, About 70 countries Curtain wall operations in about 70 countries Curtain walls—exterior wall materials with surface materials that include aluminum and other metals, stone, and various types of glass—are the core product at LIXIL Building Technology, which has annual sales in excess of €2.5 billion. Centering on Permasteelisa S.p.A., which has the top market share in the global curtain wall market, LIXIL Building Technology business has been supplying products and technologies for landmark buildings in major cities throughNorth America-based American Standard out Europe, the Middle East, North America, and Asia. Brands has a marketing network that spans the whole of North America and a market share of about 21%. It has been expanding sales of VorMax sanitary ware since January Global 2015, along with the DXV luxury portfolio Ph.: Wade Zimmerman Architect: Christian de Portzamparc launched in 2014. 19 countries Operations in 19 countries in the Asia-Pacific region The LIXIL Group has operations in the Asia-Pacific region spanning 19 countries. In Vietnam, where it established a joint venture with a local partner in 1996, it now holds top share in the sanitary ware market. LIXIL Group Corporation The LIXIL Group’s products and market positions 05 No.1 Portfolio with top-ranking products in many markets In areas other than aluminum products, such as sashes and exteriors, including washstands, bathrooms, kitchen systems, tiles, and curtains, the LIXIL Group’s portfolio contains many products with top market shares in their fields in Japan, underpinning the Group’s competitive leadership as a comprehensive living and housing solutions company. 0.79 W/(m2 K) JAPAN 55% Thermal insulation (heat transmission coefficiency) of 0.79W/(m2 • K)*1 Housing window sashes are a core product for LIXIL Housing Technology business. The window sash mainstream in Japan is gradually shifting from aluminum products to hybrid windows that combine aluminum and plastic. The LIXIL Group has launched new products offering insulation performance*2 that is among the best in the world and top-level in Japan in tune with its commitment to conserving energy and meeting consumer needs for comfortable living environments. We are driving innovation as the market leader with a domestic share of about 50%. Japanese market share of 55% for entrance doors and exteriors *1 ERSTER X vertical sliding windows, with TF double, Low-E triple-layered glass containThe LIXIL Group is the overwhelming leader in entrance doors and ing krypton gas; company trial values aluminum and other exterior products, such as gates, fences, *2 Company data for 2014 comparing plastic windows of domestic sash makers and carports, where it has a market share of approximately 55%. 424 Nationwide network of 424 LIXIL Reform Shops The Japanese renovation market is expected to expand to approxioutlets mately ¥8.5 trillion in the fiscal year ending March 2017*3. The leading players in this market are local building contractors and renovation specialists. With its LIXIL Reform Shop network, LIXIL has built one of Japan’s largest networks in the field, with 424 outlets nationwide*4. *3 New Market of Housing Renovation 2013 – Present and Future Potentiality, Fuji Keizai Group *4 As of March 31, 2015 LIXIL Group Corporation 06 Financial highlights Financial highlights LIXIL Group Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Net sales Operating income / Operating income ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 2,000 80 8 1,673.4 1,500 60 51.7 6 1,000 40 4 3.1% 500 20 2 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 Operating income Operating income ratio (right) Net sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 amounted to Operating income in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 fell ¥1,673.4 billion, rising only 2.7% from the previous fiscal year as 25.2% year on year, to ¥51.7 billion, owing to waning sales in weakness in the Japanese market offset a good performance Japan as the market lost momentum and to higher operating overseas that was supported by the full-year sales contribution of expenses as raw material prices rose. The operating income ratio American Standard Brands (ASB), a subsidiary acquired in 2013. declined 1.2 percentage points, to 3.1%. Net income / ROE Total assets / ROA (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) 30 6 2,400 3 1,875.2 22.0 20 3.7% 4 1,600 2 1.2% 10 2 800 1 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 Net income ROE (right) Total assets ROA (right) Net income rose 5.1% year on year, to ¥22.0 billion, despite bookTotal assets as of March 31, 2015 were up 5.0% from the previous ing in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 losses fiscal year-end, reflecting increases in cash and deposits accomassociated with the insolvency filing of an overseas subsidiary. panying the issuance of convertible bonds with stock acquisition ROE increased 0.1 percentage points year on year, to 3.7%. rights, and other factors. ROA edged down 0.1 percentage points year on year, to 1.2%. Interest-bearing debt / Debt-to-equity ratio* Equity ratio (¥ billion) (%) (%) 800 112.2% 120 60 676.0 600 90 40 32.1% 400 60 20 200 30 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 Interest-bearing debt Debt-to-equity ratio (right) * Debt-to-equity ratio: Interest-bearing debt / Total equity Interest-bearing debt as of March 31, 2015 was up ¥49.5 billion The equity ratio as of March 31, 2015 was 32.1%, declining from the previous fiscal year-end, the result of such factors as the 1.1 percentage points year on year as interest-bearing debt rose issuance of convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights. The and the Company implemented share buybacks of ¥20.0 billion. debt-to-equity ratio rose 6.6 percentage points year on year, to 112.2%. LIXIL Group Corporation Financial highlights 07 SG&A expenses / SG&A ratio Cash conversion cycle (CCC) (¥ billion) (%) (Days) 500 40 92 395.6 400 32 89 23.6% 300 24 86 200 16 83.7 83 100 8 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 0 9/13 12/13 3/14 6/14 9/14 12/14 3/15 (M/Y) SG&A expenses SG&A ratio (right) SG&A expenses rose 4.5% year on year in the fiscal year ended In the 1.5 years since launching its Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC) March 31, 2015, and the SG&A ratio declined 0.4 percentage Project on September 30, 2013, the Company has shortened the points, to 23.6%, despite progress in improving business efficiency amount of time required to convert products into cash through and reducing indirect expenses, owing to such factors as upfront sales by 6.6 days. investments in the renovation business. Cash flows Capital expenditures / Depreciation and amortization (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 150 138.9 80 62.6 9.7 60 50.7 0 –129.2 40 –150 20 –300 11 12 13 14 15 0 11 12 13 14 15 Operating cash flows Investing cash flows Free cash flows* Capital expenditures Depreciation and amortization * Free cash flows: Operating cash flows + Investing cash flows Free cash flow in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 rose Capital expenditures stood at ¥62.6 billion in the fiscal year ended ¥144.5 billion from the previous fiscal year as net cash provided by March 31, 2015, as a result of investments in upgrading core IT operating activities increased chiefly as a result of growth in worksystems, expanding production capacity, and consolidating and ing capital and a decline in net cash used in investing activities. maintaining production facilities as well as in the opening of new home centers. EPS Cash dividends / Dividend payout ratio (¥) (¥)(%) 100 60 60 800 75.46 75 45 600 50 30 400 25 15 200 79.5% 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 Cash dividends Dividend payout ratio (right) Net income per share was ¥75.46 in the fiscal year ended The Company paid annual dividends in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Excluding effects from the amortization of goodMarch 31, 2015 of ¥60 per share, an increase of ¥5 year on year, will, net income per share—the Company’s criterion for dividend and the dividend payout ratio was 79.5%. The dividend payout payments—was ¥111.65. ratio excluding the impact of goodwill amortization was 53.7%. (Note) Accounts for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 have been revised owing to the discovery of inappropriate accounting practices at an equity-method subsidiary. Figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 reflect the revisions. LIXIL Group Corporation 08 Market environment Market environment Industry trends in Japan Trends in the new housing market Total new housing starts by usage Since peaking at 1.63 million units in fiscal 1996, new housing (1,000 units) starts in Japan have continued to trend downward over the past 2,000 20 years or so. With the size of Japan’s population expected to decline further over the long term, housing starts will continue 1,500 to fall modestly, with a figure of about 800 thousand units projected for fiscal 2016 onward. In fiscal 2014, housing starts fell 10.8% year on year, to 880 thousand units, owing to weak 1,000 housing investment, particularly in owner-occupied housing, in response to the previous year’s surge in demand ahead of the 500 increase in Japan’s consumption tax in April 2014. Among new housing, the move toward rental housing is projected to gain momentum going forward, reflecting demographic changes in 0 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 (FY) Japan, such as lower birthrates, an aging population, and Owner-occupied Rental housing Built-for-sale growth in the number of single-person households, as well as Note: Company-provided housing is included in rental housing. Source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Survey on Dwelling greater lifestyle diversity among consumers. Houses and Construction Started Current status of housing stock and size of the housing renovation market In Japan, the total housing stock already exceeds by 15% Total numbers of households and housing units the total number of households. As of 2013, nearly 8.2 million (1,000 units) units were vacant, and this number is expected to rise. However, 80,000 the market for buying and selling existing homes in Japan is much smaller than comparable markets in Europe, the United 60,000 States, and other developed countries. Sales of existing houses as a percentage of total house sales were 14.7% in Japan in 2013. Although the ratio has been rising in recent years, it 40,000 still remains at only about one-sixth the level in countries in Europe and North America. 20,000 Since the mid-2000s, the Japanese government has backed housing policies that put emphasis on housing stock, with a stated goal of expanding the scale of Japan’s existing housing and reno0 78 83 88 93 98 03 08 13 (FY) vation markets to ¥20 trillion by the fiscal year ending March 2020. Number of households Number of housing units To reach this goal, steps are being taken to increase the amount of Source: Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Housing and Land Survey (2014) quality housing stock usable beyond a single generation, coupled with efforts to put in place housing markets for circulating and renovating existing stock. Trends in the commercial building market Domestic and overseas orders In Japan, total orders for building construction, including office, received by 50 biggest contractors commercial, industrial, and residential construction, placed with (¥ trillion) 12 the 50 biggest construction companies in fiscal 2014, rose 3.8% year on year. Overall orders increased for the fourth consecutive year, supported by brisk demand from the private sector—particularly manufacturers—as well as higher orders from public 8 institutions. Most real estate developers are moving ahead with plans for new development projects, spurred on by improved corporate earnings and declines in vacancy rates among large4 scale office buildings in central Tokyo. Consequently, in a period of roughly five years from 2015, Tokyo’s 23 wards are expected to see the supply of office floor space exceed the average seen between 1986 and 2014*1. 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 (FY) *1 Mori Building Co., Ltd., Market Trend Survey of Large-Scale Office Buildings in Tokyo’s Note: B  uilding construction only (includes offices, government buildings, accommoda23 Wards, April 22, 2015 tions, factories, residences, medical facilities, amusement facilities, etc.) Source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, The Current Survey of Orders Received for Construction [Big 50 Contractors] LIXIL Group Corporation Market environment 09 Industry trends overseas U.S. housing market Number of existing home sales and new housing starts Housing demand in the United States has gradually been in the United States recovering against a backdrop of a higher employment rate (Million units) (Million units) 8 1.6 and an improved income environment. The housing market as a whole has remained buoyant despite a period of temporary weakness attributable to weather factors, with new housing 6 1.2 starts on an uptrend and the number of existing-home sales in May 2015 approaching the level of November 2009. If the 4 0.8 Federal Reserve Bank raises interest rates, housing loan interest rates are also likely to rise, but the housing market is expected to remain on a recovery trend as consumer sentiment 2 0.4 improves amid growth in employment and incomes. Substantial room for growth in housing investment is also implied by the low ratio of housing investment to real GDP, 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 (Calendar year) despite gradual recovery after the sharp decline immediately Number of existing home sales New housing starts (right) following the financial crisis. Sources: United States Department of Commerce; National Association of Realtors European real estate market European countries have made steady progress with structural reforms and fiscal consolidation to calm the situation after the Real GDP growth rates in Eurozone countries debt crisis, but recently Greece’s debt problems have clouded (%) the outlook. However, real GDP in the Eurozone has gradually 1.0 been recovering. In addition, monetary easing led by the European Central Bank has been drawing funds into the real 0.5 estate market, and investment inflows have also been strong from overseas countries, including the United States, emerging economies, and Middle Eastern nations. As a result, the value of 0.0 transactions of commercial real estate has been growing, while office building vacancy rates in Paris, London, and other leading –0.5 European cities have been coming down. In London, in particular, the development of several large office buildings has been moving forward since 2014 and the office real estate market has –1.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Calendar year) been on a recovery trend supported by growing demand from corporate tenants across a broad spectrum of industries. Note: Quarterly year-on-year comparison data Source: OECD.Stat Asian real estate market In the ASEAN region*2, where the population had reached around 610 million people in 2012, GDP growth is expected to continue supported by consumers’ strong appetite for GDP growth forecast of 10 member countries of ASEAN spending and impetus from the scheduled establishment of (US$ billion) the ASEAN Economic Community at the end of 2015. Over 4,000 the medium term, high population and working-age population growth rates, as well as vibrant corporate activity in the 3,000 region, are expected to feed through to growth in the housing and office and commercial building markets. In China, meanwhile, the real estate market contracted 2,000 in the first half of fiscal 2014 as GDP growth slowed and the government implemented tightening measures. Although 1,000 conditions remain weak, the market appears to have bottomed, having sustained a gradual recovery since the second half of 2014. 0 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Forecast *2 ASEAN member countries: Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore, the Philippines, Myanmar,  (Calendar year) Malaysia, Laos, Indonesia, Cambodia, and Brunei Vietnam Thailand Singapore Philippines Myanmar Malaysia Laos Indonesia Cambodia Brunei Source: IMF, World Economic Outlook Database, April 2015 LIXIL Group Corporation 10 To LIXIL Group stakeholders To LIXIL Group stakeholders The LIXIL Group continues its evolution toward becoming a truly global technology company Our new operating model is central to our transformation to globalization, with an emphasis on global synergies, investing in technology leadership and innovation, and maximizing the use of great global talent. Yoshiaki Fujimori President and CEO LIXIL Group Corporation To LIXIL Group stakeholders 11 Four years ago, when we embarked on our transformation to investigation by executive officers from the perspective of globalization following the merger of five operating compaensuring the appropriate execution of operations. nies to form LIXIL Corporation, I promised our employees Based on the findings of the internal investigation that it would be an exciting journey. I also warned them that ­committee and the special investigation committee, we are the ride might at times be tumultuous or confusing. In saying quickly taking comprehensive measures to prevent a recurso, I gave them a preview of the movie of our journey. Now, rence on any such incident and have started to address the these employees are front and center in starring roles. shortcomings of our internal system related to financial In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we made several reporting. These measures include: landmark changes. We introduced a new operating model, (1) Securing strict global compliance awareness which integrates many of our efforts over the past four years, (2) Restructuring of internal controls that match risk profiles and a new set of LIXIL Values. In April 2015, we also estab(3) Strengthening of internal audit and monitoring system lished a Code of Conduct that underscores the integrity of (4) S trengthening LIXIL’s management systems over overthe LIXIL Group and serves to strengthen governance and seas subsidiaries, etc. risk management. In addition, we accelerated the processes (5) E nhancing education of personnel of overseas subsidnecessary to reshape the LIXIL Group and to turn it into a iaries, etc. truly global technology company. I would like to share with As specific measures, in August, we are establishing the you some of our efforts over the past year; however, first I Corporate Audit Group Office, which is to be responsible for would like to discuss the recent Joyou issue. supervising Groupwide business spanning all Group compaIn April 2015, inappropriate accounting practices were disnies at the global level, and we have begun assigning essencovered at Joyou AG, a GROHE subsidiary listed on the tial staff to the internal control unit. Frankfurt Stock Exchange that operated in China, and in May the company filed an application for insolvency proceedings. Overview of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 In this connection, we have revised our accounts for the fiscal In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, our net sales grew year ended March 2014, the year in which we acquired an 2.7%, to ¥1,673.4 billion. Operating income fell 25.2%, to equity stake in GROHE, and have booked estimated losses ¥51.7 billion, and net income increased 5.1%, to ¥22.0 billion. for the three-year period from the fiscal year ended March A downturn in the Japanese housing market was the 2014 to the fiscal year ending March 2016 totaling ¥66.2 bilmain reason for this drop in operating income. Housinglion (as of June 2015). sector demand was extraordinarily high in the fiscal year In response to this development, we established an interended March 31, 2014, because of a surge ahead of the connal investigation committee in June which has been examinsumption tax hike in April 2014, but demand has since fallen ing the case with the help of external experts. We will back in reaction to that rise. As a result, new housing starts prepare and implement measures to prevent recurrence fell to around 880 thousand, and the renovation market of any such incidents based on the facts disclosed, and we dropped 18% year on year. Although the Group’s sales for intend to take legal action as appropriate. In addition, LIXIL’s renovation outperformed the market, lower sales in Japan Board of Directors has established a special investigation and an increase in costs due to higher material prices drove committee consisting of external directors and outside down operating income. experts to review the results of the aforementioned internal Financial results for the fiscal year ended March 2015 (¥ billion) Y/Y 2015 results 2014 results*1 2015 results Joyou impact Years ended March 31 Increase / Decrease % change (excl. Joyou impact) Net sales 1,628.7 1,673.4 44.7 2.7% 1,673.4 — Operating income 69.1 51.7 –17.4 – 25.2% 51.7 — Operating income ratio 4.2% 3.1% — –1.2 pts 3.1% — Recurring income 74.9 57.9 –17.1 – 22.8% 58.2 0.3 Income before income taxes 49.1 53.0 3.9 8.0% 62.4 9.4 Net income 21.0 22.0 1.1 5.1% 31.0 9.0 Net income before amortization of goodwill 26.3 32.6 6.3 23.9% 41.5 9.0 EPS before amortization of goodwill (¥) 90 112 21 23.5% 142 31 EBITDA*2 124.8 108.9 –15.9 –12.8% 108.9 — EBITDA ratio 7.7% 6.5% — –1.2 pts 6.5% — *1 Figures are revised reflecting the commencement of insolvency proceedings by Joyou AG. *2 EBITDA figures are operating income before depreciation and amortization of goodwill. LIXIL Group Corporation 12 To LIXIL Group stakeholders In overseas business, American Standard Brands (ASB), When this transformation became official, I remarked that which we acquired in August 2013, contributed to consolithis is an exciting move for LIXIL—for me personally and for dated performance for the entire fiscal year. We also enjoyed our employees all over the world—and that remains true higher sales and income from our business in Asia. The curtoday. In 2011, we embarked on an ambitious journey, transtain wall business delivered an operating loss due to the forming ourselves from what was basically a domestic comamortization of goodwill, but absent this factor, sales and pany to a truly global corporation. What is exciting about income were both up. Our overseas business expanded this phase of the transformation is that it integrates all the during the year, and now accounts for 23.5% of total sales. pieces of the puzzle we have steadily been putting in place This figure represents an increase of more than 20 percentover the past four years, creating a clearly defined picture age points from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. that incorporates all of the interlocking parts. Although income was down on an operating basis, we increased our dividend for the fiscal year ended March 31, An ongoing progression 2015 by ¥5 from the previous term in line with the original This new operating model is part of the progression that has forecast. Dividends for the year consequently amounted to seen three different management frameworks over the past ¥60 per share. Excluding the impact of goodwill amortizathree years, all of which were important steps helping us tion, this figure represents a payout ratio of 53.7%. move toward this third stage. The first stage was the merging of five independently managed Japanese companies into Global foundations now in place one. At this stage, we changed the name of the merged comLet me explain what I mean when I talk about the LIXIL pany to LIXIL Corporation and integrated our individual HR, Group becoming a truly global technology company. financial, and IT systems. Profitable enterprises that have their origins in Japan but are The second stage was to grow. We achieved growth global in nature have a much better chance of transforming through M&A, which made us the global leader in a number themselves and securing sustainable growth than those that of areas and the owner of diverse companies and brands. In are simply Japanese companies with overseas sales. April 2014, we created the Global Management Committee The acquisitions we have made over the past several (GMC), which brought together executives from our domesyears were not only about generating overseas revenues, tic and overseas operations and transformed our managealthough we are indeed working to expand overseas sales to ment from an all-Japanese team based in Tokyo to a global ¥1 trillion by March 2020. Ultimately, we have been looking one where members hail from the United States, Germany, to expand our pool of global talent and to build our brands, Italy, China, and Singapore. The GMC helped to integrate and now we have in place a hugely skilled group of global and bring closer together a loose confederation of acquired managers and brands with unsurpassed value. Having laid companies, each with their own CEOs, while at the same the global foundations, we are now ready to take the next time retaining the expertise of multi-national leaders. step with our new operating model. Clarifying LIXIL Values Our new operating model: A symbolic benefit of this second stage was the introduction A landmark step on our transformation journey of a new set of LIXIL Values: Work with Respect, Deliver on In November 2014, we unveiled a new operating model with Commitment, Embrace Quality, Inspire Passion, and Pursue three strategic objectives to ensure a shared focus and to Growth. The drafting of these values—the process of exchangdrive long-term performance: ing opinions, understanding differences, shaping convergent  ideas, and sharing excitement about the future—was a n Accelerate globalization hugely important initiative after having undertaken a series n Fully leverage global talent and human capital of M&A in such a short period. Having been closely involved n Maximize core competencies across businesses in drafting these values, I am pleased with the result and  convinced that they succinctly describe what we stand for. The new model, which went into effect in April 2015, created four core businesses under LIXIL Corporation, our Cue the new technology businesses main operating company: LIXIL Water Technology, LIXIL Most notably, the new operating model created the world’s Housing Technology, LIXIL Building Technology, and LIXIL largest business in the sanitary ware industry, LIXIL Water Kitchen Technology. These four businesses are also accomTechnology (LWT), headed by David J. Haines. He remains panied by LIXIL Japan Company, the Distribution and Retail Chairman and CEO of GROHE Group S.à r.l., which became Business, and Housing Services Business in Japan. a consolidated subsidiary in April 2015. With sales of approximately US$5 billion, an operating margin of about 10%, LIXIL Group Corporation To LIXIL Group stakeholders 13 LIXIL CORE (Corporate Philosophy) The Group’s superior products and services contribute to improving people’s comfort and lifestyles. LIXIL VALUES (Shared Values) One LIXIL for Good Living...Our Values that Unite Us Work with Respect As a global company, we strive for open and honest communication with everyone, internally and externally. We value diversity and respect people from different backgrounds and treat everyone equally with meritocracy. We always act with unquestioned integrity. Deliver on Commitment We “act like owners” to create value for everyone that touches our business. We set ambitious targets which we are committed to achieving. We are accountable for decisions, actions and results. Embrace Quality We are committed to having our customer enjoy a positive experience in every aspect when interacting with us. We are committed to the highest quality products and solutions. We take a Kaizen approach to continuously improving our knowledge, products and processes. Inspire Passion We dare to dream big and seek to transform ourselves, our industry and customers experience. We push ourselves to stretch beyond our commitments to exceed expectations. We pursue excellence in everything we do and reward a “Can-do” attitude. Pursue Growth We are striving for growth and innovation. We consistently invest in the growth of our leaders and their teams. We are willing to embrace change & risk with speed in a thoughtful, informed and appropriate way. roughly 27,000 employees, sales offices in about 150 business generates sales of approximately €2.5 billion and countries, and 50 production facilities worldwide, LWT is has an operating margin of about 3%. LBT’s CEO is Nicola a new global leader in its segment, which includes toilets, Greco, CEO of the Permasteelisa Group. shower and bath systems, faucets, and ceramics, boasting LIXIL Kitchen Technology (LKT) is a leader in the kitchen several of the industry’s top brands and leading market posisystems business in Japan and, through a joint venture with tions across the globe. Haier in China, generates sales of about ¥110 billion in these LIXIL Housing Technology (LHT) is a significant leader two countries. Although not highly profitable at present, LKT in Japan’s housing materials industry, with sales of approxioffers strong synergies with LWT. I have acted as interim mately ¥600 billion and an operating margin of about 6%. CEO since our new operating model became official. LHT’s CEO is Toshimasa Iue, previously the Chief Marketing François-Xavier Lienhart, formerly the president of a French and Sales Officer of LIXIL Corporation. manufacturer of construction materials, has taken over this LIXIL Building Technology (LBT), a global leader in role in August 2015. building curtain walls, commercial interiors, and windows, LIXIL Japan Company (LJC)’s primary role is the sales and manages landmark building projects in more than 50 counmarketing of all products and services in Japan, operating on tries and operates dozens of factories around the world. This a “total solutions” model. Generating sales of approximately LIXIL Group Corporation 14 To LIXIL Group stakeholders New operating model (Commenced on April 1, 2015) LIXIL Group M&A IR/GR Audit LIXIL LIXIL Water Technology (LWT) LIXIL Housing Technology (LHT) LIXIL Building Technology (LBT) LIXIL Kitchen Technology (LKT) Distribution and Retail Housing Services Business (H&S) Human Resources Finance Business (D&R) Legal Public Affairs Basic Research & Development, Quality, IT, etc. LIXIL Japan Company (LJC) ¥1 trillion, LJC concentrates on the home renovation market. At the same time, we have the chance to steadily rationalize LJC is the LIXIL business most integrated across product our operations. lines, with a combination of specialists dedicated to individLWT provides an excellent example of the potential ual business areas and generalists covering all products. ­vertical synergies. We have numerous solid global growth Haruo Shirai remains as CEO of LJC. brands, including GROHE, ASB, and LIXIL/INAX, ranging Backed by strong governance processes and capabilities from the luxury to the value-for-money ends of the specmanaged by best-in-class corporate functions in Human trum. The new operating model allows us to reduce costs Resources, Finance, Legal, Public Affairs, R&D, and IT, among by consolidating production bases and supply chains. We others, I believe our progress to date demonstrates the comhave already begun this process, such as by combining pelling value proposition we can create for investors, shareGROHE’s plant in Canada with an ASB plant in Mexico. holders, customers, and other key stakeholders. Also, we will pare back overlapping product stockkeeping units and clarify brand segmentation in our markets. Making the synergies work This move will generate cost savings and enable us to choose The new operating model offers a host of opportunities to the best channels for management across markets. As an take advantage of synergies, both vertically within each of example, while it might take time to achieve broad market the four technology businesses and horizontally across these recognition for spa-toilets in overseas markets under the businesses. The potential to secure vertical synergies are LIXIL brand, ASB and GROHE already have solid brand repenormous—perhaps 80% of the total—and we will be intenutations in the United States and Europe, as well as estabsively focused on realizing this potential over the next three lished distribution channels, which will make adoption swifter years or so. and more successful. Over the past few years, we pursued growth by carrying LJC, while being Japan-focused, leads the way in achievout a succession of acquisitions. We are now focusing on ing horizontal synergies. We provide LIXIL offerings in all Group integration, aiming for stable, organic growth. The four businesses, and we are particularly strong in Japan implementation of the new operating model is a transformaright now because of that. In other regions, we have a solid tional step because it will help us to grow by capitalizing on presence in at least one and sometimes three of these busiour expertise in each of the verticals, driving segmentation as nesses, but not yet all four. By taking Japan as our ultimate we go to market, fully recognizing the scale of our customer model for realizing horizontal synergies in markets around base, and serving that base in a way we never could before. the world, we see enormous opportunities to grow. LIXIL Group Corporation To LIXIL Group stakeholders 15 Talented and globally minded people are the key to Bringing the pieces together making us not merely succeed but truly flourish under our new Our new operating model is all about consolidating our operating model. Earlier this year, we reduced the number of efforts over the past four years into a well-integrated whole: executive officers and drew on our newly expanded global a truly global technology company that serves the best intertalent pool to put the best people in the best jobs. Throughout ests of all its stakeholders by creating value over the medium that process, we concentrated on swiftness of execution and to long term. We are aware, and have seen first-hand, that the selection of the optimal team for growing the Group’s greater globalization exposes an entity to all manner of global management over the long term. unforeseen risks. Rather than fearing such risks, we will learn from them and grow stronger as we incorporate lessons Our Medium-Term Business Plan learned into the ongoing process of value creation. In May 2014, we announced LIXIL G-16, a medium-term As I mentioned at the beginning, I gave our employees business plan, which is consistent with our underlying mana preview of the movie that is our transformation journey. agement vision of becoming a comprehensive living and I am grateful for their commitment and willingness to withhousing solutions provider targeting the global market. The stand temporary discomfort as we pull together toward plan reflects the realities of changes in the operating envia common goal. I ask also for your continued support of ronment as well as the addition of new companies, including the LIXIL Group as we build a corporate group that we can ASB and GROHE. all be proud of and that serves in the vanguard of global As part of the plan’s efficiency initiatives, we aim to technology businesses. ­generate cash of about ¥100 billion by March 2016 and, by March 2017, slash the time required to generate cash, from purchase of raw materials to collection of income from sales, August 2015 to 55 days, through the Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC) Project. We are seeing successes here already—the CCC is down from more than 90 days in September 2013 to 84 days in March 2015. Yoshiaki Fujimori President and CEO Home renovation: an “emerging market” opportunity in a mature economy Housing starts in Japan are likely to remain sluggish over the medium to long term as the population continues to shrink, but we see the renovation business as a silver lining. One reason is a greater awareness of energy savings; whereas the amount of energy being used in such areas as transportation is trending downward, home energy use is increasing, and renovation can help stem that trend. Also, a growing percentage of the population is middleaged or older, a core group of the renovation business for LIXIL. The aging population in Japan leads trends we are seeing around the world, including the preference for aging in place. As members of the silver generation in Japan choose to age at home rather than move to an assisted living facility, these homes will be reinvented to accommodate changing needs in the bathroom, shower, or kitchen. In the year ended March 31, 2015, renovation products generated sales of ¥279.6 billion. This is a more lucrative business than new housing products. We will continue focusing efforts on expansion of the renovation business. LIXIL Group Corporation 16 Executive officers Executive officers (As of June 26, 2015) (Back row, from left) Sachio Matsumoto, Hwa Jin Song Montesano, Katsuhiro Mamenari, Yosuke Yagi, Yoshizumi Kanamori (Front row, from left) Takashi Tsutsui, Yoshiaki Fujimori, Ryuichi Kawamoto, Harumi Matsumura, Laurence William Bates LIXIL Group Corporation Executive officers 17 Yoshiaki Fujimori Yosuke Yagi Laurence William Bates President and CEO Executive Officer and Executive Vice President Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director Yoshiaki Fujimori has been serving as Yosuke Yagi has been serving as Executive Laurence William Bates has been serving President and CEO of the Company as well Vice President of the Company since April as Executive Officer and Senior Managing as President and CEO of subsidiary, LIXIL 2012, taking responsibility for human resources Director of the Company since July 2014, Corporation, since August 2011. He also and general affairs in April 2014. He is also with responsibility for legal functions. He serves as the Representative Director of serving as Director, Executive Vice President, has also been serving as Director, Senior GraceA Co., Ltd. Prior to joining the Group, and Chief Human Resources Officer at subManaging Director and Operating Officer, Mr. Fujimori worked for 25 years at General sidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Prior to joining the and Chief Legal Officer at subsidiary, LIXIL Electric Company (GE), where he was Group, he worked for GE Yokogawa Medical Corporation, since 2014, with responsibility Senior Vice President and a member of the Systems Limited (now GE Healthcare Japan) for intellectual property. Prior to joining the Corporate Executive Council. He served as from 1999 to 2012, becoming Director in GE Group, Mr. Bates worked for 22 years at President and CEO of various business diviJapan from 2002 and leading all GE business General Electric (GE) in the United States, sions including GE Medical Systems Asia, in Japan and Asia as Senior HR Manager from where he held the position of Senior Executive GE Plastics, and GE Capital Asia, and as 2002 to 2012. Prior to joining GE, he worked and was on the Global Leadership Council Chairman of GE Japan. Prior to joining GE, for Nippon Kokan for 19 years from 1980. for many years. He served most recently as he worked for Nissho Iwai Corporation (now General Counsel of GE Japan from 1998 Sojitz Corporation) for 10 years. He has been until his retirement at the end of 2013. Prior Director of Tokyo Electric Power Company, to GE, he worked with international law firms Sachio Matsumoto Incorporated, since 2012. Executive Officer and Executive Vice President Morrison & Foerster, in Tokyo, and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, in Sachio Matsumoto has been serving as New York and Beijing. Ryuichi Kawamoto Executive Vice President since April 2015, Representative Executive Officer and with responsibility for accounting, and Chief Executive Vice President Financial Officer (CFO) of the Company since Hwa Jin Song Montesano June 2013. He is also serving as Director, Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director Ryuichi Kawamoto has been serving as Executive Vice President, and Chief Financial Representative Executive Officer and Vice Officer at subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Prior Hwa Jin Montesano has been serving as President of the Company since June 2012, to joining the Group, he was Corporate Vice Executive Officer and Senior Managing taking responsibility for quality and technolPresident and Head of Finance and Treasury Director of the Company since November ogy in April 2015. He is also serving as in Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. 2014, with responsibility for public relations, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief CSR, and environmental strategy. She is also Technology Officer at subsidiary, LIXIL serving as Director, Senior Managing Director Corporation. Mr. Kawamoto joined INAX and Operating Officer, and Chief Public Affairs Corporation (now LIXIL Corporation) in Yoshizumi Kanamori Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director Officer at subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Prior April 1976. to joining the Group, Ms. Montesano held Yoshizumi Kanamori has been serving various senior positions, including Vice as Executive Officer and Senior Managing President, Global Public Affairs in GSK Takashi Tsutsui Director and Director of the Company since Vaccines; Vice President, Corporate & Executive Officer and Executive Vice President June 2011, taking responsibility for finance Government Affairs, Asia Pacific in Kraft in April 2014. Previously, he also served as Foods; Vice President, Communications, Takashi Tsutsui has been serving as Executive Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Asia Region in GE Money; and Corporate & Vice President and Director of the Company as Director, Senior Managing Director and Government Affairs Director, Asia Pacific in since June 2011, with responsibility for M&A, Operating Officer at subsidiary, LIXIL GlaxoSmithKline plc. investor relations, and external affairs. He is Corporation. He joined the Company in 1977. also Head of the Company’s Compensation Committee and has been serving as Director, Katsuhiro Mamenari Executive Vice President, and Chief External Executive Officer Relations Officer at subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Harumi Matsumura Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director Prior to joining the Group in June 2009, Katsuhiro Mamenari has been serving as Mr. Tsutsui served as President and CEO of Executive Officer of the Company since June Harumi Matsumura has been serving as Jasdaq Securities Exchange, Inc., from 2005. 2011, with responsibility for home centers. Executive Officer and Senior Managing Prior to joining Jasdaq Securities Exchange, He is also serving as Chairman and CEO, and Director of the Company since June 2013, he worked for Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Representative Director at subsidiary, LIXIL taking responsibility for housing services busi(now Nomura Holdings, Inc.), joining the VIVA CORPORATION, since 2014, after servness since November 2014. She has also company in 1974 and becoming Director ing as President and Representative Director been serving as Senior Managing Director in 2002 and Executive Officer in 2003. from 2000 to 2014. Mr. Mamenari joined the and Operating Officer at subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation, since 2013, and President and Company in April 1973. representative Director at subsidiary, LIXIL Living Solution Corporation, since 2015. Prior to joining the Group, she was President and Representative Director of Henri Charpentier Co., Ltd. from 2004 to 2011. She also served as a manager at major retailer Seibu Department Stores, Ltd. (now Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd.), which she originally joined in 1976. LIXIL Group Corporation 18 Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses Story 1 The Innovation of operating models In the vanguard of The LIXIL Group has rapidly pushed ahead with business expansion and operating global model reforms following the merger of five operating companies in Japan in 2011 and three large M&A deals. Here, we take a close look at the Group’s development and how the situation stands today. From April 2014 PAST The Global Management Committee (GMC): Post-M&A integration management by function LIXIL Corporation President & CEO Japan Greater China Asia Pacific Permasteelisa ASB GROHE Human Resources Finance Technology External Relations Supply Chain Business Transformation Information Technology Marketing & Sales Legal Communication The LIXIL Group made rapid strides in business globalization The GMC’s mission is to promote integration and realize through major acquisitions and investments during the synergies across the Group. The horizontal axes represent period from 2011 to 2014. In April 2014, it established the various corporate functions in common throughout the Global Management Committee (GMC) to maximize value Group, while the vertical axes show the management strucfrom business expansion and management diversification ture by business unit and region. We have sought to optimize through speedy post-M&A integration (PMI). “One LIXIL” across the Group by integrating functions while devolving authority to operating companies and regional management leaders and making them responsible for attaining earnings targets. LIXIL Group Corporation Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses 19 technology businesses To end-March 2015 PAST Our achievements Value chain Priority issues by function Key results n Realization of global development structure n Formulation of processes and targets for creating global development n Development of competitive, next-generation platforms global products Development n Cost management based on optimal production, n Information aggregation through 98 manufacturing bases and 42 logisenhanced global procurement and logistics systics centers and productivity evaluation tems, and sharp cuts in inventories n  Clarification of flows from raw materials to finished products in each n Global adoption of best practices with supply operating company and region Supply chain chain management, including LIXIL’s innovative n  Simulating and testing global logistics chain development technologies n Consolidation and optimization of production and n Examination and common adoption of best practices in manufacturing logistics bases processes across operating companies and regions n Standardized components n  Annual cost savings of about ¥2.3 billion from business integration within Japan and consolidation of manufacturing bases in Asia and Manufacturing North America n Establishment and common use of marketing n Launching an integration process of the customer relationship manplatforms agement (CRM) system n Preparation of global sales strategy for the LIXIL n  Joint LIXIL/GROHE displays at ISH, a world-leading trade fair, showGroup as a whole casing the latest bathrooms Marketing n  Multi-brand presentation programs targeting the top designer/architecand sales ture and hospitality firms Among the GMC’s functions, technology, supply chain, and In particular, the GMC has been focusing on speed, marketing and sales are directly linked to the core manufacturreflecting its perception that PMI management needs to ing value chain. In the fiscal year ended March 2015, considermove onto the next stage to maximize integration synergies. able progress was made in optimizing Group operations across (Please look inside the page.) development, procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, and marketing and sales based on functional leadership. LIXIL Group Corporation Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses 20 technology businesses From April 2015 Present Stepping up global expansion through promoting the technology businesses by product field LIXIL Water LIXIL Housing LIXIL Building LIXIL Kitchen Value chain Technology Technology Technology Technology Development Supply chain Manufacturing Marketing and sales In April 2015, the LIXIL Group moved into a new stage of its The CEOs and management teams of the four technology transition to a truly global technology company. It restrucbusinesses are seeking to maximize business value by applytured Group operations by adopting an operating model with ing product development effectiveness, brands, technologies, four product fields* under LIXIL Water Technology (LWT), and sales channels while committing themselves to attaining LIXIL Housing Technology (LHT), LIXIL Building Technology their earnings targets. (LBT), and LIXIL Kitchen Technology (LKT) while continuing * Apart from manufacturing-based technology businesses, the new operating model also to reap benefits from the GMC’s functions. comprises LIXIL Japan Company (LJC), which provides total customer support, Distribution and Retail Business (D&R), and Housing and Services Business (H&S). LIXIL Group Corporation Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses 21 and value creation From April 2015 NEXT STEP Value created by a new operating model Synergies Results Targets Outcome Shorter development cycles Superior product development Strengthened product lineup Lower procurement costs Accessing new demand and markets Higher profit margins Growth through establishing a leading-edge Greater cash generation Differentiation from operating model rival products as a global technology Reinforced brand strength company Lower manufacturing costs Enhanced customer Broader customer base satisfaction Aggregation of customer information The new operating model has moved into top gear since its A priority issue now is to maximize synergies within each launch on April 1, 2015. The management teams of each technology business. We see great potential for synergies technology business have already built shared awareness of from the perspective of maximizing business opportunities management resources and business opportunities helped by and achieving top line growth as well as for enhancing proextensive discussions in meetings of the GMC. ductivity and efficiency. The realization of that potential will contribute to growth and value enhancement for the Group as a whole. LIXIL Group Corporation 22 Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses Story 2 LWT’s potential Please tell us about the scale of Although demand is growing at differLWT operations and its market ent rates in different parts of the positions. world, fundamentally the market is LWT is a new global market leader in expanding. Even better is that this the water technology business. We are trend will continue for years to come. a big organization, with turnover of Brands, global operation, and techabout $5 billion and operating profit nology: I don’t think any other comof just under 10%. pany can fulfill those three. And these We have the industry’s best brands: are all underpinned by an outstanding ASB, GROHE, and LIXIL/INAX, and team of people and a proven managemany others that are regional. We ment team that is itself very diverse. cover the entire spectrum, offering David J. Haines CEO premium products under the GROHE What are some areas you need to LIXIL Water Technology brand, everyday products under ASB, work on? and value-for-money products. I would expect platform strategies to We have leading positions across be a strong theme for us over the next “LWT has two sets of crown the globe, in Japan, Asia other than few years, which is very similar to the jewels: its people and its brands. Japan, the Middle East/Africa, North process car companies underwent We are truly global, America, and Europe. While not some 20 years ago. The beauty here is operating in all corners of the number one in each region, the fact that scale matters. LWT’s procurement world. We are a technology that we have such a wide geographic volume is bigger than most of our spread means that we are the largest leader with solid brands, and competitors’ revenues. Our investment player in this industry, covering the budget and ability to invest is a huge our people are excited about the full range of water technology prodbenefit of scale, because we can idea of working for the global ucts. We also enjoy a large and growquickly roll out new technologies market leader.” ing market. Around the world, around the globe. consumers want better facilities. Interview with the CEO of LWT Pursuing growth with water The CEO of LIXIL Water Technology (LWT)—the LIXIL Group’s most globalized business—shares his views on how LWT will grow as a global entity under the new operating model. He also discusses strengths and strategies for the future. LIXIL Group Corporation Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses 23 We are bringing together multiple some fantastic engineers around the and last week I was in Germany. companies from various cultures and globe who will help us to rationalize Wherever I go, talking to our people, with different histories, and people our operations. So quite to the conour customers, and our suppliers, I from diverse backgrounds. Bringing all trary, I think we will see a massive sense a great deal of excitement. They of this together with a common set of de-complexing of our value chains, love the changes that are taking place. values will deliver benefits—if we do while at the same time out-innovating I sense excitement about the idea it well—that are sustainable for years our competitors. of working for the global market to come. These will not be one-time Our biggest opportunity comes leader. Our people sense opportunity, benefits, but enduring and sustainable from the fact that we have far too optimism and a good future. Our cusbenefits that increase over time as we many products. In the past, operations tomers love the changes they see move to multiple brands on the front in individual regions optimized thembecause they sense we will be able to end and integrated production and selves, but now we have many opporcome up with more relevant innovacost savings at the back end. tunities for rationalization. Product tions they can share with their customI think we will be able to outranges, how we make them, our supers, which helps them grow their innovate most of our competitors by plier base…over the next several businesses. Our suppliers see us as having the resources available—not years, I am sure we can find numerous a long-term, stable, reliable partner. just in terms of money but also people opportunities to improve the customer I think we are at a crossroads of and ideas. experience and enter areas we are not opportunities that bring multiple benein, and to reduce our cost base. fits: for ourselves, our customers and What about your value chain now consumers, our suppliers, and our that you have become a single You have mentioned that these investors. But this will mean change, company? Won’t this become changes will bear fruit over time. not business as usual, and we will all unmanageably complex? How are employees responding? need to accommodate some change. Conversely, it will become far more What do things look like on the streamlined. We will reduce the ground, day to day, right now? number of products in our portfolio Today I’m in Tokyo. A few days ago I through platform strategies. We have was in China, and in the United States, technology in the vanguard LIXIL Group Corporation 24 Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses Story 3 LWT on the ground In the vanguard of product development The LIXIL Group is establishing a leading competitive position in product development, supported by efficiency gains and greater agility thanks to the unification of development platforms while meeting market needs in key regions across the globe. New operating model: potential and strengths The LIXIL Group is unrivaled in efficiency and meeting region-specific needs supported by the integration of development processes. Specifically, development-center-led efforts provide a platform targeting well-delineated strategic products, helping both to raise investment efficiency and to speed up development. Meanwhile, design centers in key regions around the world and the Group’s various manufacturing bases support innovation rooted in a clear understanding of region-specific needs. These benefits are fed back into the development center, enabling LWT to Sharing of technologies across brands is leading to innovative product pin down changing market needs and adopt radically new approaches. Priority issues moving forward In the fiscal year ending March 2016, we plan to enhance our global spa-toilet platform by rolling out products developed on the underlying platform but tailored to individual regions and brands. Although at a glance the platform strategy and brand-based differentiation may appear contradictory, we are pursuing both on the basis of clearly defining the value of each brand. We aim to launch about 300 products annually by 2017, and we have set an ambitious medium-term target of developing 10 global platforms per category. Through well-targeted investment of development resources in our key product lines, we aim to rationalize our inventory management processes. We expect these efforts to reduce the average development cycle from 24 months to 12 months. LIXIL Group Corporation Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses 25 In the vanguard of supply chain management LWT is providing customers with the highest level of services and support through establishing integrated sales, operations, and inventory planning (SOIP) across all regions and brands. New operating model: potential and strengths A key LWT business strength lies in the scale of the company’s annual logistics and procurement across all brands of about US$2.8 billion. With this purchasing clout, we are reinforcing strategic supplier management to gain best-in-class pricing, quality, and service. We have also started the mutual cross-regional supply of finished products and components leveraging our production network, with its powerful core technologies. Through restructuring and optimizing operations at logistics centers in 28 locations around the world, Identifying measures to enhance global logistics processes we are enhancing global logistics efficiency by cutting distribution costs and thereby helping meet our environmental responsibilities by reducing Groupwide energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Priority issues moving forward We are determined to provide customers with optimal supply capabilities while minimizing operational costs by being the best in the industry in knowing what products are needed when and where and in what amounts. We have already started to integrate our global operations through such initiatives as establishing the LWT Global Commodity Council, which counts among its members procurement professionals from different regions, consolidating our procurement centers in China, and reappraising and in some cases consolidating the functions of different logistics centers. With SOIP processes, we are—along with cutting costs—putting the finishing touches at the regional level around the world. We expect to see benefits from a selectivity and focus-driven approach to suppliers and from the unification of SOIP processes and systems globally within the next two to three years. LIXIL Group Corporation 26 Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses Story 3 LWT on the ground In the vanguard of production As a leader in comprehensive living and housing solutions, we are applying technological expertise drawn from around the world to offer products tailored to region-specific tastes of customers. New operating model: potential and strengths LWT, with its outstanding technologies relating to water faucets, showerheads, ceramics, and spa-toilets, is looking to realize productivity gains through applying best practices across the business and pursuing synergies. With best practices, we have assigned Japanese engineers to an ASB Mexico plant, which has already contributed to improved yields and reduced total loss rates. In the realm of synergies, we have closed a ceramics production line at LIXIL BUILDING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (SUZHOU) in China, transferring production to an ASB plant LWT boasts the industry’s broadest network of production bases in China and a LIXIL plant in Vietnam, and shut the GROHE factory in Canada, shifting production to the ASB plant in Mexico. These moves have raised business efficiency through the consolidation of manufacturing bases. Priority issues moving forward Some of the LIXIL Group’s brands have a history that dates back more than a century. We aim to push forward with essential reforms while treasuring that time-honored brand value. In the fiscal year ending March 2016, we are focusing on productivity improvements and better use of our existing assets, including plant and distribution centers. In the near term, we intend to pare inventories (stock keeping units; SKUs) by ensuring close cooperation among design, engineering, and sales teams, thereby achieving sustained improvement in productivity. We see the balance between global optimization and region-specific needs as a pivotal issue. While pursuing efficiency gains at the global level, we are creating a product lineup tailored to region and brand-specific needs. Customers in Europe, for example, tend to prioritize product design, while those in Japan tend to focus on quality and functionality and those in the United States and China are typically very price-sensitive. LIXIL Group Corporation Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses 27 In the vanguard of marketing and sales We aim to show the competitiveness inherent in our portfolio of brands while pursuing a marketing strategy under which brands have their own clear identities. New operating model: potential and strengths We expect the establishment and use of the sales platform to open up wide-ranging business opportunities for LWT. We have already made clear progress in the Asia Pacific region, while in India and Indonesia we have been attracting new customers through the combined offering of GROHE and ASB products. We are also pushing forward with plans to supply GROHE products through the LIXIL/INAX retail network in Vietnam and to ASB’s customers in Australia. Our multi-brand portfolio is steadily winning over customers among end users, Targeting differentiation through top-level beforeand after-sales services sales outlets, and developers. Priority issues moving forward LWT is looking to expand worldwide and establish global market leadership in spa-toilets and spa-type toilet seats while undertaking marketing activities on an individual brand basis. To this end, we are developing a best-in-class product range with clear technology differentiation, sweet spot pricing, and a broad distribution network across all brands. In areas other than spatoilets, we are developing killer-app products in each category for each brand. We have also started to build a customer relationship management (CRM) system, beginning with the integration of CRM databases across Asia. We are winning increasing support for the brand portfolio as we broaden the LIXIL fan base through the targeted focus of GROHE on architectural designers, ASB on sales outlets, and LIXIL/INAX on plumbers and contractors. LIXIL Group Corporation 28 Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses Story 3 LWT on the ground LWT is closely evaluating the capacity of manufacturing plants in every region of the world with a view to creating an optimal global manufacturing system. Investing funds secured from cost savings in the most advanced manufacturing facilities will be key to further improving profitability while supporting accelerated growth. LIXIL Group Corporation Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses 29 LWT is making steady progress toward establishing the plumbing products industry’s leading production and distribution network. We are enhancing competitiveness through tapping synergies particularly in the adoption of best practices and value chain integration, laying the foundations for accelerated growth. LIXIL Group Corporation 30 Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses Story 4 HR strategy underpinning the operating model Shared “best practices” the bedvisions for reform, are essential to a rock of our approach to human high-performance, winning organizaresources tion. With that in mind, we seek to The LIXIL Group has introduced a pinpoint and nurture managers who “People & Organizational Development are able to think strategically while (POD)” to human resource processes placing utmost importance on the throughout the Group. This crossappropriate evaluation of leadership. regional and cross-business stance Executive Leadership Training Yosuke Yagi is as valid today as ever, even after (ELT) is our tool for putting our Chief HR Officer M&A-driven business expansion. Our human resources strategy into practiLIXIL Group Corporation ability to promptly handle human cal effect. Under this program, manresources processes throughout the agement candidates come together Group reflects the global introduction three times a year to participate in “The LIXIL Group aims to of best practices after the Group LIXIL’s own intensive course to learn improve comfort and lifestyles embarked on management reforms what growing into a leader is all through global, leading-edge in 2011. about, including such aspects as busitechnologies. In this effort, we An example of best practices disness and financial strategies and orgaseek to be an organization that tinctive to our human resources mannizational culture. Along with the agement is the importance we place reflects the commitment of all world-renowned ISES Business School on leadership and how we evaluate it. our people.” of Spain we have been developing an Leaders able to draw out the full ELT program with a more prominent potential of staff through giving them global aspect—G-ELT—that we plan fair and meritocratic access to opporto offer to staff across all Group busitunities, and able to execute their own nesses worldwide. Message from the Chief HR Officer Creating a dynamic company thro Human resources, one of the integrated functions across the Group as a whole, is contributing to the creation of enterprise value over the long term as a function driving business strategy development and implementation. LIXIL Group Corporation Special feature: in the vanguard of global technology businesses 31 Creating a company in which staff After discussions over about six independence of different businesses, have confidence and pride months following the series of major with one priority area being the adopThe LIXIL Group has changed dramatM&A deals, LIXIL in October 2014 set tion of an integrated system that ically in a little over four years. The out its new LIXIL Values. The followbrings staff compensation and incennumber of staff keen to contribute to ing April, the Group published the tives into alignment with Group busirealizing the Group’s vision of contrib“LIXIL Group Code of Conduct,” proness strategy. uting to improving people’s comfort viding guidelines to ensure strict We are committed to pushing forand lifestyles through leading-edge adherence to labor standards and ward with human resource processes technology has been steadily growing. respect for human rights, and it also in all its aspects not as a back office The organization has learned to prize introduced compliance structures. We operation, but as a function driving such staff. We expect them to be a intend to continue to take steps to the development and implementation vital asset for the Group’s value crereinforce and unite our “One LIXIL” of business strategy. ation over the longer term. organization while maintaining the ELT Objective: Pursuit of global leadership (Executive Participants: Senior managers to executive officers Leadership Training) Objective: In-depth consideration of personal values SLT and acquisition of management skills (Senior Leadership Training) Participants: Managers Objective: Nurturing decisiveness and basic capabilities JLT of future candidates for leadership positions (Junior Leadership Training) Participants: Assistant managers Objective: Learning as a professional and interest FLT in leadership (Fresh Leadership Training) Participants: Youth employees ugh human resource processes LIXIL Group Corporation 32 LIXIL Group’s operations in brief: our four technology businesses LIXIL Group’s operations in brief: our four technology businesses Market conditions Factors affecting market conditions The global plumbing fixtures market now stands  luctuation of prices for copper, F Water Technology n at around $50 billion and is expected to continue stainless steel, plastics, steel LIXIL to grow. European and North American markets plate, and other materials as have been buoyant lately against a backdrop of demand grows monetary easing, while in Asia, Africa, and South n U.S. government and European America markets for widely used value-forCentral Bank (ECB) interest-rate money products have been expanding rapidly. policies; the Chinese government’s economic policies n Economic trends in main markets and stability of financial system see p.34 In the core market, Japan, new housing starts Reversal in demand-supply gap for Housing Technology n have been contracting but there has been a clear aluminum ingots driving up prices LIXIL growth trend in renovation-related demand for n Heightened interest in passive and such products as entrance doors. We also anticismart functions among pate growth in renovation demand related to consumers hotels and commercial facilities in the lead-up n New statutory regulations for therto the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics and mal insulation and seismic Paralympics. resistance n Japanese government taking further measures to invigorate stock and renovation market n Demand growth ahead of the next consumption tax increase schedsee p.35 uled for April 2017 A mild recovery in European economies and a n  eversal in demand-supply gap R LIXIL Building Technology robust U.S. construction market coincided with stable demand conditions in emerging markets, for aluminum ingots driving up prices particularly in Southeast Asia. As a result, the nonn U.S. government and ECB monePh.: ©Sellar housing construction market, including hotels, tary policy office buildings, and commercial facilities, is foren Economic trends in main markets cast over the medium term to grow 37% in China, and stability of financial system 21% in North America and the Middle East, and 3% in Europe. see p.36 Kitchens, along with bathrooms and toilets, are a J apanese government taking Kitchen Technology n product area that holds the key to tapping into further measures to invigorate LIXIL renovation demand in the core Japanese market. stock and renovation market We expect steady growth in the renovation n  Demand growth ahead of the next market leading up to the consumption tax consumption tax increase schedincrease scheduled for April 2017. uled for April 2017 see p.37 LIXIL Group Corporation LIXIL Group’s operations in brief: our four technology businesses 33 Sales / product strategies Direct customers Competitors Market share (LIXIL Group estimates) n P  rovide a comprehensive lineup of products Dealers Kohler Water faucets: with innovative designs and leading-edge funcSales agencies Roca  No. 1 globally tionality across multiple brands from the luxury Construction companies Hansgrohe to the value-for-money ends of the spectrum as Sanitary ware: Architectural firms Masco (Delta) a global leader in plumbing fixtures; fully leverDevelopers Fortune Brands (Moen)  No. 1 in North America age the Group’s network of sales channels in Wholesalers TOTO Sanitary ware: the world’s main markets n  Meet region-specific needs through design Volume retailers Geberit  No. 2 in Japan centers located in key markets; enhance effiUnit bathrooms: ciency through centralized management at a development center  No. 1 in Japan n  Introduce spa-toilets in the luxury segment Washstand cabinet units: n  Shorten the development cycle and continuously launch new products  No. 1 in Japan n Increase sales of SAMOS X high-thermal insuDealers YKK AP Window sashes: n  lation performance windows Sales agencies Sankyo Tateyama  No. 1 in Japan Seize growth opportunities in the Japanese ­Building materials wholesalers market in such areas as renovation demand Exteriors: Home builders and construction demand ahead of the 2020 House manufacturers  No. 1 in Japan Tokyo Summer Olympics and Paralympics n  Construction companies Entrance doors: Improve the efficiency of new product development and continuously introduce new products Architectural firms  No. 1 in Japan n Strengthen the structure of supply and sales to Developers Tiles: Asian markets such as Vietnam and Thailand  No. 1 in Japan Strengthen overall curtain wall operations that n ‌ Construction companies YKK AP Curtain wall: utilize Permasteelisa’s business platform n ‌Be selective in accepting orders based on Architectural firms Yuanda  No. 1 globally gross margins Local companies  No. 1 in Japan n ‌Increase sales weighting of high gross margin and stable North American market n ‌Expand interior business n  apture renovation demand C Dealers Takara Standard Kitchen: n Create synergies with LWT’s water faucets and Sales agencies Cleanup  No. 1 in Japan other product lines Building materials trading Panasonic n  Strengthen the mid-to-high-end product lineup companies TOTO n  Expand business in China through the business alliance with leading Chinese home appliance manufacturer Haier, using Haier’s distribution network and other resources LIXIL Group Corporation 34 Business policy Business policy LIXIL Technology Water LIXIL Water Technology: key strengths The core strengths of LWT lie in its positioning in the growth business of water technology, its wide range of highly regarded brands in different regions across the world and a product portfolio that spans all market segments, from the luxury to the value-for-money ends of the spectrum. While leveraging these well-established strengths, the business is further honing its competitive edge by refining designs and techDavid J. Haines nologies and enhancing efficiencies through business integration. CEO LIXIL Water Technology Priority issues for the fiscal year ending March 2016 n Develop strategic products through the exchange and consolidation of design and technology within LWT, LWT is seizing opportunities offered by underpinned by a product platform based on Japan’s market growth in regions around the world spa-toilet technology. n Promote the product platform strategy while cutting costs as a leading business with a broad product lineup under powerful brands across diverse through streamlining the supply chain, including consolidating production and logistics bases within regions. categories, including water faucets, showern Review the production and sales-channel structure in heads, baths, sanitary ware, spa-toilets, China, rebuilding the framework for supplying products and washstand cabinet units. from China to overseas. Sales Core earnings* / Core earnings margin (US$ million) (US$ million) (%) 6,000 600 12 5,040 4,760 440 473 4,500 450 9% 9% 9 3,000 300 6 1,500 150 3 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 Core earnings Core earnings margin (right) * Core earnings is “Sales – Cost of sales – SG&A” under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The figures are before amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. LIXIL Group Corporation Business policy 35 LIXIL Housing Technology: key strengths LHT’s core strengths lie in three pivotal management resources nurtured by the LIXIL Group in Japan’s building materials market, which boasts some of the most advanced products in the world. The first strength is products with high market shares and a portfolio of interior fabrics and other items unmatched by competitors. The second is a nationwide sales network. And the third is technologies and production facilities spanning the whole spectrum, from aluminum melting and castings to end products. Priority issues for the fiscal year ending March 2016 n Continue to grasp opportunities offered by renovation demand in Japan while accelerating overseas business expansion to tackle risks associated with contraction in new housing starts and the maturing of the market in Japan. n Seize opportunities in expected growth in renovation demand related to mediumand low-rise buildings and in such non-residential fields as retail stores and hotels Housing in the lead-up to the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics and Paralympics. LIXIL n Enhance competitiveness through the optimization of Technology supply chain management and the introduction of automated systems in factories. Sales Core earnings* / Core earnings margin (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 800 50 10 40.8 607.1 608.0 40 35.6 8 600 7% 30 6% 6 400 20 4 200 10 2 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 Toshimasa Iue Core earnings CEO Core earnings margin (right) LIXIL Housing Technology * Core earnings is “Sales – Cost of sales – SG&A” under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The figures are before amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. LHT has a dominant presence in the Japanese market, with a share of about 50% in housing window sashes. The business is moving into its next growth phase driven by an expanding product lineup of home renovation products and stepped-up global expansion. LIXIL Group Corporation 36 Business policy LIXIL Technology Building ©Simon Kennedy Nicola Greco LIXIL Building Technology: key strengths CEO Recognized worldwide as a top player in the curtain wall LIXIL Building Technology field, LBT commands a competitive advantage in its ability to meet customer demands at the project execution stage. With each project, LBT pinpoints the approach best suited to LBT has a unique business profile within the customer and project needs, makes flexible use of essential Group in that commercial distribution of its resources from the Group network, and dedicates itself to core curtain wall products* takes place under satisfying client demands in terms of quality, scheduling, contracts on an individual project basis. The and cost. business aims to further reinforce its top Priority issues for the fiscal year ending March 2016 position in the global curtain wall market n Tighten control over project profit margins by taking a selecas it integrates its curtain wall businesses tive approach to new projects and markets and enhancing in Japan and China with those risk management and other project management capabilities of Permasteelisa. while keeping close track of major new building construction projects in leading cities around the world. * Exterior wall materials for high-rise buildings with surface materials that include aluminum and other metals and stone n Apply the business model established for building exteriors to building interior work and tap new business opportunities in conjunction with LWT. n Pursue opportunities in demand growth in Japan’s building market ahead of the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics and Paralympics. Sales Core earnings* / Core earnings margin (€ million) (€ million) (%) 4,000 160 8 3,000 2,543 2,680 120 6 100 77 2,000 80 4% 4 3% 1,000 40 2 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 Core earnings Core earnings margin (right) * Core earnings is “Sales – Cost of sales – SG&A” under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The figures are before amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. LIXIL Group Corporation Business policy 37 LIXIL Technology Kitchen François-Xavier Lienhart CEO LIXIL Kitchen Technology LIXIL Kitchen Technology: key strengths LKT holds top share of Japan’s kitchen systems market. In China, it has established a joint venture company with leadLKT’s product field is positioned at the heart ing home appliance manufacturer Haier. In 2013, the joint of renovation demand, the kitchen—high on venture completed the construction of a manufacturing facilmost people’s list of home-remodeling prioriity that will produce kitchen systems and kitchen compoties. The business is working to restore profit nents. LKT sells products throughout China through Haier’s margins after temporary deterioration caused extensive nationwide sales network. by snow damage at a key domestic plant in 2014 and is aiming steadily to increase sales Priority issues for the fiscal year ending March 2016 n Continuously introduce new products that raise the value by expanding business in China and leveragof living environments covering not just kitchens, but all ing synergies with LWT. living room, dining room, and kitchen spaces n Achieve a 50:50 sales mix between products for new-build homes and renovation and raise profit margins. n Expand business in China by leveraging the joint venture with Haier. Sales Core earnings (loss)* / Core earnings margin (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 150 3 2.5 3 113.7 118.0 2 2% 2 100 1 1 50 0 0 –0.7 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) –1 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) Core earnings Core earnings margin (right) * Core earnings is “Sales – Cost of sales – SG&A” under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The figures are before amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. LIXIL Group Corporation 38 Business policy LIXIL Japan Company (LJC) The mission of LJC, as the embodiment of the LIXIL Haruo Shirai Group’s commitment to being a comprehensive living CEO LIXIL Japan Company and housing solutions company, is to offer optimal products and services—total solutions—on the foundations of a powerful domestic sales network. The company aims to achieve growth in scale and profits spurred by competitiveness deriving from comprehensive strength and sales capabilities. Distribution and Retail Business Weak demand as a result of sharp yen depreciation and Katsuhiro Mamenari Market conditions deterioration in consumer sentiment following the conCEO sumption tax increase Distribution and Retail Business Home center business: General consumers, construction professionals Direct customers Ken Depot business: Construction professionals, smalland medium-sized homebuilders Competitors DCM Japan Holdings, Cainz, Komeri, Kohnan Shoji LIXIL Group’s strengths and business strategy n The business has been differentiating itself from rivals and The Distribution and Retail Business—unique within the LIXIL Group in having general consumers as its gaining a competitive lead by reinforcing its lineup of DIY core customer base—offers a wide array of housingmerchandise and materials and equipment for professionals and going beyond product sales to also focus on providing and lifestyle-related products, materials, and contotal renovation and other services, including equipment struction and other services and plays a key role in replacement and installation work. raising the name-recognition of LIXIL. n Besides establishing a leading presence in the approximately ¥4 trillion market for home centers, the business has also entered the approximately ¥7 trillion renovation market. n Set sights on global expansion while further reinforcing its leading presence in Japan as a member of the LIXIL Group. Sales Core earnings* / Core earnings margin (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 300 16 8 198.8 207.0 12 10.3 6 200 8.4 5% 8 4% 4 100 4 2 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 Core earnings Core earnings margin (right) * Core earnings is “Sales – Cost of sales – SG&A” under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The figures are before amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. LIXIL Group Corporation Business policy 39 LIXIL Japan Company: key strengths Priority issues for the fiscal year ending March 2016 LJC’s competitive advantage lies in a broad array of products n Accelerate sales growth with renovation-related applicaand services spanning the whole spectrum of housingtions through cooperation with distributors and building related fields. Able to provide total solutions through a busicontractors. ness structure offering specialist products under four n In cooperation with LHT and LBT, seize opportunities to tap technology businesses, the company can respond promptly into building development and hotel renovation demand to customer needs. Its close relations with distributors and ahead of the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics and Paralympics. building contractors nurtured over many years are also a key n Constantly enhance total solutions capabilities by offering asset providing a gateway to renovation demand. spaces incorporating product combinations and providing solutions integrating services. Housing Services Business Market Expectation that demand will spike and then tail off around the Harumi Matsumura conditions consumption tax increase scheduled for April 2017 CEO Housing Services Business Housing franchise business: Homebuilding franchise members Housing structural defects liability insurance business and Direct housing site ground inspection business: customers Construction companies, real estate transaction agents Real estate brokerage: General consumers LIXIL Group’s strengths and business strategies The Housing Services Business offers services to n The business has an industry-leading track record in its enhance the value of homes and living environments key services businesses, including housing site ground with its focus on housingand lifestyle-related B2B2C inspection and analysis, housing defect warranty liability business. The business provides comprehensive insurance services, business support for home builders, housing and lifestyle support to customers through and home planning support. all stages of their lives. n The business established the operating holding company LIXIL Living Solution in June 2015, reinforcing its housing service business platform. Sales Core earnings* / Core earnings margin (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 80 5 10 4.2 4.3 59.9 62.0 4 8 60 7% 7% 3 6 40 2 4 20 1 2 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 3/15 3/16 (Forecast) 0 Core earnings Core earnings margin (right) * Core earnings is “Sales – Cost of sales – SG&A” under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The figures are before amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. LIXIL Group Corporation 40 Review of operations Review of operations Groupwide initiatives Enhancing business efficiency through BT-16 The LIXIL Group has been pushing forward with its Business target of ¥13.0 billion at the start of the fiscal year, as the result Transformation 16 (BT-16) action program under its three-year of efforts to boost gross profits by cutting costs through reinmedium-term business plan covering the period from April 2014 forcing supply chain management (SCM) and streamlining busito March 2017. Over the term of the business plan, BT-16 aims ness processes. In addition, we made a start during the fiscal to reduce costs in core businesses in Japan by ¥77.0 billion year in streamlining operations chiefly through the consolidacompared with the fiscal year ended March 2014. tion of overseas production bases. We plan to step up these In the fiscal year ended March 2015, the first year of BT-16, activities from the fiscal year ending March 2016 onwards. the company realized cost savings of ¥17.3 billion, ahead of the Business efficiency gains under BT-16  (¥ billion) 3/2015 3/2015 3/2015-3/2017 Categories Major measures target results on P/L cumulative target SCM n Integrate sales and construction information n Optimize production sites and logistic centers n  Improve logistics 3.0 11.6 55.0 n  Conduct strategic purchasing n  Pursue CCC improvement Improvement of gross profit n  educe cost leakage with process visualization R 4.0 8.5 35.0 n Optimize product portfolio Indirect costs and others n Improve process of sales support n Realize more efficient product development 6.0 2.2 20.0 n  Cut SG&A expenses Internal target 13.0 22.3 110.0 Contingency — –5.0 –33.0 Core Businesses in Japan 13.0 17.3 77.0 Streamlining operations Implementation Terms of implementation Measures / Purpose Sales of SUN WAVE KITCHEN April 2014 Select and concentrate businesses TECHNO CORPORATION Closure of production line for ceramics at LIXIL Shift production to an ASB plant in China and BUILDING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (SUZHOU) August 2014 a LIXIL plant in Vietnam CORPORATION in China Shutdown of GROHE factory in Canada December 2014 Shift production to ASB plant in Mexico Reinforcing marketing activities overseas Launch of LIXIL Reform Shop In August 2014, the LIXIL Group opened its largest flagship In Japan, the renovation market has been steadily expanding as showroom in the Asia-Pacific region, at the Crystal Design demand for remodeling existing homes grows while new housCenter (CDC) near Bangkok, Thailand. CDC is one of the largest ing starts remain on a long-term downtrend. The leading playcomplexes in the ASEAN region displaying housing fixtures, ers meeting demand in this market are local building architectural materials, and related products, and with more than contractors and renovation specialists. LIXIL launched the LIXIL 500 showrooms is a key information hub. The LIXIL Group’s Reform Shop in April 2015 as a franchise chain for such conshowroom covers an area of more than 2,200 square meters and tractors and renovation specialists, integrating two nationwide displays a comprehensive range of products, including kitchens, franchise chains previously operated by the company. Backed sanitary ware, plumbing fixtures, and aluminum windows. by one of the largest networks in Japan, with 424 outlets as of LIXIL and GROHE also presented a joint display at the ISH March 31, 2015, we are stepping up efforts to tap opportunities international trade fair for bathrooms, building services, and in the renovation market by leveraging the strengths of contracair conditioning technology in Frankfurt, Germany, in March tors and renovation specialists with in-depth local knowledge 2015. The show space of 2,300 square meters highlighted new together with the scale merits and brand strength of LIXIL, bathroom solutions and drew the attention of many visitors to while also bolstering our solutions-proposal effectiveness. the comprehensive strengths of the LIXIL Group. LIXIL Group Corporation Review of operations 41 Metal Building Material Business Highlights for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 n  Net sales declined ¥15.4 billion, or 3.0%, year on year, to n T  oranomon Hills, a 247-meter-high multifunction tower ¥502.4 billion, and operating income fell ¥6.9 billion, or with 52 floors above ground that opened in June 2014, 16.8%, to ¥34.4 billion. In addition to lower sales stemming uses about 63,000 square meters of LIXIL’s curtain walls as from a decline in new housing starts, costs rose owing to well as many other LIXIL products, including wall and floor such factors as higher material prices. tiles, heavy shutters, fireproof screens, and bathtubs. n  We launched ERSTER X plastic windows, realizing insulation performance that is among the best in the world and top-level in Japan, and SAMOS X, a hybrid window made of a combination of aluminum and plastic materials that offers top-in-class thermal insulation performance. These new products are positioned to capture demand for greater Note: Sales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2015 reflect reporting segment changes implemented in that fiscal year. For energy efficiency in the home, having been developed comparative purposes, we have provided figures for sales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2014 under the new as based on the design concept of maximizing the area of the well as the previous segmentation. Segment operating income shown is before glass by using thin window sash frames. amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. Net sales Operating income / Operating income ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 800 45 9 34.4 6.8% 600 502.4 30 6 400 15 3 200 0 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new 0 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new 0 Operating income Operating income ratio (right) Increase / decrease breakdown of operating income Aluminum prices (¥ billion) (US$ / ton) 50 3,000 4.3 0 3.4 40 1.3 1.1 2.8 6.0 2,000 30 41.3 20 34.4 1,000 10 0 2014 Due to sales Change in mix Raw material Impacts of Cost Due to SG&A Special 2015 0 4/10 4/11 4/12 4/13 4/14 4/15 (M/Y) fluctuation and selling price costs exchange rate fluctuation fluctuation factors Note: Data charted up from April 1, 2010 to April 1, 2015 Source: London Metal Exchange statistics Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Corporation 42 Review of operations Plumbing Fixtures Business Highlights for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 n Net sales contracted ¥20.6 billion, or 5.7%, from the previn  s of the end of May 2014, cumulative sales of SATIS, a tankA ous fiscal year, to ¥339.1 billion. Operating income declined less spa-toilet, had exceeded 1 million units. Our SATIS ¥5.5 billion, or 21.3%, to ¥20.2 billion. Lower sales and products have continued to evolve in terms of both function operating income reflected supply constraints owing to roof and design since the launch of the line in 2001 and we damage caused by heavy snowfall in February 2014 at the expect them to drive growth in the plumbing fixtures busicore kitchen system plant and expenses related to repairing ness as solutions for comfortable and appealing toilet spaces. the damage at the plant, as well as upfront investments. n We launched SPAGE system bathrooms that bring to the home the kind of refreshing experience of bathrooms in luxury hotels and spa resort facilities. The bathrooms are designed to satisfy people looking for the highest-grade Note: Sales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2015 reflect reporting segment changes implemented in that fiscal year. For renovation work with such features as a system providing comparative purposes, we have provided figures for sales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2014 under the new as a 4mm-wide cascade of hot water over the neck and shoulwell as the previous segmentation. Segment operating income shown is before ders and an overhead shower system. amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. Net sales Operating income / Operating income ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 600 30 9 20.2 400 339.1 20 6.0% 6 200 10 3 0 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new 0 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new 0 Operating income Operating income ratio (right) Increase / decrease breakdown of operating income (¥ billion) 30 7.0 5.5 5.0 1.0 1.4 20 1.5 4.9 25.6 20.2 10 0 2014 Due to sales Change in mix Raw material Impacts of Cost Due to SG&A Special 2015 fluctuation and selling price costs exchange rate fluctuation fluctuation factors System bathroom SPAGE’s cascading hot water Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Corporation Review of operations 43 Other Building Materials and Equipment Business Highlights for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 n Net sales fell ¥16.7 billion, or 8.1%, from the previous fiscal consumption in the home through the development of new year, to ¥190.1 billion. Operating income declined ¥3.3 bilmethods and materials. lion, or 28.5%, to ¥8.3 billion. Despite efforts to expand n We have reinforced our core FAMILY LINE range of interior sales by enhancing the product lineup, market weakness furnishing materials with additional variations, as part of led to lower sales and operating income. efforts to provide a product lineup tailored to diversifying n The thermal insulation renovation method COCOECO has customer tastes. received several awards that recognize products contributing to energy saving and safe living environments for children. COCOECO’s innovative approach allows insulation to be improved in as little as one day by adding interior windows and insulation panels to existing windows, walls, and Note: Sales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2015 reflect reporting segment changes implemented in that fiscal year. For floors one room at a time. The awards were given to comparative purposes, we have provided figures for sales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2014 under the new as COCOECO in acknowledgment of its contribution to popuwell as the previous segmentation. Segment operating income shown is before larizing thermal insulation renovation and lowering energy amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. Net sales Operating income / Operating income ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 300 15 9 190.1 200 10 8.3 6 4.3% 100 5 3 0 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new 0 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new 0 Operating income Operating income ratio (right) Increase / decrease breakdown of operating income (¥ billion) 15 10 4.9 0.4 0.2 0.4 2.3 0.8 0.7 11.6 5 8.3 Interior furnishing materials WoodyLine D.Spec 0 2014 Due to sales Change in mix Raw material Impacts of Cost Due to SG&A Special 2015 fluctuation and selling price costs exchange rate fluctuation fluctuation factors Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Corporation 44 Review of operations Distribution and Retail Business Highlights for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 n Net sales rose ¥3.8 billion, or 1.9%, from the previous fiscal which opened in December 2014, is one of the largest home year, to ¥198.8 billion, as sales expanded 9.6% at Ken centers in Saitama Prefecture, offering a full range of conDepot, our membership-based wholesale building materials struction materials and tools as it stakes its claim as the business for professional users of housing-related materials. region’s go-to center for housing and renovation solutions. Operating income increased ¥2.9 billion, or 67.7%, to ¥7.1 Supported also by the on-the-premises Reform & Design billion as lower SG&A expenses offset new outlet opening Center, with its track record of more than 500,000 renovation costs. The operating income ratio improved 1.4 percentage projects, the business is looking to tap opportunities for points, to 3.6%. growth in the renovation market with its unique position n One store was opened in the Super Viva Home large-scale within the LIXIL Group directly targeting general consumers. home center business, and two stores were opened in the Ken Depot business. At the end of March 2015, the total Note: S  ales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2015 reflect reporting segment changes implemented in that fiscal year. For number of stores across all formats stood at 148, up two comparative purposes, we have provided figures for sales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2014 under the new as compared with the end of the previous fiscal year. well as the previous segmentation. Segment operating income shown is before n The flagship Super Viva Home Saitama Shintoshin store, amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. Net sales Operating income (loss) / Operating income (loss) ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 300 9 6 7.1 198.8 6 3.6% 4 200 3 2 100 0 0 0 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new –3 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new –2 Operating income (loss) Operating income (loss) ratio (right) Increase / decrease breakdown of operating income Number of stores (¥ billion) (Number) 9 160 1.7 2.1 0.4 1.5 120 6 0.3 1.0 80 7.1 3 4.3 40 0 2014 Due to sales Change in mix Cost Due to SG&A Cost of new Ken Depot 2015 0 11 12 13 14 15 fluctuation and selling price fluctuation fluctuation stores Viva Home Super Viva Home New Viva Home Ken Depot Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Corporation Review of operations 45 Housing, Real Estate and Other Businesses Highlights for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 n Net sales contracted ¥4.7 billion, or 7.3%, year on year, to n L IXIL Home Finance Corporation, which started operations ¥59.6 billion, and operating income fell ¥1.9 billion, or in March 2015, has been reinforcing its housing finance busi30.9%, to ¥4.2 billion, in reaction to the decline in new ness, which includes Flat 35 long-term fixed-rate housing loans, housing starts. targeting construction companies and homebuilders that are n Sales and operating income declined at LIXIL Housing partnering with the Group. The company provides not only Research Institute, Ltd., which handles homebuilding franhousing finance but also a broad array of services tailored to chise chain operations, JIO Corporation, which provides various funding needs related to housing acquisitions. insurance for warranty against housing defects, and JAPAN HOME SHIELD CORPORATION ( JHS), which undertakes ground inspections and improvement services. However, sales and operating income both rose at LIXIL Note: Sales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2015 reflect reporting segment changes implemented in that fiscal year. For REALTY, Corp., which handles real estate transactions and comparative purposes, we have provided figures for sales, operating income, and the operating income ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2014 under the new as rental property brokerage, real estate management, and well as the previous segmentation. Segment operating income shown is before renovation businesses. amortization of goodwill and purchase price allocation. Net sales Operating income / Operating income ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 80 9 12 59.6 60 6 7.0% 8 40 4.2 3 4 20 0 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new 0 11 12 13 14 previous 14 new 15 new 0 Operating income Operating income ratio (right) Sales by company Number of contracts received and houses built with housing franchise businesses (¥ billion) (Houses) 80 5,000 4,000 60 3,000 40 2,000 20 1,000 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 13 14 15 LIXIL Housing Research Institute JIO Number of contracts received Note: Years ended March 31 JAPAN HOME SHIELD LIXIL REALTY Number of houses built Other and adjustments LIXIL Group Corporation 46 Review of operations Overseas Business Overseas sales / Overseas sales ratio (¥ billion) (%) Asia 500 50 428.1 400 40 328.7 300 24.9% 30 19.7% 200 20 Highlights for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 100 10 n Net sales rose ¥13.7 billion, or 14.5%, year on year, to ¥108.4 0 14 15 0 billion and operating income increased ¥1.9 billion, or Overseas sales Overseas sales ratio (right) 98.1%, year on year, to ¥3.8 billion, as the result of efforts to Note: Overseas sales ratio is the share of overseas sales in gross sales of make the most of opportunities amid growth in the housing Japanese and overseas businesses before intersegment adjustments. Includes sales to LIXIL’s business in Japan market accompanying economic growth across Asia. n We opened the LIXIL Group’s largest flagship showroom in the Asia-Pacific region in August 2014 (see page 40). Overseas operating income / n We began full-scale operations at an extrusion facility at a Overseas operating income ratio (¥ billion) (%) LIXIL GLOBAL MANUFACTURING VIETNAM CO., LTD. 15 6 plant on which construction was completed in January 11.0 2014, which is already providing stable supplies of alumi10 8.1 4 num products to Japan and ASEAN countries. 2.5% 2.6% 5 2 0 14 15 0 Net sales Operating income / Overseas operating income Overseas operating income ratio (right) Operating income ratio Note: S  egment operating income is before amortization of goodwill and pur(¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) chase price allocation. 108.4 5 5 120 94.6 3.8 4 4 3.5% Overseas sales by region (2015) 80 3 3 2.0% Others 2 1.9 2 Greater China 40 1 1 Europe 0 14 15 0 14 15 0 Operating income Thailand, Note: Years ended March 31 Operating income ratio (right) Vietnam, Korea Other Asian North countries America Middle East Note: Breakdown of ¥393.4 billion overseas sales. Excludes sales to LIXIL’s business in Japan Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Corporation Review of operations 47 Curtain Walls ASB Highlights for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 Highlights for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 n  n Net sales expanded ¥70.8 billion, or 243.1%, year on year, to Net sales rose ¥14.9 billion, or 7.3%, year on year, to ¥219.9 billion, and operating income increased ¥0.1 billion, or ¥99.9 billion and operating income rose ¥0.9 billion, or 1.8%, year on year, to ¥4.8 billion, supported by growth in 60.5%, to ¥2.4 billion. Having been consolidated during the the number of high-margin building projects in the US and previous fiscal year, ASB business made a full contribution in UK and foreign exchange translation effects. On an account­ the fiscal year under review with an additional contribution ing basis after goodwill amortization the business incurred of eight months of sales in the fiscal year ended March 2015. n The operating income ratio was negatively affected by an operating loss of ¥96 million (a loss of ¥1.2 billion in the previous fiscal year) owing to amortization expenses. intensifying price competition as the result of increased n The gross margin on ordered projects has been improving supply by manufacturers against a backdrop of expectations supported not only by tightened project control, but also of recovery in U.S. housing demand. n ASB has put in place the foundations for growth in sales of improvements in project analysis effectiveness at the time of bidding and moves to use production bases in Asia to luxury brand DXV products, having entered a partnership supply products for projects in the United States. with Ferguson Enterprises Inc., North America’s largest wholesale distributor of plumbing supplies, which has completed the remodeling of its showrooms. Net sales Operating income / Net sales Operating income / Operating income ratio Operating income ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 250 219.9 6.0 4 120 3 6 205.0 99.9 5.0% 4.7 4.8 2.4 200 4.5 3 90 2.3% 2 4 150 2.2% 1.5* 3.0 2 60 2.4% 100 29.1* 1 2 1.5 1 30 50 0 14 15 0 14 15 0 0 14 15 0 14 15 0 Operating income * Four months Operating income Note: Years ended March 31 Operating income ratio (right) Note: Years ended March 31 Operating income ratio (right) * Four months Ph.: ©Sellar LIXIL Group Corporation 48 Message from the Chairman of the Board Message from the Chairman of the Board Report on governance It has been about four years since Yoshiaki Fujimori took and how to improve profitability in Japan were major issues over the management of the LIXIL Group. Looking back on for the Group during this period. this period, Fujimori spent the first half of that time guiding During the second half of his time as CEO, Fujimori had the organization toward a unified LIXIL. He consolidated all the major task of making our operations global. This endeavor the major domestic operating companies into one company. was undertaken based on the view that there is limited scope Also, he determined an appropriate corporate philosophy for for continued business growth in Japan given its declining the times and engrained an understanding of that philosophy population. Through M&A deals, Fujimori added major multiamong all employees. During this process of unification, national companies one after the other, expanding LIXIL’s LIXIL was adversely affected by a series of major natural markets into more than 150 nations in one fell swoop. disasters, resulting in frequent disruptions in the supply chain. Companies included Italy’s Permasteelisa, the global leader in Such disasters included the Great East Japan Earthquake, the curtain wall market; American Standard Brands, the most the flooding in Thailand where a major plant is located, widely known sanitary ware company around the world; and the damage suffered by plants in the North Kanto GROHE, a highly profitable German specialist in premium region because of unusually heavy snowfall. As a result, sanitary fittings; and South Africa’s GROHE DAWN WaterTech, various unforeseen conditions arose. Rationalization plans a powerhouse in the sanitary ware and fitting markets of Subfell behind schedule. The lack of product supply caused Saharan Africa. With these strategic moves, he opened up an market share to drop temporarily, while research and develabundant range of business growth opportunities to a degree opment was delayed. How to recover this lost ground far beyond that afforded to other companies in our industry. Yoichiro Ushioda Chairman of the Board LIXIL Group Corporation Message from the Chairman of the Board 49 At the same time, the Group’s global expansion also such attributes as extensive experience and a rich historical meant a sharp increase in business risks, as evidenced by the perspective and outlook on life. Exceptional people are flexirecent unfortunate incident involving Joyou AG, a subsidiary ble in their thinking and can accept diversity and grasp the of GROHE with operations in China. We will conduct a essence of matters. I do not consider it necessary that a broad investigation to determine why the problem was not director have practical experience in multiple fields. On the discovered and rectified at an early stage and work to preother hand, the selection of directors with diversity in terms vent any such reoccurrence. of such elements as gender and international perspective is Products and services that are limited to their home marimportant in refining the governance system. In that spirit, kets cannot truly be considered top-ranking. Recognition in we proposed Lady Barbara Judge as a candidate for directorglobal markets is the real proof of being a top-ranking prodship at our General Meeting of Shareholders in June 2015. uct or service. In a workplace populated with people of difWe plan to make full use of her expertise and experience in ferent nationalities and backgrounds, working with others pursuing the expansion of our overseas operations to realize based on a mutual understanding of those differences is not growth potential and in minimizing business risks. an easy task. However, there has been a marked emergence Beginning in 2015, at the suggestion of our CEO, top of a positive attitude to these working conditions among management is holding early morning breakfast meetings employees. They are determined to take advantage of the with the outside directors before each monthly board meetflexibility and richly creative thinking that diversity offers, ing. The questions outside directors ask at these meetings and the in-house atmosphere has changed greatly. This adapserve to provide greater insight into our business operations. tion is only natural because resisting change when you come In this manner, we will continue to enhance deliberations of to a historical turning point is the greatest risk of all. LIXIL is the Board of Directors. moving forward with great care but without fear of making From April 2015, LIXIL has changed its business model mistakes, learning extensively as it goes. from a regional management system to a global management The selection of talented managers who can help achieve system that is organized broadly by businesses in core prodLIXIL’s ambitious vision is the role of the governance system uct areas. In addition, we will be escalating the realization of implemented through the Company’s Board of Directors. The synergies in our operations on an individual business basis. CEO we appoint boldly takes risks and makes swift deciWe also will be proceeding with the adoption of International sions, and the Board of Directors oversees how these actions Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the consolidation proceed and their results from a long-term perspective. of GROHE. In these endeavors, I look forward to the support When it is determined that a critical point has been reached of our shareholders. in growth or that overcoming the problem will be difficult with current management, it is the governance system’s function to consider new management to address the issue. August 2015 For that purpose, we carefully select directors who will enable the board to conduct its meetings without reacting excessively to temporary situations or small problems and to not lose sight of the big picture. We have invited directors on Yoichiro Ushioda Chairman of the Board to the board who have well-balanced perspectives based on Composition of the Board of Directors (11 members) Directors who are concurrently serving Outside directors: 5 members Japanese females: Non-Japanese females: as executive officers: 3 members 1 member 1 member Directors / Internal directors / Diversity executive directors outside directors Directors who are not executive officers: Internal directors: 6 members Japanese males: 9 members 8 members LIXIL Group Corporation 50 Board of Directors Board of Directors (As of June 26, 2015) Nomination Committee Fumio Sudo (Head) Yoichiro Ushioda Hidehiko Sato Compensation Committee Takashi Tsutsui (Head) Yoichiro Ushioda Yoshiaki Fujimori Director, Chairman of the Board President and CEO* Fumio Sudo Main Kohda Mr. Yoichiro Ushioda has been serving as Mr. Yoshiaki Fujimori has been serving as Chairman of the Board of the Company since President and CEO of the Company as well Audit Committee June 2012. He previously served as as President and CEO at subsidiary, LIXIL Executive Vice President in the Company Corporation, since August 2011. He also Yoshinobu Kikuchi (Head) from 2001 and as Chairman, CEO, and serves as the Representative Director of Representative Director from 2006. He also GraceA Co., Ltd. Prior to joining the Group, Tsutomu Kawaguchi served as Chairman and CEO of Tostem Mr. Fujimori worked for 25 years at General Hidehiko Sato Corporation (now LIXIL Corporation) and Electric Company (GE), where he was LIXIL Corporation in the past. Mr. Ushioda Senior Vice President and a member of originally joined the Company in 1977 and the Corporate Executive Council. He served became Director and General Manager of as President and CEO of various business the Sales Planning Department in 1980. divisions including GE Medical Systems Asia, GE Plastics, and GE Capital Asia, and as Chairman of GE Japan. Prior to joining GE, he worked for Nissho Iwai Corporation (now Sojitz Corporation) for 10 years. He has been Director of Tokyo Electric Power Company, Incorporated, since 2012. Keiichiro Ina Fumio Sudo Hidehiko Sato Director Director (Outside) Director (Outside) Mr. Keiichiro Ina has been serving as Director Mr. Fumio Sudo has been serving as Outside Mr. Hidehiko Sato has been serving as in the Company since June 2001. From Director in the Company since June 2010. He Outside Director in the Company since June 1998, he served as Director in INAX has also been Head of the Company’s 2011. He is also a member of the Company’s Corporation (now LIXIL Corporation), Nomination Committee since June 2012 and Audit Committee and Nomination Committee, ­originally joining the company in 1974. a member of the Company’s Compensation serves as Director in Dainippon Sumitomo Committee since June 2011. Mr. Sudo also Pharma Co., Ltd., and is registered as a serves as Chairman of Tokyo Electric Power lawyer. Previously, Mr. Sato was the Company, Incorporated, as a Consultant of Commissioner General of the National Police JFE Holdings, Inc., and as Director in Agency from 2002 to 2004, having held a Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited variety of positions since joining the agency and Taisei Corporation. He was President in 1968. and Representative Director of JFE Holdings from 2005 to 2010. LIXIL Group Corporation Board of Directors 51 * Indicates a director who serves as an executive officer Takashi Tsutsui Yoshizumi Kanamori Yoshinobu Kikuchi Executive Officer and Executive Vice President* Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director* Director Mr. Takashi Tsutsui has been serving as Mr. Yoshizumi Kanamori has been serving Mr. Yoshinobu Kikuchi has been serving as Executive Vice President and Director of the as Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director in the Company since June 2012 Company since June 2011, with responsibility Director of the Company since June 2011, and is also Head of the Company’s Audit for M&A, investor relations, and external taking responsibility for finance in April 2014. Committee. Previously, he also served as affairs. He is also Head of the Company’s Previously, he also served as Chief Financial Executive Vice President in a subsidiary, LIXIL Compensation Committee and has been Officer of the Company and as Director, Corporation. He joined the Company in 1969. serving as Director, Executive Vice President, Senior Managing Director and Director and Chief External Relations Officer at suband Operating Officer at sub­sidiary, LIXIL sidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Prior to joining the Corporation. He joined the Company in 1977. Group in June 2009, Mr. Tsutsui served as President and CEO of Jasdaq Securities Exchange, Inc., from 2005. Prior to joining Jasdaq Securities Exchange, he worked for Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. (now Nomura Holdings, Inc.), joining the company in 1974 and becoming Director in 2002 and Executive Officer in 2003. Tsutomu Kawaguchi Main Kohda Barbara Judge Director (Outside) Director (Outside) Director (Outside) Mr. Tsutomu Kawaguchi has been serving as Ms. Main Kohda has been serving as Outside Lady Barbara Judge has been serving as Outside Director in the Company since June Director in the Company since June 2013. She Outside Director in the Company since June 2011. He is also a member of the Company’s is also a member of the Company’s 2015. She also serves as National Chairman Audit Committee and serves as an auditor of Compensation Committee. She has been a of the UK’s Institute of Directors, and FreeBit Co., Ltd., and as Director in VINX member of the NHK Management Committee Chairman of the UK’s Pension Protection Corp. and Cybernet Systems Corporation. since June 2010 and Outside Director in Fund. In addition, she currently holds a posiMr. Kawaguchi has been a registered certified Japan Tobacco Inc. since June 2012. She is tion as a Director of Portmeirion Group plc, public accountant since March 1974 and also a bestselling writer. Prior to joining the NV Bekaert SA, and Magna International Inc. used to serve as Representative Partner for LIXIL Group, she worked for U.S. banks and She served, among her other appointments, Grant Thornton Taiyo ASG. securities companies and she has also served as a Non-Executive Director of the UK Atomic as a member of public advisory committees. Energy Authority from 2002 to 2004, and subsequently as Chairman from 2004 to 2010. She was a Commissioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission from 1980 to 1983. In June 2010, she was awarded Commander of the Order of the British Empire for services to the nuclear and financial services industries. LIXIL Group Corporation 52 Board of Directors Messages from outside directors As we shift our view to the world of international business, it is critical that we consider how best to secure sustained valueBarbara Judge creation at a global level, as well as to continue to enhance our corporate governance. I have been involved in corporate governance for many Applying experience gained in pursuing best years, both as a regulator and as a practitioner, and have always governance practices and promoting more active strived to bring best corporate practice to both the United roles for women Kingdom and the United States. My involvement in corporate I feel very honored to have been elected as an outside director— governance began in the 1980s when I was a Commissioner and the first non-Japanese director—of LIXIL Group Corporation at of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Over the General Meeting of Shareholders held in June 2015. I am comthe intervening years I have been an independent director of mitted to fulfilling my responsibilities as a director by acting in numerous international companies, as well as having been the best interests of all investors and other stakeholders. Deputy Chairman of the UK Financial Reporting Council. In I consider LIXIL Group Corporation to be an exceptional addition, I was recently elected as the first woman National Japanese company. During the past year, LIXIL has strengthened Chairman of the UK’s Institute of Directors. its corporate practices and procedures, enhanced its governance Another reason that I am looking forward to working as an standards, and introduced a unified global operating structure outside director with the Company and the LIXIL Group is the based around its core technology businesses. fact that they are implementing measures to promote a more While the Company may have its roots firmly in Japan, it is active role for women in business. This is an issue about which undertaking a courageous and significant transformation to I feel very strongly. Nothing would please me more than to be become a truly global company. able to lend my support to assist in career development proIn order to be a truly global company, however, LIXIL will grams for women of the LIXIL Group. need to be fit for purpose in this new era of globalization. As As an outside director, I would like to support both the such, it will need a board of directors that is diverse and has directors and executives of LIXIL Group as it seeks to adopt substantial international expertise and experience. global best practice in all areas of its business, across the regions of the world in which it operates. Fumio Sudo Hidehiko Sato Head of the Nomination Committee and Member of the Nomination Committee and Member of the Compensation Committee the Audit Committee LIXIL Group needs to meet the challenge of creating Enhancing the structure of LIXIL as a global company new values. I intend to take a strict approach to superthrough the group governance system and Code vision and advice of Conduct The vitality of a business stems from the continuous creation of With its rapid integration of group companies, LIXIL Group has new value. moved onto the global stage and for the year ending March There is a need to encourage diversity. Reform and innova2016, it will deploy a new governance system. With the first tion are necessary for any business, and that involves risk. Over stage of domestic company reorganization complete, LIXIL has the past two to three years, LIXIL Group Corporation has created now solidified the inter-company structure and integrated its this type of environment for itself, and it is determined to find a domestic and global activities into four technology businesses. way to thrive. A global company has to manage the activities of disparate LIXIL Group Corporation is making concerted efforts to units and personnel who have differing conceptions of corporate broaden its outlook for the future. While expressing my respect for culture, the company history, compliance issues, and so on. To these efforts, I am acutely aware that, particularly at times such as address this challenge, in April 2015, LIXIL Group established its these, questions can arise over one’s value as an outside director. Code of Conduct in order to ensure all employees pursue their I strongly intend to contribute to LIXIL’s efforts by providing business with a shared philosophy, ethic and principles. I will advice and recommendations on oversight in terms of govermonitor progress closely to confirm that the new governance nance and management from a different perspective to that of system is functioning effectively and that the Code of Conduct the other directors and executive officers. My standpoint is clear. is taking hold. That is, I am a representative of all stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, and employees. I will carry out my responsibilities wholeheartedly. LIXIL Group Corporation Board of Directors 53 Tsutomu Kawaguchi Main Kohda Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Compensation Committee I will support the Group as it enhances risk control Working to support management that brings out the ­systems in its drive for global growth strength, passion and dignity of employees as the Rapid growth and globalization of a company is attended by risk. potential of the organization is realized Additionally, major organizational changes like the adoption of the Any company wishing to operate on a global level will face new technology business structure in April 2015 can also entail global scale risk. The key here is to react flexibly but with risk. The Group has discussed various measures to mitigate these resolve to manage and control whatever situations occur. factors, including the early adoption of International Financial In order to achieve this the potential of the organization Reporting Standards (IFRS) from this fiscal year. Upon the revision must be realized, and this in turn depends on the pride and digof Japan’s Companies Act, the Board of Directors acted to nity of LIXIL group employees as they contribute their strength enhance the level of group-wide control, resolving on April 20 and passion to the workplace. to widen the scope and strengthen the functions of the internal In an increasingly volatile global business environment, control system. I will continue to supervise and give advice to I will continue to support the LIXIL Group as it seeks to fulfill ensure these measures are implemented effectively. I wish to see its potential. LIXIL Group grow on the basis of strengthened internal controls. Support structure for outside directors The Company has provided the following support and opportunities to help ensure the active participation of outside directors in management. n  Prior distribution of materials on topics for discussion at Board of Directors’ meetings; the Board of Directors’ office responds to individual inquiries at all times n  Early morning breakfast meetings with the Chairman of the Board and CEO. Three such meetings were held from January 2015, when they were introduced, through to the end of March n  Held showroom visit for outside directors n  Held LIXIL Museum visit for outside directors n  Observation by three outside directors of GMC* meeting (once) * See P18 LIXIL Showroom Tokyo LIXIL Group Corporation 54 Status of corporate governance Status of corporate governance Corporate governance at the LIXIL Group LIXIL Group Corporation has adopted the company with As a pure holding company, the Company has formed three committees corporate governance model as provided the following meetings, committees, and councils to for under Japan’s Companies Act. Under this governance strengthen governance over Group companies: Internal Audit system, the Company separates the conduct of management Committee, Compliance Committee, Risk Management from the surveillance of management with the objectives of Committee, Investment Strategy Council, Investment and creating a system where the executive officers can make Loan Council, and New Business Deliberation (Acquisition) management decisions quickly and efficiently while achievCouncil. These committees discuss corporate strategy, coning and maintaining management transparency. sider medium-to-long-term policies, deliberate investments, and work to accelerate decision making while enhancing the effectiveness of governance. Governance structure (As of June 2015) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment LIXIL Group Corporation Appointment and Dismissal Determination Board of Directors of Director (Internal and Outside) Candidates Accounting Auditors (Collaborate with Internal Audit Committee and Internal Audit Division) Chairman of the Board Appointment Supervision and Dismissal Nomination Committee Appointment (Outside and Dismissal Compensation Committee directors form the majority) Board of Directors Company with Three Committees Report Audit Committee (Decision making and supervision) Appointment Compliance Compliance and Dismissal audit audit Report Audit Validation Validation audit audit Representative Executive Officers and Executive Officers (Decide on matters delegated by the Board of Directors, and execute business) Business Execution Executive Officers Meetings and Various Committees Internal Audit Committee, Compliance Committee, Risk Management Committee, Investment Strategy Council, Investment and Loan Council, and New Business Deliberation (Acquisition) Council Management Supervision Operating Companies General Meeting of Shareholders Company with Corporate Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Audit Auditors Management Meeting Divisions For further details regarding the Company’s corporate governance system, internal control systems, and other related matters, please access the following URL: http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/about/governance/system.htm LIXIL Group Corporation Status of corporate governance 55 Group governance system The Company, while respecting the independence of each periodically receives reports on the details of audits by the Group company, including LIXIL Corporation, regarding accounting auditors of the Company and the Company’s interits business management, receives periodic reports on the nal audit department, while at the same time strengthens the status of business and gives approval to important matters. cooperation with the Corporate Auditors of each Group comAdditionally, the Audit Committee of the Company pany by holding periodic Group Corporate Auditors meetings. Governance of LIXIL Group Corporation, LIXIL Corporation and major operating companies (As of June 2015) LIXIL Group Corporation LIXIL Corporation Board of Directors Appointment Compliance audit Board of and dismissal Board of Directors Nomination Committee Validation audit Auditors Executive officers Supervision Compliance audit Management Compensation Committee supervision Validation audit Appointment and dismissal Audit Committee Executive officers Compliance audit Supervision Validation audit Management Management supervision supervision LIXIL Group Corporation’s major subsidiaries LIXIL Corporation’s major subsidiaries LIXIL VIVA CORPORATION GROHE Group S.à r.l. LIXIL Living Solution Corporation ASD Americas Holding Corp. (ASB) LIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd. Kawashima Selkon Textiles Co., Ltd. LIXIL REALTY, Corp. Asahi Tostem Exterior Building Materials Co., Ltd. JAPAN HOME SHIELD CORPORATION HIVIC CO., LTD. CLASSIS Corporation Permasteelisa S.p.A. JIO Corporation Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall System Co., Ltd. LIXIL Group Finance Corporation Others LIXIL Home Finance Corporation Directors and corporate officers of LIXIL Group Corporation and LIXIL Corporation (As of June 2015) LIXIL Group Corporation LIXIL Corporation Board of Directors Executive Officers Board of Directors Auditors Yoichiro Ushioda Yoshiaki Fujimori Yoshiaki Fujimori Satoshi Koshida Yoshiaki Fujimori Ryuichi Kawamoto David J. Haines Yuji Tsuboi Takashi Tsutsui Takashi Tsutsui Toshimasa Iue Yoshizumi Kanamori Yosuke Yagi Nicola Greco Yoshinobu Kikuchi Appointment Sachio Matsumoto Management Haruo Shirai Compliance audit Keiichiro Ina and dismissal Yoshizumi Kanamori supervision Sachio Matsumoto Validation audit Fumio Sudo Harumi Matsumura Yosuke Yagi Hidehiko Sato Laurence William Bates Laurence William Bates Tsutomu Kawaguchi Hwa Jin Song Montesano Hwa Jin Song Montesano Main Kohda Katsuhiro Mamenari Ryo Nihei Barbara Judge Appointment and dismissal Determination of compensation Internal directors who are not executive officers Outside directors who are not executive officers Executive officers of LIXIL Group Corporation who are concurrently serving as directors of LIXIL Corporation LIXIL Group Corporation 56 Status of corporate governance Composition of committees and position of the chairman Number of members Internal directors Outside directors Chairman (of the Committee) Board of Directors 11 6 5 (all 5 are Internal Director independent directors) Nomination Committee 3 1 2 Outside Director Compensation Committee 3 1 2 Internal Director Audit Committee 3 1 2 Internal Director Number of meetings held during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 Made decisions on matters specified by law, basic management policies, and important management matters as Board of Directors 15 well as monitored the conduct of duties by the directors and executive officers (Meets once a month in principle) Made decisions on the content of proposals to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders regarding the Nomination Committee 5 election and dismissal of directors (Meets one or more times a year, as necessary) Compensation Discussed and made decisions regarding the content of compensation of individual directors and executive 7 Committee officers (Meets one or more times a year, as necessary) In addition to auditing the conduct of duties by the directors and executive officers, discussed and made decisions on auditing policy, auditing plans, and the content of proposals to be submitted to the General Meeting of Audit Committee 14 Shareholders regarding the selection and dismissal of the independent accounting firm (Meets once a month or more, as necessary, in principle) As the decision-making body responsible for the execution of business activities in accordance with the basic Executive Officers ­ olicies approved by the board of directors, decided on important matters related to the execution of business in p 18 Meetings the Company and the Group as a whole (Meets once a month in principle; holds extraordinary meetings as necessary) Investment Strategy Discussed Group strategy (investments, funding, M&A, overseas strategy, etc.) and set directions with the objective 0 Council of increasing the LIXIL Group’s corporate value Deliberated proposals made by the holding company and the operating companies that (1) are investments that Investment and Loan 13 are closely involved with Group strategy, (2) investments that are related to more than one Group operating comCouncil pany, and (3) investments that exceed the approval authority of the president of the relevant operating company New Business Deliberated proposals made by the holding company and the operating companies that are (1) investments that Deliberation (Acquisition) 2 involve the establishment of a new company or are investments in an existing company and (2) investments for the Council acquisition, etc., of a business partner company of an operating company Risk Management In addition to forming a risk management committee in the holding company, also monitored the formation of such 3 Committee committees for risk management in Group companies and confirmed the status of risk management Provided guidance for structuring and operational management of compliance systems in Group companies and Compliance Committee 5 monitoring of the status of requiring compliance with laws and regulations Undertook inspections and checks of legal compliance and appropriateness of corporate activity and of manageInternal Audit Committee 4 ment conformity not only with legal requirements but also with standards as determined by the company Status of auditing activities Internal Audit Division The holding company and principal Group companies have formed internal auditing departments that periodically conduct audits internally, including audits of subsidiaries. The Meeting of Persons Responsible for Internal Auditing in Group Companies has been formed to share information on Group companies as well as the uniform auditing policies of the Group. This meeting is held, in principle, once a year in Japan and once every two years overseas. Accounting Auditors Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Corporate officer compensation Compensation paid to the Company’s corporate officers in the year ended March 31, 2015 was as per the following tables. 1. Total amount of compensation by corporate officer title, by type of compensation, and number of officers receiving Total Total compensation by type (Millions of yen) Number of corporate Corporate officer title compensation Performance-based officers eligible for (Millions of yen) Basic compensation Stock option Other compensation compensation Directors 315 172 — 143 — 3 (excluding Outside Directors) Executive Officers 1,449 787 118 494 48 16 Outside Directors 76 48 — 28 — 4 LIXIL Group Corporation Status of corporate governance 57 2. Total compensation of officers receiving ¥100 million or more Total compensation by type (Millions of yen) Total Corporate PerformanceName Company compensation Basic officer title based Stock option (Millions of yen) compensation compensation Director LIXIL Group Corporation 229 120 — 109 Yoichiro Ushioda Director LIXIL INTERNATIONAL Pte. Ltd. 5 5 — — Executive Yoshiaki Fujimori LIXIL Group Corporation 312 142 60 109 Officer Executive Yosuke Yagi LIXIL Group Corporation 103 60 6 36 Officer 3. Policy for determining the amount and method of calculation of corporate officers’ compensation and decision-making method Basic policy on compensation, etc. [Compensation structures for directors and executive officers] The Company’s policy on the compensation plan for corpon  A director’s compensation shall consist of basic compensation rate officers is to implement a fair compensation structure and stock options. that will motivate each corporate officer to execute his or her n  An executive officer’s compensation shall consist of basic duties in order to meet shareholders’ expectations and fulfill compensation, performance-based compensation linked to the Company’s business policy. single fiscal year-end and medium-to-long term earnings, and stock options. For personnel recruited to senior positions n Performance accountability of individuals and companies shall among overseas nationals, an expatriate package will be probe clearly established, and a system shall be devised that will vided with tax equalization and other incidental conditions reward corporate officers with appropriate compensation upon generally offered at global companies. the achievement of a goal in order to motivate corporate officers to attain the goals set. [Description of compensation by type] n A stock option plan shall be provided to allow for the reflecn  Basic compensation, as a fixed compensation, shall be maintion of continual enhancement of corporate value, in addition tained at an appropriate level through comparison with objecto which a medium-to-long term cash plan shall be adopted to tive external indicators. The basic compensation for executive provide incentives to executive officers, who are responsible officers shall be structured such that a certain percentage for the execution of business operations, to attain mediumthereof fluctuates in accordance with the level of achievement term business plan targets. of business targets set for the relevant department in order to n The compensation system shall be performance-based comreward executive officers for achieving goals. pensation to allow for appropriate reflection of the Group’s n  Performance-based compensation shall be determined on the consolidated performance. basis of corporate performance for the current fiscal period n In order to ensure the objectivity and transparency of directors’ and over the medium-to-long term reflecting the attainment of compensation, the Compensation Committee shall assess the medium-term plan targets. Company’s compensation level by comparing it with objective n  Performance-based compensation linked to a single fiscal year external indicators and manage it to ensure that the level is shall be allocated as an annual bonus reflecting earnings in commensurate with the relevant duties and performance. the current fiscal period. Performance-based compensation n Compensation levels shall be set to be sufficient to retain, for based on corporate performance over the medium-to-long the long-term, competent, worldwide human resources who term is to be allocated after the end of a specified period conare indispensable to the Company’s sustainable growth. ditional on the attainment of medium-term business plan targets within previously specified limits. Compensation structure n  Stock options, provided as a medium-to-long-term incentive in Under the corporate officers’ compensation structure, there line with the interest of shareholders, shall be determined on shall be separate structures for directors, who are responsible the basis of corporate performance, the position of the relevant corporate officer, and other criteria. for governance, and executive officers, who are responsible for the execution of business operations, in order to reflect n  With personnel recruited to senior positions from overseas, an the differences in their roles. In the case of a director who is allowance may be made to make up for disparities in compensation compared with previous positions and such factors as concurrently serving as an executive officer, the compensacost of living assistance and medical insurance associated with tion plan for executive officers shall be applied. overseas postings. LIXIL Group Corporation 58 Compliance and internal control system Compliance and internal control system Compliance Committee Internal control system The LIXIL Group has established the Compliance Committee The LIXIL Group has established an internal control system to ensure the broad and thorough understanding of complito ensure the appropriate and efficient operations of the ance at the Company and Group companies. The Committee Company and Group companies, and accurate and approprireceives reports of compliance-related initiatives and issues ate consolidated financial statements. However, inappropriate from Group companies, provides guidance for Group compaaccounting practices were uncovered in the financial nies’ structuring and operational management of compliance accounts with audit certification for the fiscal year ended systems, and monitors the status of strict compliance with laws December 2014 at Joyou AG, which became a consolidated and regulations. subsidiary in April 2015. LIXIL Group’s financial statements from January 2014, when Joyou became an equity-method LIXIL Group Code of Conduct affiliate, have also been revised through to March 2015. Joyou’s inappropriate accounting practices and revision In addition to activities centering of financial statements have already been notified to the on the Compliance Committee, Frankfurt Stock Exchange, on which the company was listed, the LIXIL Group has been workand other relevant institutions, and work is now proceeding ing to establish a new complito clarify responsibility and take follow-up action. In addiance structure appropriate to the tion, we have established an internal investigation committee Group as it now stands, allowand a special investigation committee to examine the Joyou ing for the major changes in its issue as part of our efforts to investigate the incident and its profile over the past four years*. causes in order to take measures to prevent a recurrence, One example of this is adoption while also working to reinforce governance throughout the of a unified LIXIL Group Code LIXIL Group. of Conduct in April 2015. The LIXIL Group Code of Conduct is a common set of rules for LIXIL Group members’ business activities, to be strictly followed by all directors and employees, with the goal of achieving ethically sound attitudes and behavior. We have been distributing a Code of Conduct booklet to all directors and employees, prepared in many languages. We have also been implementing training sessions to deepen understanding of the Code, and directors and employees commit to strict adherence to its principles. We ensure that these activities are also carried out at companies when they newly join the LIXIL Group. * LIXIL Corporation, the main subsidiary within the LIXIL Group, was launched in May 2011 on the integration of five domestic operating companies. The Group assumed its current form after the consolidation of a number of overseas companies, including Permasteelisa, ASB, and GROHE, between 2011 and 2015. LIXIL Group Code of Conduct http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/pdf/LIXIL_CoC2015_en.pdf LIXIL Group Corporation Investor relations 59 Investor relations Basic investor relations policy LIXIL Group Corporation regards investor relations as faciliRegarding the disclosure of important information, such tating communication with capital markets in Japan and as decisions, events, or information regarding accounts settleoverseas and thereby helping enhance corporate value. ment, that affects investment judgments, the Company disAccordingly, the Company’s investor relations activities closes the information based on the timely disclosure rules convey messages from senior management to markets while enacted by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. It is also the providing senior management with feedback from markets Company’s policy to disclose information that does not fall in an unflagging effort to boost corporate value. under the timely disclosure rules, as positively and fairly as possible, in order to better meet investors’ needs. IR Team (from left): Singapore representative Shizuka Fukushima, Emiko Ota, Keishi Saito (Operating Officer, Investor Relations Marc Dobro Office), Takashi Tsutsui (Executive Officer in charge of M&A, Investor Relations, and External Affairs), Yukiyo Uto, Rina Narita Investor relations site: http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/ir/ External evaluations (From April 2014 to March 2015) LACP Vision Awards held by the League of American RobecoSAM CSR Rating Communications Professionals LLC (LACP) n LIXIL Group Awarded “Bronze Class” and “Industry Mover” n  ronze award for the March 2013 fiscal B in the CSR ratings by the Global SRI assessment company year-end annual report category RobecoSAM ( January 2015) ( July 2014)   Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. Prime Minister / Minister of State Award to companies n “ Internet IR Commendation Award” 2014 “where women shine” (November 2014) n Received award in inaugural Minister of State Award as  a “leading company where women shine” ( January 2015) Morningstar-Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI)  n Selected from among about 4,000 domestic listed companies Designated as Diversity Management Selection 100 enterfor inclusion in the Morningstar-Socially Responsible prise and Nadeshiko Brand by METI / TSE Investment Index (MS-SRI) (December 2014) n Selected as one of the companies pro moting diversity in the Diversity NIKKEI Annual Report Awards 2014 Management Selection 100 project n Honorable mention, January 2015 (March 2015) n Awarded “Nadeshiko Brand” designation as among “enterprises that are exceptional in encouraging women’s success in the workplace” (March 2015) Web page on awards: http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/about/evaluation.htm (Available only in Japanese) LIXIL Group Corporation 60 Business risks and risk management Business risks and risk management The LIXIL Group Corporation, as a pure holding company, companies are required to report on risk at the regular quarconstantly and closely monitors the risks faced by the Group terly results discussion meetings. companies, verifies how well they are hedging those risks, The Company seeks to anticipate risks that may emerge and offers guidance. As part of its management functions the and adopt flexible and appropriate risk management in the Company has established a Risk Management Committee that awareness that risk profiles are constantly changing. The regularly verifies the state of risk in each of the Group comCompany is implementing the management measures set out panies. The Company has also made the establishment of below with respect to the main risks relating to operating risk management meetings mandatory at all of the Group model reforms and business strategies currently being purcompanies in Japan, and when necessary, Group companies sued. For an overview and details of the business risks facing are requested to make reports to the committee. In addition, the Company, please see pages 70-71. Operating model and business strategies: Main risks and risk management measures LIXIL Group operating Main risks Risk management measures model and strategies Management based on a n D  ivergence between Group managen E  nsure close communications between the Company’s Board of value chain running through ment strategy and the strategies of Directors and Executive Officers and the technology business CEOs; all internal business units by technology businesses align strategies between the two product field n  onitor progress of business plans at each technology business with M a view to realizing the medium-term business plan n Inadequate synergies between techn Strengthen the Company’s business and regional portfolio management nology businesses n Share marketing and project information across the entire Group n M  aintain Groupwide control through management with shared finance, human resource, and other functions across the whole Group n H  igher management costs at technoln  larify management policies and decision making processes under the C ogy businesses with two or more main new operating model Group companies n Delegate authority to technology businesses and Group companies n  roduct development and procureP n O  ptimize the supply chain through consolidating production bases, ment delays stemming from globalizasharing parts and materials, and reviewing the development and existing tion of the value chain lineup of global strategic products n H  igher management costs accompan E  stablish platforms in each technology business for product developnying value chain expansion ment and the procurement of parts and materials n  larify decision making processes in technology businesses and transfer C authority to them n  nsure tight cost controls through such means as monitoring progress E with Business Transformation 16 (BT-16) and the Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC) Project Business globalization n Inadequate internal control systems n Ensure careful selection of prime investment candidates and declining earnings at companies n  romote integration of companies the Group has acquired or in which it P the Group has acquired or in which it has taken an equity stake has taken an equity stake n M  aintain constant monitoring of technology business and Group company management information n  etain top management at technology businesses and Group companies R with outstanding performance n  ndertake regular inspections by the Company of the status of technolU ogy businesses’ and Group companies’ internal control systems and financial management n Clarify investment, management and exit rules n E  nsure compliance understanding and strict observance among all Group employees n E  nsure full understanding of the LIXIL Group Code of Conduct by such means as holding training sessions for Group employees and obtaining pledges from all employees to adhere strictly to the Code LIXIL Group Corporation Business risks and risk management 61 LIXIL Group operating Main risks Risk management measures model and strategies n Major exchange rate and interest rate n  aintain constant analysis of exchange rate and interest rate information M fluctuations owing to changes in curby those responsible for financial affairs, centering on the Chief Financial rency and interest rate policies Officers of the Company, technology businesses and main Group comn  ffect on yen equivalents of plant, E panies, and make shared responses equipment, inventory, and other assets n Aim for Groupwide exchange-rate neutral financial management and liabilities of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations n A  t the individual Group company level, undertake hedging through such means as local currency-denominated procurement of materials and sales and forward exchange contracts n International tax risks, such as transfer n Ensure constant monitoring of international tax systems by Company, pricing legislation technology business and main Group company staff responsible for financial and legal matters, centering on Chief Financial Officers and Chief Legal Officers, and make shared responses n R  esponding to different countries’ n Ensure constant analysis of information on legal and regulatory matters legal and regulatory requirements and by staff responsible for legal matters at the Company, technology busirelated cost increases nesses and main Group companies centering on Chief Legal Officers and make shared responses n  igher costs for human resource and H n Select high-quality material suppliers and business partners business counterparty management n Regularly review the status of personnel and labor management at accompanying value chain expansion suppliers and business partners n  apid market and demand changes R n Diversify sources of earnings across multiple main markets centering on triggered by such factors as financial Europe, North America, China, Southeast Asia, and Japan system instability n  alue chain disruption caused by V n Require each technology business and Group company to prepare and changes in geopolitical risk resulting manage a business continuity plan (BCP), which is to be inspected perifrom international conflict and other odically in light of the Groupwide BCP developments and major natural disasters n  iminished effectiveness in strategy D n Promote understanding of business strategies through enhanced comimplementation owing to divergence munications between management of the Company and technology between management strategy and businesses, the Board of Directors and executive officers of each Group the views of employees company, and staff n Promote understanding of LIXIL Values and diversity awareness; raise employees satisfaction through fair evaluation/promotion systems n Realign attitudes of staff through training programs to develop leaders able to excel in a global context Growth in Japanese n S  lowdown in renovation-related n Reinforce renovation-related services such as renovation loans and other business as a result of demand owing to changes in interest financial services and business support systems for renovation taking opportunities in rate policy, increases in the consumpcontractors the renovation market tion tax rate, and changes in governn Develop and provide products and renovation processes to enhance ment housing policies seismic resistance and thermal insulation efficiency n G  rowth in demand for rental housing in tandem with reductions in the inheritance tax basic deduction n  ower profitability resulting from intenL n D  evelop and sell high-value-added products through pursuing product sifying competition quality and design appeal. Establish a differentiated product lineup by introducing the products of overseas Group companies to the Japanese market n Reinforce service and technology quality through strengthening support services for renovation contractors For detailed information on business risks, please see the Business Risks section of this report on pages 70-71. LIXIL Group Corporation 62 Message from the CFO Message from the CFO As a truly global company, we are committed to growth and sustained improvement in corporate value through applying the full benefits of integrated Groupwide financial and accounting management not only to risk management, but also to promoting business strategies. Sachio Matsumoto Executive Officer and Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer The Joyou issues: background and lessons Tackling this issue highlights strengths of our new To begin with, I would like to go over the inappropriate operating model accounting practices discovered at consolidated subsidiary The process of dealing with this difficult issue demonstrated Joyou AG and its subsequent filing of an application for the effectiveness of our new operating model. Over the year insolvency proceedings, and what action we have taken preceding the launch of that operating model, the LIXIL in response. Group, through the Global Management Committee (GMC), Joyou was a subsidiary of GROHE Group S.à r.l., which held repeated discussions between personnel responsible itself became a consolidated subsidiary of LIXIL Corporation for financial and accounting issues at LIXIL Corporation and on April 1, 2015, having previously been an equity-method main Group companies. The close mutual understanding this affiliate. Joyou handled the production and sale of plumbingfostered, and the setting out of Groupwide financial and related products in China and was listed on the Frankfurt Stock accounting policies, enabled the rapid response once the Exchange. We discovered the inappropriate accounting pracJoyou issue had come to light. If the LIXIL Group had strugtices in late April. Our investigations to date appear to indigled with post-acquisition integration processes, and if the cate that Joyou’s top management, who were also its founders management of companies it had acquired or in which it and leading shareholders, had been deliberately perpetrating had invested had remained compartmentalized, the special inappropriate accounting practices over many years. inquiry into the Joyou issue would probably have had much LIXIL Corporation, when it invested in GROHE, also less room to maneuver and the sharing of information been undertook rigorous due diligence with respect to Joyou as much slower. That, in turn, could have had a serious impact a consolidated subsidiary of GROHE. Subsequent developon LIXIL Group Corporation’s results announcement and the ments, however, have revealed how difficult it was to convening of the General Meeting of Shareholders. Through uncover inappropriate accounting practices through due dilidealing with the issue, I believe we were able to deepen gence of what might be considered a usual scope bearing in confidence and enhance expectations for the Group’s manmind that Joyou received regular external audits as a listed agement going forward based on our new operating model. company, that its financial reports received audit certification, The integrated Groupwide financial and accounting manand given the apparently sophisticated steps taken to disagement under a new operating model will form a risk conguise the accounting manipulation. trol structure to prevent such incidents in the future, and will Avoiding a recurrence of inappropriate accounting also demonstrate its real value in implementing the Group’s ­practices at any Group company is a top priority, and we business strategies and achieving growth. We have already are determined to apply fully the lessons from this case to made progress in putting in place management structures the management of the Group. With candidates for acquisiwith business strategies for different technology businesses tions or equity investments, we intend to undertake morethat go beyond individual operating companies while adoptcomprehensive prior inspections going deeper than established ing financial and accounting management tailored to this screening procedures. Subsequent to acquisitions or equity approach. LIXIL Water Technology, for instance, has estabinvestments, we also intend to determine management polilished a parts and materials procurement base in Singapore, cies in light of country risk, and, where appropriate, to which we expect to generate annual cost savings of about assign accounting and financial management personnel to ¥15 billion. LIXIL Housing Technology, meanwhile, has the companies involved. ­consolidated the procurement of aluminum ingots and established a structure for supplying manufacturing bases in Japan, Thailand, and Vietnam. In all such cases, Groupwide LIXIL Group Corporation Message from the CFO 63 financial and accounting structures open the way to the purReinforcing cash flow generating power suit of economies of scale. and enhancing corporate value In the fiscal year ending March 2016, we aim to boost our Ensuring financial soundness cash flow generating power on the back of growth in oper­ The scale of the LIXIL Group’s business, and particularly its ating cash flow stemming from the consolidation of GROHE global operations, has expanded rapidly through a succesas well as efforts to improve our operating income ratio sion of M&A deals since the fiscal year ended March 2012. through benefits of scale in our technology businesses. With On March 31, 2015, the equity ratio stood at 32%. However, our businesses in Japan, we are making sustained efforts as it has recently decreased to around 26% as the result of an part of our business strategy to shift our emphasis toward increase in interest-bearing debt accompanying the inclusion the renovation market and implement purchasing reforms. of GROHE in consolidation. In my assessment, nonetheless, We introduced IT systems to part of our operations in the the Company’s financial leverage relative to cash flow generfiscal year ended March 2015 with a view to optimizing ated by LIXIL Water Technology and other businesses supply chain management and we expect these to lead to remains at a healthy level. In the fiscal year ended March significant improvements in inventory management efficiency 2015, net cash provided by operating activities rose ¥55.4 biland strategic purchasing from the fiscal year ending March lion year on year to ¥138.9 billion. As a result, free cash flow 2016. In addition, we intend to realize ongoing improveincreased ¥144.5 billion year on year to ¥9.7 billion. ments in business efficiency by optimizing the product portIn the fiscal year ended March 2015, as we kept a close folio, appropriately reflecting yen depreciation and changes eye on developments in the bond market, we demonstrated in material costs in prices, and reducing indirect costs. our agility through the issuance of ¥120 billion in convertible We intend to put the cash from these efforts toward bonds with stock acquisition rights based on a simplified strategic investments targeting growth as well as toward such method that does not require the issuance of a prospectus financial measures as reducing debt and flexibly implementand other related documents. Some of the funds raised were ing share buybacks as part of efforts to raise our EBITDA allocated to repay nonrecourse loans, and some for share ratio to 15% and improve ROE over the medium term. buybacks, thereby reducing the interest burden while also raising capital efficiency. Free cash flows* EBITDA / EBITDA ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 40 150 10 0 120 8 –40 90 6 –80 60 4 –120 30 2 –160 11 12 13 14 15 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 * Free cash flows: Operating cash flows + Investing cash flows EBITDA EBITDA ratio (right) LIXIL Group Corporation 64 Consolidated 11-year summary Consolidated 11-year summary LIXIL Group Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Results of Operations Net sales ¥ 986,214 ¥1,057,699 ¥1,124,078 ¥1,103,839 ¥1,046,854 Operating income 37,863 43,805 57,026 35,737 25,603 Operating income ratio 3.8% 4.1% 5.1% 3.2% 2.4% Net income (loss)*1 30,624 22,124 35,199 17,709 475 Research and development expenses 13,928 16,181 15,438 15,656 15,978 Capital expenditures 56,459 41,747 37,521 35,418 35,088 Depreciation 30,876 33,000 31,773 32,570 35,158 EBITDA*2 68,740 76,806 89,505 68,398 61,013 Cash Flows Cash flows from operating activities 43,970 31,357 61,710 60,177 63,927 Cash flows from investing activities (71,473) (36,519) (37,682) (47,480) (63,082) Cash flows from financing activities 17,375 15,397 (6,602) (40,359) 21,914 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 49,065 62,748 80,602 52,679 73,973 Financial Position Total assets 1,013,774 1,086,015 1,149,660 1,061,036 1,048,838 Total equity*3 531,157 561,408 594,265 556,118 533,073 Interest-bearing debt 192,692 224,060 225,943 229,575 263,770 Per Share Data Net income (loss) per share*1 ¥ 104.92 ¥ 75.80 ¥ 119.64 ¥ 61.20 ¥ 1.70 Total equity per share*3 1,828.20 1,913.12 1,998.58 1,983.79 1,903.69 Dividends per share 40 40 40 40 40 Key Ratios EBITDA ratio*2 7.0% 7.3% 8.0% 6.2% 5.8% ROE*3 5.8 4.1 6.1 3.1 0.1 ROA 3.1 2.1 3.1 1.6 0.04 Total assets turnover (times) 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Equity ratio*3 52.4 51.7 51.4 52.1 50.6 Dividend payout ratio 38.1 52.8 33.4 65.4 2,352.9 Debt-to-equity ratio*4 36.3 39.9 38.2 41.5 49.7 Number of employees 29,682 30,252 31,212 31,838 32,700 Stock Indicators Stock price (closing), end of year (yen) ¥ 1,968 ¥ 2,530 ¥ 2,555 ¥ 1,497 ¥ 1,106 Market capitalization (millions of yen) 655,451 842,627 799,854 468,642 346,238 Price earnings ratio (times) 18.8 33.4 21.4 24.5 650.6 Price book-value ratio (times) 1.08 1.32 1.28 0.75 0.58 *1 Figures are after amortization of goodwill. *2 EBITDA is calculated by Operating income + Depreciation + Amortization *3 “Total equity,” “Total equity per share,” and “Equity ratio” until March 31, 2006 are the figures for previous “Shareholders’ equity,” “Shareholders’ equity per share,” and “Shareholders’ equity ratio.” Figures for “ROE” until March 31, 2006 are the figures calculated based on the previous consolidated financial statement regulations. *4 Debt-to-equity ratio is calculated by Interest-bearing debt / Total equity. *5 Accounts for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 have been revised owing to the discovery of inappropriate accounting practices at an equity-method subsidiary. Figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 reflect the revisions. *6 U.S. dollar amounts have been converted at US$1=¥120.17, the rate on March 31, 2015. Recent M&As (figures as of the acquisition) July 2009 April 2010 April 2010 January 2011 August 2011 American Standard Shin Nikkei Company, Ltd. SUN WAVE CORPORATION Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall Kawashima Selkon Asia Pacific (Group) System Co., Ltd. Textiles Co., Ltd. Sales ¥23.5 billion Sales ¥110.0 billion Sales ¥85.0 billion Sales ¥12.0 billion Sales ¥34.3 billion* Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition ¥2.2 billion and ¥17.6 billion ¥0.7 million ¥13.7 billion ¥3.2 billion cost cost cost cost cost share exchange Equity Equity Equity Equity Equity 100% 100% 100%* 75% 100% owned owned owned owned owned ¥2.1 billion (net) ¥6.1 billion Goodwill Intellectual property: Goodwill ¥5.4 billion Goodwill Goodwill ¥0.5 billion Goodwill ¥1.7 billion (negative) ¥3.5 billion * 80% at the time of the acquisition * Excludes interior fabric business for vehicles which the company separated from the main business LIXIL Group Corporation Consolidated 11-year summary 65 Millions of yen Millions of U.S. dollars*6 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014*5 2015 2015 ¥ 982,607 ¥1,214,939 ¥1,291,396 ¥1,436,395 ¥1,628,658 ¥1,673,406 $13,925 25,984 40,409 17,915 50,485 69,080 51,674 430 2.6% 3.3% 1.4% 3.5% 4.2% 3.1% (5,332) 15,780 1,868 21,347 20,952 22,013 183 14,756 13,688 15,350 14,025 17,380 18,199 151 30,844 45,779 52,107 73,795 64,321 62,622 521 32,916 36,289 39,370 44,736 49,168 50,724 422 60,485 80,106 59,887 100,627 124,822 108,887 906 68,074 48,680 33,979 28,432 83,533 138,931 1,156 (27,334) (13,543) (142,067) (12,397) (218,333) (129,228) (1,075) (27,825) (41,687) 138,348 (31,753) 153,144 10,010 83 89,302 92,329 127,351 114,662 139,039 160,378 1,335 1,033,504 1,166,834 1,481,063 1,465,689 1,786,294 1,875,249 15,605 516,322 536,408 538,776 566,312 601,795 613,651 5,107 257,484 272,516 441,874 424,035 626,475 676,008 5,625 Yen U.S. dollars*6 ¥ (19.12) ¥ 55.50 ¥ 6.49 ¥ 73.42 ¥ 72.06 ¥ 75.46 $ 0.63 1,842.78 1,850.34 1,817.34 1,930.02 2,041.34 2,104.27 17.51 40 40 40 40 55 60 0.50 % 6.2% 6.6% 4.6% 7.0% 7.7% 6.5% (1.0) 3.0 0.4 3.9 3.6 3.7 (0.5) 1.4 0.1 1.4 1.3 1.2 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 49.7 45.2 35.7 38.3 33.2 32.1 — 72.1 616.3 54.5 76.3 79.5 50.1 51.7 83.6 75.6 105.6 112.2 35,976 41,090 48,163 45,602 51,419 52,427 ¥ 1,903 ¥ 2,160 ¥ 1,733 ¥ 1,858 ¥ 2,846 ¥ 2,847 595,742 676,197 542,523 540,221 827,426 891,265 (99.5) 38.9 267.0 25.3 39.5 37.73 1.03 1.17 0.95 0.96 1.39 1.35 October 2011 December 2011 August 2013 January 2014 October 2014 HIVIC CO., LTD. Permasteelisa S.p.A. ASD Americas Holding Corp. GROHE Group S.à r.l. GROHE DAWN WaterTech (ASB) Holdings Pty Ltd Sales ¥24.4 billion Sales ¥116.0 billion Sales ¥82.0 billion Sales ¥144.8 billion Sales ¥12.9 billion Acquisition Share Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition ¥60.8 billion ¥30.5 billion ¥80.1 billion ¥8.6 billion cost exchange cost cost cost cost Equity Equity Equity Equity Equity 100% 100% 100% 44%* 51% owned owned owned owned owned ¥34.3 billion ¥14.7 billion ¥1.2 billion Goodwill ¥1.4 billion Goodwill Intangible assets: Goodwill Intangible assets: Goodwill To be determined Goodwill Intangible assets: ¥35.0 billion ¥21.7 billion ¥7.8 billion * 56% as of April 1, 2015 LIXIL Group Corporation 66 Management’s discussion and analysis Management’s discussion and analysis LIXIL Group Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Business environment In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, to rush demand ahead of the consumpparticularly of owner-occupied housing. real GDP in the Japanese economy contion tax increase. Renovation demand also fell slightly in tracted amid weakness in consumer New housing starts declined 10.8% reaction to rush demand the previous spending prompted by falling real wages year on year, to 880 thousand units, year, creating a very difficult business and a reactive fall in demand in response with ongoing contraction in starts environment overall. Business performance In response to this business environgrowth in overseas sales accompanying projects in the U.S. and the U.K. In the ment, the LIXIL Group steadily advanced the full-year earnings contribution of a U.S. ASB Business, sales jumped ¥70.7 billion the various measures set out in its subsidiary newly consolidated during the (243.1%), driven by the full-year booking Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL G-16, previous fiscal year. Other individual facof sales from the fiscal year ended March launched in May 2014. In Japanese opertors were as follows: 31, 2015 as well as efforts to expand ations, we focused on developing prodIn the Japanese business, sales sales of the AT200 spa-toilet, a tankless ucts targeting the renovation market, decreased ¥15.3 billion, or 3.0%, in the toilet with enhanced specifications for which is expected to see strong growth Metal Building Material Business amid the North American market. over the medium-to-long term, though weakness in new housing starts; fell Gross profit decreased ¥0.5 billion, with short-term fluctuations in demand. ¥20.6 billion, or 5.7%, in the Plumbing or 0.1%, to ¥447.3 billion as raw material We also made progress in broadening Fixtures Business mainly on supply costs rose and sales in Japan fell as the our service offerings, launching financial ­constraints caused by heavy snowfall market lost momentum. The gross service businesses handling such proddamage to a key plant; and declined margin declined 0.8 percentage points, ucts as Flat 35 loans, which offer hous¥16.7 billion, or 8.1%, in the Other to 26.7%. Despite efforts to cut costs and ing loans with fixed interest rates for up Building Materials and Equipment improve selling prices, operating to 35 years, and renovation loans. While Business as the market slowed. In the expenses rose chiefly owing to the continuing the rapid expansion of our Distribution and Retail Business, growth decline in sales in the Japanese business, global operation through M&A activities, in the home center business and the higher raw material prices, costs incurred we revised our management structure Ken Depot business drove a rise in sales in dealing with snow damage at a core with the inauguration of the Global of ¥3.7 billion, or 1.9%. Meanwhile, the plant, and strategic upfront investments. Management Committee (GMC) as the Housing, Real Estate and Other Businesses As a result, operating income declined highest management body of LIXIL. We saw sales decline ¥4.6 billion, or 7.3%, ¥17.4 billion, or 25.2%, year on year, to also acquired South African company owing to weak housing investment. ¥51.6 billion, and the operating income GROHE DAWN WaterTech Holdings In the overseas business, sales in the ratio fell from 4.2% to 3.1%. through a newly established joint venAsia Business increased ¥13.7 billion, or Net income rose ¥1.0 billion, or ture between LIXIL and GROHE Group. 14.5%, spurred by stepped-up sales 5.1%, to ¥22.0 billion. This reflected As a result of these activities, in the activities, while in the Curtain Wall losses incurred in the previous fiscal year fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, the Business sales expanded ¥14.9 billion, or related to a filing of an application for Group recorded consolidated net sales of 7.3%, supported by foreign exchange the commencement of insolvency pro¥1,673.4 billion, up ¥44.7 billion, or 2.7%, translation gains and an increase in the ceedings at an overseas subsidiary. year on year. This increase largely reflected number of highly profitable building Net sales Operating income / Operating income ratio Net income (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) 1,800 1,673.4 80 6.0 30 22.0 60 51.6 4.5 1,200 20 3.1% 40 3.0 600 10 20 1.5 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 Operating income Operating income ratio (right) LIXIL Group Corporation Management’s discussion and analysis 67 Year-on-year comparison of net sales in fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 A breakdown of the change in net sales core kitchen system plant caused by 15%, in the Asia Business, where the by business area is as follows: heavy snowfall in February 2014. Sales in Group undertook aggressive sales activiIn the new homes and non-residential the home center business rose ¥1.1 bilties, as well as a ¥14.9 billion, or 7%, business, sales declined ¥49.8 billion, or lion, or 1%, and at Ken Depot increased increase in sales in the Curtain Wall 6%, year on year. This chiefly reflected ¥2.7 billion, or 10%. Sales in the renovaBusiness supported by growth in the lower sales in the Metal Building Material tion business declined ¥3.0 billion, or number of high-margin building projects Business and Other Building Materials 1%, and in the Housing, Real Estate and and foreign exchange translation effects. and Equipment Business as new housing Other Businesses fell ¥4.7 billion, or 7%. In addition, the ASB Business saw a starts slowed in reaction to the April As a result of the above, sales in Japan large ¥70.8 billion increase in sales from 2014 increase in the consumption tax, as declined ¥53.6 billion, or 4%. the contribution of an additional eight well as to lower sales in the Plumbing In overseas business, sales in existing months of sales. As a result, sales in the Fixtures Business owing to some supply businesses rose ¥28.6 billion, or 9%. This overseas business overall rose ¥99.4 bilconstraints stemming from damage to a reflected sales growth of ¥13.7 billion, or lion, or 30%. Sales of Japanese business (¥ billion) 1,400 1,343.5 – 3.0 – 49.8 +1.1 +2.7 – 4.7 1,289.9 1,300 1,200 1,100 0 2014 Renovation New homes / non-residential Home center Ken Depot Housing / real estate 2015 Note: Years ended March 31 Sales of overseas business (¥ billion) 500 +70.8 428.1 400 +13.7 +14.9 357.3 328.7 300 200 100 0 2014 Asia Curtain wall 2015 existing business total ASB (full consolidation, 2015 additional 8 months Y/Y) Note: Years ended March 31 Year-on-year comparison of operating income in fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 A breakdown of the change in operating higher raw material costs and yen depre¥1.3 billion increase in operating income income by business area is as follows: ciation, and a negative impact of ¥0.8 in the home center business, and a ¥1.5 In Japanese business, operating billion from changes in the product mix billion increase in operating income at income fell ¥16.2 billion accompanying and declines in selling prices. These negthe Ken Depot business. However, operlower sales, negative effects of ¥5.2 bilative effects were offset by a ¥16.6 bilating income in Japanese business lion and ¥3.4 billion, respectively, from lion decline in operating expenses, a declined ¥14.7 billion owing to a ¥1.9 LIXIL Group Corporation 68 Management’s discussion and analysis billion fall in earnings in the Housing, investments in the renovation business. Curtain Wall Business rose ¥0.1 billion, Real estate and Other Businesses and a In overseas business, proactive sales and at the ASB Business increased ¥0.9 ¥6.7 billion negative impact from such activities supported growth in operating billion. As a result, overseas operating special factors as repairing snow damage income in the Asia Business of ¥1.9 bilincome expanded ¥2.9 billion. to a core plant and strategic upfront lion, while operating income in the Operating income of Japanese business (¥ billion) 100 88.8 –3.4 90 –5.2 +1.3 +1.5 –1.9 –6.7 –16.2 +16.6 80 74.1 70 –0.8 60 0 2014 Forex Raw materials Sales Mix / pricing Operating expenses Home center Ken Depot Housing / real estate Special 2015 factors Environmental factors –¥8.6 billion Strengthened business +¥0.6 billion Note: Years ended March 31 Operating income of overseas business (¥ billion) 12 +0.9 11.0 +1.9 +0.1 10.1 10 8.1 8 6 4 2 0 2014 Asia Curtain wall 2015 existing business total ASB (full consolidation, 2015 additional 8 months Y/Y) Note: Years ended March 31 Financial position Total assets at March 31, 2015 stood at Total equity amounted to ¥613.6 bilthe equity ratio was 32.1%, compared ¥1,875.2 billion, up ¥88.9 billion from the lion, compared with ¥601.7 billion at with 33.2% in the previous fiscal year. end of the previous fiscal year. the end of the previous fiscal year, and Current assets increased ¥63.4 billion, to ¥1,005.9 billion, due to an Total assets / Equity ratio Total equity / ROE increase in cash and deposits accompa(¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) 2,500 50 800 6.0 nying the issuance of convertible bonds 1,875.2 613.6 with stock acquisition rights, a decline in 2,000 40 600 4.5 accounts receivable, and higher invento32.1% 1,500 30 3.7% ries. Noncurrent assets were up ¥25.5 400 3.0 billion from the end of the previous 1,000 20 fiscal year, to ¥869.2 billion, as the result 200 1.5 500 10 of the upgrading of core IT systems and increases in machinery and transporta0 11 12 13 14 15 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 tion equipment assets in tandem with Total assets Equity ratio (right) Total equity ROE (right) production capacity expansion. LIXIL Group Corporation Management’s discussion and analysis 69 Cash flows Net cash provided by operating activities year, resulting from the purchase of of convertible bonds with stock acquisiincreased ¥55.3 billion from the end of the property, plant and equipment and the tion rights. previous fiscal year, to ¥138.9 billion. This one-time use of time deposits. As a result, after taking into account chiefly reflected efforts to reduce working Net cash provided by financing the effect of changes in the accounting capital, which offset higher income taxes activities amounted to ¥10.0 billion, terms of consolidated subsidiaries, cash and others. compared with ¥153.1 billion in the and cash equivalents at the end of the Net cash used in investing activities previous fiscal year. This was the result fiscal year stood at ¥160.3 billion, up amounted to ¥129.2 billion, a decrease of the repayment and redemption of ¥21.3 billion from the end of the previof ¥89.1 billion from the previous fiscal interest-bearing debt, and the issuance ous fiscal year. Trends in the principal indicators of financial position are shown in the following table. Cash flows from operating activities As of and years ended March 31 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (¥ billion) 150 138.9 Shareholders’ equity ratio (%)* 45.2 35.7 38.3 33.2 32.1 Shareholders’ equity ratio on a market value basis (%)** 52.7 34.0 36.9 46.3 43.5 100 Interest-bearing debt divided by cash flow (times)*** 5.6 13.0 14.9 7.5 4.9 Interest coverage ratio (times)**** 11.4 8.6 5.9 18.5 24.6 50 * Shareholders’ equity ratio: Shareholders’ equity / Total assets ** Shareholders’ equity ratio on a market value basis: Market capitalization / Total assets *** Interest-bearing debt divided by cash flow: Interest-bearing debt / Cash flow 0 11 12 13 14 15 **** Interest coverage ratio: Cash flow / Interest payments Notes: 1. All indicators are based on figures from the consolidated accounts. 2. Market capitalization is calculated by multiplying the closing stock price at the end of the period and the total number of shares outstanding at the end of the period (excluding treasury stock). 3. Cash flow is the cash flows from operating activities that is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Interest-bearing debt is the value of all liabilities and convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets on which the Group pays interest. Interest payments are the figures presented in the item Interest payments in the notes to Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the Company’s Financial Report (Yuka Shoken Hokokusho). Liquidity The LIXIL Group strives to generate operatdiversify sources of funds, including bank the fiscal year-end, following a decrease ing cash flows and consider a wide range borrowings and funds from other financial in short-term loans payable of ¥31.1 bilof fund-raising methods to procure a stable institutions, by arranging for a commercial lion, the repayment of long-term loans and flexible supply of funds necessary for paper issuance line, establishing commitpayable of ¥62.5 billion, and the procureits business activities while maintaining a ment lines, and implementing initiatives ment of ¥54.5 billion in funds through sound financial position. Regarding cash for the securitization of trade notes and long-term borrowing. During the fiscal on hand, the Group, in principle, maintains accounts of receivables. year, ¥15.0 billion in corporate bonds funds adequate to cover the settlement of As of March 31, 2015, cash and were repaid and ¥119.9 billion was raised its liabilities in an emergency. To ensure deposits totaled ¥257.2 billion. Interestthrough the issuance of convertible bonds financial flexibility, the Group works to bearing debt stood at ¥676.0 billion at with stock acquisition rights. Outlook for fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 For the fiscal year ending March 31, include expanding sales, increasing business portfolio will present substantial 2016, the Japanese economy is expected market shares, and drastically reducing opportunities for growth. to recover, led by private-sector demand costs and improving efficiency. In this environment, the LIXIL Group as buoyant corporate earnings support As for the medium-to-long-term intends to focus on developing operations corporate capital investment and con­outlook, Japan’s housing stock market in the renovation market and expanding sumer spending increases against a is expected to see higher demand. its business globally. The Group will backdrop of an improving labor and Overseas, the Group is continuing to pursue earnings growth accompanied by income environment. Steady recovery in expand the range of markets in which it operational excellence as it works toward housing investment is also anticipated. participates through M&A activities and the realization of the LIXIL VISION manBearing this in mind, the LIXIL other means, including turning GROHE agement target of becoming a global Group will advance the measures set out Group into a consolidated subsidiary leader in our industry. in its Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL from the fiscal year ending March 2016. G-16, launched in May 2014, which We expect that the Group’s diverse LIXIL Group Corporation 70 Business risks Business risks LIXIL Group Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries This annual report contains information 4. Procurement Risk 7. Acquisition / Merger Risk about business conditions, the financial The LIXIL Group procures materials, The LIXIL Group may plan to expand its situation, and other factors that may parts, services, and other supplies as business operations through investments, influence investor decisions. Forwardrequired for its production activities. including corporate acquisitions and looking statements are based on the There is a possibility that the amounts capital participation. To maximize the judgments of the LIXIL Group’s managepaid for these supplies will rise because benefits of these acquisitions, the LIXIL ment as of March 2015. Statements conof increased industry demand or increasGroup seeks to integrate them into its cerning the future and assumptions are ing raw material prices. There is also a corporate cultures and management subject to uncertainty and risks, and possibility that the reliability or reputation strategies. However, there is no guaranactual results may vary significantly. of the LIXIL Group’s products will be tee that the anticipated returns and synadversely affected by defects in or stockergy benefits will be realized. In 1. Economic Risk outs of materials, parts, services, or other addition, while the LIXIL Group makes Operating revenues of most companies supplies. These factors could, in turn, every endeavor to avoid risk in the exein the LIXIL Group are significantly adversely affect the Group’s business percution of acquisitions by undertaking affected by domestic demand in Japan. formance and financial positions. detailed prior assessments of the finanIn particular, major fluctuations in new cial conditions, contractual relationships, housing starts or the level of construc5. Overseas Market Risk and other matters relating to the comtion orders received could have a negaThe LIXIL Group engages in production pany involved, it is possible that contintive effect on business performance and and sales activities overseas, in such gent liabilities and unrecognized financial positions of the LIXIL Group. countries as China and Thailand in Asia financial obligations may be revealed folas well as countries in Europe and North lowing acquisitions. As a result, it is pos2. Competitive Risk America. The following latent risks exist sible that the business performance and The LIXIL Group faces severe competiin these countries. financial positions of the LIXIL Group tion in most of the markets in which it 1) M ajor exchange rate fluctuations will be adversely affected by these acquioperates. For this reason, it is difficult to caused by currency policies sitions and capital participation activities. always set prices at levels that are advan2) C hanges in export or import tageous to the LIXIL Group. Although regulations 8. Business Restructuring Risk the Group takes pride in its superior 3) D ramatic increases in labor costs and In order to enhance management effiproducts and services that contribute to prices, etc. ciency and competitiveness, the LIXIL improving people’s comfort and life4) Interruption of production activities Group may conduct business restructurstyles, there is no guarantee that it will due to strikes, etc. ing, including withdrawal from unprofitenjoy a competitive advantage in terms 5) U nanticipated changes to legislation able businesses; the realignment of of pricing. The LIXIL Group’s products or financial regulation and internasubsidiaries and affiliates, manufacturing and services are exposed to intense price tional tax risks, such as transfer pricbases, and sales and logistics networks; competition, which could have a negaing legislation and the rightsizing of the workforce. tive effect on business performance and 6) O ther economic, social, and political These measures could have an adverse financial positions of the LIXIL Group. risks impact on the business performance and 7) R isks of the effects of natural disasters financial positions of the LIXIL Group. 3. New Product Development Risk These factors could have an adverse In its operations, the LIXIL Group is comimpact on the business performance and 9. Regulatory Risk mitted to providing exceptional products financial positions of the LIXIL Group. The LIXIL Group is subject to various and services to satisfy its customers official regulations, including the need to around the globe. The Group creates 6. Foreign Exchange Risk obtain approvals and permits from the high-quality living spaces that are healthy, Exchange rate fluctuations have the government or official agencies for its comfortable, and safe by continually potential to affect the yen equivalents of business and investment activities, as developing attractive products based on assets and liabilities resulting from the well as patents and other intellectual an accurate understanding of available foreign currency denominated transacproperty rights, environmental regulatechnology and consumer needs. tions of the LIXIL Group. Where transactions, and other requirements. Such offiHowever, the Group’s business perfortions are denominated in foreign cial regulations can be expected to mance and financial positions could be currencies, the prices of goods and change over time, possibly creating adversely affected if a failure to respond amounts of sales could also be affected. obstacles to business activities or imposappropriately to changes in market or These factors could have an adverse ing additional costs relating to compliindustry needs were to result in a decline impact on the business performance and ance with new official regulations. These in growth and earning potential. financial positions of the LIXIL Group. factors could have an adverse impact on the business performance and financial positions of the LIXIL Group. LIXIL Group Corporation Business risks 71 10. Product Liability Risk disasters. In particular, many of the continue to calculate future cash flows There is a risk that defects will occur in domestic production facilities for plumbrelating to its assets and to recognize products and services supplied by the ing fixtures of LIXIL Corporation, a conand estimate the impairment of those LIXIL Group, or that product recalls may solidated subsidiary, are located in the assets. It is therefore possible that the be required. Major compensation claims Tokai region of Japan, where a major Group’s business performance and or product recalls relating to manufacturearthquake could occur. While earthfinancial positions will be adversely ers’ liability issues could result in subquake countermeasures have been impleaffected if fixed asset impairment losses stantial payments and have a negative mented at these facilities, a major are shown in the accounts. effect on the reliability and reputation of earthquake in the Tokai region could the LIXIL Group’s products. Such situacause a suspension in production, delays 16. Retirement Benefit Risk tions could have an adverse impact on in product deliveries, and other problems. The employee retirement benefit obligathe business performance and financial These factors could have an adverse tions and costs of the LIXIL Group are positions of the LIXIL Group. impact on the business performance and calculated primarily using actuarial financial positions of the LIXIL Group. assumptions, such as discount ratios and 11. Risks of Lawsuits and long-term expected rates of return on Other Legal Proceedings 13. Environmental Preservation Risk plan assets. These actuarial assumptions The LIXIL Group conducts its business The LIXIL Group, based on the Group must be reviewed annually. Any changes activities in Japan and in countries overEnvironmental Policy, engages in a wide in the ratios could cause fluctuation in seas. Accordingly, there is a risk that it range of activities aimed at global envibusiness performance and financial posimay face lawsuits and legal proceedings. ronmental preservation. However, the tions. The Group has taken steps to minIf the LIXIL Group becomes the object Group cannot guarantee that it will be imize this effect, including the return to of such legal action, there is a possibility able to completely prevent or mitigate the government of the substitutional porthat this may result in major payments any risk of environmental pollution. tion of the pension funds that it previfor damages. These circumstances could Should serious environmental pollution ously administered, and the adoption of have an adverse impact on the business occur as a result of the Group’s business defined contribution pension plans and performance and financial positions of activities, it could have an adverse cash balance pension plans. However, the LIXIL Group. impact on the Group’s business perforthe potential effect cannot be entirely Joyou AG, which became a consolimance and financial positions. eliminated. Further declines in discount dated subsidiary on April 1, 2015, and ratios or deteriorating investment returns was listed on the Frankfurt Stock 14. Risk of Default on Receivables could have a negative effect on the busiExchange, on May 22, 2015 filed an In order to prepare for losses due to ness performance and financial positions application for the commencement of default on receivables by business partof the LIXIL Group. insolvency proceedings with the compeners, the LIXIL Group examines the tent local court of Hamburg in Germany. recoverability of general receivables 17. Risk of Personal Information The losses judged to require recognition based on historical default rates, and of Leaks have already been disclosed and specific doubtful accounts on a case-byThe LIXIL Group handles a variety of reflected in the consolidated financial case basis, and records the amount conpersonal information, including customer statements but it is possible that addisidered to be uncollectible as an information, in the course of its business tional losses could be incurred if the allowance for doubtful accounts. Should operations, and stringent information insolvency of the subsidiary leads to the actual default level significantly management is essential. Initiatives to lawsuits or other legal proceedings. exceed these assumptions, the allowance strengthen personal information managefor doubtful accounts could be insuffiment include the establishment of an 12. Disaster and Accident Risk cient. Moreover, as a result of reviewing organizational unit dedicated to personal Natural disasters, such as earthquakes and these assumptions due to the worsening information management, the formulatyphoons, could cause substantial damage of overall economic conditions and tion of related rules and regulations, and to the LIXIL Group’s production, distribuuncertainty in the credit standing of busithe ongoing provision of appropriate tion, sales, and information management ness partners, the Group could make training. However, the LIXIL Group facilities. Also, in the occurrence of major additional provisions to this allowance. could suffer damage to its public reputaworkplace disasters or equipment acciThese developments could have an tion and incur substantial financial costs dents, there is the possibility that business adverse impact on the Group’s business if unforeseen circumstances result in the activities will be discontinued or performance and financial positions. leakage of personal information. Such a restricted. The LIXIL Group conducts regsituation could adversely affect the busiular disaster prevention activities and 15. Risk of Fixed Asset Value ness performance and financial positions facility inspections. However, there is no Reduction of the LIXIL Group. guarantee that it will be possible to preThe LIXIL Group has applied fixed asset vent or alleviate the effects of natural impairment accounting. The Group will LIXIL Group Corporation 72 Principal Group companies Principal Group companies (As of March 31, 2015) Consolidated subsidiaries Equity owned Paid-in capital Name Location by the holding Operations (¥ million) company (%) Manufacture and sales of metal building materials, LIXIL Corporation*1 Koto-ku, Tokyo 34,600 100 plumbing fixtures, other building materials and housing structures Urawa-ku, Saitama, Sales of daily necessities, DIY and home improvement LIXIL VIVA CORPORATION 20,000 100 Saitama products Strategic planning for homebuilding franchise chain busiLIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd. Koto-ku, Tokyo 1,250 100 nesses, operation of homebuilding franchise chains JIO Corporation Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 1,000 100 Insurance for warranty against housing defects LIXIL REALTY, Corp. Chuo-ku, Tokyo 160 100 Real estate business and agency of company housing CLASSIS Corporation Chuo-ku, Tokyo 100 100 Residential real estate brokerage and sales LIXIL Group Finance Corporation Koto-ku, Tokyo 3,475 100 Financing services for group companies Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, other LIXIL Total Hanbai Corporation Koto-ku, Tokyo 74 100 building materials and equipment, and housing structures SUN WAVE CORPORATION*1 Fukaya, Saitama 90 100 Manufacture of plumbing fixtures Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, Kawashima Selkon Textiles Co., Ltd. 9,381 100 Manufacture and sales of interior fabrics Kyoto Installation, sales and after-sales service of metal buildLIXIL Total Service Corporation Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 ing materials, plumbing fixtures, other building materials and equipment G TERIOR Corporation Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 315 100 Sales of exterior products Asahi Tostem Exterior Building Materials Koto-ku, Tokyo 2,000 80 Manufacture and sales of other building materials Co., Ltd. HIVIC CO., LTD. Oyama, Tochigi 551 100 Manufacture and sales of precut lumber LIXIL SUZUKI SHUTTER CORPORATION Toshima-ku, Tokyo 1,989 100 Manufacture and sales of shutters and related parts LIXIL Building Remodeling Sales Co., Ltd*2 Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 Sales of metal building materials Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, other LIXIL Toyo Sash Shoji Co., Ltd. Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100 100 building materials and equipment TM.S Corporation Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 60 100 Sales of plumbing fixtures and other building materials Ground investigation for houses and improvement work JAPAN HOME SHIELD CORPORATION Sumida-ku, Tokyo 205 100 for foundation of houses Dinaone Corporation Tokoname, Aichi 90 100 Sales of other building materials Suma-ku, Kobe, Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, other Kuwata Co., Ltd. 30 100 Hyogo building materials and equipment Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, other Oita Tostem Co., Ltd. Oita, Oita 50 100 building materials and equipment LIXIL ENERGY Co., Ltd. Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 Sales of solar energy providing systems Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, other Nishi Kyushu Tostem Co., Ltd. Saga, Saga 30 100 building materials and equipment After-sales services of residential homes, commercial LIXIL RENEWAL Corporation*2 Koto-ku, Tokyo 50 100 buildings, etc. Tostem Management Systems Co., Ltd.*3 Koto-ku, Tokyo 450 100 System and management support for sales agencies GHS Corporation Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 Operation of homebuilding franchise chains LIXIL Home Finance Corporation Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 500 100 Housing loan-related agency service LIXIL INFORMATION SYSTEMS Development, operation and management of information Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 CORPORATION systems Limited private company SUPER VIVA Urawa-ku, Saitama, Acquisition and management of beneficiary right for — 100 ASSET and 3 other companies Saitama real-estate trusts INAX SUNWAVE Marketing Corporation Tokoname, Aichi 10 100 — €6,900 Permasteelisa S.p.A. Veneto, Italy 100 Manufacture and sales of curtain walls thousand 39 affiliate companies of Permasteelisa S.p.A. — — — Manufacture and sales of curtain walls US$300,933 The holding company of North American Business of ASD Holding Corp. New Jersey, USA 100 thousand American Standard Brands 17 affiliate companies of ASD Holding Corp. — — — Manufacture and sales of plumbing fixtures Pathumthani, Bt2,767 TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd. 100 Manufacture of metal building materials Thailand million Dalian, Liaoning, US$43,500 LIXIL Manufacturing (Dalian) Corporation 100 Manufacture of wooden interior furnishing materials China thousand US$24,906 The holding company of Chinese Business of A-S CHINA PLUMBING PRODUCTS Ltd. Cayman Islands 100 thousand American Standard 5 affiliate companies of A-S CHINA — — — Manufacture and sales of plumbing fixtures PLUMBING PRODUCTS Ltd. LIXIL Group Corporation Principal Group companies 73 Equity owned Paid-in capital Name Location by the holding Operations (¥ million) company (%) LIXIL GLOBAL MANUFACTURING US$40,700 Dong Nai, Vietnam 100 Manufacture of metal building materials VIETNAM CO., LTD. thousand US$19,115 The holding company of Chinese business of Shanghai AMTRONIC Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100 thousand Meite Curtain Wall System Co., Ltd. Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall System US$21,310 Shanghai, China 75 Manufacture and sales of curtain walls Co., Ltd. thousand US$94,480 The holding company of Asian Business of American LIXIL INTERNATIONAL Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100 thousand Standard 8 affiliate companies of LIXIL INTERNATIONAL — — — Manufacture and sales of plumbing fixtures Pte. Ltd. US$38,100 LIXIL Vietnam Corporation Hanoi, Vietnam 100 Manufacture and sales of plumbing fixtures thousand LIXIL-Haier Housing Products (Qingdao) Qingdao, Shandong, CN¥194,082 51 Manufacture of plumbing fixtures Co., Ltd. China thousand LIXIL BUILDING MATERIALS Suzhou, Jiangsu, Manufacture of plumbing fixtures and other 4,000 100 MANUFACTURING (SUZHOU) CORPORATION China building materials LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing (Suzhou) Suzhou, Jiangsu, 1,730 100 Manufacture of plumbing fixtures Corporation China Won15,355 LG Tostem BM Co., Ltd.*4 Seoul, Korea 50 Sales of metal building materials million NT$282,677 LIXIL TAIWAN CORPORATION Hsinchu, Taiwan 51 Manufacture and sales of other building materials thousand INDRp22,817 Star Alubuild Private Ltd. Haryana, India 70 Manufacture, installation and sales of curtain walls thousand US$34,500 LIXIL (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China 100 Sales of plumbing fixtures and other building materials thousand LIXIL Building Materials Manufacturing Shenyang, Liaoning, 1,300 100 Manufacture of other building materials (Shenyang) Corporation China IDR42,772 PT. LIXIL ALUMINIUM INDONESIA Cileungsi, Indonesia 75 Manufacture and sales of metal building materials thousand Pathumthani, Bt103 TOSTEM THAI MARKETING Co., Ltd. 100 Sales of metal building materials Thailand million Equity-method affiliates Equity owned Paid-in capital Location by the holding Operations (¥ million) company (%) Designing and installation management of houses and Sanyo Homes Corporation*5 Osaka, Osaka 5,945 24 apartments Fukui Computer Inc.*5 Fukui, Fukui 1,631 27 Development and sales of designing systems Provide IT cloud service and mobile network service for K-engine Corporation Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 2,779 49 the housing industry GraceA Co., Ltd. Koto-ku, Tokyo 103,893 50 Management and operation of GROHE Group S.à r.l Heienhaff, €71,629 Grohe Luxembourg Four S.A. 49 Manufacture and sales of faucets, sanitary ware, etc. Luxembourg thousand *1 As of April 1, 2015, SUN WAVE CORPORATION was acquired by and merged with LIXIL Corporation. *2 As of April 1, 2015, LIXIL Building Remodeling Sales Co., Ltd acquired and merged with LIXIL RENEWAL Corporation, and the name was changed to LIXIL RENEWAL Corporation. *3 As of June 15, 2915, the name of Tostem Management Systems Co., Ltd. was changed to LIXIL Living Solution Corporation. *4 The holding of shares in LG TOSTEM BM Co., Ltd. is less than 50%, but it is treated as a subsidiary because it is effectively controlled by the Group. *5 The company submits financial reports. LIXIL Group Corporation 74 Number of sales and manufacturing bases Number of sales and manufacturing bases (As of March 31, 2015) Kanto, Chubu, Chugoku, Kyushu, Hokkaido Tohoku Kansai Total Koshinetsu Hokuriku Shikoku Okinawa Sales network LIXIL Corporation 5 7 29 13 13 10 10 87 Factories* LIXIL Corporation 1 2 13 15 2 2 4 39 * Decrease of one in number of factories in fiscal year ended March 2015 resulting from organizational change Showrooms LIXIL Corporation 6 7 35 14 13 11 12 98 Home centers Home centers (Super Viva Home, New Viva Home, Viva Home) 7 9 56 7 5 0 0 84 Ken Depot 3 5 39 4 3 3 7 64 Homebuilding franchise members Eyeful Home Technology Inc. 3 32 43 36 13 25 8 160 FiACE HOME 0 2 3 6 4 3 0 18 GL Home 0 5 7 2 1 0 0 15 Total 3 39 53 44 18 28 8 193 Renovation franchise members 2012 2013 2014 2015 LIXIL Reform Chain 414 377 376 424 LIXIL Reform Net 8,896 9,356 10,203 11,708 Total 9,310 9,733 10,579 12,132 Overseas factories South Middle North Latin China Thailand Vietnam Indonesia India Europe Total Korea East America America Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall System Co., Ltd 1 1 LIXIL Building Materials Manufacturing (Shenyang) 1 1 Corporation LIXIL-Haier Housing Products (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. 2 2 LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing (Suzhou) Corporation 1 1 LIXIL Building Materials Manufacturing (Suzhou) 1 1 Corporation LIXIL Manufacturing (Dalian) Corporation 1 1 LIXIL HOUSING PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING 1 1 (SHANGHAI) CORPORATION WUXI MORITEC SPECIAL DOOR Co., Ltd 1 1 LIXIL SUZUKI Shutter Manufacturing (SH) Corporation 1 1 LIXIL SUZUKI (Hong Kong) Company, LTD. 1 1 LIXIL Vietnam Corporation 3 3 LIXIL GLOBAL MANUFACTURING VIETNAM CO., LTD. 1 1 PT LIXIL ALUMINIUM INDONESIA 1 1 TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd. 1 1 LG TOSTEM BM Co., Ltd. 1 1 Star Alubuild Private Ltd. 1 1 Permasteelisa Group 2 2 1 1 3 5 14 American Standard Asia Pacific 4 2 1 1 1 9 American Standard Brands 7 4 11 Total 17 5 5 2 2 2 1 10 4 5 53 Note: Excluding factories of unconsolidated subsidiaries LIXIL Group Corporation History 75 History TOSTEM INAX 1923 The company is founded. 1924 Ina Seito Co., Ltd.*, is established as a 1949 Nihon Tategu Kogyo Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL Group Corporation) is established. producer of tiles, ceramic pipe, and terra cotta. 1966 Housing aluminum sash business commenced. 1971 Toyo Sash Co., Ltd., is established after absorbing Toyo Door and 1945 Production of sanitary ware commenced. four other companies. 1958 Production of Polybath commenced. 1974 Toyo Exterior Co., Ltd.*, is established. Housing exterior business commenced. 1967 Production of first integrated-type 1977 Viva Home Corporation (later TOSTEM VIVA CORPORATION) is established. Home center Japanese shower toilet. business commenced. 1968 Production of unit bathrooms commenced. 1984 Eyeful Home Technology Inc. (now LIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd.) is established. Homebuilding franchise chain operation commenced. 1985 Company name is changed to Inax 1985 Dai-ichi Mokko Co., Ltd. (later Bright Home and now LIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd.), Corporation*. Mitsui Light Metal Processing Co., Ltd., Nittetsu Curtainwall Corporation, and 1996 VINAX (now LIXIL INAX VIETNAM Nittetsu Sash Sales Corporation join the Group. Corporation), manufacturing joint venture 1987 TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd., is established. Overseas production of sashes commenced. for sanitary ware in Vietnam, is established. 1990 American Home Shield Japan Co., Ltd. (now JAPAN HOME SHIELD CORPORATION), Suzhou Inax Sanitary Fitting Co., Ltd. is established. (now LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing 1992 Toyo Sash Co., Ltd., is renamed to Tostem Corporation. (Suzhou) Corporation), is established Tostem Foundation for Construction Materials Industry (now LIXIL JS Foundation) in China. is established. 1998 Suzhou Inax Building Materials Co., Ltd. 1999 JIO Corporation is established. (now LIXIL BUILDING MATERIALS 2000 Toyo Exterior Co., Ltd.*, Eyeful Home Technology Inc. (now LIXIL Housing Research MANUFACTURING (SUZHOU) Institute, Ltd.), and Suzuki Shutter Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL SUZUKI SHUTTER CORPORATION), a tile manufacturing CORPORATION), become wholly owned subsidiaries. company in China, is established. 2001 Tostem Corporation is renamed to Tostem Inax Holding Corporation, becomes a pure holding company, and swaps stocks with Inax Corporation.* Tostem Corporation*, an operating company, is established through a corporate separation. 2002 Jyu-Tsu Corporation (now LIXIL REALTY, Corp.) joins the Group. Inax Corporation* establishes the investment fund Inax (China) investment Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL (China) Investment Co., Ltd.), in China. Production of wooden interior furnishings commenced at subsidiary Tostem Housing Products (Dalian) Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL Manufacturing (Dalian) Corporation), in Dalian, China. Century 21 Housing Research Institute Ltd. (now LIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd., after becoming Tostem Housing Institute) is inaugurated. 2004 Tostem Inax Holding Corporation is renamed to JS Group Corporation. 2005 Asahi Tostem Exterior Building Materials Co., Ltd., is established as a result of integration of Tostem Corporation* and Asahi Glass Co., Ltd. 2006 JS Group Senior Life Corporation (now a business of LIXIL Corporation) founded and enters fee-based senior citizens assisted-living home business. 2007 Inax Corporation* establishes the overseas tile company Inax Vietnam Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL INAX SAIGON Manufacturing Co., Ltd.). 2008 Inax Corporation* establishes Inax Vietnam Plumbing Fixtures Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL INAX DANANG Manufacturing Co., Ltd.), in Vietnam, which manufactures and sells water faucet fixtures. Jaxson S.P.I. Inc. becomes a subsidiary of Inax Corporation*. 2009 Tostem Corporation* establishes LG-TOSTEM BM Co., Ltd., jointly with LG Chem, Ltd., a LG group company in South Korea. American Standard Asia Pacific becomes a subsidiary of Inax Corporation*. LIXIL ENERGY Co., Ltd., is established, and solar photovoltaic systems business commenced. 2010 New Group brand “LIXIL” is introduced. SUN WAVE CORPORATION* and Shin Nikkei Company, Ltd.*, become subsidiaries. Business alliance is formed with the Haier Group, of China. 2011 Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall System Co., Ltd., in China becomes a subsidiary of Tostem Corporation*. Tostem, Inax, Shin Nikkei, SUN WAVE (not including the production division), and Toyo Exterior are integrated and LIXIL Corporation is born. Kawashima Selkon Textiles Co., Ltd., and HIVIC CO., LTD., become a subsidiary. Permasteelisa S.p.A., of Italy, becomes a subsidiary of LIXIL Corporation. 2012 JS Group Corporation renamed as LIXIL Group Corporation. 2013 INAX ENGINEERING Corporation and six other companies merge. The company is renamed LIXIL Total Service Corporation. ASD Americas Holding Corp., of the United States, and Star Alubuild Private Ltd., of India, become subsidiaries of LIXIL Corporation. 2014 GROHE Group S.à r.l., of Europe, becomes an equity-method affiliated company of LIXIL Corporation. (The company acquires 87.5% of GROHE Group shares jointly with the Development Bank of Japan.) LIXIL Corporation acquires shares in GROHE DAWN WaterTech Holdings Pty Ltd of South Africa. 2015 LIXIL Corporation converts GROHE Group S.à r.l. into a consolidated subsidiary. * Currently LIXIL Corporation LIXIL Group Corporation 76 Shareholder information Shareholder information (As of March 31, 2015) Number of shares and shareholders Distribution of ownership among shareholders Number of shares authorized 1,300,000,000 Treasury stock Financial Number of shares outstanding 286,352,099 8.5% institutions  (excluding treasury stock of 26,702,156 shares) 28.6% Number of shareholders 45,750 Individuals and others 313,054 17.4% thousand shares Domestic companies Foreigners 7.2% Major shareholders 38.3% Number of shares held Percentage Name of shareholder Thousand shares (thousand shares) held Financial institutions 89,599 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 10,312* 3.60% Domestic companies 22,579 State Street Bank and Trust Company Foreigners 119,849 (Standing proxy: The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Individuals and others 54,323 Corporation Limited, Tokyo Branch) 9,641 3.37% Treasury stock 26,702 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 9,249* 3.23% Total 313,054 The Nomura Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (Trust Account) 8,896* 3.11% Goldman Sachs & Co. (Regular Account) 6,937 2.42% State Street Bank and Trust Company (Standing proxy: Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd., Settlement & Clearing Services Department) 6,831 2.39% The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited 6,561 2.29% LIXIL Employee Stock Ownership Plan 6,503 2.27% The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 5,798 2.02% Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 5,543 1.94% Notes: 1. In addition to the above, LIXIL Group Corporation holds 26,702 thousand shares of treasury stock. Shareholding calculations exclude treasury stock. 2. * indicates a trust service arrangement. 3. 8,896 thousand shares entrusted to The Nomura Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., are the trust property of Mr. Yoichiro Ushioda, who has voting rights for these shares. Monthly stock price range (Tokyo Stock Exchange) Stock price  Stock trading volume (¥)  (Thousand shares) 4,000 160,000 3,000 120,000 2,000 80,000 1,000 40,000 0 4/11 4/12 4/13 4/14 3/15 0 For the years As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2013 As of March 31, 2014 As of March 31, 2015 ended March 31 High (yen) 2,260 2,164 3,060 2,973 Low (yen) 1,397 1,374 1,732 2,063 Note: High and low share prices are from the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. LIXIL Group Corporation Corporate data 77 Corporate data (As of March 31, 2015) Company profile Company name LIXIL Group Corporation Overview of major The Company controls and manages (JS Group Corporation renamed as businesses domestic and overseas companies that LIXIL Group Corporation on July 1, 2012.) operate housing-related businesses and urban environment-related businesses Established September 19, 1949 through acquisition or holding of stocks. Registered office 2-1-1 Ojima, Koto-ku, Tokyo 136-8535, Japan Securities traded Tokyo Stock Exchange (Common stock) Nagoya Stock Exchange Head office 36F, Kasumigaseki Building, 3-2-5 Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Transfer agent and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Tokyo 100-6036, Japan special management Banking Corporation Paid-in capital ¥68.1 billion of accounts 1-4-5 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8212, Japan Fiscal year closing March 31 Employees 97 (Consolidated Employees: 52,427) Annual Meeting of Normally held in June in Tokyo, Japan Shareholders LIXIL Corporation owns the copyrights for the product and installment example photographs on P2 (Housing Technology, and Kitchen Technology), P4 (bottom left), P5, P32 (Housing Technology, and Kitchen Technology), P34 (top right and bottom left), P35, P37, P41 to 43. LIXIL Group online information Investor relations (IR) site In addition to a Group profile, CSR activities, and LIXIL Group Corporation’s IR website offers enriched content for shareholders and the latest news, the LIXIL Group’s corporate webother investors, including information regarding financial results, audio streaming of site also contains such features as sections covershareholder information meetings, and market data. A PDF version of the most recent ing recent business initiatives within the Group and annual report and an online version containing a video interview with the president are insights from the Company’s president. also available on the site. http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/ http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/ir/ The LIXIL Group CSR site Our corporate website introduces the LIXIL Group’s CSR activities. These activities center on the priority themes of innovation, sustainability, and integrity, which underpin our commitment to realizing our management philosophy. http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/sustainability/ LIXIL Group Corporation TSE Securities Code: 5938 36F, Kasumigaseki Building, 3-2-5 Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-6036, Japan http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/ This annual report is printed with vegetable oil ink on FSC-certified paper made of wood materials harvested from well-managed forests. Printed in Japan
