C ommunic ation on P r ogr ess R epor t 2015 Providing medicines to more than 150 countries Communication on Progress Report in respect Assessment, policy and goals Aspen’s adherence to fundamental human rights is enshrined in of Aspen’s application of the United Nations its Code of Conduct, available online, which confirms that “Aspen Global Compact’s 10 Principles for 2015 supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human and employment rights” and confirms its commitment to Group Chief Executive’s statement respecting fundamental human rights and treating all employees Aspen’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and others with fairness, equality and respect to foster an open, Aspen became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact transparent, and trusting environment which is free from (“the UN Global Compact”) with effect from 31 July 2013 and is prejudice, discrimination, bias, harassment and/or violation. currently an active participant in this Compact. I am pleased to reaffirm Aspen’s support of the 10 principles of the UN Global Implementation Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and The Aspen Code of Conduct, which requires the formal anti-corruption. acceptance by every new Aspen employee, further provides that all employees are responsible for ensuring that Aspen upholds its Regional ethics officers, appointed for each business in terms of commitments in respect of human rights. Aspen’s ethics management programme, are required to annually report on the application of these 10 principles in their regions All Aspen suppliers and service providers are required to agree to, and serve as a monitoring resource to ensure these are or acknowledge, the Aspen Code of Conduct for suppliers and consistently applied. The regional ethics officers are also engaged service providers when entering into new commercial agreements with the key business leaders in their relevant operations to with Aspen, thereby ensuring that human rights are respected ensure that they understand these principles and within Aspen’s value chain. recommendations and implement the processes and controls necessary to support them. The Company Secretary & Group Measurement of outcomes Governance Officer monitors adherence to the Group’s Code of Aspen encourages employees and external stakeholders to report Conduct and Ethics management principles and had overarching any breaches or suspected breaches of its Code of Conduct, responsibility on reporting on the application of the 10 principles including any possible human rights abuses or infringements in throughout the Group. terms of Aspen’s whistle-blowers’ standard operating procedure. An independently monitored whistle-blowing hotline, Deloitte’s In its capacity as a participant of the UN Global Compact, Aspen Tip-Offs Anonymous, is operated to ensure that these incidents looks forward to building on its existing reputation for respecting are brought to the Company’s attention and these tip-offs can be basic human rights, engaging in fair labour practices, being made on an anonymous basis. All reported incidents are formally environmentally responsible and having a zero-tolerance recorded and reported to the Social & Ethics Committee for approach to corruption. consideration. My thanks must again go to the Social & Ethics Committee for There have been no reports of human rights abuses or providing guidance on the implementation of policies and infringements during the past year (2014: nil). procedures applicable to the Group as a whole in respect of the application of the letter and the spirit of the 10 principles set out in There are a number of other human resource and ethics-related the UN Global Compact and monitoring the Group’s performance policy documents, procedures and statements applicable in respect of this application. throughout the Group, which confirm Aspen’s commitment to protecting basic human rights. These include, among others, the This Communication on Progress Report describes Aspen’s applicable grievance procedures, the Group’s whistle-blower actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global procedure and respective recruitment and selection policies. Compact and its principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations. Aspen also commits to sharing this information Refer to page 44 of Aspen’s Sustainability Report available with its stakeholders using its primary channels of communication. online for the 2015 financial year for further information regarding the Group’s commitment to respecting human rights Section 1 – Human rights principles and promoting equality. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2015 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT Section 2 – Labour principles •• it pays each employee at least the minimum wage, or a fair Section 3 – Environmental principles •• the engagement of external experts or consultants to seek representation of the prevailing industry wage (whichever is the independent assurance on the levels of environmental Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary higher) and provides each employee with all legally mandated compliance and/or for value-added advice on technically association and the effective recognition of the approach to environmental challenges; benefits; complex matters pertaining to environmental management; right to collective bargaining; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater •• responsible management of waste through the selection of Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and •• it complies with the laws on working hours and employment environmental responsibility; and effective and feasible methods of waste disposal which are compulsory labour; rights in the countries in which it operates; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of aligned to the waste hierarchy; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and •• it is respectful of its employees’ right to join and form environmentally friendly technologies. •• implementing robust waste management control systems to Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of independent trade unions and freedom of association. safeguard raw materials, packaging materials and finished Assessment, policy and goals employment and occupation. Consistent with its commitment as a responsible corporate citizen goods against unauthorised use and to ensure that these waste All employees are free to belong to trade unions and relationships products are disposed of in accordance with required to contribute to sustainable development, Aspen’s Code of with trade union representatives, considered to be key specifications in a controlled manner; Assessment, policy and goals Conduct confirms that it exercises a systematic approach to stakeholders, are managed in a proactive and responsible manner •• promoting extended producer responsibility in a pragmatic The use of child labour, forced labour and/or compulsory labour is health, safety, quality and environmental management in order to by site human resources managers. Formal processes are in place manner and ensuring compliant waste management principles strictly prohibited by the Aspen Code of Conduct. This code also achieve continuous performance improvement and compliance to to foster a culture of transparency and constructive engagement and practices are implemented throughout the supply chain specifically confirms its commitment to the elimination of relevant legislation, regulations and guidelines. with trade union representatives in each territory. until the final disposal of waste material by an approved and discrimination in respect of employment policies and practices. accredited waste management service provider; and Freedom of association and the effective recognition to the right Aspen recognises the importance of supporting global initiatives •• enhancing environmental training and awareness for our Measurement of outcomes to collective bargaining is also assured in terms of this code. aimed at protecting the environment and conserving natural employees and contractors to encourage responsible Aspen encourages employees and external stakeholders to report resources. Aspen’s environmental management philosophy, environmental practices in the workplace which, in turn, any breaches or suspected breaches of its Code of Conduct, Implementation available online, advocates containment of the carbon footprint support the preservation of the broader environment within including any possible human rights abuses or infringements in The Aspen Code of Conduct, which requires the formal across the supply chain in a technically and economically feasible which the Company operates. terms of Aspen’s whistle-blowers’ standard operating procedure. acceptance of every new Aspen employee, provides that all manner. This is further promoted in the Group’s responsible An independently managed anonymous tip-offs hotline is also Implementation employees are specifically responsible for ensuring that Aspen corporate citizenship philosophy. operated to ensure that these incidents are brought to the Aspen’s Board monitors the status of environmental risks through upholds: Company’s attention. All reported incidents are formally recorded review of material environmental management performance •• freedom of association and the effective recognition to the right The Aspen environmental management protocol also and reported to the Social & Ethics Committee for consideration. indicators at scheduled intervals. The Social & Ethics Committee to collective bargaining; acknowledges that the responsible management of the assists the Board in monitoring the adequacy of environmental •• the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; environment is an integral part of the sustainability of Aspen’s During the year, no incidents of discrimination, forced labour or management systems in the Group and the extent to which these •• the effective abolition of child labour; and operations and confirms that environmental management, comply with relevant legislation. compulsory labour were found to exist in the Group (2014: nil). •• the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment protection and conservation will be incorporated into Aspen’s These aspects are monitored in respect of all business units. In policies and practices. value chain and be promoted by the following principles: Designated business unit executives are responsible for ensuring addition, there were no reported incidents in the Group where the •• ensuring compliance with relevant environmental regulations compliance with all relevant environmental legislation and rights of indigenous people were violated. Furthermore, no All Aspen suppliers and service providers are required to agree to, and legislation governing the responsible manufacture and implementation of Aspen’s environmental management businesses in the Group have been considered to be at risk of or acknowledge, the Aspen Code of Conduct for suppliers and supply of Aspen’s products; philosophy, as appropriate. Under the direction of the Group violating human rights which protect child labour, forced or Strategic Operations Executive, the Group SHE Department service providers when entering into new commercial agreements •• carrying out of environmental risk assessments to identify compulsory labour. monitors the alignment of business unit environmental with Aspen. In terms of this code each Aspen supplier or service actual and potential environmental impacts emanating from our provider warrants, to the best of its knowledge, that in relation to operations; management systems to the Group standards, develops and Employees across the Group are free to exercise their rights to promotes Aspen’s environmental management protocol, and the performance of its obligations to Aspen: •• conducting environmental risk assessments and/or audits to belong to trade unions and collective bargaining councils – at yearmonitors environmental legislative compliance across the Group’s •• it does not employ, engage or otherwise use any child labour; evaluate the level of environmental compliance and the end approximately 22% of the Group’s employees were members manufacturing facilities. •• it does not use forced labour in any form (prison, indentured, effectiveness of the applied environmental management of a trade union and approximately 34% were represented by bonded or otherwise) and its employees are not required to system; The Aspen Code of Conduct for suppliers and service providers collective bargaining councils. lodge papers or deposits on starting work; •• promoting the efficient use of resources such as energy, water, also requires that Aspen’s suppliers and service providers •• it provides a safe and healthy workplace, presenting no hazards paper and production materials with due regard to the scarcity undertake responsibility for conducting business in compliance Refer to page 37 of Aspen’s Sustainability Report available online to its employees. Any housing provided by the supplier to its of natural resources and the environmental impact resulting with applicable environmental laws and regulations when for the 2014 financial year for further information regarding the employees is safe for habitation. The supplier provides access from the utilisation and application of such resources in performing their obligations to Aspen and ensuring that they Group’s commitment to respecting employee rights. Also refer to to proper sanitation, clean water, food, and emergency conducting our business activities; conduct their business in an environmentally conscious manner pages 42 and 43 for further information on Aspen’s efforts around and, insofar as is feasible, from renewable resources, while healthcare to its employees in the event of accidents or •• containment and reduction of our carbon footprint in our employee health, wellness and safety. minimising the resources used and waste generated by them. incidents at the supplier’s workplace; operations and in the broader supply chain in a technically and •• it does not discriminate against any employees on any ground economically feasible manner through structured systems of Measurement of outcomes (including race, sexual orientation, religion, disability or gender); environmental monitoring, reporting and management; Refer to the Aspen Sustainability Report available online, •• it does not engage in or support the use of corporal •• monitoring and measuring the quality of air emissions and specifically pages 48 to 55, for the full details in respect of the punishment, mental, physical, sexual or verbal abuse and does waste water discharge against benchmarked standards and Group’s efforts to protect the environment and to conserve not use cruel or abusive disciplinary practices in the workplace; legal requirements through accurate and effective systems of natural resources. measuring, reporting and controls; 2 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2015 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2015 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT Section 4 – Anti-corruption principles noted by the Social & Ethics Committee on a periodic basis. This register is also made available for inspection by the Board or any Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all member of senior management on request. its forms, including extortion and bribery. Aspen does not make payments or other contributions to political Assessment, policy and goals parties, organisations or their representatives or take part in party Aspen has a zero-tolerance approach to unethical behaviour and politics. Employees are free to participate in the political process in is committed to ensuring that the Group and its employees uphold their private capacity provided it does not constitute a breach of Aspen’s laudable reputation. The Group Code of Conduct governs the principles set out in the Code of Conduct and/or the relevant the conduct of all Aspen’s employees throughout the Group and is employee’s obligations to Aspen under contracts of employment aligned with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and and does not negatively influence their productivity or the Development recommendations regarding corruption. credibility of the Group. Aspen fosters honesty, integrity and fairness in all aspects of its Aspen endeavours to promote a culture of openness and business and expects the same in its relationships with all those transparency throughout the Group and employees and other with whom it does business. stakeholders are encouraged to report unethical conduct and other transgressions of which they become aware. Aspen is committed to the fight against bribery. As a result, it is unacceptable for any employee or agent of Aspen to directly or An independently monitored whistle-blowing hotline, Deloitte’s indirectly offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes in any form. Tip-Offs Anonymous, has been made available to employees across the Group’s businesses, whereby employees can report Implementation suspected fraud and/or activities which are considered to be A formalised ethics management programme has been transgressions of the Group’s Code of Conduct. Tip-offs training implemented at all of the Group’s businesses. This programme is and awareness sessions are conducted periodically to promote managed by the Company Secretary & Group Governance utilisation of the facility where necessary. The tip-offs service has Officer under the direction of the Social & Ethics Committee and is also been extended to key customers and suppliers in the South aimed at: African business. The implementation of this service to selected •• assisting the Audit & Risk Committee and the Social & Ethics suppliers and customers at Aspen’s International businesses is in Committee in assessing the Group’s ethics profile, risks and progress. The details in respect of this hotline are available on opportunities; and Aspen’s website. •• assisting the Social & Ethics Committee to monitor implementation and compliance with the Group’s policies which The Board has adopted a formal policy to regulate conflicts of guide expected ethical behaviour. interest and trading in the Company’s securities. Aspen’s induction programme educates new employees on the Measurement of outcomes ethics, values and the business philosophy of the Group. All new All logged tip-off calls and internal reports with regard to possible employees are given a copy of, and are required to sign, an incidents of fraud, theft and corruption were reported to the acceptance of the Code of Conduct on commencement of their responsible functionaries within Aspen. Corrective action has employment with the Group. The Code of Conduct is available to been implemented where necessary to improve controls and to all employees on the Group’s intranet and is also contained in the prevent recurrence of any incidents found to be in breach of employee handbook. Aspen’s stated policies and Code of Conduct. The Group conducts its business in a highly regulated Quarterly reports detailing the tip-offs received, how these tip-offs environment, however, one in which the potential for unethical have been investigated, and the corrective measures taken, are marketing and promotional practices remains inherent. Aspen submitted to the Audit & Risk Committee and Social & Ethics endorses the ethical marketing of medicines and adheres to the Committee as appropriate. There have been no material incidents principles contained in the marketing codes to which it subscribes. of fraud, theft or corruption during the year. The Group has a written policy on gifts and benefits in terms of which employees of the Group, including directors, are prohibited A review of the effectiveness of the Group’s ethics management from accepting or giving gifts or hospitality that are not of a programme was performed during the year and the programme nominal value or participating in events sponsored by current or was found to be effective in all material respects. prospective customers or suppliers. Any employee who receives a gift or other benefit exceeding the local currency equivalent of Refer to pages 1 to 2 of Aspen’s Social & Ethics Committee Report USD100 is required to disclose this in writing to the Company available online for more information on its approach to unethical Secretary & Group Governance Officer. Some types of gifts, conduct, including corruption, and the Group’s ethics benefits or entertainment are prohibited even if the value falls management programme. below this threshold. A Group-wide register of gifts is maintained by the Company Secretary & Group Governance Officer and is 4 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2015
