Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report Letter from Our CEO Over the past year at Microsoft, we’ve challenged That future is now brighter. This fall, I visited Latin This report summarizes our work during fiscal year As I’ve shared with Microsoft employees, I believe ourselves to rediscover what it is about the core of America to learn how technology is being used to 2015 to meet the high expectations that we have we can do amazing things when we come together our company that really matters. How can we make empower people and businesses across the region. for ourselves and that our customers, communiwith a clear mission and a culture that brings a difference in this world in a way that no other In Toluca, Mexico, just outside Mexico City, I saw ties and other stakeholders have for us. Highlights out the best in us as individuals and collectively. company can? We’ve begun by embracing a new this firsthand at a YouthSpark-POETA center that include our efforts to address climate change Microsoft’s citizenship commitments help us mission: to empower every person and every orgaoffers people from underrepresented backgrounds through an industry-leading internal carbon fee ensure that what we accomplish together not only nization on the planet to achieve more. To achieve access to digital literacy, computer science training and new policies designed to ensure that our U.S. advances our business but also ultimately increases our mission, we’ve defined business ambitions and mentoring, and resources to seek employment suppliers provide paid leave to their employees the positive impact we have in places like Nanyuki that are equally bold: to reinvent productivity and and entrepreneurship opportunities. I met with who handle our work. In addition, in FY15, we made and Toluca and everywhere we do business around business processes, to build the intelligent cloud students and young entrepreneurs who had been more than $922 million in technology donations to the world. platform, and to create more personal computing. inspired to start their own businesses, and in turn more than 120,000 nonprofit organizations globally, apply those learnings to teach others, and it was a and Microsoft employees contributed $117 million Sincerely, The true test of the difference we make is the profound reminder of the impact we can have to nearly 20,000 nonprofits through our corporate impact we have on people’s lives. This is why I travin the world. giving campaign. eled to Nanyuki, Kenya, to celebrate the launch of Satya Nadella Windows 10. Nestled in the foothills of Mt. Kenya, To really make a difference, it’s not enough to We’re particularly proud of our efforts to increase Chief Executive Officer 125 miles north of Nairobi, Nanyuki is a place build great products and services. Living up to our access to education and opportunity for young where sending an email or accessing the Web in mission also depends on how well we apply our people. This year we surpassed the three-year the past required a five-hour walk to the nearest technology, talent and financial resources to foster goal for our YouthSpark initiative by creating wireless hotspot. Now, an innovative technology opportunity and serve the needs of communities opportunities for education, employment and developed by Microsoft researchers, one that takes around the globe where our employees, partners entrepreneurship for 307 million youth worldwide. advantage of underutilized television broadcast and customers live. We recognize that our ability Over the next three years we are committing $75 spectrum, is helping to provide low-cost Internet to pursue these goals requires that we conduct million to the next generation of our YouthSpark access to the residents of Nanyuki. In the novel “The our business with integrity, with respect for human initiative to increase access to computer science Flame Trees of Thika” set among these same footrights, and in ways that promote environmental education for all youth worldwide, especially those hills, Elspeth Huxley writes that “when the present sustainability. from under-represented backgrounds. stung her, she sought her antidote in the future.” Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report Contents FY15 Select Performance Highlights 3 Our People 20 5 Human Rights 39 7 Environmental Our Approach Our Approach Sustainability 58 1 Our Company 5 Compensation and Benefits Privacy and Data Security Our Approach Our Business Products Diversity and Inclusion Global Network Initiative Citizenship Governance Our Business Practices Training and Development Working to Protect the Rights Stakeholder Engagement of Vulnerable Populations Water and Waste Employee Wellness and Occupational Citizenship Materiality Assessment Health and Safety Accessible Technology Partnerships About This Report FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals 2 Ethical Business Conduct 4 Empowering Communities 31 6 Responsible Sourcing and Governance 12 Our Approach and Manufacturing 47 Our Approach Microsoft YouthSpark Our Approach Commitment to Ethics and Technology for Good Social and Environmental Accountability Standards of Business Conduct in Our Device and Supply Chain Group Humanitarian and Disaster Response Corporate Governance Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials Employee Giving and Volunteerism Public Policy Engagement Responsible Sourcing With FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Indirect Suppliers FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report FY15 Select Performance Highlights Ethical Business Conduct Responsible Sourcing and Governance Empowering Communities and Manufacturing Environmental Sustainability More than 99 percent of Microsoft employees completed Microsoft’s total annual giving surpassed $1 billion for the In FY14, we completed 314 third-party audits and Microsoft We met our carbon neutrality commitment through annual training on our Standards of Business Conduct, second year in a row, with cash donations of $135 million and assessments of 138 Tier 1 and highand medium-risk Tier internal efficiency projects, the purchase of more than which is available globally in 19 languages. in-kind donations worth $922 million. 2 hardware suppliers. Critical/serious nonconformance 3 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) of renewable energy findings are detailed in this report. In all of these instances, (equal to 100 percent of our global electricity use), and We surpassed the 3-year goal for our YouthSpark initiative Our People by creating opportunities for education, employment, and the suppliers instituted corrective action plans that were a carbon offset project portfolio representing more than approved by Microsoft, and follow-up audits confirmed that 600,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. entrepreneurship for 307 million youth worldwide. the suppliers were implementing the corrective action plans. Eighty-four percent of employees polled said they would recommend Microsoft as a great place to work. Human Rights We continued to expand our work with our hardware suppliers to build their capabilities on environmental health and safety management and to improve factory workers’ The percentage of minorities in our global workforce grew living environments. from 39 to 41 percent and the percentage of Microsoft Microsoft maintained our active membership in the senior executive women and minorities increased from Global Network Initiative, a collaborative effort regarding We also continued to enhance our work to advance 27 to 30 percent. practical steps and policies technology and communication responsible sourcing with our non-hardware suppliers, companies can adopt to respect and advance the freedom including new policies designed to ensure that our U.S. of expression and privacy rights of their users when faced suppliers provide paid leave to their employees who with government demands. We were also the first major handle our work. cloud provider to gain independent verification for meeting the world’s first international standard for cloud privacy. In working to protect the rights of vulnerable populations, we launched a free cloud-based version of PhotoDNA, to further increase access to this technology used to help identify and remove child sexual abuse images from the Internet. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 4 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 1 Our Company 1.1 Our Business 1.2 Citizenship Governance 1.3 Stakeholder Engagement 1.4 Citizenship Materiality Assessment 1.5 About This Report Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 5 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 1.1 Our Business Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and distribution, and 10,000 in general and administraDuring FY15, our research and development tion. We develop most of our products and services expense was US $12.0 billion, 13 percent of every organization on the planet to achieve more. Our strategy is to build best-ininternally through three engineering groups. revenue. To carry out our strategy, our research class platforms and productivity services for a mobile-first, cloud-first world. and development efforts focus on three intercon• The Applications and Services Engineering nected ambitions: Founded in 1975, we operate worldwide and have offices in more than 100 Group focuses on broad applications and services core technologies in productivity, • Reinvent productivity and business processes. countries. We develop, license, and support a wide range of software products, communication, education, search, and other services, and devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and information categories. • Build the intelligent cloud platform. enhanced value to people’s lives. We offer an array of services, including cloud• Create more personal computing. • The Cloud and Enterprise Engineering based services, to consumers and businesses. We design, manufacture, and sell Group focuses on development of our cloud devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and we deliver relevant In addition to our main research and development infrastructure, server, database, customer operations, we also operate Microsoft Research. online advertising to a global audience. relationship management (CRM), enterprise Microsoft Research is one of the world’s largest resource planning (ERP), management, computer science research organizations, and Our products include operating systems for software, services, platforms, and content. development tools, and other business process works in close collaboration with top universities computing devices, servers, phones, and other We also provide consulting and product and applications and services for enterprises. around the world to advance the state of the art intelligent devices; server applications for distribsolution support services, and we train and certify in computer science, providing us a unique uted computing environments; cross-device computer system integrators and developers. • The Windows and Devices Engineering Group perspective on future technology trends and productivity applications; business solution focuses on our Windows platform across contributing to our innovation. applications; desktop and server management As of June 30, 2015, we employed approximately devices of all types, hardware development of tools; software development tools; video games; 118,000 people on a full-time basis, 60,000 in the our devices—including Xbox consoles, Surface Detailed, updated information about Microsoft’s and online advertising. We also design and sell United States and 58,000 internationally. Of the devices, Lumia phones, non-Lumia phones, business, operations, and workforce is hardware including PCs, tablets, gaming and total employed people, 39,000 were in product Surface Hub, Microsoft Band, and other available here. entertainment consoles, phones, other intelligent research and development, 29,000 in sales hardware products and accessories— devices, and related accessories. We offer cloudand marketing, 32,000 in product support and and associated online marketplaces. based solutions that provide customers with consulting services, 8,000 in manufacturing and Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 6 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 1.2 Citizenship Governance Microsoft’s citizenship mission is to serve globally the needs of communities and to Microsoft’s Citizenship and Public Affairs team More broadly, citizenship at Microsoft relies sits within our Legal and Corporate Affairs Group on the combined efforts of all our employees, fulfill our responsibilities to the public. In doing so, we seek to apply the power of and drives initiatives and engages with groups including colleagues in dozens of other leaderour corporate policies and business practices, our products, and our investments in across Microsoft to help the company fulfill its ship roles, business and operational groups, and communities to advance our company mission to empower every person and every responsibilities as a global corporate citizen global subsidiaries. Together, they help identify organization on the planet to achieve more. and deliver added value to the company and emerging issues and societal challenges where its stakeholders. This team of 30+ professionals Microsoft can add the greatest value, develop develops our global citizenship strategies and and implement new strategies and programs, The charter for the Regulatory and Public Policy Committee of our Board works in partnership with local Microsoft citizenand monitor our progress. of Directors includes the responsibility to “review and provide guidance to the ship and corporate affairs professionals around the world to advance our citizenship commitments board and management about the company’s policies and programs that relate wherever we do business. The General Manager to corporate citizenship, including human rights, environmental sustainability, of Citizenship and Public Affairs reports directly to corporate social responsibility, supply chain management, charitable giving, and Microsoft’s Executive Vice President and General political activities and expenditures.” It does so on a semi-annual basis. Counsel, who sits on CEO Satya Nadella’s Senior Leadership Team. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 7 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 1.3 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Overview To inform our decisions, we regularly communicate with thousands of Stakeholder Groups Examples of Engagement Selected Results stakeholders globally ranging from parents concerned about their child’s online Customers We gain insights from online feedback, support Customer feedback and insights underlie all safety to international human rights experts. These engagements take many forms. communities, product satisfaction surveys, usability of our decisions to enhance existing products studies, research forums, business account managand develop new ones. In FY15, the Windows ers, and our customer service representatives. Insider program reached 5 million customers Employees from our business and operational We learn from them and other advocacy groups, to allow them to preview Windows 10 and groups regularly identify and engage with stakesocially responsible investors, corporate responsiprovide feedback, which helped shape key holders in the course of their daily work activities. bility rating agencies, other external stakeholders, features of the product. Customer feedback Our Citizenship and Public Affairs team also and our own employees to identify new and also plays an important role in helping us manages a number of stakeholder relationships emerging citizenship issues. We also base our develop clearer and more customer-friendly contracts and terms of use policies. and ongoing dialogues to help inform and guide work on international frameworks such as the our strategies. We connect with leading thinkers United Nations Global Compact, the UN Guiding Stakeholder Groups Examples of Engagement Selected Results on corporate responsibility and societal challenges Principles on Business and Human Rights, and Investors Beyond traditional investor communications such as Our engagement with investors has in groups such as Business for Social Responsibility, the Global Reporting Initiatives’ Sustainability earnings calls and our annual meeting, we seek to influenced many important parts of our CSR Europe, and the World Economic Forum. Reporting Guidelines. proactively provide investors with corporate govercitizenship strategy, such as our human nance information through diverse communications, rights commitments under the Global including a director video interview series and direct Network Initiative, a collaborative effort communications from independent members of between information and communications our board to shareholders. We proactively reach out technology (ICT) companies, human rights to institutional investors—including public pension groups, socially responsible investors, and funds and socially responsible investors—about others. Investors are an important influence governance and citizenship-related topics, and as we continue to consider ways to enhance deliver a summary of their feedback to the board. In our corporate governance principles FY15, these engagements reached investors holding and policies to serve the interests of our over 40 percent of our outstanding shares. We shareholders and other stakeholders. seek to transparently provide information sought by socially responsible investors and corporate responsibility rating agencies and seek their insights to identify new and emerging citizenship issues. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 8 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 1.3 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Overview Stakeholder Engagement Overview Stakeholder Groups Examples of Engagement Selected Results Stakeholder Groups Examples of Engagement Selected Results Employees We ask for—and act on—employee feedback in Microsoft’s Senior Leadership Team Industry coalitions Microsoft actively participates in industry coalitions to Microsoft has helped establish multiple ways, including conducting an annual online and individual managers use the poll and public-private address important citizenship issues and in many cases groups that help set the standard anonymous poll of all our employees around the results to further improve on areas of partnerships is among the leaders bringing companies together to for responsible business practices in world. The poll, with a nearly 85 percent response rate, strength and address opportunities work collaboratively to solve challenges. the ICT industry, ranging from the asks employees to share feedback about the Microsoft for improvement. Electronics Industry Citizenship work experience, including how they feel about their Coalition and Global Network Initiative workgroups, organization, and company as a whole. to the International Association of Microsoft offers employees, customers, suppliers, Accessibility Professionals. and other external parties multiple ways to report compliance concerns as described in our Ethical Civil society / Across the breadth of our business, we engage Virtually all of the initiatives described Business Conduct and Governance chapter. nongovernmental with thousands of NGOs working on issues ranging throughout this Citizenship Report organizations (NGOs) from environmental sustainability to employee have benefitted from insights provided Suppliers We engage with suppliers through capacity-building Our work to address environmental diversity to child safety. by NGOs and in many cases involve workshops and trainings, supplier advisory boards, and social issues in collaboration active ongoing partnerships with them. hosting an annual supplier summit, and participation with our suppliers is detailed in the in industry coalitions, such as the Electronics Industry Responsible Sourcing chapter. Policymakers Microsoft engages actively in policy issues relevant Microsoft is recognized as a leader Citizenship Coalition. We also conduct anonymous to our business, both directly and through industry for policies that help to ensure the Voice of the Supplier Surveys, which include questions associations. We seek to ensure that our participation accountability and transparency on citizenship issues. in the political process takes place in the light of day of our engagement in the public and for reasons that are clear and justifiable to our policy process. Communities Microsoft’s local citizenship teams work directly with Microsoft’s YouthSpark Initiative and shareholders and the public. community groups and in partnerships with local nonOffice 365 for Nonprofits program profits. They share views and insights from local comwere both strongly shaped by input munities with Microsoft’s global Citizenship and Public from local communities about the Affairs team in direct communications, through regular best way to serve economic and social conference calls, and at an annual global summit. needs in their area. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 9 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 1.4 Citizenship Materiality Assessment To apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to We recognize that our citizenship commitments have always played an important role in enabling our citizenship materiality assessment, we follow the common practice of defining Microsoft’s business success, but perhaps never our most significant citizenship issues as those ranking highest both in business more so than now. Microsoft is in the midst of a importance to Microsoft and in importance to our key stakeholders. transformation into a productivity and platform company that will thrive in the mobile-first, cloudThis aligns with how we set our citizenship Citizenship Materiality Assessment: Top Issues first world. As we explain in depth in our annual strategies and commitments to drive both report, key elements of this vision include creating positive impacts to our business and to society. • Access to technology and economic more personal computing, building the intelligent opportunity cloud, and reinventing productivity and business Following are the top citizenship issues we identiprocesses. Our citizenship commitments and the • Climate change and energy effective management of these top issues play an fied using this approach. It reflects input gathered from our stakeholder engagement processes • Corporate governance important part in earning and keeping the trust described in the previous section, consultation of our customers and other stakeholders and our with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) and • Data privacy and security ability to realize our long-term business strategy. other external experts, and consideration of the • Device lifecycle impacts impacts of Microsoft’s core business priorities. • Environmental/social applications of technology • Ethical business practices • Human capital (or talent management and development) • Human rights • Responsible sourcing/manufacturing Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 10 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 1.5 About This Report UN Global Compact Index This 2015 Microsoft Citizenship Report explains our policies, program, and Human Rights performance on our material environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issue areas Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Our People, Human Rights, as well as how we address other important corporate responsibility issues. As you read human rights; and Responsible Sourcing this report, we welcome your unique perspective about the issues you expect to see Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our People, Human Rights, addressed in the future. Please email your comments to mcitizen@microsoft.com. Responsible Sourcing Labor Scope Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Our People, Responsible Sourcing of the right to collective bargaining; Unless otherwise stated, information in this report This report contains Standard Disclosures from Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Our People, Responsible Sourcing covers all of Microsoft’s global operations during the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability our fiscal year 2015 (July 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015). Reporting Guidelines, which we used to prepare Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Our People, Responsible Sourcing this report. Please see our online GRI G4 Index for detailed data and additional information. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our People, Responsible Sourcing The human rights-related disclosures are based Environment on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework. In addition, Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environmental Sustainability this report serves as Microsoft’s annual Communication on Progress under the United Nations (UN) Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environmental Sustainability, Responsible Sourcing Global Compact. The following table describes the location of relevant report content for each of the Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Environmental Sustainability UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Responsible Sourcing, extortion and bribery. Ethical Business Conduct and Governance Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 11 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 2 Ethical Business 2.1 Our Approach Conduct and 2.2 Commitment to Ethics and Standards of Business Conduct 2.3 Corporate Governance Governance 2.4 Public Policy Engagement 2.5 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 12 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 2.1 Our Approach 2.2 Commitment to Ethics and Standards of Business Conduct Building a fabric of trust is paramount to realizing our mission to empower every Microsoft regularly interacts with customers, partners, competitors, shareholders, person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. This means winning suppliers, representatives, regulatory agencies, and government officials. We are and preserving the trust of our customers, partners, and governments around the committed to engaging all of these groups in a respectful, ethical manner and in globe. We work to build and maintain trust through a shared commitment to ethical compliance with all legal requirements. behavior and by acting with integrity in everything we do. Microsoft’s Standards of Business Conduct are In FY15, as in previous years, we achieved a Establishing trust in our complex and dynamic our organization, and foster responsible the foundation of our commitment to ethical completion rate for the course of greater than world starts with our culture—how we work, what decision making. We are proud that because business practices and legal compliance. These 99 percent. In addition, a variety of mandatory we value, how we interact with others. The founof our commitments and actions, we’ve been standards are endorsed by the Microsoft Board role-specific trainings address the compliance risks dation of our ethical culture is our commitment to on the Ethisphere Institute’s list of the World’s of Directors and apply to all employees, directors, of particular business functions, and Microsoft integrity, honesty, and principled behavior in every Most Ethical Companies every year since they and executive officers of Microsoft and its subsidprovides employees with a wide range of addisituation and challenge we face. began issuing the list in 2011. iaries and controlled affiliates (where Microsoft tional optional training and guidance to ensure directly or indirectly owns more than 50 percent awareness of our policies and expectations for Our commitments to ethical business practices of the voting control). ethical behavior. The following graphic from the and strong corporate governance policies are Microsoft Standards of Business Conduct reflects designed to promote the long-term interests of All Microsoft employees must complete annual our straightforward approach and encourages our shareholders, maintain internal checks and training on our Standards of Business Conduct. employees to consult with internal resources balances, promote accountability at all levels of The training course is available in 19 languages. when necessary. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 13 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 2.2 Commitment to Ethics and Standards of Business Conduct Business Conduct and Our responsibility is to take steps to train our employees, to build controls to prevent and Compliance Program Example of Microsoft Guidance detect unethical and non-compliant conduct, and when we identify or learn of concerns or to Employees on Making Ethical Decisions Microsoft’s Office of Legal Compliance is responimproper conduct, to investigate them fully sible for our Business Conduct and Compliance We expect you to be well informed and exercise good judgment and take appropriate action to remediate. Program, working closely with the rest of Microsoft when making business decisions for Microsoft. Before making a Legal and Corporate Affairs, Finance, Human business decision, ask yourself the following questions: Microsoft offers employees and external parties Resources, Internal Audit, and other groups multiple ways to report compliance concerns. focused on ensuring compliance. We have more These include the following: than 50 people whose primary role is investigating potential breaches of company policy, and an • Calling a toll-free telephone integrity hotline Is it consistent with Is it legal? Am I comfortable with additional 120 people whose primary role is comthat is staffed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by our core values and others finding out the Standards? We are not expecting about my decision? pliance. In addition, we sometimes retain outside a third-party vendor (operators are available you to be a lawyer or legal to receive calls in 49 languages). expert. We do expect law firms to conduct or assist with investigations. We expect you to think you to ask questions and If you would not be through the issues and to comfortable sharing your This is a reflection of the size and complexity of use available resources seek guidance if you decision with friends, • Submitting an online report through a publicly are not sure. our business and the seriousness with which we to help, including our core family, and co-workers, it available website operated by the vendor (the values and the Standards. probably is not the right take meeting our obligations. landing page for the site is in 16 languages and thing to do. the online reporting tool is in 37 languages). Across Microsoft’s business, we build and monitor internal controls to identify and mitigate risks of • Emailing the Office of Legal Compliance unethical and non-compliant conduct, perform directly at buscond@microsoft.com. regular internal audits, require multiple levels of approval for contracting and expenditures, and • Emailing, calling, or faxing the maintain internal compliance scorecards that Director of Compliance. If you cannot answer “yes” or you are not sure, do not make the affect key leaders’ performance compensation. decision or take the action until you get additional help and guidance. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 14 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 2.2 Commitment to Ethics and Standards of Business Conduct Preventing retaliation is critical to the Business Conduct and Compliance Program. Microsoft Anti-corruption Beyond clearly communicating our expectations, Microsoft vets third-party representatives and maintains and communicates an open-door p Microsoft’s Standards of Business Conduct and certain suppliers to help ensure that we only olicy and strictly prohibits retaliation against Anti-Corruption Policy for Representatives engage those that are legitimate businesses with complainants who raise a compliance concern in include strong commitments to observing the a reputation for integrity. We conducted a risk good faith. Microsoft is committed to handling all standards of conduct set forth in the US assessment to identify higher-risk representative inquiries discreetly and preserving the confidentiForeign Corrupt Practices Act and the applicable types, which were then vetted along with many ality of anyone requesting guidance or reporting anti-corruption and anti-money laws of all the other lower-risk representative types. This includes a possible violation to the extent possible and countries in which we operate. We prohibit corchannel partners, consultants, lobbyists, and within the limits allowed by the laws. ruption of government officials and the payment other third parties engaged by Microsoft and of bribes or kickbacks of any kind, whether in its subsidiaries and joint ventures worldwide. In dealings with public officials or individuals in the addition, we continue to have third-party reviews private sector. We require partners to provide conducted for all new suppliers. Since the vetting anti-corruption training to all employees who program’s inception, Microsoft has screened nearly resell, distribute, or market Microsoft products or 100,000 representatives and suppliers to enable services and provide them a free, online training Microsoft to monitor the risk profile and drive risk course available in multiple languages. Microsoft’s mitigation efforts accordingly. Supplier Code of Conduct also includes strong ethics and anti-corruption provisions, which are highlighted in an online Supplier Code of Conduct Training that suppliers must take. These are both available in 33 languages. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 15 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 2.3 Corporate Governance Corporate governance at Microsoft is designed to promote the long-term interest Among the responsibilities of the Regulatory human rights, environmental sustainability, and Public Policy Committee is reviewing and corporate social responsibility, supply chain of our shareholders, maintain internal checks and balances, strengthen management providing guidance to the Board and managemanagement, charitable giving, and political accountability, engender public trust, and foster responsible decision ment about the Company’s policies and programs activities and expenditures. making and accountability. that relate to corporate citizenship, including Role and Structure of The board routinely reviews evolving practices to determine those that will best serve the interests Highlights of Corporate Governance Practices 1 the Board of Directors of our shareholders. Microsoft is a leader in Annual review of independence of board Yes Directors elected by the vote of a majority of votes cast in uncontested elections Yes adopting standards to increase accountability Separate chairman and CEO Yes Through oversight, review, and counsel, to our shareholders, including early adoption of Annual board and committee evaluations Yes Microsoft’s Board of Directors establishes and majority voting for board directors, Say on Pay Independent chairman Yes promotes Microsoft’s business and organizational advisory votes on executive compensation, and Annual individual director evaluations Yes objectives. The board oversees the company’s most recently, a proxy access bylaw. Charters for board committees Yes business affairs and integrity, works with manage­ Director stock ownership and Yes ment to determine the company’s mission and Microsoft’s Board of Directors maintains four Independent audit, governance and nominatholding requirements Yes long-term strategy, performs the annual CEO standing committees to assist it in discharging its ing, and compensation committees Executive stock ownership and evaluation, oversees CEO succession planning, oversight responsibilities: an Audit Committee, Yes Compensation consultant independence policy Yes holding requirements establishes internal control over financial a Compensation Committee, a Governance and reporting, and assesses company risks and Nominating Committee, and a Regulatory and Independent directors hold meetings without Corporate governance guidelines approved Yes Yes strategies for risk mitigation. Public Policy Committee. Only independent direcmanagement present by board tors serve on these committees. Each committee has duties assigned by the board in compliance Annual board elections Yes Board orientation and education program Yes with Microsoft’s Bylaws and committee charters, which are available online. 1 Our Corporate Governance Fact Sheet is available online for additional information. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 16 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 2.3 Corporate Governance Shareholder Engagement scale to reach all of our shareholders. Our Investor Relations website and its Governance & CitizenShareholder Outreach and Our Corporate Governance Cycle We seek to proactively provide investors with ship tab take the same approach. corporate governance information through Microsoft believes that effective corporate governance should include regular, diverse communications, including a director We use a variety of other methods to engage constructive conversations with our shareholders. We actively engage with our video interview series and direct communicawith our shareholders. Over the past year, shareholders as part of our annual corporate governance cycle described below. tions from independent members of our board to independent members of our board and members shareholders. In 2009, we began posting video of senior management conducted outreach to a interviews with members of the board of directors cross-section of shareholders owning approxito provide deeper insights into their backgrounds mately 40 percent of outstanding shares. Senior Spring Summer Fall Winter and perspectives on board service. In May, we members of our management team also speak Our corporate goverWe communicate to our We publish our annual The cycle concludes with nance cycle begins with shareholders significant communications to the annual Board and posted our most recent interview with Mason with our shareholders and provide the feedback reviewing governance changes to our govershareholders and other committee evaluations, Morfit, a Microsoft board member since 2014 received directly to our board. Our CEO, Satya best practices, regulatory nance practices along stakeholders: which include considerNadella, remains committed to investing time with developments, and our with other developments ing feedback received and president of ValueAct Capital. During the own policies and at Microsoft. We speak • our annual report from shareholders during conversation, Mason speaks about his background our shareholders to increase transparency and practices. This analysis with a cross-section of • proxy statement and the preceding year. at ValueAct Capital, his views on Microsoft’s better understand their perspectives, including by informs the annual our investors holding • citizenship report update of our govera significant portion of leadership, and where he thinks the company is participating in our quarterly earnings calls. nance framework and our outstanding shares We speak again with policies. about this information headed next. He also offers a behind-the-scenes and solicit input on investors about view of how the board operates, and talks about The following diagram shows our annual outreach topics that are important important topics to be addressed at our annual the importance of shareholder engagement. efforts and corporate governance cycle. to them, which we shareholders meeting. communicate to the We then hold our annual Board and incorporate as shareholders meeting. part of what we address Our board video series, Microsoft on the Issues in our proxy. blogs, and annual letter from the Governance and Nominating Committee of the board are a few examples of our investor outreach efforts. With over 3.4 million shareholders, these are examples of one-to-many communications that provide the Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 17 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 2.4 Public Policy Engagement Corporate participation in the public policy process is an important and essential Microsoft is recognized as a leader for policies section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code, which that ensure the accountability and transparency are formed solely to influence elections. We also means of enhancing shareholder value and is fundamental to free and democratic of our engagement in the public policy process. make no independent political expenditures or societies. We seek to ensure our participation in the political process takes place During FY15, we received the third highest rating electioneering communications, as permitted in the light of day and for reasons that are clear and justifiable to our shareholders in the CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political under the US Supreme Court’s Citizens United and the public. Our public policy engagement is guided by a publicly available Accountability and Disclosure, which is compiled ruling, and we inform our trade associations that annually by the Center for Political Accountno Microsoft funds may pay for their independent Global Public Policy Agenda, which outlines our policy positions on issues core ability and the Carol and Lawrence Zicklin Center expenditures or electioneering communications. to our business. for Business Ethics Research at the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School of Business. The Political Engagement section of our Citizenship website provides our comprehensive Microsoft has adopted Principles for disclosure of our political engagement policies, Engagement in the Public Policy Process in disclosure of our US political expenditures the United States to address issues specific to and contributions, and information on our the US political and fundraising system. Under policy-related trade association memberships. those policies, we commit to disclose a semiannual list of election campaign expenditures, including financial and in-kind contributions by the company and MSPAC to candidates, political parties, political committees, and other politically active tax-exempt organizations, such as those organized under Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(4), as defined by applicable laws. To uphold our commitment to transparency of our political spending and contributions, we do not make corporate contributions to any non-candidate or non-party political committees organized under Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 18 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 2.5 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Progress Against FY15 Goals FY16 Goals Goal: Engaging in cross-industry forums to help us identify Goal: Maintaining or increasing dialogue between Goal: Monitoring and implementing the regulatory and • Advancing a project to simplify policies and make it and contribute to the development of best practices. stakeholders and the company. disclosure requirements adopted under the Dodd-Frank easier for employees to find and use policies. Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In FY15, Microsoft’s Anti-Corruption Program Management FY15 marked an especially active year for proactively • Launching a campaign to increase employee knowledge Office helped lead the US Technical Advisory Group to create consulting with institutional investors and other shareholders We expect the Securities and Exchange Commission to conand use of the Microsoft ethics hotline and escalation and represent the US position in the development of the in the wake of leadership changes. We sought feedback and tinue to adopt regulations mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. processes and to emphasize Microsoft’s zero tolerance proposed International Standards Organization (ISO) Antiinput from a broad range of our investors, including public These include disclosure of pay ratios, pay for performance, policy for retaliation. Bribery Standard, through the American National Standards pension funds and leaders among the growing number of hedging, and executive compensation recovery. We previInstitute (ANSI). The standard, once finalized and published, will institutional investors focused on environmental, social, ously implemented polices relating to hedging and executive • Continuing to enhance our corporate governance help prevent corruption by enabling companies to consistently and governance issues. With the publication of our 2015 compensation recovery and will monitor and implement any principles and policies to serve the interests of our create and evaluate anti-bribery programs, identify and Citizenship Report, we also launched a new Transparency further requirements in these areas. We also filed our second shareholders and other stakeholders. remediate areas for improvement, and demonstrate program Hub to make it easier for stakeholders to quickly access annual Conflict Minerals Report in compliance with regulaeffectiveness. Microsoft is also engaged in promoting antiand understand our broad range of citizenship-related tions called for under Dodd-Frank. • Continuing to implement new regulatory and disclosure corruption initiatives among intergovernmental organizations disclosures. requirements adopted under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street and multinational companies through Microsoft’s membership Reform and Consumer Protection Act. in the World Economic Forum Partnership Against Corruption Goal: Continuing to enhance our corporate governance Initiative (PACI) as an industry partner. principles and policies to serve the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders. Our annual corporate governance cycle begins with reviewing governance best practices, regulatory developments, and our own policies and practices. This analysis informs the annual update of our governance framework and policies. Acting in line with Microsoft’s long-standing corporate governance philosophy, in August 2015 the Board adopted a new “Proxy Access for Director Nominations” bylaw. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 19 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3 Our People 3.1 Our Approach 3.2 Compensation and Benefits 3.3 Diversity and Inclusion 3.4 Training and Development 3.5 Employee Wellness and Occupational Health and Safety 3.6 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 20 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.1 Our Approach Perhaps the most important driver of our success is culture. We fundamentally We strive to exercise our growth mindset every Through Microsoft’s Global Human Rights day in three distinct areas: Statement and as a signatory to the UN Global believe that we need a culture founded in a growth mindset. It starts with a belief Compact, we’re committed to respecting all of that everyone can grow and develop; that potential is nurtured, not predetermined; 1. Customer-obsessed. We learn about our the human rights described in the Universal and that anyone can change their mindset. Our leadership is focused on bringing customers and their businesses with a Declaration of Human Rights; the International out the best in people, so that everyone is bringing their “A game” and finding beginner’s mind and then bring solutions Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; the that meet their needs. We look to learn from International Covenant on Economic, Social, and deep meaning in their work. the outside and bring that knowledge into Cultural Rights; and the International Labour Microsoft, while still innovating to surprise and Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental delight our users. Principles and Rights at Work. 2 2. Diverse and inclusive. The world is diverse. We In addition, our commitments to communicate serve everyone on the planet by representing respectfully with each other, to provide for everyone on the planet. We seek to be open diversity and equal employment opportunity to learning our own biases and changing our at all levels of our organization, and to protect behaviors so we can tap into the collective the safety and health of our employees are power of everyone at Microsoft. We don’t just incorporated into the Microsoft Standards of value differences, we seek them out and invite Business Conduct described in the Ethical them in. And as a result, our ideas are better, Business Conduct and Governance chapter. our products are better, and our customers are better served. 3. One Microsoft. We are a family of individuals united by a single, shared mission. We build 2 Those ILO principles are freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; elimination of all on the ideas of others and collaborate across forms of forced or compulsory labor; effective abolition of child boundaries to bring the best of Microsoft to labor; and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment our customers as one. and occupation. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 21 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.1 Our Approach Employee Poll Results Microsoft’s global Human Resources team We ask for—and act on—employee feedback in advances our policies and programs to recruit, multiple ways, including conducting an annual Indicator FY13 FY14 FY15 retain, and develop exceptional people. This team poll of all our employees around the world. Our Employee response rate 89% 87% 84% includes groups focused on compensation and main annual global employee poll is conducted benefits, talent and organizational capability, and by a third-party vendor to protect employee Employees who feel proud to work at Microsoft 89% 90% 90% diversity and inclusion. In addition to a central anonymity. In FY15, nearly 85 percent of our more team, HR professionals are embedded within each than 100,000 employees responded to the poll. Employees who feel they are treated with dignity group in Microsoft to ensure that every employee The poll asks employees to share feedback about 93% 93% 92% and respect by their managers has a clear point of contact and support on HR their experience working at Microsoft. Microsoft’s issues, from our executive managers to indiSenior Leadership Team and individual managers Employees who would recommend Microsoft 85% 86% 84% vidual contributors. At the end of FY15, Microsoft use the poll results to further improve on areas of as a great place to work employed 117,354 people worldwide. strength and address opportunities for improvement. We supplement the poll with additional Employees who feel their workgroup 86% 88% 88% In FY15 we faced the challenge of responsibly quarterly “pulse” polls covering additional issues. values diverse opinions managing reductions in our overall workforce of approximately 18,000 positions. This was driven by two goals: work simplification and Nokia Devices and Services integration synergies and strategic alignment. The reductions were spread across many different business units and many different countries. We sought to go through this process with the deepest respect for affected individuals and recognition of their service to the company. We offered severance to all employees, as well as job transition help in many locations. Around the world, we worked to ensure we followed local process and laws in each of the countries affected. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 22 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.2 Compensation and Benefits Microsoft offers competitive compensation and benefits to attract the world’s best • Industry-leading health insurance coverage in • Family and medical leave programs, including the US with no employee premiums; and bestpaid and unpaid maternity and paternity leave talent in over 100 countries, and rewards people for great results. Our Performance in-class medical and dental coverage in which programs and personal and compassionate and Development approach and rewards program applies to Microsoft employees Microsoft funds eligible employees’ Health leave, subject to local laws. globally at every level of the organization to the extent permitted by local law. Savings Account for tax-free savings for current or future medical expenses. • Paid time off (vacation and sick days) and paid Stock-based compensation is a key component of We offer a wide assortment of flexible benefits. sabbaticals for qualifying employees. our rewards programs at Microsoft as it provides Due to local law, local conditions, and employee • Family benefits including health coverage for an ownership stake in the company’s success. Over preferences, some benefits vary by location, but spouses, dependents, and domestic partners; • Flexible work programs, including flexible 85 percent of Microsoft employees are eligible following is a representative sample of the array of subsidy for nearby childcare programs and schedules, telecommuting, and for an annual stock award. In addition, 90 percent benefits we offer: back-up care for children, adults, and elders; job-sharing options. of Microsoft’s employees are eligible for a cash Flexible Spending Accounts for healthcare and childcare; onsite lactation facilities; and • Voluntary benefits including additional bonus. Bonuses focus on an individual’s business adoption assistance and adoptive parent leave. disability insurance and group legal coverage. impact over the past year. • Voluntary retirement savings plans, • Employee discounts and friends and family including plans in which the company makes discounts for Microsoft products. contributions (such as 401(k) Plan matches for US employees of 50 cents on every dollar up • Discount programs for shopping, dining, to 6 percent of employee contributions). and travel. • Employee Stock Purchase Plan offering • Commute options, including free or subsidized employees discounted shares of mass transit tickets, access to free employee Microsoft stock. shuttles, and on-campus bike shops and secure storage. • Life insurance and accident insurance. • Education assistance for eligible employees. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 23 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.3 Diversity and Inclusion For over two decades, our Global Diversity and Inclusion Office has evolved and Building an Inclusive and To ensure that completing this training is not a “check the box” exercise, we have created inclusive enhanced the company’s diversity and inclusion initiatives to meet the changing Engaging Culture leader, manager, and employee learning paths to needs of our workforce and business. We have a deep commitment to create an build on the training and other new programs that inclusive environment where all employees can do their best work. This commitment Maximizing the contribution of every individual will advance our collective diversity and inclusion allows us to infuse diverse thought as a natural acumen. These interactive programs include the is anchored around strengthening our diversity and inclusion acumen, deepening part of the way we innovate. With that in mind, extension of the Unconscious Bias training using a leader and manager understanding of the diversity strategy and its value we value accountability and learning as key live case study format that focuses on real-life, proposition, and increasing senior leader accountability for their diversity plans. ingredients to nurturing an inclusive culture. role-play opportunities to examine and understand Our clearest sign of investment and commitment unconscious biases that may shape communication We know that Microsoft, like the rest of the tech and Inclusion Strategy, which was reviewed and towards creating a more inclusive culture is the style, decision making, and behaviors. industry, must do more to fully reflect the diversity approved by our Board of Directors. This new recent launch of a new mandatory company-wide of the global population. As a result, this past fiscal strategy has four specific areas of focus: transonline Unconscious Bias training. From our experiMore broadly, we are committed to integrating year, we’ve put renewed focus and thought into forming the culture, empowering our people, ence and the advice of industry experts, we diversity and inclusion principles into meaningful advancing the diversity and inclusion agenda expanding our talent pipeline, and delighting identified the importance of recognizing and aspects of all that we do: from our hiring processes within the company. We developed and rolled out our customers. changing unconscious biases in the workplace as to our pursuit of innovation in how we build key priorities, resulting in our FY16 Global Diversity one of the key actions that will help us to modify products and technology—to the way we mindset and behavior. Demonstrating leadership communicate with and reward our people. support for this training, our CEO Satya Nadella We’ve already started this integration with and his senior leadership team, along with their company-wide employee events such as our direct reports, participated in dedicated learning annual Hackathon, customer feedback loops, sessions and also conducted strategic planning our focus on usage in the engineering teams, on the business benefits of diversity. and in our performance management practices. Our Ten Inclusive Behaviors guide, shared upon completion of the Unconscious Bias Course, provides best practices for all employees to embrace and model. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 24 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.3 Workforce Diversity and Inclusion We’ve also embraced opportunities to advocate for public policies that foster diversity and incluEmpowering Our People Expanding Our Pipeline of • Blacks at Microsoft, an Employee Resource Group, hosts an annual Minority Student Day sion. In 1993, Microsoft became the first Fortune Recognizing that “top talent” and “diverse talent” Talent and Leaders that provides local area high school students 500 Company to provide same-sex domestic are not mutually exclusive populations, we will from underrepresented ethnic backgrounds partnership benefits for Microsoft lesbian, gay, In addition to our employee retention and career with information about the tools, resources, continue to make Microsoft the employer of bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) employees. development strategies, expanding the pipeline and career opportunities that are available choice for all great talent. And with that, we are We also found that with regards to our LGBT of diverse talent for the tech industry as a whole, to them in information technology. It also more focused than ever on empowering our employees and their families, there can be as well as for our company, is very important to awards scholarships to high school seniors and people through recruitment, retention, and career significant challenges in states or countries that us. We have developed specific programs around connects recipients with mentors throughout development. We have clear goals company-wide don’t provide equal recognition for their marriage the cultivation of diverse talent which start with their college careers. The program has to increase global representation of women and or committed relationships. For that reason, in our high school internship programs and continue been successful in helping graduates find ethnic minorities in the United States, particularly January 2012 Microsoft joined other leading with our executive recruiting efforts. The followemployment at Microsoft. at more senior levels of the organization. Within companies to support legislation in our home ing are examples of some of our programs that our talent and recruiting organizations, we are state of Washington that recognized marriage directly address the shortage of diverse students • We’ve recently expanded our Explore Microsoft sharpening our focus on diverse candidate equality for same-sex couples. Since then, we’ve graduating with science, technology, engineering, 12-week summer internship program that pools—and in fact one of the metrics our recruitadvocated for marriage equality in places where and mathematics (STEM) degrees: strives to attract women and minorities into ing organization is measured against is how we have facilities and employees and will continue effectively it recruits from these pools. technical fields and to Microsoft. It is specifically to support marriage equality when this issue arises • For more than a decade we have championed designed to expose firstand second-year in communities around the world. DigiGirlz, now part of the Microsoft YouthSpark college students to software development and Each member of our senior leadership team is initiative, which gives girls aged 14 to 18 encourage students to pursue degrees in this accountable for driving diversity and inclusion progthe opportunity to learn about careers in and other related fields of study. ress relative to how we attract, retain, and advance technology, connect with Microsoft employees, women and other diverse employees within the and participate in hands-on computer and • Our involvement with Code.org has enabled company. We’ve introduced and revised a number technology workshops. DigiGirlz programs now us to reach 52 million youth in the US in just of rich developmental and on-boarding programs span 16 countries and have reached 26,000 the past 18 months, and through our TEALS to support this effort. We continue to evolve our participants. A key sign that this program is program we reached 6,000 students in 131 high talent management practices by diversifying our having a positive impact is that some of the schools during the 2014–2015 school year. candidate slates and implementing inclusive succesearly participants have now graduated from sion planning for senior diverse talent. college and joined Microsoft as employees. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 25 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.3 Workforce Diversity and Inclusion In addition to these investments, we are also broadening the spectrum of diverse talent sources, Delighting Our Customers Our Employee Resource Groups (ERG) represent many different segments of our population Workforce Diversity Data including deepening our commitment and investWhen it is all said and done, having a diverse and serve as outreach mechanisms between Our emphasis on diversity is not purely a converment in hiring people with disabilities. We recently workforce—one that is a reflection of the richness diverse communities and Microsoft as a whole. sation about the numbers—it is as much a focus invested in a new pilot program focused on hiring of the customers around the world who buy our These groups help support important business on our attitudes and behaviors as leaders that people with autism for full-time, Redmond-based products, services, and technologies—is critical to initiatives—from recruiting and retention to the drive the numbers. That being said, it is important Microsoft positions. We developed this pilot in our long-term business success. Our goal is to use marketing of Microsoft products and services. that we track and report on our diversity data— partnership with Specialisterne, a social enterprise diversity and inclusion to build products that We work closely with our ERGs and Employee which we do quarterly. While we have publicly run by the Specialist People Foundation, which customers need, choose, and love. Networks to help make sure that the products shared our workforce data since 2006, in the fall works to enable one million jobs for people with that we’re creating actually work for the of 2014 we began sharing even more specific autism and similar challenges through social Our product development processes are evolving populations they represent. data relative to our demographics via our Global entrepreneurship, corporate sector engagement, to become more inclusive and accessible than Diversity & Inclusion website, including publishand a global change in mind-set. ever before. We have programs such as our annual ing the EEO-1 data we report each year to the US Ability Summit and new Inclusive Design initiative government. The data confirmed that Microsoft, Microsoft is also working to help diversify nonthat serve to enable more innovative and accessilike the rest of the tech industry, must do more to STEM fields as well, such as the legal profession. ble products. Through these efforts, accessibility fully reflect the diversity of the global population, In 2015 Microsoft partnered with other compafeatures and settings are built into Microsoft and underlies the new approaches and commitnies and law firms to launch the Gregoire Fellows software programs. We have made significant ments we are making to make progress. Program in partnership with the University of R&D investments in accessible technology, Washington School of Law, to bring greater including speech processing (for hard of hearing), diversity to the school and improve the pipeline speech synthesis (for speech impairment), of diverse students to Washington state. eye-operated assistive technology and advanced The Fellows will receive summer internships, wheelchairs (for ALS), and directional audio (for mentoring throughout their time in law school, guide dogs). and a scholarship to study for the bar. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 26 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.3 Workforce Diversity and Inclusion FY15 Reported Ethnicity Breakout (US Employees) 3 In addition to the data presented here, you can see standard business practices. We are inspired by the Gender our full EEO-1 data and further breakdowns of our opportunities that lie before us and believe that Male Female workforce diversity in tech and non-tech positions the diversity of our workforce and inclusiveness at our Global Diversity & Inclusion website. of our culture will continue to play a critical role 72.1% 27.5% in helping us deliver innovations that will bring We realize there is still hard work ahead to make ultimate value to our customers. our commitment and focus on diversity and Ethnicity inclusion a truly integrated part of the company’s Caucasian Asian 59.4% 28.8% Minorities in the US Microsoft Workforce Women in the Global Microsoft Workforce Latino/Hispanic 5.2% FY13 38% FY13 24% African American/Black FY14 39% FY14 28% 3.4% FY15 41% FY15 28% Multi-Racial 1.2% American Indian/Alaska Native Women and US Minorities Women and US Minorities 0.5% on the Board of Directors in Senior Executive Positions Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander FY13 33% FY13 22% 0.2% FY14 40% FY14 27% 3 Data as of June 30, 2015. Gender and ethnicity totals do not include unknown. Denominators FY15 40% FY15 30% include unknown. Gender data are global, ethnicity data are US only. Additional information can be found in our EEO-1 report Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 27 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.4 Training and Development We believe that everyone can grow and develop; that potential is nurtured, not With training opportunities ranging from classThroughout the year, employees get coaching room modules to peer-to-peer mentoring, no one on career development through meetings with pre-determined; and that anyone can change their mindset. To support our metric captures the breadth of learning available their manager. Managers receive training to growth mindset culture, we offer a diverse range of learning and development to Microsoft employees, but globally we have enhance their skills in coaching and mentoring opportunities, including trainings available in the classroom, online, and through found that in FY15: employees on how to achieve the greatest impact, videos, mobile apps, podcasts, and other formats in multiple languages, to meet as well as how to drive their own career develop• 91 percent of all employees were satisfied with ment, providing tools and resources to support the learning needs of our employees around the world. We believe training is not the knowledge they gained and could apply to focused and actionable conversations. We also limited to formal instruction and our training philosophy focuses on providing the their job immediately with our formal training. offer all new employees a robust new employee right learning, at the right time, in the right way. orientation that covers a broad range of topics • Our employees spent an average of 26 hours in to help set employees up for success from their formal training. first day at Microsoft. Orientation topics range from an overview of benefits, online resources, We invest significantly in our employees’ opportunities to engage in communities, to career development, provide on-the-job exploration of our company values, culture, “stretch” opportunities for advancement, and and Standards of Business Conduct. offer frequent promotion opportunities, all of which are foundational to our culture. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 28 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.5 Employee Wellness and Occupational Health and Safety Microsoft is committed to supporting our employees’ well-being with In addition to our wellness programs, Microsoft’s Over the past several years, we have worked Health and Safety program integrates appropriate to enhance our capacities to protect employee comprehensive benefits to help employees maximize their physical, safety and health practices into our operations, health and safety as the diversity of our operations financial, and social wellness. and works for continual improvement in employee has grown and exposed our employees to new health and safety. As part of this commitment, types of workplaces. As described in our ResponsiThese benefits include: • Healthy dining options, including a new health and safety professionals assess the safety ble Sourcing and Manufacturing chapter, we Real Easy Wellness labeling system used in risks of Microsoft work activities and engage with created a global manufacturing team of experts • The Microsoft Ergonomics Program, offering all Microsoft cafes with color coding to flag workers and management to implement safe in industrial safety, occupational health, and employees ergonomic assessment and training healthier and less healthy options. work practices, hazard controls, and training environmental sustainability to work across programs and special furniture, equipment, and to minimize safety risks. They also assess new Microsoft’s newly acquired device factories to software for medical needs. • Access for Microsoft employees and their workspaces as they are constructed and existing align programs and priorities, ensure excellence dependents to weight management, workspaces periodically to ensure sound designin environment, health, and safety, and drive • The Microsoft CARES employee assistance tobacco cessation, and chronic disease for-safety principles are followed and needed continuous improvement. In FY14, our metrics program, offering free access to services management programs. controls are implemented effectively. As part for occupational injuries and illnesses were comincluding personal and family counseling, stress of this approach, Microsoft involves employees parable to or less than injury-illness rates from management, and referrals for child/elder care. • An onsite health clinic at our Redmond, and managers in Health and Safety Committees other companies with similar operations. Our US Washington headquarters campus, offering specific to our datacenters, retail operations, facilities had an Injury-Incident Rate of 0.14 and • Fitness benefits that fund gym memberships comprehensive health and wellness services and our manufacturing facilities. a Lost-Day Rate of 0.02 (our 12-month rolling or fitness-related equipment and activities and and clinics at some other locations. average for July 1, 2013—June 30, 2014) based onsite recreational and fitness opportunities. on US OSHA rules for recordkeeping). • Free onsite “Know Your Numbers” health screening events, providing employees and their adult dependents with screening for risks of heart disease, diabetes, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure as well as onsite mammography screenings. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 29 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 3.6 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Progress Against FY15 Goals FY16 Goals Goal: Continuing to advance our culture of working Goal: Creating learning that supports our employees’ • Recruiting and developing talent with world-changing together to drive meaningful impact for our teams, ability to adapt and lead in our changing company, a capabilities. business, and customers and to adjust our approach to changing industry, and a changing world. Performance and Development programs, as needed, • Leading the culture transformation toward a growth We developed new learning opportunities on a range in response to employee feedback and evolving mindset and helping drive behaviors to support the of topics from unconscious bias training to career business needs. cultural attributes of diversity and Inclusion, customer development skills. obsession, One Microsoft, and making a difference. In FY15, under the leadership of our CEO, our HR organization worked with teams across Microsoft to explore, define, Goal: Driving innovation and efficiency by infusing • Making Microsoft an exceptional place to work through and foster a culture to help us achieve our mission and diversity and inclusion into our business strategy and by rewards, work environment and perks, and a clear strategic goals. Our CEO has articulated his vision of developing innovative products and services to better employee value proposition. culture in employee Q&A sessions and all company emails. serve the needs of a broad range of customers. Moreover, in FY15, we launched our first annual “//oneweek” Our Senior Leadership Team conducted strategic planning • Driving transformational leadership by elevating the Global Hackathon to bring together diverse individuals to on the business benefits of diversity and has rolled out new value, accountability, and impact of leadership at collaborate on developing innovative new ways for Microstrategies to gain business value from diversity and inclusion Microsoft, including defining and driving leadership soft to do business and solve customer and social problems. across core parts of our business. attributes that align to culture. Goal: Continuing to offer industry-leading health care • Helping Microsoft’s employees achieve more by in the United States with no employee premiums and transforming HR through data, technology, process continuing to provide multi-modal educational materials excellence, and investment in our people. to teach employees and their dependents how to optimize their health care and overall wellness. We’ve maintained these benefits and continue to invest in preventative and life-optimizing wellness programs for our employees and in many cases their family as well. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 30 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 4 Empowering 4.1 Our Approach Communities 4.2 Microsoft YouthSpark 4.3 Technology for Good 4.4 Humanitarian and Disaster Response 4.5 Employee Giving and Volunteerism 4.6 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 31 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 4.1 Our Approach Microsoft is committed to applying our technology, talent, and financial resources Total Microsoft Giving 4 to empower communities around the planet where our employees, partners, and customers live and work. $1,067M ($1.1B) $1,057M ($1.1B) FY14 FY15 Our Citizenship and Public Affairs team develAs a complement to our focused approach to our Microsoft Stores and a number of our facilities $907M $949M $922M ops and coordinates global strategies that are corporate philanthropy, our flexible volunteer and in cities around the world, such as the MicroFY13 implemented through local citizenship teams and employee giving programs enable employees to soft New England Research and Development $795M nonprofit partners to meet unique local needs support the causes they choose with donations (NERD) Center in Boston. We frequently donate and conditions. We focus our corporate philanof time, expertise, money, and software. Our space for our nonprofit partners to hold meetthropy on two strategic areas that align with our employees regularly tell us a key factor behind ings and events in our facilities. We also extend business and where we can contribute our skills their choice to work at Microsoft is knowing their our expertise in citizenship communications to and resources to create meaningful impact. First, personal commitment to philanthropy will be nonprofit partners with trainings and resources we seek to empower youth around the globe by honored, encouraged, and matched. on effective digital communications and use connecting them with greater opportunities for of social media. We also collaborate with key education, employment, and entrepreneurship, We also work to use the full set of resources we nonprofit partners on joint public relations and with a particular focus on creating opportunities can offer to nonprofits and communities beyond communications strategies to publicize their for all youth to learn computing. Second, we work our contributions, product donations, and message on important causes. $112M $119M $135M at a global scale to donate technology to nonprofit volunteer talent. For instance, we have active organizations so they can do even more good. community engagement programs to organize For the second year in a row, our FY15 total annual and host nonprofit and community events at giving surpassed $1 billion. In-Kind Donations Cash 4 Totals are rounded to the nearest million. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 32 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 4.2 Microsoft YouthSpark Microsoft YouthSpark is a global company-wide initiative to use the power of Nonprofit Partners • Junior Achievement’s Youth Enterprise Europe To help close the opportunity gap for millions of program that provides computer science and technology to connect youth around the world with education, employment, youth around the world, Microsoft YouthSpark entrepreneurial educational trainings in 17 and entrepreneurship opportunities. We launched YouthSpark in 2012 with the provides philanthropic contributions to more than European countries. specific goal of creating opportunities for 300 million youth by 2015. In FY15 we 400 youth-serving nonprofit organizations in more created opportunities for over 80 million youth and met our three-year goal, than 100 countries spanning the globe, including: • Code.org and the Hour of Code, which have introduced millions of K–12 students to creating opportunities for more than 307 million youth in total. Going forward, • The Anupdip Foundation for Social Welfare’s computer science education with a particular we will continue our YouthSpark initiative with a sharpened focus on increasing DREAM for Women program, which establishes focus on increasing participation by women access for all youth to computer science education on a global scale. The women-run co-operatives in rural India and and underrepresented students of color. provides them technology and business following are just a few of the programs that comprise YouthSpark. Office 365 for Education skills training. Microsoft Office 365 is free for all students and • The Center for Digital Inclusion’s 68 teachers around the world and provides ready YouthSpark Centers across Brazil, Columbia, access to technology tools that power learning and Mexico, which provide technology and and collaboration: email, instant messaging, business skills trainings to help youth increase group video and voice chat, and online their opportunities for further education, document viewing and editing. employment, and entrepreneurship. Skype in the Classroom • Silatech’s Youth Works Employment Initiative, Skype in the Classroom creates a free, global a three-year program to empower one million community for teachers to connect their students Arab youth through training, job placement, with other students and guest speakers from and self-employment resources. around the world. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 33 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 4.2 Microsoft YouthSpark Microsoft Digital Literacy Curriculum Microsoft Imagine As we reflect on our learnings and developMicrosoft’s free online Digital Literacy curriculum Microsoft Imagine connects aspiring student ments during our first three years implementing is available in 10 languages that together are developers of all skill levels with the tools, YouthSpark, going forward, we are focusing spoken by more than half the world’s population. resources, and experiences they need to turn their YouthSpark on creating opportunities for all The user friendly curriculum spans a broad range innovative ideas into reality, whether it’s building youth to learn computing—with a top priority on of technology skills at Basic, Standard, and a game, designing an app, or launching a project. increasing access for all youth to computer science Advanced levels. Imagine includes the Imagine Cup, Microsoft’s education on a global scale. As technology has global youth technology competition, which become an integral part of people’s daily lives in Computer Science Education—TEALS challenges students to apply their knowledge and nearly all regions of the world, we’re seeing a Technology Education and Literacy in Schools passion to develop technical solutions for social growing demand—from students, parents, teach(TEALS) pairs computer science professionals with impact, engaging games, and driving innovation. ers, governments, and nonprofits—to teach youth classroom teachers to teach computer science in not only how to use technology, but also how to high schools across the country, either in-person In developing Microsoft YouthSpark, we consulted create technology and become the innovators or via Skype. Started in 2009 by a Microsoft with government, nonprofit, and business leaders and drivers of growth and opportunity in their employee who developed and ran the program in globally to understand the challenges young communities. his spare time, TEALS was embraced and adopted people face in building their lives and contributing by Microsoft in 2011. Doubling in size every year, to their communities. This work highlighted the The goal of computer science education is not, in the 2014–2015 school year TEALS reached 6,000 need to go beyond addressing the “digital divide” necessarily, for everyone to become a computer students in 131 schools in 18 states, and to date and to take a more holistic approach to address scientist or a software engineer. We believe that has helped teach more than 12,500 high school the opportunity divide—the gap between those all young people should have access to comstudents introductory or advanced placement (AP) who have the skills, access, and opportunities to puter science education so they can learn this computer science with an industry-recognized be successful and those who do not. foundational subject matter and develop the curriculum developed by the University of California computational thinking skills that will be critical for at Berkeley and the University of Washington. their future. In the coming years we will focus our TEALS recruits volunteer technology professionals YouthSpark philanthropy, youth programs, and from Microsoft and across the industry. policy advocacy to advancing this cause. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 34 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 4.3 Technology for Good Microsoft helps build nonprofits’ capacity to use technology to be more efficient, Microsoft In-Kind Donations effective, and innovative in doing their important work. In addition, in FY15 Microsoft (Fair Market Value [FMV] of Software and Hardware Donations) donated software, services, and hardware—worth $922 million—to more than Year Microsoft In-Kind Donations ($ FMV) Number of Nonprofits Receiving Software and Hardware Donations Number of Nonprofits Receiving Office 365 for Nonprofits 5 120,000 nonprofit organizations around the globe. FY15 $922.0 million 84,155 36,189 In FY15, we continued to expand our Office 365 Through this program in FY15 we activated 1.09 Nonprofit offer to reach a total of 110 countries. million new Office 365 seats among nonprofits. FY14 $948.6 million 86,399 11,455 The program provides nonprofits with free access In its first two years, Office 365 Nonprofit offers FY13 $794.7 million 70,286 – to the latest Microsoft Office cloud service, which have provided licenses for 2.7 million nonprofit includes anywhere access to Microsoft Office employees and strategic volunteers. applications and professional email, calendar, instant messaging (IM), and web conferencing We also host NGO Connection Days around the tools. The offering allows nonprofits’ employees globe for nonprofit organizations to learn how and strategic volunteers to access Office applicatechnology can help them become more efficient tions and documents anywhere across multiple and effective in their work. In FY15, Microsoft devices; enables easy collaboration through collaborated with nonprofits by hosting 89 NGO content sharing; and offers efficient administrative Connection Days in 59 countries. controls so organizations can spend less time and resources on IT maintenance. 5 Some organizations receiving Office 365 Nonprofit services may have also received donations of Microsoft software and therefore may be counted in both columns. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 35 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 4.4 Humanitarian and Disaster Response In times of disaster, and to prepare for those times, Microsoft and our partners In FY15, Microsoft provided support to address a number of disasters around the world, including contribute resources and technology solutions to assist governments and the spread of ebola in Africa, flooding in India, humanitarian organizations in their emergency response efforts. Microsoft’s and a cyclone in the Philippines. In addition, we Global Disaster Response Team includes experts from Microsoft Operations, provided more than $13 million in cash, technolServices, and Citizenship and Public Affairs to quickly deploy Microsoft technologies ogy, and in-kind support to help with the relief efforts necessitated by two major earthquakes and technical assistance to customers, communities, governments, and nonprofits in Nepal. After the devastation we saw in Nepal, in the wake of natural disasters. The team also works to help organizations make we offered free calls in and out of the country technology systems more resilient to proactively prepare for disasters. We also help via Skype. The Microsoft Innovation Center in Kathmandu trained student partners and sent governments and nonprofits quickly identify and deploy the right technology to them to local communities with Windows Phones address the unique needs of a disaster situation. to help people make Skype calls and connect with families, friends, and aid. Our Microsoft Consulting Services Team also provided a range of free technology services to agencies working on earthquake relief efforts in Nepal, including the United Nations Development Programme, Office of the Prime Minister, Nepalese Ministry of Finance, and the Nepal Police. For more information, see our Disaster Response Program website. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 36 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 4.5 Employee Giving and Volunteerism The foundation of all of our efforts Employee Giving and to serve communities is the passion Company Match Donations of our employees. $137.1M FY15 6 US Volunteerism 7 Outside the US, employees can take up to three paid $73.9M $112.2M Year Employees % of US Workforce Hours Contributed days off to volunteer in their local communities. In the FY14 US, our Employee Giving Program matches employee $100.9M gifts of money and time to nonprofits up to $15,000 FY13 $59.0M FY15 8,519 14.3% 486,004 annually. In FY15, we increased our company volunteer $53.2M FY14 7,144 11.7% 456,365 match to $25 per hour so that, as an example, four hours of volunteer time results in a $100 donation FY13 5,341 10.8% 430,162 from Microsoft to the nonprofit. In FY15, 67 percent of Microsoft’s US employees participated in the $63.2M Employee Giving Program. $53.2M $47.7M To encourage employees to volunteer, we maintain 6 The FY15 total includes a one-time incremental adjustment of $19 million, reflecting the Microsoft Match inclusion of two additional months of disbursements, due to the company’s transition to an extensive database of volunteer opportunities and a new program vendor at the close of FY15. host an organized Day of Caring for team-based group Employee Donation 7 Microsoft’s US employees registering for a Microsoft donation to match their volunteer hours. volunteer efforts for employees around the Seattle area and many of our other locations. We also actively recruit employees to participate as volunteer computer science educators through our TEALS Program. This year we took a new step to match our employees’ technical expertise with nonprofit needs for technology support. Tech Talent for Good launched with a varied portfolio of twenty nonprofits in Washington state, and we will expand the program in FY16. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 37 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 4.6 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Progress Against FY15 Goals FY16 Commitments Goal: Meeting our YouthSpark target of empowering 300 • Donating Microsoft Cloud Services to 50,000 nonprofits. million youth to imagine and realize their full potential through Microsoft YouthSpark between 2012 and 2015. • Reaching 3.5 million users of our Office 365 Nonprofit free offering. We exceeded this goal, providing 307 million opportunities for youth through Microsoft YouthSpark between 2012 • Createing access to learning computing for 10 million youth. and 2105. Goal: Donating Microsoft software and services to 100,000 nonprofit organizations. In FY15, we donated more than $922 million in software and services to 120,356 nonprofit organizations globally. (Note: some organizations receiving Office 365 Nonprofit services may have also received other donations of Microsoft software through Microsoft’s software donation program, and therefore may have been counted more than once.) Goal: Activating an additional 1 million users of Office 365 Nonprofit. In FY15, we activated 1.09 million new seats for Office 365 Nonprofit. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 38 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 5 Human Rights 5.1 Our Approach 5.2 Privacy and Data Security 5.3 Global Network Initiative 5.4 Working to Protect the Rights of Vulnerable Populations 5.5 Accessible Technology 5.6 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 39 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 5.1 Our Approach Microsoft’s respect for human rights reflects our longstanding commitment to We have worked to apply that framework to this year’s report and applied the stakeholder engageempowering individuals around the world. We work to ensure that we respect ment and materiality assessment processes human rights across all aspects of our business, and we seek to apply the power described in Chapter 1 to determine what the of technology to promote human rights globally. framework terms “salient” human rights issues to include. This chapter covers many of those salient Since endorsing the UN Global Compact in 2006, Building on these fundamental commitments, issues: privacy and data security; our commitments Microsoft has had a formal commitment to Microsoft was among the first companies to to the Global Network Initiative principles on respecting all of the human rights enumerated align our human rights work with the UN Guiding freedom of expression and privacy rights of users; in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; Principles on Business and Human Rights released online safety and other steps to protect the rights of International Covenant on Civil and Political in 2011. Microsoft’s Global Human Rights Statement vulnerable populations; and our commitments to Rights; International Covenant on Economic, articulates our human rights commitments in line accessible technologies. Other salient human rights Social and Cultural Rights; and ILO Declaration with the framework of the Guiding Principles, issues are addressed in other relevant sections of on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. including issues related to governance, due dilithe report, including our commitments to ethics Across our business we have a wide range of gence, and remediation. We have long included and anti-corruption discussed in Chapter 2; how policies, practices, and programs that relate to human rights topics in our citizenship reporting. our human rights commitments apply to our human rights, including data privacy and security, Over the past year, we participated in a multiworkforce discussed in Chapter 3; our work free expression, labor rights in our workforce and stakeholder process convened by the human rights empowering communities discussed in Chapter 4; our supply chain, and equality and diversity. group, SHIFT, to support the development of the and the work we do to apply our human rights UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. commitments to our direct and indirect suppliers discussed in Chapter 6. We are among the first companies to apply the Guiding Principles Reporting Framework to our reporting and look forward to learning from other examples of how they are implemented to inform our approach in future reports. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 40 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 5.1 Our Approach Our human rights commitments are incorporated we have with human rights defenders, such as • Collaborated with groups such as the Aspen into our Standards of Business Conduct, which Freedom House, that work with us to disable user Institute’s Business and Society Program, The all employees receive and for which they must accounts that have been compromised by political Conference Board, International Corporate complete training (as described in depth in the regimes conducting human rights abuses. Governance Network, and World Economic Ethical Business Conduct and Governance Forum to share best practices for business to chapter). Our human rights commitments are Since 2013, the Microsoft Technology and address human rights issues. also highlighted in a range of role-specific trainHuman Rights Center has worked to prioritize ings tailored to particular business functions. and coordinate human rights due diligence, identify • Hosted a series of multi-stakeholder workshops As our Global Human Rights Statement articulates, emerging risks and opportunities related to human on business and human rights in the United we regularly review and strengthen anonymous rights, and promote harmonized approaches to Kingdom, Brussels, and Central Europe. grievance reporting mechanisms that allow our human rights across Microsoft. The Center also employees and others affected by our operations works to foster dialogue to advance understanding • Sponsored and participated in RightsCon to report suspected incidents of human rights of the human rights impacts of information and Southeast Asia, a summit on defending abuse. We investigate and, where appropriate, communications technology (ICT). Through the digital rights of Internet users which attracted take remedial action to address reported violaCenter, Microsoft engages with a broad range of participants from NGOs, business, and tions. The mechanisms take multiple channels, human rights groups, academics, and industry governments from 50 countries. ranging from our Standards of Business Conduct groups globally to share Microsoft’s experiences hotline described in the Ethics and Business and lessons learned. Among its activities in FY15, • Convened a range of events including Compliance chapter to private communications the Center has: roundtables at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos on LGBT equality and on government surveillance and meetings with institutional investors and corporate lawyers to raise awareness and understanding of the UN Guiding Principles. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 41 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 5.2 Privacy and Data Security Microsoft has a longstanding commitment to ensuring the privacy and security of Our privacy protections have gained external With ongoing concerns about government recognition. Microsoft is the first major cloud surveillance practices over the past several years, our customers’ data. We have a strong set of privacy principles and practices that provider to adopt—and gain independent Microsoft has categorically stated that we do not apply company-wide. We incorporate privacy considerations into our design and verification for meeting—the world’s first provide any government with direct and unfetdevelopment processes, offer our customers meaningful privacy choices, and international standard for cloud privacy, the ISO/ tered access to our customers’ data, and we responsibly manage and protect the customer data that we store. IEC 27018 standard developed by the International don’t provide any back doors. As we’ve publicly Organization for Standardization to establish a disclosed, if a government wants our customers’ uniform, international approach to protecting data, it must serve us with the appropriate warrant, We’ve led our industry with privacy protections In our ongoing effort to give customers meaningprivacy for personal data stored in the cloud. court order, or subpoena targeted at specific such as our commitment to not scan Microsoft ful data about when and how we collect and use This builds on past efforts: in April 2014 we accounts and identifiers. We reject requests that Outlook or other email services for purposes of personal data, in June 2015 we updated the Microreceived confirmation from European data don’t meet these requirements, and we only targeting online advertising. In October 2014, soft Services Agreement to provide one place to protection authorities that Microsoft’s enterprise provide the data specified in the legal order. Microsoft became one of the first companies to understand the privacy protections in place for cloud contracts are in line with “model clauses” Measures we’ve taken over the past two years sign the Student Privacy Pledge developed by most of Microsoft’s consumer services, including under EU privacy laws regarding the international to ensure we continue to meet our commitments the Future of Privacy Forum and the Software & Bing, Cortana, OneDrive, Outlook.com, Skype, transfer of data, becoming the first company to to data privacy and security and earn customers’ Information Industry Association to establish a and Xbox Live. At the same time, we updated receive such recognition. trust include expanding our use of encryption common set of principles to protect the privacy the Microsoft Privacy Statement to provide a across our services, providing choice and transparof student information. single, straightforward resource for understanding ency on data location, and strengthening legal Microsoft’s commitments for protecting individual protections for customers. privacy with these services. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 42 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 5.2 Privacy and Data Security 5.3 Global Network Initiative Microsoft has also worked to champion our view to best protect privacy, ensure that governments Microsoft is a founding member and sits on the board of the Global Network that while technology has a critical role itself in keep people safe, and respect national sovereignty Initiative (GNI), a collaborative effort between ICT companies, civil society protecting people’s rights and keeping people while preserving the global nature of the Internet. safe, technology and the Internet must be govorganizations, socially responsible investors, and academics. GNI provides a set of erned by law. To that end, both on our own and in To help inform the public debate about the Principles and Implementation Guidelines regarding practical steps and policies ICT collaboration with others in our industry, Microsoft best ways to balance privacy and security and companies can adopt to respect and advance the freedom of expression and privacy is pushing for reform in government surveillance in keeping with our longstanding commitment practices. We fought for and won the right to to transparency, we publish a semi-annual Law rights of their users when faced with governmental demands. increase our disclosure on the volume of national Enforcement Requests Report and clearly outline security orders for customer data we receive our well-documented practices for responding The GNI provides for a series of independent with an eye to continuous improvement. The from the US government. We’ve very publicly to government demands for customer data. assessments conducted every other year by an GNI’s public report on the results of its Phase III advocated that governments need to create a The report includes the number of demands we independent assessor accredited by the GNI company assessments is available online. new international legal framework to ensure that receive and the number of accounts or identifiers Board, on how its member companies are implegovernments seek information about the private that may be affected by these demands. We also menting the GNI Principles. The independent As part of our commitment to GNI and under citizens of other participating countries only provide details on the number of demands we assessor reviews the policies and procedures our Global Human Rights Statement, Microsoft pursuant to legal rules and due process. complied with and, if we complied, whether we adopted by the company in accordance with the has independent experts in business and human provided content or non-content data. In addition, GNI guidelines and looks at how the policies and rights conduct Human Rights Impact Assessments Throughout FY15, we engaged in an ongoing as a result of a concerted effort by Microsoft and procedures were implemented in real-world cases. (HRIAs) of specific parts of our business. The HRIAs legal challenge to the US government’s attempt our industry partners, we are now permitted to Based on the results of the most recent assessinclude independent research, internal interviews, to mandate that we turn over a customer’s email publish data about the number of legal demands ment and engagement with Microsoft, the GNI and engagement with external stakeholders to content stored in our datacenter located in Ireland. we receive from the US government pursuant to Board determined that Microsoft is compliant with identify relevant human rights risks and opporWe have gained support from more than two national security laws. the GNI Principles. The assessment found that the tunities for specific Microsoft products, services, dozen leading technology and media companies systems, policies, and procedures that Microsoft business relationships, and markets. to argue that digital information must be afforded relies upon to implement the GNI Principles the same legal protections as physical documents are both mature and subject to ongoing review and correspondence. Beyond addressing this specific case, we have also advocated about the ways Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 43 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 5.4 Working to Protect the Rights of Vulnerable Populations Microsoft works to help protect people of all ages and abilities against a broad We promote online safety broadly across the spread of child sexual abuse images through our Internet as well. Microsoft has a near 20-year Bing, OneDrive, and Outlook.com services. This range of risks, including malware, online hoaxes, tech scams, and online bullying. history making online safety resources year Microsoft made PhotoDNA available as a To promote the safer use of Microsoft devices and online services, we offer a range available to children and their parents. In FY15, free cloud service to make it even easier for of safety features, including family safety settings. We also have strong prohibitions we enhanced our existing materials with new companies to detect and report illegal images of against abusive behavior on our online services in our Terms of Use, which are interactive and engaging online safety resources child sexual abuse before they are seen by others. on the Microsoft YouthSpark Hub to empower and enforced by complaint response teams on services such as Xbox Live involve youth in adopting safer online habits and A broad range of groups across Microsoft work practices. In FY15, Microsoft joined the UK Prime to advance a safer Internet for all, including the Minister’s WePROTECT Children Online initiative Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit, an international to combat child sexual exploitation and abuse legal and technical team of more than 100 and serves as the industry representative on the attorneys, investigators, big data scientists, and WePROTECT International Advisory Board, which forensic analysts. DCU’s cybercrime experts focus is recommending a series of actions for the global on two areas: fighting malware and reducing risk; child protection community. and protecting vulnerable populations, especially the very young and the elderly. The DCU’s work These and other activities follow Microsoft’s work includes investigating fraud and tech scams six years ago with Dartmouth College to develop targeting unsuspecting and non-tech savvy cusPhotoDNA, a free technology that helps identify tomers, who are primarily the elderly. To combat and remove child sexual abuse images from this problem, DCU works with law enforcement, among the billions of photos on the Internet. the Federal Trade Commission, and advocacy PhotoDNA has now become an industry best groups such as AARP to educate consumers on practice for combating child sexual abuse images how to avoid being scammed and, when necesand is used by NGOs, law enforcement, and other sary, take legal action against known scammers. leading Internet companies like Facebook. At Microsoft, we use PhotoDNA to help disrupt the Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 44 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 5.5 Accessible Technology As a reflection of our commitment to human rights and to our billions of Microsoft offers guidance on accessibility to our We are continually working to raise the awareusers, with accessibility information available in ness of accessibility issues in the technology users around the world, Microsoft seeks to provide products and services over 40 languages. Microsoft Customer Support industry. The Microsoft Accessibility Developer that empower people across a broad range of abilities, cultures, languages, provides a dedicated support desk for customers Center provides guidance, tools, and technologies and levels of economic development. who have disabilities or who are looking for support for developing accessible applications and web when also using assistive technology, such as screen content. Our tools and guides help governments, This commitment starts with offering people In addition, Microsoft seeks to ensure our technolreaders, screen magnifiers, and speech recognition schools, businesses, and organizations integrate access to technology in a language familiar ogy is accessible to the more than 1 billion people commands. We provide guidance to help users technology for individuals with disabilities. Microto them that respects linguistic and cultural around the world with a disability. The Microsoft address a broad range of disabilities, including: soft Research and product teams also collaborate distinctions and helps sustain diverse local Accessibility Standard is a company-wide policy with disability experts to unlock new uses for languages and cultures. Through the Microsoft that drives consideration for accessibility into the • Vision impairments technologies that can dramatically benefit people Local Language Program, Microsoft collaborates design, development, evaluation, and release of with disabilities, such as helping individuals with with local governments, language authorities, all of our products and services. Windows, Office, • Dexterity and mobility impairments paralysis communicate with their families using universities, and NGOs to provide individuals Internet Explorer, Xbox, and our other products eye gaze technology and speech synthesizers on access to computing in their native language. and services include accessibility features and • Hearing impairments the Microsoft Surface. For more information, see The local language program supports more than controls such as the Ease of Access Center in the Microsoft Accessibility website. • Learning impairments 108 languages, covering 4.5 billion speakers Windows. Beyond its own accessibility features, around the planet. Under the program, Microsoft Microsoft Office 2013 includes an Accessibility • Language and communication impairments provides a range of language and translation tools Checker that helps users enhance the accessibility and resources, including free Language Interface of their documents and presentations. We’ve • Age-related impairments Packs to make Windows and Office applications found that many of our accessibility innovations available in local languages ranging from Albanian and features allow us to deliver more flexible user to Yoruba. experiences that benefit a wide range of our customers, not just those with disabilities. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 45 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 5.6 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Progress Against FY15 Goals FY16 Goals Goal: Continuing to review our policies and practices to Goal: Advancing awareness of Microsoft’s accessible • Continuing ongoing review of our policies and practices ensure we are meeting our commitments to human rights products and services to meet the needs of K-12 students to ensure we are meeting our commitments to human and to perform ongoing assessments of the human rights with disabilities. rights and to perform ongoing assessments of the human impacts of our operations. rights impacts of our operations. Microsoft supports inclusive education policies that ensure We continued our work engaging with a wide range of accessible and assistive technologies are made available • Reviewing current approaches for using the power of human rights experts to evaluate our existing human rights to students with disabilities throughout their education technology to combat human trafficking and identifying commitments and consider the human rights impacts of system and teachers are trained and supported new opportunities for action. key business decisions and perform human rights impact in their implementation. assessments of focused areas of our business. • Further strengthening our commitment to addressing Goal: Supporting and advancing the implementation the needs of people with disabilities, including reading Goal: Continuing to advance human rights trainings of the UN Convention for the Rights of People and writing literacy tools and deeper exploration of how to targeted internal groups within Microsoft. with Disabilities. innovations such as gesture control, speech recognition, We promoted awareness of our human rights Microsoft collaborates with governments, consumers, and and touch can foster accessibility. commitments to employees broadly across Microsoft organizations to support and advance the implementation and with targeted required trainings for our sales of the UN Convention for the Rights of People with Disabilifield and key sourcing professionals. ties and promote digital inclusion of persons with disabilities in all aspects of development. We regularly partner with Goal: Finalizing a Memorandum of Understanding with organizations such as the Global Initiative for Inclusive Inforthe Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human mation and Communication Technologies (G3ict), the United Rights to enhance its use of technology. Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the Organization of American States (OAS) We finalized this memorandum of understanding and are to raise awareness of the accessible ICT in countries such as moving forward with implementation to help the Office of Mexico, India, and South Africa. the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to enhance its use of technology. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 46 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6 Responsible 6.1 Our Approach Sourcing and 6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability in Our Device and Supply Chain Group Manufacturing 6.3 Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials 6.4 Responsible Sourcing with Indirect Suppliers 6.5 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 47 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.1 Our Approach 6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability in Our Device and Supply Chain Group All suppliers doing business with Microsoft must uphold the ethical business, Our hardware business has grown since its inception in 1982. Our Device and Supply employment, environmental, and worker safety practices prescribed in our Supplier Chain Group manages this supply chain, which spans 25 countries around the Code of Conduct—which aligns with, and in certain cases exceeds, the Electronic world. To provide greater transparency on our hardware supply chain, we publish Industry Citizenship Coalition’s (EICC’s) responsible supply chain standards. We are an annual list of our top 100 production suppliers for our commercially available also committed to ensuring that suppliers of the raw materials incorporated into hardware products. During FY15, our supply chain integrated the Nokia Devices our products operate sustainably and ethically. and Services business, which expanded our suppliers to include those engaged in mobile device production.8 We apply risk-based approaches for the responthat our hardware and packaging suppliers sible management of all of our suppliers, with conform to our Supplier Code of Conduct and Microsoft Production Supplier Locations a particular focus on suppliers of products and additional hardware-related requirements for services that directly touch our customers, such living conditions, safe working practices, and Finland United Kingdom Netherlands as Microsoft-branded hardware devices and environmental, health, and safety protection. Ireland Germany packaging and outsourced customer service and Microsoft’s Global Procurement Group, which Belgium Czech Republic Austria support. We also work collaboratively with our Italy manages Microsoft’s spending with indirect China South Korea Malta Japan suppliers on proactive initiatives that create value (that is, non-hardware) suppliers, created a new USA Israel for their employees, the communities in which management function in 2013 to consolidate and Mexico Hong Kong they operate, and their own businesses. enhance responsible sourcing activities based Taiwan India on learnings and best practices from the SEA Thailand Philippines Within Microsoft, two groups work to ensure Program. Together, these two programs promote Vietnam Malaysia that our social, ethical, environmental, health, capacity-building and establish proactive partnerSingapore and safety requirements for suppliers are met. ships with suppliers, and embed social and Microsoft’s Device and Supply Chain Group environmental criteria into Microsoft’s core Brazil (DSC) established its Social and Environmental purchasing and sourcing decisions. Accountability (SEA) Program in 2005 to ensure 8 In July 2015 (after the end of FY15) Microsoft announced a restructuring of our phone business that will occur in FY16. Our 2016 Citizenship Report will address that restructuring. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 48 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability in Our Device and Supply Chain Group SEA Supplier We raise the performance bar with our existing suppliers while onboarding new suppliers. All new SEA Supplier Engagement Elements Engagement Approach and directly contracted hardware and packaging suppliers undergo initial risk assessments and initial Onboarding Assessments, Audits, and Corrective Action and Continuous Microsoft’s Supplier Code of Conduct and SEA capability assessments and audits. A combination of Requirements Scorecards Validation Improvements requirements are incorporated into our contracts third-party auditors and/or members of Microsoft’s Contracts Third-Party Auditors and Root Cause Identification Enhanced Living Microsoft SEA Assessors Conditions Checklist with Tier 1 suppliers that manufacture our hardware SEA team conduct these audits and assessments Supplier Code of Conduct Corrective and components and products, and strategic Tier 2 using a checklist composed of the Electronics SEA Specifications EICC Requirements plus Preventative Action Best Practices Microsoft Requirements suppliers and other suppliers contracted by Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) requirements Scorecards Microsoft to provide components and/or materials and additional Microsoft requirements on labor, to our Tier 1 suppliers. We also require these supplienvironmental protection, ethics, worker health and ers to address the SEA requirements with their own safety, and management systems. During the review upstream and downstream suppliers with which process, auditors examine documentation; visit Microsoft does not contract directly. Microsoft’s production lines, dorms, canteens, and waste factory and sourcing managers partner with our storage facilities; and conduct face-to-face SEA team of experts to ensure that Microsoft’s labor interviews of workers and factory management. rights, ethics, environment, occupational health, To ensure consistency and quality of third-party and safety requirements are met. audits, Microsoft pre-qualifies third-party auditors through shadow audits and assessments of their onsite audit performance and reports. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 49 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability in Our Device and Supply Chain Group After the initial baseline assessment, the SEA team monitors the performance of all directly Beyond auditing, learning directly from workers is a key priority. In FY14, we launched an anonymous SEA Audit and Changes in the number of audits and assessments conducted each year and the scope of those contracted suppliers. Third-party auditors audit and factory-independent worker grievance hotline Assessment Findings audits cause fluctuations in year-over-year SEA conformance with our Tier 1 suppliers annupilot project. This program continued to scale and comparisons. In addition, we are always learning ally and our Tier 2 suppliers based on their risk increase in quality and efficiency in FY15, though In FY15, we completed 314 third-party audits and during the course of our work, which results in level. Microsoft’s SEA team supplements these a new partnership with China Labor Support Microsoft assessments of 138 suppliers. These improvements to our program and can increase third-party audits with regular onsite assessments Network. In its first year of operation, we rolled audits and assessments continue to provide us findings. Nonetheless, to better facilitate compariof Tier 1 factories and highand medium-risk out the hotline in five Tier 1 factories and one with insight into the needs and challenges of our sons going forward, this year we also report Tier 2 component suppliers. Tier 2 factory. The hotline launch included worker supply chain and guide our investments in supplier nonconformance percentages of suppliers audited orientations to encourage use of the hotline and capability and future improvements. in addition to reporting total findings. In cases when nonconformances are detected, our to encourage factory management to consider SEA team works closely with suppliers to develop the hotline as a resource for workplace labor and In this report, we disclose all findings of critical/ We typically see improvements in performance corrective action plans to resolve detected issues, environment, health, and safety issues. In its first serious nonconformance with our SEA requireafter working with suppliers on an ongoing basis including building needed capabilities through year of operation, the hotline received a total of ments. These critical/serious findings were on previously addressed issues. For the first time, education and training. Suppliers are required 232 inquiries. The three most frequent topics were escalated to Microsoft senior management, and this year we also broke out findings by new and to identify the root cause, establish a corrective related to wages and benefits, factory procedure the suppliers were placed on restricted status with existing suppliers. New suppliers are those new course of action, and implement preventive and policy, and living conditions. Starting in FY16, no new Microsoft business awarded until the to the Microsoft Device Supply Chain and audited actions for all issues found. Suppliers must we will make this hotline available to the rest of our issues were resolved. In all instances, the suppliers for the first time, while existing suppliers are those correct issues within specific deadlines based Tier 1 suppliers in China and select Tier 2 suppliers. instituted corrective action plans that were which received audits and assessments in the past. on the severity of the nonconformance or risk approved by Microsoft and follow-up audits While informative, we emphasize that the percenttermination of our business. confirmed that the suppliers were implementing ages are affected by our raising the bar on supplier the corrective action plans. performance year over year and enhancement of audit quality and auditor requirements. In the following SEA Audit and Assessment Results table, we provide year-over-year data on findings of critical/serious nonconformance with the requirements covered in these audits and assessments. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 50 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability in Our Device and Supply Chain Group SEA Audit and Assessment Results 9 Findings of Critical/Serious Distribution by % Category/Provision Nonconformances of Suppliers Audited 10 Labor FY13 FY14 FY15 FY15 Environment FY13 FY14 FY15 FY15 Management Systems FY13 FY14 FY15 FY15 New Existing New Existing New Existing New Existing New Existing New Existing Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Freely Chosen Environmental Permits Labor and Ethics 2 6 1 1 1% 1% 0 0 0 1 0% 1% 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Employment 11 and Reporting Mgt Systems Pollution Prevention and Environment, Health & Child Labor Avoidance 12 1 3 6 3 7% 3% 0 0 0 0 0% 0% 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Resource Reduction Safety Mgt Systems Working Hours 13 1 2 0 1 0% 1% Hazardous Substances 0 2 0 0 0% 0% Wages and Benefits 14 8 14 4 2 3% 2% Wastewater and Solid Findings of Critical/Serious Waste 2 1 0 0 0% 0% Category/Provision Nonconformances Humane Treatment 1 3 0 0 0% 0% Air Emissions 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Total Critical/ Non-Discrimination 15 3 6 1 0 1% 0% Product Content 22 40 17 10 Restrictions – 0 0 0 0% 0% Serious Findings Freedom of Association 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Ethics Health and Safety Business Integrity 0 0 0 0 0% 0% 9 Number of instances found of critical/serious non-conformances by third-party audits and Microsoft SEA High-Risk Health & Safety 1 0 1 0 1% 0% assessments (which are both based on the EICC audit protocols with additional Microsoft requirements). No Improper Advantage 0 0 0 0 0% 0% 10 Percentage represents number of the suppliers with critical/serious findings on each issue out of the base Occupational Safety 1 0 2 1 2% 1% of 138 suppliers audited. Disclosure of Information – 1 0 1 0% 1% Emergency Preparedness 11 The two cases are related to student workers, whose original ID cards were kept by their teacher. 0 0 0 0 0% 0% and Response Protection of Intellectual 12 Examples of these nine nonconformances include two child labor issues and seven issues of student 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Occupational Injury Property workers working overtime. Neither child labor nonconformance found underage workers in the factory: 0 0 0 0 0% 0% and Illness Fair Business, Advertising, one found evidence of past underage workers and one found insufficient documentation of legal proof of – 0 0 0 0% 0% and Competition age. In both cases, the factories instituted new procedures for verifying and documenting proof of age to Industrial Hygiene 2 2 2 0 1% 0% Protection of Identity 0 0 0 0 0% 0% prevent hiring underage workers. Physically Demanding Work 0 0 0 0 0% 0% 13 The case is related to incomplete and inaccurate attendance records of workers. Responsible Sourcing of – 0 0 0 0% 0% 14 Examples of the cases involved factories not paying sufficient overtime compensation according to the Machine Safeguarding 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Minerals local minimum wage. Privacy – 0 0 0 0% 0% 15 This case is for requiring a pregnancy test for female workers during the onboarding health examination. Dormitory and Canteen 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Non-Retaliation – 0 0 0 0% 0% Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 51 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability in Our Device and Supply Chain Group SEA Audits and Assessments Enhancing Workplace Over the past several years, we also significantly expanded job-related and life skills training • Rolling out training in parenting programs to support migrant parent workers who may be 314 Experiences opportunities in one or more of our Tier 1 supplier far away from their families. This program factories, including: helps the migrant parents build and maintain 278 There is growing recognition among industry meaningful relationships with their children to advocates that compliance audits and assessments • Creating a factory-specific curricula and ensure that they are not only materially looked are not a long-term solution to consistent perfordelivery model for our China YouthSpark after, but emotionally as well. In FY15, the nine 217 mance. We seek to establish best practices over Information Technology (IT) skills training suppliers rolled out the training to all their time by building supplier capabilities through program. By the end of the pilot, December workers, especially targeting their migrant training and sharing experiences and best 2013 to December 2014, a total of 6,731 workers workers. By the end of June 2015, a total of 149 131 138 practices, including detailed guidelines on how (4,451 online and 2,280 classroom) had taken 1,600 workers participated in this training. to improve factory workers’ living environments the class. FY13 and environmental health and safety systems. An example of this is the implementation of our Tier 1 • Providing reproductive health education FY14 Model Factory Scorecard, created in FY13 with programs at all of our Tier 1 suppliers through FY15 input from worker surveys and suppliers to identify the HERproject (Health Enables Returns) run by Number of suppliers Total number of best practices in living and working conditions. Business for Social Responsibility. In FY15, we audited and assessed third-party audits and Microsoft assessments Through this collaborative effort and quarterly trained a total of 7,685 workers, bringing the scorecard tracking progress, we are pleased to total number of workers trained since we report that in FY15 all of our Tier 1 factories met our launched in FY12 to 179,598 workers. target performance goal of 95 percent or more on the Model Factory Scorecard, and we are now • Piloting line leader capability training to working with those factories to help them achieve improve front-line supervisors’ communication 100 percent compliance. skills and management effectiveness. The pilot program trained 30 line leaders, each responsible for on average 30 workers (in total affecting 900 workers). Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 52 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability in Our Device and Supply Chain Group Environmental, Health, and • Safety Culture Injury Data Tracking We track key health and safety performance factory and worker conditions have advanced at many of our suppliers. Suppliers who failed to meet Safety Capability Building • EH&S Professionals and Senior Management indicators for our Tier 1 factories using standard the requirements are subject to phase-out and Capability Improvement OSHA metrics. In FY15, our Tier 1 suppliers avertermination of business with Microsoft. Factory worker health and safety is a top priority aged a work-related injuries and illness rate of for Microsoft. Over the past four years, we have • EH&S Employee Participation significantly expanded our engagements to help 0.045 versus an industry benchmark of 1.4, and a lost working-hour accident rate of 0.031 versus an Sustainable Manufacturing suppliers create and maintain safe working envi• Risk Behavior Change industry benchmark of 0.7. ronments. These programs included the following. In addition to meeting legal requirements, we apply the same Social and Environmental • EH&S Standardization Key Tier 2 Supplier Improvement Program Training Resources Accountability standards and processes to the In FY14, to address the growing need for additional We created a training platform called SEA • Risk Assessment factories we own and directly operate. Within our capacity building among some Tier 2 suppliers, we Academy that includes labor, ethics, environMicrosoft Devices Group (now called the Windows launched a new program to provide targeted mental, health, and safety (EH&S) training course • Chemical Safety and Management and Devices Group), we created a global manufaccomponent suppliers with onsite consulting from modules for suppliers. In FY15, we also conducted turing Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) team the SEA program team. We also continued our trainings for 504 trainees from our high-risk sup• Line Manager EH&S Skills Improvement of experts in industrial safety, occupational health, program to target our lowest performing compopliers. The courses are also designed as a “train and environmental sustainability to work across nent suppliers with special additional inspections the trainer” with project management training to • Safety Officer Certification for EH&S Staff these factories to align programs and priorities, that include Microsoft executives as well as SEA complement the expert content and provide tools ensure excellence in EH&S, and drive continuous and Sourcing team members. This subset of on how to successfully improve their factories. • Prevention of Occupational Disease improvement. This new team works closely to align suppliers face an additional compliance scorecard approaches with our existing Supplier Social and and must improve their performance within a Health and Safety Programs • Effective Water Management Environmental Accountability team that addresses quarter. Additional time may be given in certain We worked with factory management to emphasize labor rights, employee health and safety, and occasions that are justified and approved by the the need to use competent and experienced EH&S In FY15, 528 SEA professionals from the Microsoft environmental standards in our hardware and SEA team. As a result of the close engagement and professionals to define and implement the programs Device Supply Chain attended our SEA in-house packaging suppliers and with our corporate-wide collaboration with suppliers to make improvements necessary to build a culture of health and safety. To training, representing factories with more than Occupational Health & Safety & Well Being team identified during these audits and assessments, address this, we piloted a number of training modules 32,000 workers. in Human Resources. in our Tier 1 and high-risk Tier 2 suppliers, including: Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 53 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.3 Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials Microsoft’s commitment to the responsible production of our hardware and discussion of our conflict minerals due diligence More detailed results of our conflict minerals due process and findings in our June 2015 Conflict diligence process and findings are available in our packaging extends to the raw materials that go into them. In 2014, we formalized Minerals Report filed with the US Securities and latest Conflict Minerals Report, available on our our values and approach around upstream responsible sourcing through our Exchange Commission under requirements of Responsible Sourcing webpage for download. Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials policy, which goes beyond conflict minerals the Dodd-Frank Act. Microsoft’s report has been to apply to all materials sourced around the world. This policy extends our Supplier cited for its leadership in transparency with the We also have supported the Conflict Free Smelter disclosure of as much smelter-level and countryInitiative (CFSI) since its inception in 2010 and Code of Conduct expectations in support of human rights, labor, health and safety, of-origin data as we have available. As with our donated to the initial audit fund to make it easier environmental protection, and business ethics to all harvested and extracted broader efforts on mining sustainability, we for smelters to become certified through CFSI’s materials incorporated into our products. believe that collaborative partnerships are most Conflict Free Smelter Program. effective in addressing conflict minerals. We support several other organizations We exercise due diligence across our supply chain for the supply chains dependent upon the use of Meaningful progress related to conflict minerals is promoting responsible mining and an end through a material tracing process that allows us metals, ranging from underage labor to environreflected in our Conflict Minerals Report filed with to conflict in and around the DRC, including the to immediately identify the constituent substances mental degradation. On the specific issue of tin the US Securities and Exchange Commission in Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals used in our products and trace them back to their originating from Indonesia, Microsoft is also a June 2015. The number of conflict-free smelters in Trade and the Responsible Sourcing Network’s associated suppliers. Beyond our own supply member of the IDH Tin Working Group, which our supply chain increased from 80 to 148, due to Multi-Stakeholder Group. chain due diligence, we have now moved our brings together a range of stakeholders seeking the integration of Nokia’s Devices and Services collaborative efforts to the upstream mining to address the social and environmental issues Group, supplier outreach, and the maturation of industry, through direct participation in and related to tin mining. the Conflict Free Smelter Program (CFSP), of which support of the Initiative for Responsible Mining we were an original participant and remain a Assurance, Pact, and the Alliance for ResponIn another example, we have collaborated with strong supporter. In addition, in spring 2015 we sible Mining, to holistically cover end-to-end our suppliers and other hardware companies since passed a significant milestone with all tantalum mining sustainability, from artisanal to larger 2007 to address conflict minerals from the eastern smelters identified in the Microsoft supply chain mining enterprises. It is our intention that these DRC. Our suppliers must not knowingly use validated as conflict-free. We strengthened our initiatives eventually will enable our suppliers to minerals that are not DRC conflict-free and we supplier audit process to improve due diligence, purchase responsibly sourced materials for use in expect our suppliers to engage in similarly robust developed new controls to standardize supplier our products and address important challenges due diligence activities. We provide a detailed reports, and initiated third-party assistance to help smelters prepare for CFSP validation. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 54 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.4 Responsible Sourcing with Indirect Suppliers As with our SEA Program for hardware suppliers, Microsoft’s Global Procurement Supplier Diversity Microsoft Spending with Minority-, Disabled-, Veteran-, and Woman-Owned Businesses Group’s responsible sourcing initiatives span a broad range of work to ensure Microsoft has a long-standing and strong compliance, advance sustainability in procurement processes, and pursue commitment to source from historically disFY15 partnerships with suppliers. advantaged groups. Our Procurement team FY14 $2.3 Billion is committed to increasing our spending with FY13 Microsoft screens our indirect (that is, nonResponsibility reports that include metrics drawn diverse suppliers as part of our Supplier Diver$2 Billion $1.9 Billion hardware) suppliers on an ongoing basis against from the Global Reporting Initiative. sity Program. In FY15, Microsoft spent $2.3 23 different ethical, social, and environmental billion with minority-, disabled-, veteran-, and risks by country and by commodity category, Finally, another significant requirement launched woman-owned businesses, placing Microsoft and applies assurance requirements for suppliers in FY15 and being rolled out into FY16 involves in the top 20 companies globally for spending found to pose the highest risks. Among these, we new procurement standards to ensure that a wide with diverse suppliers. We also have focused have dedicated supplier training and assurance variety of suppliers that do business with Microsoft programs in place to encourage diversity programs related to anti-corruption and privacy in the US provide their employees who handle among the law firms we do business with and and security. our work with at least 15 days of paid leave each to increase the diversity of banks and financial year. We believe we were the first large company institutions we use. For our top strategic suppliers, our Responsible to take this approach, and we gained significant Sourcing program monitors compliance with attention for the move from the media, policymakour Supplier Code of Conduct through quarterly ers, and other companies. We are working to be scorecards that are integrated into their business thoughtful to ensure the changes don’t undermine dashboards and review. For our suppliers of prodthe breadth and diversity of our suppliers as we ucts and services that directly touch our customers implement the new requirement. (for example, our outsourced customer service and support) the program ensures compliance through onsite assessments. These suppliers also face additional Responsible Sourcing Requirements to issue annual Corporate Social Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 55 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.4 Responsible Sourcing with Indirect Suppliers Supplier Capacity Building and We provide supplier development and training resources, including our Supplier Code of Conduct Through the Microsoft YouthSpark Supplier Community Technology Center (CTC) program, In a separate initiative, in FY15 we continued our collaboration with the Rockefeller Foundation to Partnerships Training Program. This online training is mandawe collaborate with suppliers to further extend research and promote best practices in “Impact tory for a segment of our suppliers based on risk the reach of Microsoft’s YouthSpark initiative. Sourcing” with suppliers that proactively seek to Beyond risk mitigation, we also work to to ensure they understand and follow ethical We provide curriculum and support to help our provide work and training opportunities to high advance citizenship projects with our suppliers business practices in accordance with our Supplier suppliers use their facilities to host technology potential but disadvantaged individuals. Several that create shared value. We encourage and Code of Conduct. In FY15, 55,063 employees at skills trainings for their employees and local of our suppliers have embraced this concept and recognize suppliers who made exceptional 6,413 suppliers completed this training. Beyond community members. These trainings provide partnered with us in a multi-stakeholder group impact in social and environmental areas through this mandatory training, we invite key suppliers participants with an opportunity to receive a to develop Impact Sourcing success metrics, and our supplier awards program, which highlights to participate in webinars and workshops on no-cost Microsoft Digital Literacy certificate, a key also helped developed business cases on Impact those awarded as examples to attendees of our topics ranging from Microsoft’s carbon neutrality qualification for many technology jobs. To date, Sourcing. In addition, our suppliers have commitannual supplier summit. In 2015 these awards program to the latest Global Reporting Initiatives 16 suppliers have launched centers at 26 locations ted to create over 5,000 Impact Employment jobs. included a Supplier Diversity Award, Bring the guidelines. We participate in the CDP Supply Chain in 13 countries and 45,000 participants have In FY15, Microsoft supported Impact Sourcing Opportunity Divide Leadership Award, Impact Program to provide our suppliers a standardized achieved a Microsoft Digital Literacy Certificate. projects in the United States, Kenya, Uganda, and Sourcing Leadership Award, and Climate Perforplatform to understand the risks and opportunities India for services such as facilities management, mance Leadership Award. that climate change presents to them. and we are working to extend this approach with more suppliers. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 56 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 6.5 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Progress Against FY15 Goals FY16 Strategic Goals Goal: Evaluating and aligning our principles, policies, and Goal: Continuing to invest in improving the management Goal: Enhancing the screening of our non-hardware supply • Broadening the scale of our SEA supply chain programs, activities across the Microsoft Devices Group to include the system capabilities of low-performing, high-risk Tier 2 facchain annually for ethical, social, and environmental risks such as the SEA Academy, Model Factory Program, factories and suppliers related to the Nokia Devices and tories by providing targeted SEA consulting and training. and deepening assurance requirements for suppliers found Worker Grievance reporting, Labor and EH&S capability Services business we acquired near the end of FY14. to pose the highest risks. These will include EICC-based building, to continue to enhance worker living and As detailed in this chapter, we continued these efforts supplier self-assessment questionnaires, contractually working conditions. As reported in this chapter, we are applying the same SEA and continue to see significant progress by participating binding Responsible Sourcing Requirements, quarterly requirements that we apply to our suppliers’ factories to the suppliers. scorecards, onsite assessments, and third-party audits. • Increasing our ongoing investment in improving the factories we own. In FY15, we worked to align factory policies management system capabilities of low-performing, and practices with our labor, health and safety, environment, Goal: Working collaboratively with NGOs and others in our In FY15 we continued to refine and enhance our approaches high-risk Tier 2 factories by providing targeted SEA and ethics systems that we apply to our contracted suppliers industry to advance the goals of the Microsoft Policy on to screening our indirect suppliers and applying a range of consulting and training. and to our existing factory in Wilsonville, Oregon. Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials, including further assurance mechanisms, including onsite assessments based progress addressing conflict minerals. on suppliers’ risks. As described in this chapter, Microsoft • Continuing to strengthen engagements and work Goal: Continuing to scale our SEA supply chain programs screens our non-hardware suppliers on an ongoing basis collaboratively with NGOs and the electronics and other such as the Model Factory Program, Worker Grievance As reported in this chapter and our Conflict Minerals Report, against 23 different ethical, social, and environmental risks industry sectors to advance the goals of the Microsoft reporting, and EH&S capability building to continue to we expanded our NGO partnerships and made significant by country and by commodity. Policy on Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials, enhance worker living and working conditions. progress tracking minerals in our supply chain and expandincluding further progress addressing conflict minerals. ing coverage of certified conflict-free smelters. As detailed in this chapter, we continued or expanded all • Expanding consideration of the sustainability of these efforts and continue to see significant progress by performance of our indirect suppliers in our procurement participating suppliers. decisions and supplier awards. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 57 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7 Environmental 7.1 Our Approach Sustainability 7.2 Products 7.3 Our Business Practices 7.4 Water and Waste 7.5 Partnerships 7.6 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 58 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.1 Our Approach Microsoft believes that information technology has tremendous potential to help Environmental Principles, Our environmental strategy includes a corporate carbon neutrality goal as well as goals for specific solve pressing environmental and energy challenges. We understand and embrace Policies, and Management areas of our business, ranging from datacenter the opportunity to help people and organizations around the world improve the efficiency to energy and waste reduction at environment. We seek to advance sustainability through the products and cloud Our commitment to environmental sustainability Microsoft campuses to the use of recycled content spans our company. We seek to advance in packaging. Microsoft employees receive the capabilities we offer to our customers and partners, and the use of big data to sustainability through the products and platform appropriate role-based environmental training discover the next generation of innovations and insights. capabilities we offer our customers and partners, and certifications as needed for their jobs, such as our own business practices, and our global training in chemical management for hardware lab At the same time, we recognize the need to This commitment was achieved by boosting partnerships with governments, academics, employees and design for environment training address our own environmental footprint as efficiency, purchasing renewable energy in the nonprofits, and others. for packaging engineers. We also promote broad both our datacenter operations and hardware markets of our operations equal to 100 percent environmental awareness by emailing an annual offerings grow. Microsoft is pioneering new of our energy consumption where available, and Microsoft’s commitments to environmental susupdate on our environmental goals and progress ways technology can make our own operations conducting a voluntary carbon offset program. tainability are articulated in our Environmental to all Microsoft employees globally. more sustainable. Since 2013, we’ve achieved 100 We also work hard to ensure sustainability is Principles and Climate Change Policy Statement percent carbon neutrality for our global operations, considered at each state of the lifecycle of our and embedded in other corporate policies for how Core parts of Microsoft’s operations are which includes our datacenters, labs, offices, devices, from their design through end of life. we run our business, such as our Environmental certified to the International Organization manufacturing facilities, and business air travel. Compliance Specifications for hardware and our for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental policy on Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials. Management System. This includes our European Operations Center, all Microsoft-owned manufacMicrosoft has a global corporate environmenturing sites and all the contract manufacturing tal strategy team and environmental experts facilities of our Tier 1 hardware suppliers. Microsoft embedded within engineering, supply chain, also earned a cross-company, corporate-level procurement, research, real estate and facilities, ISO 14001 certification for Microsoft’s hardware datacenters, and legal and corporate affairs. Their and packaging manufacturing supply chain work is governed through executive oversight and management and operations. is reviewed semi-annually by the Regulatory and Public Policy Committee of our Board of Directors. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 59 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.2 Products We are committed to delivering products, solutions, and services that help Cloud and Azure With Microsoft Azure, businesses can use Microsoft carbon neutral datacenters for organizations boost efficiency and minimize environmental impact. As a carbon neutral cloud services provider, on-demand compute and storage, helping save Microsoft offers organizations a carbon-efficient energy costs and reduce their company’s carbon Driving Energy Efficiency scope. FY15 was also the first year for ULE 110 certifications of mobile phones. This certification and carbon neutral alternative to running their footprint while also reducing the capital costs associated with purchasing hardware and infrain and with Our Services establishes multiple sustainability criteria for own private datacenters. Moving to Microsoft cloud services for Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft structure. The Microsoft cloud is also connecting and Devices mobile phones, including packaging, materials, manufacturing and operations, energy efficiency SharePoint, and Microsoft Dynamics CRM capabilipublic and private data sources with the privacy, ties can help businesses reduce energy use and security, and control needed for cities to have of the power supply, health and environment, and effective cross-departmental collaboration We are focused on and committed to increasing carbon emissions by 30 to 90 percent per user end of life management. All Xbox consoles are and resource sharing for greater efficiency; the computing power per unit of energy consumed versus running on-premises. configured to automatically reduce energy use scalability and cost-effectiveness of cloud services across the services and devices that we offer in while inactive. We also have committed to limit help reduce costs without cutting essential the marketplace. Each new version of Windows Xbox energy consumption in dashboard and services. Organizations that invest in Microsoft offers enhancements to energy efficiency and media play. Azure will be able to harvest information and data power management tools, including a new Energy Saver Mode added to Windows 10. Third-party as resources to help service increasing populations We work to reduce the environmental impacts of more efficiently and with less waste. applications also have an important role to play, our products and services but see even greater and we provide energy-smart development opportunity to benefit the environment at scale by guidance and tools for developers and IT profesdelivering products, solutions, and services that sionals developing for the Windows platform. help our customers’ organizations boost efficiency and minimize their environmental impact. In FY15, Microsoft certified its first ENERGY STAR and EPEAT registered product, Surface Pro 3, when the standards were revised to bring tablets into Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 60 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.2 Products CityNext • Energy and water. By using digital technology to integrate and manage distributed energy Productivity Microsoft Office 365 solutions support the new world of work by streamlining communications For cities, Microsoft CityNext partners provide supply and demand data, Microsoft partners With the increasing number of interconnected and collaboration and thereby reducing the solutions spanning energy, water, buildings, are working to improve the reliability, security, devices—from thermostats, appliances, and need for business travel and commuting—while infrastructure, and transportation to help modernand efficiency of the electric system, as well as fixtures, to equipment, vehicles, and charging stadelivering all the environmental benefits of cloud ize cities in sustainable ways that will minimize using technology to measure, manage, and tions—all generating massive sets of data, big data computing. Skype adds to these enterprise-grade their resource use and environmental impact. Our report on carbon and other environmental is changing what is possible with sustainability. collaboration, online conferencing, and desktopbroad portfolio of familiar consumer and business impacts. Microsoft is investing to help customers manage sharing capabilities with its global customer base, platforms and partner solutions—which many smart resources using big data through tools for making it even easier for businesses to use online cities already use—are meeting customers wher• Transportation. Through software, Microsoft Windows Server and Windows Azure. meetings in place of travel to connect with trading ever they are on the technology innovation curve partners are helping to improve the design and partners and customers. and helping them to build a bridge to the future. operation of transport networks and run realThrough data and analytics, customers are gaining Within our Sustainable Cities focus, we deliver time data systems that can facilitate cleaner and vital insights from millions of devices, social solutions for: more efficient transport choices. media channels, and business systems. This data represents a significant opportunity to make more To date, we have recruited more than 1,000 part• Buildings, infrastructure, and planning. accurate decisions, achieve greater efficiencies, ners that are delivering more than 870 solutions Microsoft partners are using both design and and become more sustainable in areas like energy, in countries all around the world from Ankara, embedded technology to lower the energy water, buildings, transportation, and countless Turkey, to Auckland, New Zealand. consumption and improve the performance of other scenarios. For example, to increase the use buildings. By combining existing systems with of renewable energy, big data can be used to cloud-based analytics and business intelligence more effectively understand and anticipate energy capabilities, buildings can be smarter and more demand and consumption in near real time, which efficient, and save about 10 percent of energy can enable more responsive generation. Distribucosts per year. tion needs to become more flexible to manage renewable sources, and end use is critical to the equation in taking advantage of technology, eliminating waste, and optimizing consumption. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 61 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.2 Products Design for Green Devices To address sustainability in packaging, we’ve designed packaging for Xbox One, Surface, and Device Take-Back software and non-profit organization licenses for those serving non-profits and schools. Through The Safety, Compliance, and Sustainability team our hardware peripherals to reduce the use of and Recycling these programs, Microsoft and our refurbisher within the Microsoft Devices Group incorporates materials and replace plastics with paperboard partners provided nonprofits and schools access packaging and materials from sugarcane waste. Microsoft is committed to meeting and going to 746,140 refurbished computers in FY15. environmental and safety principles and processes We also set standards of a minimum of 50 percent beyond government standards on take-back and in the design and production of our devices and recycled content (25 percent of which must be responsible recycling or disposal of electronics, Microsoft works to responsibly reuse, refurbish, or product packaging. The team works with design post-consumer) for paperboard packaging and a batteries, and packaging. We are a member of recycle used computers and electronics from our groups through a Design for Green initiative minimum of 25 percent post-consumer content more than 145 government-mandated recycling own operations and used personal and electronic to evaluate and encourage the use of more for rigid plastic packaging. schemes and producer responsibility organizations items from our employees. For our own e-waste environmentally benign materials, increase worldwide. In addition, we also offer several volunand the e-waste we collect from employees and the recyclability of our devices and packaging, tary take-back and recycling programs, including customers, Microsoft requires external certification and minimize material use. The team provides incentives to bring used electronics to Microsoft of the recycling partners that we contract with guidance on alternative materials and other ways Stores for recycling. We offer a comprehensive and bans any landfilling or exportation of used to address environmental impacts. We also require online tool to help consumers understand the electronics that they collect. The recycling partners our suppliers to identify every material that’s in our recycling options available to them in their specific directly contracted by Microsoft to manage our products and to follow a comprehensive list of location. Where no local options exist, consumers e-waste and the e-waste we collect from employees restricted substances specifications to avoid can use the tool to contact Microsoft and we will and customers must meet stringent specifications. hazardous materials. generate a postage-paid e-label for them to use These include a product landfill and export ban. to send their equipment to a contracted recycler Microsoft also requires the recyclers to be certified for free. by a recognized scheme such as ISO 14001, R2, or E-Steward; conduct assessments of their downMicrosoft also offers two programs, Microsoft stream partners; track the material types and Authorized Refurbisher (MAR) and Microsoft quantities that they process to final disposition; Registered Refurbisher Program (RRP), that help and provide a certificate of destruction. Finally, refurbishers extend the life of used PCs by providMicrosoft forbids the use of prison or other ing them with commercial licenses for Microsoft involuntary labor to staff recycling operations. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 62 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.3 Our Business Practices We are mindful that environmental stewardship needs to begin with our own renewable electricity to power 23 percent of our we also announced an even larger power puroperations, and are exploring opportunities to chase agreement for all of the output of the new operational practices, which includes delivering on our commitment to be expand our direct purchase of renewable energy 175-MW Pilot Hill Wind Project. We also generate carbon neutral and to procure 100 percent renewable energy. and support the construction of new renewable a small amount of onsite renewable energy, such energy projects. In FY15 we purchased more than as from solar panels covering the rooftops on our Carbon Neutrality in the same markets as our operations wherever possible) and externally certified carbon 3.2 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) of renewable energy, and in January 2015 the US Environmental Silicon Valley campus. Finally, access to renewable energy is among the criteria that we consider in Commitment and Carbon Fee offset projects. Protection Agency ranked us as the secondsiting datacenters, and a number of our datacenlargest user of green power in the US. The new ters, like our complex in Quincy, Washington, are Since July 1, 2012, Microsoft has achieved carbon In April 2015 Microsoft released a whitepaper 110-megawatt (MW) Keechi Wind project that we powered by hydroelectricity. neutrality across our global operations, spanning describing the progress made with our carbon funded through a 20-year agreement to purchase more than 100 countries, for our datacenters, fee since its inception, in the hope to inspire other 100 percent of its output came online in FY15, and software development labs, offices, business air organizations to take similar action. Among the travel, and (as of July 1, 2015) Microsoft-owned results it details: since the inception of the carbon manufacturing operations. Our carbon neutral fee, we have purchased more than 10 million In order of preference, we seek to use renewable energy by: strategy hinges on company-wide accountability, megawatt-hours (MWh) of green power, reduced achieved through an internal carbon fee our emissions by 7.5 million metric tons of carbon cascaded globally to our business groups. dioxide equivalent (mtCO2e), saved more than 1 2 3 This chargeback model puts a price on carbon $10 million a year, and had an impact on more and makes the company’s business divisions than 3.2 million people in emerging nations Connecting facilities directly Signing long-term renewable Investing in green power responsible for the cost of reducing and compenthrough carbon offset community projects. to renewable energy sources power purchase agreements (RECs) to match our total sating for the carbon emissions associated with where feasible. in regions where we electricity usage with the their electricity use and air travel. The carbon Besides our carbon neutrality commitment, we have operations and those equivalent number of fee funds energy efficiency investments, purchashave a 100 percent renewable energy commitprojects are viable. RECs that are credible, are ing renewable energy equal to 100 percent of our ment, which we meet through direct purchases of verifiable, and add additional consumption (with the green power purchases renewable energy and the purchase of renewable renewable energy to the grid. energy credits. We currently use directly purchased Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 63 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.3 Our Business Practices Driving Energy Efficiency of deployment. We are sharing our results with government and industry leaders from around which ran completely independently of the grid from 2014 to 2015 by using energy generated from Carbon Footprint Across Our Operations the globe and making similar solutions available biogas, a byproduct of a nearby water treatment and Energy Use through partners to our customers (such as plant. We’ve also pioneered a new concept to Building Efficiency Investments through Microsoft CityNext offerings). With integrate fuel cells directly into server racks, which We have a longstanding commitment to Our last round of carbon-fee funded efficiency inefficient commercial buildings responsible f we expect to effectively cut datacenter energy transparently disclosing our carbon footprint projects and other energy-efficiency investments or upwards of 40 percent of the world’s energy intensity in half by eliminating transmission losses and have voluntarily reported our carbon footprint by our Real Estate and Facilities group totaled consumption, we see the huge potential environand other inefficiencies. We are working with through CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure over $3.1 million in investments that reduced our mental and business impacts from this approach. industry partners and the DOE to pilot and comProject) since 2004. Data on our carbon emissions associated carbon emissions by 18,179 metric tons mercialize new energy technologies that will be are available on the CDP website. We also have and also paid for themselves in less than a year Datacenters foundational to the next generation of efficient pilot projects to encourage portions of our supply with $3.6 million in energy savings. Beyond cost We’re designing energy-saving approaches into datacenter designs. In another step forward in this base to report their emissions to CDP. In recognisavings, we’ve also found opportunities to create our new datacenters, such as using outside air approach, in FY15 we established a partnership tion of our climate efforts, CDP included Microsoft new areas of revenue. Microsoft created an cooling and airside economizers that dramatically with the University of Texas at San Antonio and the on its Global 500 Climate Performance Leadership analytical software solution that joined together cut the energy and water used for cooling. This school’s Texas Sustainable Energy Research InstiIndex in the past two years. In September 2014, 38,000 assets of disparate, sensor-enabled approach to cooling reduces energy consumption tute to identify economically viable technologies we earned the top grade “A” in CDP’s assessment equipment across the 125 buildings in our Puget by 15-20 percent and water consumption by 90 that further reduce the environmental footprint of of our performance to promote climate change Sound headquarters. The system processes 500 percent. Overall, our datacenters average 1.4 PUE datacenters. Beyond the datacenters themselves, mitigation, adaptation, and transparency, and CDP million data transactions every day to prioritize (Power Usage Effectiveness, one measure of data we’re building energy-saving features into our rated our disclosure and transparency on climate maintenance and repairs with the greatest center efficiency), more efficient than the industry cloud services, such as the ability for developers to issues at 99 out of 100. energy and cost saving potential. The solution is average of 1.7 PUE. automatically scale their resource use to demand. generating energy savings of 10–11 percent and an implementation payback of less than 24 months. We are concerned about not just efficiency inside We are now expanding the solution to our other the datacenter, but also how to create dramatically campuses with equally good results: the software more efficient systems, from the power plant to identified $240,000 of energy savings at our the chip. Examples of this approach include the Mountain View, CA campus within the first 30 days pilot project datacenter in Cheyenne, Wyoming, Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 64 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.3 Our Business Practices The following graphs and charts detail the highlights of our most recent filing with CDP and trends in our greenhouse gas emissions and energy use.16 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Energy Carbon Offsets Direct Emissions Indirect Emissions (continued) Total Energy Use, MWh 18 3,570,438 Total Purchase of Carbon Offsets, mtCO2e 396,531 Gross Scope 1 Emissions, mtCO2e 85,188 Gross Scope 3 Emissions, mtCO2e Total Energy Use by Type, MWh Total Direct GHG Emissions balanced by Carbon 100% Offset Purchases, % Gross Scope 1 Emissions, by GHG type, mtCO2e Purchased Goods and Services 17 8,000,000 Fuel 319,313 Total Indirect GHG Emissions Balanced by 17% CO2 72,043 Capital Goods 17 200,000 Electricity 18 3,240,620 Carbon Offset Purchases, % Fueland Energy-Related Activities Total Sale of Carbon Offsets, mtCO2e 0 CH4 22 283,234 Heat 0 (not included in Scope 1 or 2) Total Use of Carbon Sequestration/Capture 0 N2O 137 Steam 1,410 Upstream Transportation and Distribution 17 100,000 HFCs 12,986 Cooling 9,095 Waste Generated in Operations 2,441 Scope 1 Emissions Balanced by Carbon Renewable Energy Purchased or Generated and (85,188) Downstream Leased Assets 2,837 3,240,620 Offset Purchases, mtCO2e Consumed, MWh 18 Net Scope 1 Emissions, mtCO2e 0 Business Air Travel 310,117 Renewable Energy Purchased or Generated and 91% Consumed, % of Total Energy Use Indirect Emissions Business Travel, other 5,152 Renewable Energy Purchased or Generated 16 Note that because the CDP reporting deadline closes in May before Scope 3 Emissions, Business Air Travel, and Consumed by Source, MWh Gross Scope 2 Emissions, mtCO2e 1,521,370 the end of our fiscal year, the most recent CDP carbon footprint balanced by Carbon Offset Purchases, (310,117) Wind 3,130,592 data we have available and verified is for FY14, not FY15. We will Scope 2 Emissions balanced by Green Power mtCO2e (1,520,145) disclose updated FY15 data before the end of the calendar year at Purchases, mtCO2e Landfill gas 3,971 Net Scope 3 Emissions, Business Air Travel, www.microsoft.com/transparencyhub. Our greenhouse gas and Scope 2 Emissions balanced by Carbon Offset 0 (1,225) mtCO2e Biomass 77,100 energy data provided in our CDP filings and this report represent 100 Purchases, mtCO2e percent of Microsoft’s global operations and revenue. Net Scope 2 Emissions, mtCO2e 0 Hydro 28,340 17 The reported emissions for this category represent an estimate based on broad-based assumptions and have therefore been rounded. This On-Site Solar PV 617 category may be underor over-reported by as much as 50 percent. Non-Renewable Energy Use, MWh 329,818 18 Energy (electricity) data includes on-site solar generation as well as all electricity purchased and consumed. Non-Renewable Energy Use, % of Total 9% mtCO2e = metric tons CO2 equivalent; MWh = megawatt hours. Energy Use Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 65 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.3 Our Business Practices Year-Over-Year Year-Over-Year Greenhouse Gas Emissions 19 Energy Use 19 CY12 FY13 FY14 (total 2,803,335) (total 2,898,299) (total 3,570,438) CY12 FY13 FY14 2,000,000 18.0 3,500,000 50.0 17.5 3,240,620 16.7 1,800,000 16.4 16.0 45.0 310,117 3,000,000 2,630,343 2,732,483 Energy Consumption Normalized by Revenue (MWh/$M) 1,600,000 Normalized Emissions by Revenue (mtCO2e/$M) 14.0 41.1 304,739 293,811 1,521,370 40.5 40.0 2,500,000 39.1 1,400,000 12.0 1,277,364 Energy Consumption (MWh) 35.0 Total Emissions (mtCO2e) 1,200,000 1,217,167 10.0 2,000,000 1,000,000 30.0 8.0 1,500,000 800,000 25.0 6.0 600,000 1,000,000 70% Offset 20.0 4.2 4.0 400,000 3.8 3.6 500,000 2.0 15.0 200,000 309,622 301,979 319,313 1.1 1.0 1.0 100% 100% Offset Offset 10,405 10,872 10,505 0 0.0 0 10.0 80,518 78,116 85,188 Scope 1: Normalized Scope 1: Direct Emissions Scope 3: Indirect Emissions by Revenue Fuel Electricity Heating/Cooling Energy Use Normalized (onsite emissions) (air travel only) (including by Revenue Scope 2: Normalized Scope 2: Indirect Emissions % Offset through by Revenue onsite solar PV) (primarily electricity consumption) RECs/Carbon Offsets Scope 3 (air travel only): Normalized by Revenue 19 Data provided covers 100% of Microsoft’s global operations and revenues. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 66 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.4 Water and Waste Water FY14 Water Use by Source 20 tableware, administering aggressive recycling programs, and adapting our menu to get the Waste Disposal Trends (metric tons) 21 17,231 Microsoft’s operations are generally not water Rainwater Recycled Water Supplies most from each item of food served. (4,932) (402,282) intensive, with the exception of some of our datacenters that rely on water for cooling. We’ve worked We’ve also set a long-term goal of 90 percent 12,105 to mitigate the impacts of datacenter water use waste diversion from landfills across our global 9,960 by using recycled municipal waste water in some Groundwater headquarters facilities in the Puget Sound region (222,947) water-scarce locations such as San Antonio, Texas. of Washington, which represent approximately 36 percent of our total real estate portfolio. We’re 4,995 4,692 4,112 Beyond datacenters, Microsoft continues to rapidly approaching that goal and are working 3,270 2,491 2,252 invest in water-saving fixtures in our office to extend that goal to additional campuses in the buildings and smart landscape irrigation United States and around the globe. FY12 FY13 FY14 practices to conserve water. Our increased use of recycling and composting Landfill Recycle Compost Municipal Supply and lower waste to landfill is evident in the folTotal 3,003,173 (cubic meters) (2,373,012) lowing chart, covering data from our facilities products and reducing or eliminating unused across the Puget Sound region. We are working materials. When we do generate waste, we recycle to increase the amount of waste data we collect Waste across other Microsoft locations to improve our whenever possible and dispose of any remainder as required by local regulations. We have also 20 This data covers 65 percent of Microsoft facilities by square footage, including key water using data center operations. Additional waste reporting in the future. developed an auditing program to verify that any Microsoft’s Real Estate and Facilities teams around details of our water use and previous years’ reports are publicly facility that handles our waste for recycling or available in our CDP Water Project filing. As with emissions and the world implement waste minimization programs, As we expand our on-campus hardware device disposal can do so responsibly and while complyenergy data, we will disclose updated FY15 water data before the including office supply reuse, recycling, and in many end of the calendar year at www.microsoft.com/transparencyhub. labs, we have begun to generate hazardous waste ing with environmental regulations. In FY14 we cases, composting programs. Among our accom21 Data covers 74 percent of Microsoft’s global facilities by square and e-waste from developing and testing protogenerated 1.68 metric tons of hazardous waste plishments, we reduced, reused, or recycled 99 footage. As with emissions and energy data, we will disclose type devices. We have implemented a chemical across our Puget Sound facilities, which was updated FY15 water data before the end of the calendar year at percent of the waste from our Redmond, Washingmanagement program that helps employees disposed of at properly permitted US hazardous www.microsoft.com/transparencyhub. ton dining facilities by switching to compostable prevent waste generation by using less-polluting waste facilities. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 67 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.5 Partnerships Microsoft works with governments, policymakers, and NGOs around the world We have also supported industry and multi• We serve on the board of the Global stakeholder initiatives to address climate policy. e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), a collaborative to address key environmental issues that affect our business, employees, and Among these: effort between leading IT companies and the the communities we serve. We are driving policy development and research with United Nations Environment Programme and a broad range of diverse groups to achieve a more sustainable future. Through • We are a signatory to the Climate Declaration, a International Telecommunication Union. Microsoft Research and groups we sponsor, we are working to apply information nonpartisan statement from the business Microsoft has played a leadership role in the community developed by Ceres and its development of GeSI series of reports on how technology to address large-scale environmental challenges. Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy the ICT can address climate change (Smart (BICEP) coalition, which notes that “tackling 2020, Smarter 2020, and Smarter 2030). The Public Policy Engagement on nication technology (ICT) to advance energy efficiency, spur innovation and economic climate change is one of America’s greatest economic opportunities of the 21st century.” latest Smarter 2030 GeSI report identifies ways that ICT can enable a 20 percent reduction of Climate and Energy opportunity, and contribute to practical strategies global CO2 emissions by 2030. The report also for mitigating climate change. For the past six • We are a founding member of the Digital identifies how ICT can integrate renewables into Recognizing the need to work to address global years, our annual Global Public Policy Agenda Energy & Sustainability Solutions Campaign the grid, boost agricultural crop yields by 30 environmental challenges in broad partnerships, has included a section supporting government (DESSC), a coalition of leading ICT companies percent, save over 300 trillion liters of water, Microsoft’s Climate Change Policy Statement policies that support technological advances and environmental NGOs. DESSC is committed and conserve 25 billion barrels of oil a year. recognizes that climate change is “a serious and innovation to reduce energy use and limit to advancing public policies that help drive challenge that requires a comprehensive and the effects of climate change. This section also sustainable economic growth through ICTglobal response from all sectors of society.” includes support for cost-effective policies that enabled energy efficiency and clean energy Microsoft is working to advance public policies increase the availability of low carbon and renewinnovation. that promote the use of information and commuable energy for us to use in our operations. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 68 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.5 Partnerships Microsoft Research • Scientists at Microsoft Research Cambridge are working with the United Nations Environment Microsoft supports environmental research that Programme World Conservation Monitoring isn’t tied to developing a specific product or Centre to develop a model and tools that will service, but rather advances the field of computhelp scientists and policy makers assess how— ing and demonstrates how cloud services and in the face of an expanding population and mobile devices can combine to help solve some expanding resource use per capita—to balance of society’s biggest environmental challenges. Our the need for increased food, timber, and textiles own Microsoft Research (MSR) team is working production, with industrial use of natural on identifying and creating the next generation of resources, with the healthy functioning of climate change models, tools, and technologies natural, semi-natural, and artificial ecosystems. that will continue to drive our company and the world forward, including the following: • Microsoft Research’s Earth, Energy, and Environment collaboration projects focus on the development and adoption of technologies for scientific visualization and data management— especially technologies that accelerate insight into the environmental and earth sciences. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 69 Performance Our Company Ethical Business Our People Empowering Human Rights Responsible Environmental Highlights Conduct and Communities Sourcing and Sustainability Governance Manufacturing 7.6 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals FY15 Goals FY16 Goals • Continuing to achieve carbon neutrality and net-zero Goal: Maintaining our commitment to achieving carbon Goal: Meeting our 100 percent renewable energy commitemissions for our datacenters, software development neutrality and net-zero emissions for our datacenters, softment by matching the total amount of kWh consumed labs, offices, manufacturing facilities, and employee air ware development labs, offices, and employee air travel with the equivalent volume of renewable energy purtravel by increasing energy efficiency and investing in by increasing energy efficiency and investing in renewable chased. renewable energy and carbon offset projects. energy and carbon offset projects. We accomplished this, purchasing over 3.2 billion kWh of • Further increasing our direct purchases of We met these commitments in FY15 and expanded the green power and seeking to purchase green power in the renewable energy. program to also address Microsoft-owned manufacturing same markets as our operations wherever available. facilities in FY16. • Expanding our ecosystem of partners working with Goal: Expanding our global data collection and reporting Microsoft on sustainability solutions for cities through Goal: Establishing targets with business groups to improve of waste and water data. Microsoft’s CityNext initiative. operational energy efficiency. We expanded our global collection and reporting of waste Our Real Estate & Facilities group set energy efficiency data and continue working to enhance our reporting of targets and water use targets for our large campuses water data. that represent approximately 80 percent of our campus energy use. Goal: Building on the model of our 110-MW Keechi Wind power purchase agreement with additional large-scale commitments to purchase renewable energy. Beyond our Keechi Wind power purchase agreement, in FY15 we signed a 60 percent larger wind power purchase agreement to catalyze development of the new Pilot Hill Wind Power Project. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 70 This document is provided as is. Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal reference process. © 2015 Microsoft. All rights reserved. Bing, BizSpark, DreamSpark, Imagine Cup, Internet Explorer, Office, Office 365, Outlook, Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Dynamics, Microsoft YouthSpark, PhotoDNA, OneDrive, Skype, Surface, Windows, Xbox, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Xbox LIVE, and Yammer are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. Please consider the environment before printing this report. Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
