Sustainable Sourcing Innovation and Product Responsibility Labor Practices Climate Change and Environmental Protection Our Communities TUF Sustainability Report 2014 CONTENTS 01 About This Report 02 Global Leadership Team 04 CEO Message 07 Highlights 2014 08 TUF Business Overview 11 Sustainability Management at TUF 16 Material Issues 23 Economic Dimension 30 Environmental Dimension 42 Social Dimension 54 TUF Performance Summary 58 GRI Content Index & UNGC Principles COP 64 TUF Sustainability Report 2014 Working Team This report is also available online at www.thaiuniongroup.com For inquiries and feedback, please contact SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT, THAI UNION FROZEN PRODUCTS PCL. (TUF) 979/12 M Floor, S.M. Tower, Phaholyothin Road, Samsennai, Phayathai, Bangkok 10400, Thailand Tel.: 66 (0) 2298 0024, 2298 0537-41 Fax: 66 (0) 2298 0548, 2298 0550 About This Report TUF Sustainability Report 2014 01 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report details our performance during 2014 (1st January through 31st December 2014) against KPIs and targets across the five areas that form the focus of our sustainability management. The report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) version 4.0 (G4) guidelines and its Food Processing Sector Disclosures, addressing indicators and issues material to TUF’s sustainability at the “Core” level. The report also follows the guidelines of the United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) for communication on progress for the Ten Universal Principles. The content has been formally reviewed and approved by TUF’s executive management, and endorsed by the Board. The key elements of the G4 approach that we have focused on in this report, in keeping with the intent of the guidelines, are described below. PRINCIPLES FOR DEFINING REPORT CONTENT: • Engagement with stakeholders: This report responds to the stakeholder views collected from stakeholder engagement throughout 2014. • Sustainability context: We explain TUF’s role as a leading global seafood company that addresses the ever-increasing pressure from stakeholders on environmental and labor issues in our supply chain. • Materiality and completeness: We identify and describe the material issues that are important to our stakeholders and our business. The materiality assessment for this report covers TUF globally, whereas TUF Performance Summary covers only TUF Thailand Operations; namely Thai Union Frozen Products PCL., Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (TUM), Songkla Canning PCL. (SC), Pakfood PCL. (PPC), Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd. (TUS), and Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd. (TFM). PRINCIPLES FOR DEFINING REPORTING QUALITY: The G4 Guidelines set out principles for defining reporting quality. TUF is committed to continuous improvement of our stakeholder engagement and sustainability reporting. Following our stakeholder experience in 2014, we plan to formalize our stakeholder engagement process in 2015. As a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), this report is also our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the Global Compact and supporting broader United Nations goals on environmental and social responsibility. Global Leadership Team TUF Sustainability Report 2014 02 GLOBAL LEADERSHIP TEAM 2. Mr. Thiraphong Chansiri 4. Mr. Joerg Ayrle President and CEO Group CFO 1. Mr. Cheng Niruttinanon 3. Mr. Rittirong Boonmechote Executive Chairman President, Global Shrimp Business Unit TUF Sustainability Report 2014 03 5. Mrs. Elisabeth Fleuriot 7. Mr. Shue Chung Chan President and CEO, Assistant Managing Director, MW Brands SAS Fish Business Unit/ 6. Mr. Shue Wing Chan Head of Human Resource 8. Mr. Faisal Shafait Sheikh President and CEO, Director, Corporate Strategy Tri-Union Seafood, LLC and Business Development (Chicken of the Sea) CEO Message TUF Sustainability Report 2014 04 CEO MESSAGE “With our portfolio of leading international brands and an ambition to become a leading global player, finding a balance between business growth, social responsibility and environmental quality is key to the Group’s long-term development”. Thiraphong Chansiri – President and CEO TUF Sustainability Report 2014 05 Thai Union Frozen Products Public Company Limited (TUF) has the vision of being a leading global seafood company. Our goal is to reach USD 8 billion in annual revenues by 2020. We recognize that sustainability is a key driver of competitive advantage and include it alongside core strategic pillars such as operational excellence and innovation. Efforts to improve our economic, environmental, and social performance are critical to our continued success as a company, and have recently gained external recognition as well. In 2014, we were proud to be selected to join the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, one of the most respected global sustainability indices. The year 2014 had a strong operational performance and organic growth in key market segments, leading to record high revenue as well as enabling growth through strategic acquisitions. This benefits the Group as a whole in terms of cost synergies, securing of raw material supplies, new market expansions, risk diversifications and sustainability alignment. TUF acknowledges the ever-increasing pressure from stakeholders on environmental and labor issues in our supply chain. In response to these challenges, we have played a pro-active role in working with government, community and research organizations, as well as customers and industry peers to jointly develop and implement important initiatives to improve the sustainability of our seafood supply chain. Our sustainability strategy is divided Climate Change and With our portfolio of leading into five guiding principles, and Environmental Protection: international brands and an ambition we are proud to report progress in Development of Thai Union Group to become a leading global player, each of them: Climate Change strategy which finding a balance between business addresses the related-risk growth, social responsibility and Sustainable Sourcing: management and roadmap of environmental quality is key to the g Full compliance with International emission reduction as well as Group’s long-term development. Seafood Sustainability the establishment of a global Looking ahead, we anticipate more Foundation (ISSF) resolutions monitoring system for key alignment in term of key strategic to address Illegal, Unreported environmental performance. intents among Thai Union Group’s and Unregulated (IUU) fishery, companies towards major capacity management, by catch Innovation and Product sustainability challenges and and enhance traceability in Responsibility: A commercial opportunities. our supply chain. initiative of more than THB 100 g Starting a partnership with the million to establish Global Innovation On behalf of the Board of Directors, World Wide Fund for Nature in Incubator (GII) at the Faculty of executives, and all employees, we the UK (WWF UK) to address Science, Mahidol University, Thailand would like to take this opportunity sustainable supply chains of to develop research and studies to express our sincere gratitude to MW Brands products, and to regarding nutrition and production of all of our shareholders, customers, support communities dependent tuna and seafood-related products. communities, business partners, on sustainably managed and relevant stakeholders for their fisheries in the East Coast of Our Communities: continued support. We are strongly Africa. g “100 Years of Good” campaign committed to be the world’s most in the United States donated trusted seafood leader that holds the Labor Practices: Taking an more than USD 1,000,000 to utmost responsibility to our society active role in Shrimp Sustainable individuals and organizations and environment based on our five Supply Chain Task Force, an in local communities. guiding principles, and contribute to international industry alliance, g We opened the second TUF a sustainable world. to work towards a supply chain Child Care Center specifically that is free from illegal and forced to provide education to the labor through accountability, children of migrant workers in Thiraphong Chansiri verification and transparency. our Thailand operations. President and CEO The year 2014 was marked with milestones for Thai Union Group. They include two Mergers & Acquisitions in Europe, collecting brands that cover global markets, key partnerships in the continuous effort for sustainable supply chains and product innovation, as well as being included in the leading global benchmark Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 07 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 1 MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS PARTNERSHIPS RECOGNITION Thai Union Group welcomed Mer The establishment of the Global TUF is honored to be the first Thai Alliance SAS into the family. Innovation Incubator (GII) is a company in the food category to be MerAlliance is the fourth largest collaboration effort with the Faculty listed the Dow Jones Sustainability smoked salmon producer in Europe of Science, Mahidol University in Indices (DJSI). and the leader in the private label Thailand, to serve as a research and smoked salmon market in France development center for nutrition and DJSI recognizes the top corporate and the Netherlands. It is well production with the aim to create sustainability leaders around known for its high quality product innovative products, meeting the the world and is the most highly range, efficient supply chain, strong needs of consumers. respected global sustainability sustainability commitment, superior indices and benchmark. innovation capabilities and product Our MW Brands also started a excellence. partnership with World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), led by its office in We also acquired King Oscar AS, the UK, to improve the sustainability a 140 year-old company and the of seafood supply chains and to No. 1 brand for premium sardine support WWF’s work with costal products in Norway, USA and fishing communities in East Africa. Australia. King Oscar is recognized as one of the world’s top 10 seafood In addition, we have participated in brands and the Company’s the Shrimp Sustainable Supply Chain Norwegian heritage plays an Task Force, which is an international important role when protecting and industry alliance including leading enhancing fishing grounds. retailers, manufacturers, government and NGOs to working towards Thailand’s seafood supply chain that is free from illegal and forced labor through accountability, verification and transparency. TUF Business Overview TUF Sustainability Report 2014 08 TUF BUSINESS OVERVIEW Production Footprints span covering 4 continents in 9 countries NORWAY TUNA FRANCE GEORGIA, USA TUNA PORTUGAL NORTH NORTH TUNA PACIFIC OCEAN PACIFIC OCEAN Global Sourcing GHANA covering 6 locations SOUTH SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN PACIFIC OCEAN TUNA TUF Production Bases TUF Markets TUF Global Sourcing Manufacturings Footprint TUNA covering 9 countries TUNA SHRIMP in 4 continents; America, Production Capacity Production Capacity Asia, Africa and Europe 610,000 Tons per Year 100,000 Tons per Year TUF Sustainability Report 2014 09 9 leading Global Brands in 10 countries ARCTIC OCEAN EUROPE CHINA TUNA NORTH TUNA TUNA PACIFIC OCEAN THAILAND VIETNAM TUNA TUNA SEYCHELLES INDIAN OCEAN SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN SARDINE OVERALL PET FOOD GLOBAL & MACKEREL COLD STORAGE Production Capacity WORKFORCE Production Capacity 106,000 Capacity of 135,000 49,000 Tons per Year 35,000 of Tons per Year Tons per Year People TUF Sustainability Report 2014 11 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AT TUF OUR SUSTAINABILITY DEFINITION With our portfolio of leading international brands and an ambition to become a leading global player, finding a balance between business growth, social responsibility and environmental quality is key to the Group’s long-term development. Hence, we define sustainability as the continuing capacity of our business to contribute positively to the long-term development of society and the conservation of natural resources. We will measure our performance across the triple bottom line of environmental, social and economic performance. Based on our understanding of sustainability together with our leadership, values and culture, our vision and journey towards sustainability have been conceptualized in our Sustainability Philosophy “We can, We care, We connect”. “WE CAN” states our committed “WE CARE” demonstrates our business proposition as a provider awareness of the dynamisms in CONNECT WE of safe foods and necessary nutrition the economy, society, and the CARE WE to the world’s growing population, environment that continuously drive CA WE N sourcing from well managed natural contextual change from the past environments and aquaculture. In till present and onto the future. We coupling with visionary leadership conduct business with a view to being and distinctive expertise, we are responsible to our stakeholders. in a prime position to demonstrate leadership in the world seafood industry with operational excellence, product offerings and a global network. “WE CONNECT” reflects our strong belief that genuine sustainability results from collective initiatives and participation by a broad range of stakeholders. Consequently, we take a participatory approach in propelling our sustainability strategy, which is in alignment with our adherence to good corporate citizenship and our long-standing company values that govern the way our business is conducted. As a way to validate our sustainability direction against economic, social, and environmental goals and stakeholders’ expectations, we seek first to understand the context of sustainability within which we operate and also the values of our stakeholders. We make every effort to ensure that our stakeholders’ concerns are taken into consideration in our planning. Based on their feedback, we take proactive actions towards solutions that minimize potential risks and prevent future problems. We strive to be recognized as an active member of society who contributes to the development of long-term sustainability through incubating the good deeds from within our organization, then amplifying their impact locally, regionally, and globally. Sustainability Management at TUF TUF Sustainability Report 2014 12 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY On the grounds of the aforementioned sustainability philosophy, together with our aspiration of “DOING THINGS THE RIGHT WAY” and our commitment to the Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact for socially responsible business conduct, we are determined to work proactively and cooperatively with stakeholders both internally and externally in advancing our sustainable development journey and in achieving sustainability objectives together. The following are the approaches we undertake in our Sustainable Development Policy to describe the foundational principles of our sustainability efforts to engage stakeholders, adhere to good corporate governance, promote human rights and well-being of people, protect the nature, and create shared value. G4-26 ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS PROTECTING NATURE AND WELL-BEING OF PEOPLE We seek to understand the context We strive to protect the environment of sustainability within which we With the highest respect to human and conserve natural resources for operate and the values to which rights, we work to promote good future generations by minimizing our stakeholders adhere. In doing employment practices in all our the environmental footprint of our so, we take a holistic approach business operations as well as business. We work continually to in recognizing the continuum our supply chains. Specifically, we promoting the sustainable use of between business and society, the expect everyone to adhere to resources, moving towards zero inter-relations between governance, our code of conduct specifically waste from our factories, and the economy, the environment, and addressing issues such as the combating climate change through society, and the associated risks prohibition of forced labor, child energy efficiency and process and opportunities. labor, and discrimination practices. innovations. In addition, we are committed to We take all efforts to engage provide opportunities for each CREATING SHARED VALUE our stakeholders inclusively and individual to learn and develop in a meaningful way, and work professionally. We are an active member of collaboratively to find solutions to society through corporate social meet the best interest of everyone. We take safety and wellness of responsibility leadership that This includes dialogue and people seriously. This underpins adheres to wisdom and partnership at the individual level, our strong commitment on product empowerment in caring for with private and public institutions, responsibility, quality and safety neighborhood communities, local and global organizations. of our products, and occupational the environment and society health and safety of employees. at large. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 13 TUF has been a member of the Global HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Compact since June 2013 with commitments to the Ten Principles TUF will support respect TUF will support a precautionary in developing, implementing the protection of internationally approach to environmental proclaimed human rights; and challenges; and disclosing responsible and 1 7 THE ENDORSER sustainable corporate policies and practices. Make sure that it is not complicit Undertake initiatives to LOGO in human rights abuses. 2 promote greater environmental responsibility; and 8 LABOR STANDARDS Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally TUF will uphold the freedom friendly technologies. 9 of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 3 ANTI-CORRUPTION The elimination of all forma of TUF will work against corruption forced and compulsory labor; in all its forms, including 4 extortion and bribery. 10 The effective abolition of child labor; and 5 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE The Sustainable Development (SD) Committee, which is chaired by the President and CEO, takes a leading role in managing and overseeing sustainability across the Company and its subsidiaries. The Committee, comprised of the Global Leadership Team and appointed members from heads of key business units, meets annually to discuss key challenges and shape the sustainability direction of the Group companies. Our strategic direction encompasses our stakeholders’ concerns, key challenges in the industry, and our sustainability goals and strategies. The SD Committee has appointed five Working Groups to supervise our key material sustainability issues in the areas of: • Sustainable Supply Chain; • Ethical Labor Practice; • Energy, Environment & Climate Change; • Human Capital Development; • Corporate Social Responsibility. Sustainability Management at TUF TUF Sustainability Report 2014 14 Roles and responsibilities for each Working Group are to monitor and update progress, analyze and assess the risks associated with sustainability aspect to perform action planning, and monitor and report the sustainability performance to the SD Committee. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN ADVISOR Mr. Thiraphong Chansiri Mr. Cheng Niruttinanon COMMITTEE MEMBERS Mr. Rittirong Boonmechote Mr. Shue Wing Chan Mr. Joerg Ayrle Mr. Shue Chung Chan Mrs. Elisabeth Fleuriot Mr. Faisal Shafait Sheikh SECRETARY • Head of Sustainability Development Department SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT WORKING GROUP DEPARTMENT • Sustainable Supply Chain • SD Strategy and Implementation • Ethical Labor Practice • SD Communication • Energy, Environment & Climate Change • Alignment • Human Capital Development • Corporate Social Responsibility SD Coordinator SD Coordinator SD Coordinator TUF Sustainability Report 2014 15 The Head of Sustainability Development Department serves as the secretary of the SD Committee with dedicated tasks to facilitate the sustainability-related strategy formulation and execution (through SD Committee and SD Working Groups), ensure an effective communication internally and externally in order to enhance our stakeholder engagement, and collaborate with all subsidiaries in aligning sustainability governance and management. SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT PROCESS Thai Union Group has incorporated sustainability issues into strategy at the Group level in order to drive the entire business supply chain towards sustainability. The Sustainability Development Process utilizes data assessment and input from four key areas – Business Strategy, Enterprise Risk Management, Materiality Assessment and Stakeholder Engagement. Based on these inputs, the sustainability strategy is developed and reviewed annually in a continuous improvement cycle. The strategy leads in to the sustainability initiatives implementation phase, which is subject to performance monitoring and analysis. Our sustainability report is then developed, based on the performance monitoring and analysis, to inform our key stakeholders of annual progress and future directions. In this way, our Sustainability Development Process is a cycle which adds value to the Company, manages risk, demonstrates progress and includes our stakeholders on our sustainability journey. SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT PROCESS SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES IMPLEMENTATION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT RISK MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE MONITORING & ANALYSIS MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING BUSINESS STRATEGY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Material Issues TUF Sustainability Report 2014 16 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 Our Stakeholders Investors MATERIAL ISSUES Suppliers OUR STAKEHOLDERS Customers To ensure our long-term existence, it is vital for us to incorporate our stakeholders’ interests and concerns in our business plan. This requires a clear understanding between us and our stakeholders to End-consumers help us prioritize our sustainability impacts and shape our responses to challenges. Our identification of stakeholders includes all stakeholders affected by our business. Employees We have continually engaged our internal and external stakeholders in various ways both formally and informally throughout the year. We encourage the exhibition of two-way communication as we believe Daily/ it is important that our stakeholders also understand our interests Migrant Workers and concerns in order to create shared values. The table presents an example of our stakeholder engagement with key stakeholders. Communities Government NGOs International Organizations Academia Media TUF Sustainability Report 2014 17 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 How we communicate Their interests and concerns Our Responses • Annual and sustainability reports • Improvement of business performance • Continual improvement of business performance • Shareholder meeting • Good governance • Publication of Annual and Sustainability Reports • Media monitoring and • Transparency of information • Delivery of transparent information announcement through media • Social and Environmental responsibilities • Implementation of socially and environmentally responsible practices • Policies, Code of Conducts and sharing • Fair trade • Equal treatment of all suppliers requirements • Consistence expectation • Clear procurement process • Onsite visit and audits • Increasing orders • Share knowledge and improvements • Joint working groups • Establishment of supplier Code of Conduct • Supplier training programs • Supplier surveys • Customer survey • Product quality • Maintain product quality and food safety • Policies, Code of Conducts and sharing • Food safety • Requirement compliance requirements • Service quality • Maintain service quality • Audits results • Social and environmental responsibilities • Participation in joint programs • Joint working groups • Competitive price • Cost reduction and saving programs • Compliant channels • Publication of Annual and Sustainability Reports • Market research • Delivery of transparent information • Media monitoring and announcement • Socially and environmentally responsible products • Maintain product quality and food safety through media • Marine conversation • Environmental impact reduction • Customers • Competitive price • Cost reduction and saving programs • Market research • Product quality • Advertisements • Employee survey • Fair compensation and benefits • Clear career path • Performance meeting • Ethical labor practices • Offer competitive compensation and benefit • Staff updates • Safety and wellness • Human capital development and training programs • Website intranet • Career development and opportunity • Happy workplace program • Presentations • Career security • Safety programs • Work-life balance • Employee engagement programs • Onsite visit and audits • Fair compensation and benefits • Establishment of supplier Code of Conduct • Ethical labor practices • Supplier program (site visit and audit) • Safety and wellness • Joint working programs with suppliers • Share knowledge with suppliers • Websites • Partnership in community development • Maintain legal compliance • Media monitoring and announcements • Improvement of community economic • Partnership in development for social through media • Environmental responsibilities and environmental programs • Compliance channel • Legal compliance • Implementation of socially and environmentally • Community survey responsible practices • Onsite visit and inspection • Legal compliance • Maintain legal compliance • Legal license, permits and reports • Participation in government programs • Participation and collaboration in government initiatives • Joint working groups • Share knowledge and information • Meetings • Media monitoring and announcement • Social responsibility • Maintain compliance with global and local requirements through media • Environmental responsibility • Implementation of socially and environmentally • Joint working groups • Participation in social and environmental programs responsible practices • Sustainability and Annual Reports • Transparency of information • Participation in joint programs • Websites • Media monitoring and announcement • Regulation compliance • Maintain regulatory compliance through media • Social responsibility • Participation in related international programs • Joint working groups • Environmental responsibility • License, permits and reports • Participation in social and environmental programs • Transparency of information • Joint working groups • Social and environmental responsibilities • Participation in joint working programs • Published research papers • Marine conservation • Donations and support the research programs • Participation in social and environmental programs • Media monitoring • Transparency of information • Publication of Annual and Sustainability Reports • Press release • Timeliness of information • Delivery of transparent information • Press activities • Engagement in media activities • Trade shows Material Issues TUF Sustainability Report 2014 18 OUR MATERIAL ISSUES As we operate on a global scale, our sustainability impacts can be complex. It is critically important that we carry out analysis of stakeholders (or stakeholder groups) and sustainability aspects to prioritize our material issues to ensure our long-term existence of business. In response to the key identified issues, we developed our business plan which includes initiatives and targets. G4-23 According to our sustainability roadmap we have expanded our material assessment from only TUF Samut Sakhon operation in 2013 to cover TUF globally while the performance data primarily covers our main factories in Thailand this year. The following are our steps taken to identify and prioritize sustainability materiality issues. G4-17 oup ion Gr (Worldw Thai Union Frozen Products PCL. U n i (TUF Samut Sakhon) ai de Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Th Group (Th nion aila ) ai U (TUM) Th nd) TUF Songkla Canning PCL. Samut Sakhon (SC) Operation Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd. Pakfood PCL. Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd. (TFM) G4-18 Step 1 Step 3 Step 5 Industry Insight: We engaged an Management Discussion: Our GRI Aspect: We selected relevant external seafood industry intelligence executive management and GRI G4 indicators and referenced consultancy to capture and analyze various units internally discussed them to our sustainability issues key global and local trends impacting our sustainability focus areas, reported. our business. This included media including current business strategies monitoring, industry benchmarking, and initiatives, and sustainability Step 6 key customers’ policy review, and performance. Performance Driver Improvement: business-related academic review. We reviewed KPIs and targets of Step 4 the previous year, the reporting year, Step 2 Prioritization: The sustainability focus and beyond in order to improve our Stakeholder Engagement: Gathering areas were ranked and placed in performance drivers continuously. feedback from both formal and a matrix based on the priorities of informal stakeholder engagement our stakeholders and the analysis allowed us to have a clearer picture of impact on our business. This on the priorities interests and incorporated our enterprise risks to concerns of stakeholders. our financial planning. The derived key material issues were concluded by our Sustainable Development Committee. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 19 G4-18 IDENTIFICATION & PRIORITIZATION PROCESS Discussing key stakeholder Formal and Informal interests and concerns Engagement to for inclusion in company understand the interests focus areas, current business and concerns of strategies and initiatives our stakeholders and sustainability performance Stakeholder Management Engagement Discussion Industry Prioritization Insight Enterprise Risk Management to External Intelligence incorporate financial to capture key global analysis into sustainable and local trends roadmap SUSTAINABLE SOURCING (SECURITY, TRACEABILITY, VIABILITY) ANTI-CORRUPTION AND TAX STRATEGY COMMUNITIES HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES Importance to Stakeholders INNOVATION AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY (QUALITY, FOOD SAFETY) CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT Importance to Business G4-19 MATERIALITY MATRIX Material Issues TUF Sustainability Report 2014 20 G4-17 G4-19 G4-24 Dimensions Materiality Issues Stakeholders Anti-Corruption Suppliers, Customers, ECONOMIC Tax Strategy End-Consumers, Investors, Innovation & Product Government, Communities Responsibility Sustainable Sourcing Suppliers, Customers, End-Consumers, Government, Communities, NGOs, Academia, International Organizations ENVIRONMENTAL Climate Change Customers, End-Consumers, & Environmental Employees, Government, NGOs, Protection Academia, International Organizations, Communities, Suppliers Human Rights Suppliers, Customers, End-Consumers, & Labor Practices Employees, Government, NGOs, Academia, International Organizations SOCIAL Occupational Employees, Suppliers, Government, Health & Safety Customers Human Capital Employees, Communities Development Communities Suppliers, Customers, End-Consumers, Employees, Government, NGOs, International Organizations * partial reporting TUF Sustainability Report 2014 21 G4-17 G4-19 Current Progress/ Reporting Coverage Units Monitoring Indicators Thailand Europe North and Africa America Internal audits reports Tax payment disclosure Local currency a Research & Development (R&D) spending Local currency a a a Launch of new products (own brands) Number of marketed Stock a a a New products with nutrition fact (own brands) Keeping Unit (SKU) a a a New products with nutrition claim (own brands) a a a Tuna purchase from internationally certified / % Tuna purchase from a responsible sources Proactive Vessel Register (PVR) listed vessels Marine Catch Purchasing Document (MCPD) % MCPD or Catch or Catch Certificate sourced seafood Certificate sourced raw materials seafood raw materials Sales revenue of Marine Stewardship Local currency a* Council (MSC) products Sales revenue of Global Aquaculture Local currency * a* Alliance (GAA) / Aquaculture Certification Council (ACC)-certified shrimps Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity of GHG emission a a a (scope 1 and 2) Energy consumption Intensity of energy a a a consumption Water Intake Intensity of water intake a a a Diversity Employee distribution a by level % Local hiring of senior a management Fair remuneration Average cash income per a daily employee Freedom of association Number of migrant workers a in welfare committee Grievance mechanisms Number of grievance / a feedback / complaints Accident Lost Time Injury Frequency a a a Rate (LTIFR) Average hours of training & development Hours a per employee Average amount spent on training Local currency a a* & development per Full-Time Employee (FTE) Human capital return on investment Local currency a a Employee turnover rate % Turnover rate a a a Employee engagement survey % Employee satisfaction a* Social contributions (charitable donations / Local currency a a* community investment) Economy Environment Society TUF Sustainability Report 2014 23 ECONOMIC DIMENSION As our revenue and market reach grow, so does our capacity for contributing to the socio-economic development and environmental sustainability of our stakeholders. From resources to consumers to shareholders, our economic contribution globally includes job creation, local procurement, tax, and dividend payment. OUR ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS 2014 Public Sectors Employees 487 Million Baht 6,741 Million Baht ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS Suppliers Shareholders 6,221 Million Baht 2,398 Million Baht Financial Institutions 1,146 Million Baht Although we have experienced strong business growth in the past few years, we realize the importance of effectively managing the following issues, rated as significant economic risks. In addition to contributing to our economic sustainability, we see anti-corruption policy and tax strategy as vital in our efforts towards transparency. Economic Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 24 ANTI-CORRUPTION The direct and indirect consequences Another example is the introduction Anti-Corruption in Action of corruption have a negative effect on of the e-auction process among Thai Thai Union Group anti-corruption policy, code of conduct and related the sustainability of our stakeholders, Union Group companies in Thailand procedures are communicated to as well as society at large. Thai Union for any procurement value higher all employees and made publicly Group realizes that as a global than THB 100,000, which helps to available in the Company’s website. Training on anti-corruption company, we operate in areas where increase transparency and fairness policy and procedures is required the risk of corruption is significant. in our procurement systems. for our new employees Based on the Corruption Perception on the very first day. Index (CPI) from Transparency In addition to the Company’s Code of International, geographic areas like Ethics, in 2014, The Board of Directors Thailand, Vietnam and Papua New announced the Anti-Corruption Policy Guinea are recognized as having (available at www.thaiuniongroup. “Conforming to the principles bribery and corruption challenges. com/en/investor.ashx), including of good corporate governance, transparency, business ethics While we alone cannot tackle the guidelines and procedures to provide and applicable international problem of poor governance in a clear framework for business units standards has made the Company various countries, we have been and stakeholders. Globally, the fight operate with efficiency, stability and sustainable growth along with taking steps to minimize the risk of against corruption has gained a more added values in the investments corruption and bribery within the solid ground in the private sector as for the shareholders in boundaries of our business and our well as in the government systems. the long-term.” supply chain. In 2014, our subsidiaries In this respect, we have strictly in Thailand, as members of Thai Tuna committed to the anti-corruption Paralee Sukhatungka Industry Association, have pushed principle of the UN Global Compact Company Secretary for the agreements with government and have taken pro-active actions sectors and private organizations to promote transparency at the to enhance transparency and global level. For example, since 2012, traceability in the supply chains. the MW Brands Board of Directors For instance, a Memorandum of has implemented the Code of Understanding (MOU) was signed Business Conduct which addresses with the Department of Fisheries, compliance, good labor practices, Fisheries Association of Thailand, discrimination, corruption & bribery, and Thai Overseas Fisheries confidentiality of information, Association to develop internationally environmental health & safety recognized products made from issues, and transparency in our legally caught Thai longtail tuna European operations. This Code of through the implementation of Business Conduct is communicated effective Vessel Monitoring System and acknowledged by all employees. (VMS) and standardized and Regular audits are conducted and transparent production processes. any deviation from this Code will be TUF Sustainability Report 2014 25 directly reported to the Group Risk, Audit and Compliance Director and Supporting Public Policy the senior management to investigate and take appropriate measures. Our Code of Ethics provides the guidelines on public policy In the USA, Chicken of the Sea’s Supplier Code of Conduct has been that the management must be disseminated in the supply chain. Supplier evaluations and third-party responsible to the public at large audits are conducted to ensure compliance and good business practices. by not engaging or supporting any activity against law and regulatory compliance. Although the Company In the past few years, there has been an increase in expectations by the respects the rights of management marketplace and other stakeholders for the industry leaders to demonstrate and employees for their freelychosen political preference, we do adherence to integrity, governance and good business practices. Although not allow the use of Company’s public reporting on legal compliance is not legally required, we have taken asset for political contributions. a step forwards to be more transparent to all stakeholders. For instance, our Instead, we have exercised our contributions to public policy USA operation, Chicken of the Sea has made compliance records publicly through trade associations of available on its website and in the Sustainability Report. (http://sustainability. which Thai Union Group’s chickenofthesea.com) companies hold the membership. TAX STRATEGY We have committed to acting with integrity and transparency to ensure that “It is our duty to pay a fair we pay our fair share of taxes wherever we operate while fulfilling our duty share of taxes, and to comply with all applicable regulations to our shareholders to deliver the best possible return on their investment. as well as manage tax to TAX Our Group’s strategy include: maximize value for our • Effective management of our tax governance processes that ensure full shareholders.” compliance with tax disclosures and filing obligations in all jurisdictions; Yongyut Setthawiwat • Consultation with law and accounting firms to obtain expert, objective Deputy General Manager, advice and opinion on tax matters; Corporate Finance • Engagement with government and revenue authorities in a collaborative, transparent and proactive way. In 2014, we developed the Thai Union Group Tax Policy and plan to disseminate it among the Company’s subsidiaries in 2015. In addition to our robust governance process to manage and control tax affairs and risks, our enterprise risk management has provided oversight and guidance on tax governance and risk. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors also reviews the Company’s tax strategies and risks as well as internal controls and governance in the tax department. Economic Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 26 INNOVATION & PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Quality and food safety are our utmost priority in all business conducts as Good Manufacturing they are directly linked to consumer trust and business license to operate. Practice (GMP) It is also our vision to be the chef of the world providing products that are Hazards Analysis nutritious and hygienic, as well as meeting the needs of a growing world and Critical Control Points population. As the manufacturing base for a world export market, Thai Union (HACCP) Group has adopted the most stringent standards being recognized both ISO 9001 domestically and internationally including, but not limiting to: BRC Global Standards for Food Safety In addition to the supervision of quality and food safety, we place importance International Food on marketing communication practice, particularly on accurate and factual Standards (IFS) product labelling and information provided for decision making such as Kosher Certificate nutrition facts, nutrition claims, eco-labels and carbon footprint logos. Best Aquaculture Practice (BAP) Woolworths Quality Assurance (WQA) Standard Halal Label Nutrition NUMBER OF PRODUCTS Fact Label BY HEALTH AND NUTRITION LABELS 2012 2014 Nutrition Fact Label Nutrition Claim Label 341 Nutrition Claim Label 130 78 81 53 41 2012 2013 2014 TUF Sustainability Report 2014 27 Our strong relationship with customers has been reflected by increased customer loyalty. The Company and our subsidiaries have conducted market research on consumers’ attitude and lifestyle for tuna consumption “I strongly believe that investing in technology in different major markets such as UK, France, Italy, USA and Thailand. and innovation will enhance The results enable us to develop our tuna and tuna-related products our business competitive that meet the changing consumers’ needs in term of taste, lifestyle advantage and strengthen our position in the global and convenience. seafood industry.” Thiraphong Chansiri President and CEO, Thai Union Group Case Study Les Pavé: Tuna & Salmon Steak by Petit Navire Our new product Les Pavé tuna & salmon steak by Petit Navire demonstrated breakthrough innovation for a hot main dish which can be heated in the microwave. The product was ranked 4th in innovation category by Nielsen and received the innovation trophy in the food category from the retail magazine LSA. In addition, since its official launch, this new product has attracted over 380,000 new consumers who had never bought any Petit Navire products before. http://www.lsa-conso.fr/produits/gamme-les-paves-petit-navire Economic Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 28 Case Study John West Steam Pot John West Steam Pot is one of our latest product innovations to meet changing consumer preferences and lifestyles. The alternative packaging which allows consumption directly from the pack provides meals that consumers can make in minutes by simply adding boiling water. 2 1 3 4 With recognition from customers We have also engaged with five worldwide for our world-class quality highly respected experts and seafood products, we realize that professionals in the food Industry the need for product and service from USA, Europe and Thailand, as differentiation, operational and our advisors in the Thai Union Group management excellence, as well Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). The as research and development SAB provides review and feedback are key to our long-term success. on our Innovation strategies and Our Research & Development constructive scientific and strategic (R&D) by the Global Innovation team inputs on key areas ranging from includes the technological studies of product portfolio strength and tuna handling and production, tuna balance, technological trends and texture and packaging design. investment. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 29 In 2014, TUF and Mahidol University international scientists within the launched the world’s first Global Thai Union Group. Furthermore, the Innovation Incubator (GII) to develop Company has invested an estimated innovative research and studies of FUNDAMENTAL EUR 400,000 in the new Research technology for tuna and seafoodSTUDIES OF TUNA & Development (R&D) laboratory at related products in Thailand. The our Douarnenez plant in France. This new research facility with over facility aims to support our European THB 100 million investment at brands’ positioning in terms of the Faculty of Science will function product and process innovations. as a central network and a global Our Global Innovation Management exchange hub of R&D data and NEW PROCESSING and Progress in 2014: TECHNOLOGY technology transfer amongst SENSORY PROPERTIES AND CONSUMER RESEARCH PERFECT TUNA PRODUCT RESEARCH CO-PRODUCT SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY HEALTH & WELLNESS BENEFITS FROM TUNA TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT STAGE NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT STAGE TUNA TUNA TUNA TUNA TUNA Environmental Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 30 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION We realize that the growth of our business is not only about the growth of our revenue but also about being mindful of tomorrow. As our business has expanded across the globe, we pay attention to our environmental footprint and are determined to continually explore opportunities to reduce it. Based on our material assessment, there are two environmental material issues which are particularly relevant to our stakeholders and our business. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING The state of the environment and how we manage our environmental impact are crucial to our ability to source seafood. Stakeholders, including consumers, retailers, NGOs and scientific communities are increasingly interested in understanding how responsible our supply chain management is, particularly the way raw materials are sourced. For Thai Union Group, Sustainable Sourcing is an element of the five guiding principles and valued as a means of retaining our competitiveness as well as managing supply chain risks. Social issues such as labor practice and human rights associated with raw material sourcing are also critical to us and have to be properly addressed. Specific approaches to addressing social issues are mentioned in the Social Dimension section of this Report. GLOBAL TUNA FISHERIES The key challenges for tuna sustainability remain the same as last year which are 1) Illegal Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) Fisheries; 2) Fishing Capacity Management; and 3) Bycatch. These issues are bigger than a single company can address. Our approach has been to partner with scientific communities, industry peers, governments and NGOs through the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF). We are committed to working in accordance with applicable ISSF guidelines, standards, resolutions and conservation measures for sustainability management of global tuna stocks and their ecosystems. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 31 IUU Fisheries IUU fishing has been a key issue in the ratio of tuna purchase from OUR TUNA PURCHASE the seafood industry, as it hinders PVR-listed vessels increased from FROM RESPONSIBLE conservation, threatens marine 19.59% in 2013 to 64.93% in 2014. SOURCES ecosystems, and consequently compromises sustainable fisheries. We have also supported and To ensure full transparency and encouraged the use of Unique Tuna Purchase traceability in our own vessels and Vessel Identification (UVI) in the from PVR-listed vessels suppliers’ fleets, Thai Union Group t u n a fi s h e r i e s a n d r e f u s e d 2013 has worked with our suppliers, ISSF and other scientific communities to develop and implement measures to eliminate IUU fisheries. One of transactions from vessels that have failed to secure a UVI since 2011. Furthermore, we have committed to 100% trade sanctions 19.59% our key initiatives to promote against vessels excluded from transparency in the tuna fisheries Regional Fisheries Management Tuna Purchase is to join the Proactive Vessel Organization (RFMO) vessel list or from PVR-listed vessels Register (PVR) program. In 2014, those in the IUU black list. In 2014, 2014 all of our purse seine fishing vessels were verified by ISSF and listed in PVR database. We also plan to increase the proportion of our tuna we started our internal catch data verification system and plan to execute a vessel audit program to ensure compliance with Thai Union’s 64.93% purchase from PVR-listed vessels. code of conduct and related For our processing plants in Thailand, policies in 2015. Environmental Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 32 Fishing Capacity Management that meet the 2005 eco-labelling highly sophisticated markets such as Thai Union Group has always guidelines of the Food and Agriculture Europe. In 2014, John West brand supported and complied with Organization (FAO). With an increasing had the highest sales proportion of Regional Fisheries Management trend for the Marine Stewardship MSC-certified products among our Organizations (RFMOs) conservation Council (MSC)-certified products other brands. Its sales revenue in and management measures as consumption worldwide, we have Europe of MSC-certified products well as science-based initiatives therefore pushed forward to have our reported by John West Holland Unit for the long-term conservation and processing facilities certified MSC increased by 5.88% from 2013. sustainable use of tuna stocks. We Chain of Custody (MSC CoC) in order We have also planned to increase have also started the implementation to promote our capacity to produce the sales revenue of MSC-certified of human and electronic observer and market MSC-certified products. products and our intention to meet program in our fleet, and expect to All production facilities in Thailand this changing consumer trend was complete this program in all vessels and Africa which currently certified reflected by our sales growth in the by June 2015. In addition, we have MSC CoC, primarily produce MSCpast years. supported certification programs certified products to serve some TUF Sustainability Report 2014 33 Bycatch promoting dolphin safe labels for our Thai Union Group is committed to products, full retention of bycatch preventing and reducing the impacts in accordance with ISSF resolution. on bycatch in tuna fishing. Various In addition, our vessel skippers are initiatives have been implemented to regularly trained on the best practices reduce bycatch of specific species, for shark and turtle handling, and for instance, shark finning ban, bycatch reduction. Case Study MW Brands signed WWF’s Sustainable Seafood Charter In 2014, John West’s parent company signed WWF’s Sustainable Seafood Charter outlining their commitments towards the improvement of sustainable fisheries management and responsible aquaculture production. The Charter marks the start of a journey for TUNA MW Brands to achieve 100% responsible sourcing, resulting in a range of sustainable products for consumers and protect health of the oceans. Environmental Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 34 THAI FISHERIES & AQUACULTURE There is a growing concern among key stakeholders over environmental and compliance issues in Thai fisheries. International communities have put increasing pressure on the Thai government to effectively address fishery management, especially the monitoring and control of illegal fishing and the inconsistency of the traceability system. The complexity of our supply chains is a key challenge as, the majority of raw materials that we source are from traders or brokers. We are working on this issue with suppliers and the government. Fishmeal has recently been brought in the spotlight for being associated with trawl fishing. Trawl fisheries are widely criticized to have an adverse impact on marine resources, especially juvenile and endangered species. Sustainable fishmeal is a key challenge in our aquaculture products, particularly shrimp through its feed ingredient which accounts for around 10% of total feed ingredients. Enhancing our aquaculture product supply chain transparency and traceability as well as properly addressing environmental and compliance issues are key to remaining competitive in the market. Since 2013, TUF and its subsidiaries have been making various efforts to collaborate with our stakeholders e.g. fishmeal suppliers, customers, governing and statutory bodies, and NGOs to develop and implement joint-initiatives to mitigate these issues in Thai fisheries and aquaculture. Started in 2014, fishmeal supply chain traceability is one of our joint-fisheries improvement projects in Thailand. An emphasis is placed on the catch species ratio as well as seeking improvement opportunities to mitigate juvenile and endangered species bycatch. Combating Illegal Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) Fisheries became a national agenda in Thailand in 2014. Our top management team has fully supported government initiatives and played a proactive role in collaborating with industry peers, suppliers, customers and NGOs to eliminate IUU fisheries. Thai Sustainable Fisheries Roundtable (TSFR) Description Thai Union Group has been involved in the Fisheries improvement project to enhance transparency and traceability in Thai fisheries industry, working in collaboration with government agencies, Sustainable Fisheries Partnership (SFP) and World Wildlife Funds for Nature (WWF) TUF Sustainability Report 2014 35 Thai Union Group is committed to To ensure our shrimps are sourced sustainable sourcing principles and sustainably, we have worked together % RATIO OF GAA/ACC practices. We have set a target for with our suppliers to secure the CERTIFIED SHRIMP 100% of our fishery and aquaculture certified-shrimp supplies and AGAINST TOTAL SHRIMP raw materials to come from increase the sales proportion. We SOLD TO USA MARKET FROM 2012 TO 2014 internationally certified or responsible have adopted Best Aquaculture sources by 2020. Since 2013, we Practices (BAP) standards and plan 2012 have worked with our suppliers and customers to develop and implement various Fisheries Improvement Projects (FIPs). For for our facilities in Thailand, which are BAP 4-star certified, to increase the sales proportion of Global Aquaculture Alliance (GAA) / 52% example, in 2014, Thai Union Aquaculture Certification Council Feedmill, one of our subsidiaries (ACC) certified shrimps. The ratio 2013 53% in Thailand, worked with key of GAA/ACC-certified shrimps sold suppliers to follow Thai government to USA customers increased from initiatives to eliminate IUU fisheries, 53% in 2013 to 62% in 2014. and establish an internal validation system to affirm legal fishing In addition, our USA subsidiary – practices, traceability and prevention Chicken of the Sea Frozen Foods 2014 62% of labor abuses. The company also has increased the import volume of set a target to source 100% Marine G A A / A C C c e r t i fi e d s h r i m p s Catch Purchasing Document (MCPD) worldwide since 2011. In 2014, the fishmeal raw materials for our shrimp company purchased 67.53% of feed products by 2015. GAA/ACC-certified shrimps to sell in the USA, and plans to increase the proportion of certified shrimps import to 100% by 2020. VOLUME OF GAA/ACC CERTIFIED SHRIMP (LBS) IMPORTED BY CHICKEN OF THE SEA FROZEN FROM 2011 TO 2014 53.7 Mil.lbs. 50.1 Mil.lbs. 44.6 Mil.lbs. 35.4 Mil.lbs. 2011 2012 2013 2014 Environmental Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 36 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Our ambition to reduce our environmental footprint by managing the risk inherent to it coupled with our stakeholders’ increasing concerns for climate change related issues are driving our proactive approach, as described hereafter. This section will discuss how we approach our footprint and our environmental related risks systematically. CLIMATE CHANGE While our operations emit greenhouse gas (GHG), we also experience the effects of climate change. It is crucial that we take responsibility to minimize the impact of our operations and take precautionary measures to handle the existing and possible risks of climate change. Change in pattern and amount Higher surface of rainfall results in droughts and floods, temperature affects which can affect our operations’ water our energy consumption. supply and plant reliability. Greenhouse Gas emission from our operation contributes to climate change. Energy consumption is a key GHG source in our operation. Our water intake is limited in water stressed areas. Change in ocean temperature and increasing acidity affects supply of tuna and shrimp. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 37 RISK DIAGRAM Climate Change Pattern Climate change impacts our business directly and indirectly. The warming of surface water, the increasing intensity and frequency of annual climate variability, and the increasing stratification between warmer AVAILABLE WATER PRECIPITATION surface water and colder deeper water have WATER STRESS QUALITY ASSESSMENT & IRRIGATION caused the decline in tuna population and migratory change of target species. Such fluctuation of tuna supplies eventually results the increasing raw material price for tuna. As 44% of our sales came from tuna business QUALITY WATER in 2014, sustainable sourcing is one of our FLOOD top priorities. REQUIREMENT SHORTAGE Climate change also results an impact on the irregularity and amount of precipitation which increases our water-related risks. Seafood processing is known to be water intensive not only for the fresh water used WATER for processing but also for the production MANAGEMENT of steam essential for quality and sanitation control. See more about our water intake below. • Water Intake • Water source management • Emergency & Discharge • Consumption efficiency Response GHG Emissions Treatment • Reuse and recycle water (Flood) We are committed to reducing our footprint • Emergency response (Water shortage) on the environment, particularly through minimizing our carbon footprint. In addition to energy and cost savings associated with lower emissions, closely managing our carbon footprint will also help us INTENSITY1 OF GREENHOUSE proactively meet potential future carbon GASES EMISSION regulation. This is taken into account in the SCOPE 1 AND 2 development of our GHG reduction roadmap, which is strategically incorporated in our Thailand Europe and Africa North America 0.91 0.63 0.27 Ton-CO2eq/Ton Ton-CO2eq/Ton Ton-CO2eq/Ton business plan. 1 This includes Thailand operation (Thai Union Frozen Products PCL., Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Songkla Canning PCL., Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd., Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd. (2 factories), Pakfood PCL. (4 factories)), Europe and Africa (MW Brands SAS), and North America (Tri-Union Seafoods, LLC. (Chicken of the Sea)) Environmental Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 38 Our challenge in 2014 was to establish the baseline for carbon dioxide emissions from combustible fuel (scope 1) and from purchased electricity, heat, stream, cooling (scope 2) for our manufacturing facilities. This benchmark will serve as the starting point for our GHG reduction journey. In order to ensure that GHG emissions are tracked on a regular basis and to improve our data collection, we have developed Example of “Environmental performance reporting program” an “Environmental Performance Reporting Program” which will be rolled-out in 2015. This program Although we were at the beginning by 850,217 kg in 2014. At this is not limited to GHG emissions of our GHG reduction journey, we plant, we started using the bio-gas tracking, it also includes all had successfully embarked on generated by its wastewater environmental performance some GHG reduction projects. treatment operation for electricity indicators based on GRI-G4 One of our success stories was the generation. This initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. implementation of bio-gas project contributed to reduce the electricity at Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd. consumption by 5,455,935 MJ which contributed to reduce CO2eq in 2014. Bio-gas project at Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 39 ECO-EFFICIENCY An improvement in the efficiency of our resource consumption results not only in lower impacts on the environment but also in lower operating cost. The environmental materiality assessment allows us to USA Europe and Africa Thailand prioritize the areas that contribute to the largest impact on us and our stakeholders. To align our strategy Energy Water Energy Water Energy Water and respond to climate change, two Consumption Intake Consumption Intake Consumption Intake key performance indicators were 2.34 8.11 GJ/Ton m3/Ton 5.32 10.36 GJ/Ton m3/Ton 5.99 16.65 GJ/Ton m3/Ton identified. Intensity of Energy Consumption and Water Intake2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION MAJOR STEAM AND BY ENERGY SOURCE IN 20142 ELECTRICITY CONSUMING PROCESS Coal LPG Refrigeration System Needed Diesel Natural Gas Steam Consumption Bunker Oil Gasoline Electricity Sterilized 28% Sterilization Products Can Seaming 39% Total Energy Material Cooking Consumption Storage 3,293,274 GJ 5% Freezing 1% Product Frozen Storage Products 26% 1% Energy Consumption are steam (70% of the total energy Our business is about food consumption) and electricity (28% processing producing sterilized of the total energy consumption). The (i.e. canned products, pouched cooking and sterilization processes products, and glass bottled products) consume the most steam while the and frozen products. The main refrigeration system is the major sources of the energy we consume electricity consuming process. 2 Thailand: Thailand Union Frozen Products PCL., Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Songkla Canning PCL., Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd., Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd. (2 factories), Pakfood PCL. (4 factories), Europe and Africa: MW Brands SAS (4 factories), North America: Tri-Union Seafoods, LLC. (Chicken of the Sea) Environmental Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 40 “Energy reduction is everyone’s responsibility. It is important that everyone in all levels of the organization actively and consistently engage in energy efficiency activities.” Energy Engineering Team, TUF Samut Sakhon Plant In addition to ISO 14001, Thai Union Frozen Products PCL. and Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd. (Samut Sakhon factory) received the ISO 50001 certification in 2014. This standard ensures that we continuously improve the efficiency of our energy consumption. The Thailand operation has introduced several energy saving projects which resulted in the total energy reduction of 21,821,206.53 MJ in 2014. However, its energy consumption per ton of production increased due to a decrease in the volumes processed and WATER WITHDRAWAL the fact that this operation requires a certain fixed energy consumption, BY SOURCE IN 20145 especially for cold storage where refrigeration systems need to continuously Surface Water Municipal Water operate in order to maintain the specific temperature. Ground Water Recycled Water Rainwater Collected by Organization Our energy review as part of ISO 50001 implementation which was conducted in 2014 at TUF Samut Sakhon has identified areas of 6% 7% 8% improvement in our refrigeration system. Following the assessment, several projects such as High Efficiency Chiller project, and High Efficiency Motor project were launched and contributed to successfully reduce the energy consumption of the refrigeration system. In order to roll-out this successful approach, we aim to work with external advisers to conduct similar energy assessments in all our main factories across the globe in 2015 and 2016. Water intake Based on our water stress assessment 2014 using Aqueduct’s global 79% water risk mapping tool for our key fifteen factories in all continents, we have one factory in “high” water stress, and seven factories in “medium to high” Total Water Withdrawal water stress3. This it is critical to systematically manage our water intake4. Because we operate in water stressed areas, we focus on reducing water use and minimizing effluent burden on local municipalities and ecosystems. 9,182,237 m3 A focus on water efficiency also helps us to lower our operating cost. 3 Baseline water stress measures the ratio of total annual water withdrawals to total available annual renewable supply, accounting for upstream consumptive use. Higher values indicate more competition among users (high: 40% to 80%, medium to high: 20% to 40%). 4 Water intake includes surface water withdrawal, ground water withdrawal, and excludes rain water collected by site, recycled or reused water. 5 Thailand: Thailand Union Frozen Products PCL., Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Songkla Canning PCL., Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd., Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd. (2 factories), Pakfood PCL. (4 factories), Europe and Africa: MW Brands SAS (4 factories), North America: Tri-Union Seafoods, LLC. (Chicken of the Sea) TUF Sustainability Report 2014 41 Municipal water supply is the implements the comprehensive In effort of water intake reduction, major source of water for our water quality inspection and we also introduced several water canning factories and we are water treatment program in order projects in 2014 which we have taking steps to minimize our risk to ensure that water quality meets made progress in our water recycle exposure in these areas. For example, the required European standard for operation. Songkla Canning PCL. at our Songkla Canning PCL. (SC) export. (SC) has demonstrated the facility, municipal water supply is outstanding water intake reduction not sufficient to cover the entire One process which consumes large program. In 2014, 15.37% of SC’s needs of its operations. As a result, amount of water is cleaning. The total water consumption or SC has developed its own water challenges are to constantly look 150,706 m3 came from recycled management program. In 2014, only for ways to reduce the water usage water which contributed THB 19.21% of its total water withdrawal in this process without undermining 3,326,195 in cost saving. Recycled came from municipal water supply. the food safety standards. In 2014, water was used for cleaning 15.37% came from recycled water, we pioneered a new cleaning purposes mostly outside the 3.99% from its own rainwater method which seems to be promising building and in the toilet. The same reservoir, and the remaining in terms of significantly reduce program was also implemented at 61.43% from external rainwater water consumption. We expect to TUF Samut Sakhon. and runoff reservoirs. In addition, SC implement this new method in 2015. Effluent Sump Discharge (80%) RECYCLED WATER DIAGRAM AT SONGKLA CANNING PCL. 2,200 m3/day Canal Influent Effluent 2,800 m3/day 2,800 m3/day Recycled (20%) 600 WWTP Effluent sump m3/day Water Tower Garden Wet scrubber Toilet flushing Floor cleaning Belt press cleaning Social Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 42 SOCIAL DIMENSION Understanding social impacts is becoming increasingly important in the labor-intensive seafood industry. The complexity of global seafood supply chains is frequently beyond the control of a single company and has to be addressed by various stakeholders along the value chain. Thai Union Group has been working together with internal and external stakeholders to create shared values in our supply chain. Based on our materiality analysis, we focus on the following aspects: 1. Human Rights & Labor Practices; 2. Our People • Human Capital Development; • Safety and health at work; 3. Our Communities. HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR PRACTICES Respecting and supporting human rights have always been one of our priorities. At Thai Union Group, we have adhered to Human Rights principles of the UN Global Compact, and worked with our stakeholders to address human rights issues in all our business operations as well as our supply chains. Furthermore, Gen. Prawit Wongsuwon, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense (center left) and Dr. Somkid we continue to make every effort to Jatusripitak, an Economic Advisor to NCPO (center right) meet with Thai Union executives led by Mr. Kraisorn Chansiri, Chairman of Thai Union Group (far right), Mr. Thiraphong Chansiri, President ensure our supply chains are free and CEO (first left) and Mr. Rittirong Boonmechote, President, Global Shrimp Business Unit (far left), from human rights abuses, child in talks about readicating illegal labor practices in the Thai fishing industry. http://www.thaiuniongroup.com/en/newsroom/press-releases.ashx labor, forced and compulsory labor as well as to promote freedom of association and rights to collective 1. Ensuring full protection of our on the requirements of our Code bargaining. Since 2013, we have workforce including good labor of Conduct and related policies launched the Code of Conduct for practice as well as quality of life at our facilities and among our Labor Practices, which was and social well-being; suppliers. In 2014, human rights developed in alignment with UN 2. W o r k i n g t o w a r d s s o c i a l l y abuses, especially in Thai fisheries, Global Compact principles and responsible supply chains; and have been a key concern from International Labor Organization 3. Providing full support for industry our stakeholders. In addition to (ILO) standards. The Code of and nationwide initiatives to supporting the national agenda Conduct is disseminated throughout combat human trafficking and to combat Illegal, Unreported Thai Union Group’s companies human rights violation. and Unregulated (IUU) fisheries, as well as to our suppliers. Thai Union Group has also supported We have developed strategies to Following our strategies, the and/or implemented the following mitigate human rights and labor Thai Union Group audit team nation-wide and industry initiatives practice issues including has been established to conduct to eradicate human rights and Social Compliance Audits based labor problems. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 43 Shrimp Sustainable Supply ChainInitiatives Level Description Task Force Overview and Progress Shrimp Sustainable Industry An international industry alliance, working towards Update – May 2015 © Shrimp Sustainable Supply Chain Task Force 2015 Supply Chain Taskforce a supply chain that is free from illegal and forced labor through accountability, verification and transparency Project ISSARA Industry A public-private sector alliance to address human trafficking in Southeast Asian supply chains Fishmeal Supply Chain Thai Union Group Thai Union Group’s fisheries improvement project to trace Traceability Fishmeal and validate fishmeal supply chains to ensure no human rights and labor abuses as well as non-IUU fisheries through our supplier social compliance audit program Price premium for certified Thai Union Group Premium pay for suppliers providing proof of 1) no illegal, fishmeal supplies forced or child labor; 2) non-IUU fisheries “Human rights and labor abuse is increasingly becoming a major concern among our stakeholders and poses a significant impact on our compliance and reputation risks. To avoid these risks, we have taken a number of initiatives to assess our suppliers and ensure that our supply chains are free from human rights and labor abuse.” Comgrit Sorchom Acting Sustainability Development Director Since committing to the 10 principles of UN Global Compact in 2013, Thai DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES Union Group has been working beyond providing a safe and healthy working BY LEVEL OF THAILAND environment to ensuring fair treatment practices, equal remuneration and IN 2014 supporting freedom of association. Daily Employees Supervisor/ Senior Supervisor Staff Management Diversity Thai Union Group is a highly diverse organization in terms of our geographical 3% 1% spread and employee profile. Equally important, the diversity among our 12% workforce is one of the key enablers that supports our global talent strategy. In this respect, we recruit competent persons and provide them with equal opportunities for their development and advancement. Thailand operations Employees have almost two thirds of the total global workforce where our processing by Level facilities are labor-intensive and the majority of our workforce are recruited as daily employees. In 2014, the distribution of employees in Thailand by level showed that daily employees accounted for 84% of the total workforce. When recruiting our daily employees, we do not tolerate any form of 84% discrimination, including origin, nationality, religion, race, gender, age or sexual orientation. Social Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 44 We want to develop an environment, culture and leadership position % LOCAL HIRING that provides equal opportunities for all, especially at management level. OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT Recruiting senior management with both local knowledge of identified IN THAILAND growth markets and global business experience along with our values is Hired from local community our success formula. In 2014, 14% of senior management in Thailand is Hired from other area local hire. Furthermore, we aim to find a balanced mix of local hiring and remove all gender-related barriers. 14% Fair Remuneration Thai Union Group has been in full compliance with laws and regulations concerning recruitment and employment of the workforce. In 2014, our Employees Thailand operations set the minimum entry level basic wage of THB 301.5 by Level per day for new comers without skills and experience (in reference to the current national daily wage of THB 300). In addition, we provide various forms of performance-linked and work-related incentives e.g. daily target 86% achievement bonus, night shift pay, optional overtime, and attendance bonus. These additional benefits add up to the average cash income of THB 381.145 per day per person, with no variable in gender, race or origin. Our employees also receive other benefits including scholarships for continued education, loyalty, bonus, life insurance and retirement fund. EMPLOYMENT WAGE (Baht/Day) 381.145 300 301.5 MINIMUM MINIMUM ENTRY AVERAGE WAGE BASIC WAGE CASH INCOME TUF Sustainability Report 2014 45 Freedom of Association Grievance Mechanisms WELFARE COMMITTEE Our worker-management committees We provide formal channels and take PROFILE IN THAILAND engage a diverse group of employees. every grievance filed by employees OPERATIONS One of the committees is the Welfare and other stakeholders seriously. For Thai Workers Representative Committee in which the members example, our Complaints Handling Migrant Workers Representative are freely elected from each of the webpage (www.thaiuniongroup. production areas to represent the com/en/investor.ashx) is one of the 19% interest of employees and ensure formal channels in which anyone the viewpoints of employees are can report complaints through our acknowledged and properly website. All complaints are handled addressed by the management. and reviewed by the Audit Committee Employees In all our worker-management and reported to the Board of Directors. by Level committees, concerns in relation In 2014, the majority of grievances to human rights abuses and labor and feedback were labor related rights violation can be brought up issues. Various departments have 60% to the management without fear of worked together to ensure all issues retaliation as we promote a culture are responded to and resolved. of expression and representation. Particularly in Thailand, we have The number of migrant worker also joined the ISSARA project and representatives increased from 5 support migrant workers with GRIEVANCE AND FEEDBACK in 2013 to 19 persons in 2014. multilingual information and a FROM THAILAND OPERATIONS telephone hotline in which migrant workers can report any labor abuses. Environmental Impact Human Rights Labor Practice Others Discrimination In addition, our compliance to international standards labor 8% 1% practices is assured by having our 6% processing plants regularly audited on social compliance by third parties 14% and customers, including the Business Employees Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), by Level Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI), Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) and customers such as Walmart, Costco, Walt Disney and 71% Carrefour. Social Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 46 OUR PEOPLE HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT Around 35,000 people currently working for Thai Union Group worldwide help us to gain and build competitive advantage through their operational excellence, innovation and local insights. With the increasing global competition in the seafood industry, it is more important than ever that we continue to develop our workforce to be responsive to a rapidly changing environment. Investing in our human capital is another cornerstone strategy of Thai Union Group. Primary emphasis has been placed on the continual development of core, functional and management competencies of our people. TUF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT ROADMAP HIGH POTENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Development MANAGEMENT COMPETENCY DEVELOPMENT across the people TUF pipeline Human Development Roadmap FUNCTION COMPETENCY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM CORE COMPETENCY DEVELOPMENT Our human capital development programs include: • leadership and coaching programs; • cross-functional rotation system; • succession planning to maintain a healthy supply of the talented people we need; • Global Management Associate program for young executives’ career paths, fast-track skills development, and placements overseas and across different areas of Thai Union Group companies. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 47 Investing in human capital has always AVERAGE HOURS PER EMPLOYEE OF TRAINING been one of our key focus areas. We AND DEVELOPMENT FROM THAILAND OPERATIONS IN 2014 have provided both in-house and Total Training Hour outside training sessions conducted Avg Training Hour per Person by a number of qualified trainers. Our training sessions have been provided for both our full-time employees Hour/ and daily workers. In addition, our Person Hours subsidiaries – Chicken of the Sea 80 70,000 and MW Brands spent an average 73.27 70 60,000 amount of USD 178.12 and EUR 563.9 per Full-Time Employee 60 50,000 (FTE) on training and development 50 45.42 40,000 in 2014. 40 38.30 33.40 30,000 30 Our Human Capital Return on 14.86 20,000 Investment, used by our European 20 and USA subsidiaries, has provided 10 2.71 10,000 a means for measuring the overall 0 0 fi n a n c i a l r e t u r n o n e m p l o y e e Daily Employees Monthly Staff Supervisor Senior Supervisor Manager Management development and investment against the total employee-related expenses. HUMAN CAPITAL RETURN ON INVESTMENT IN LOCAL CURRENCY, 2011 2014 EUR 5.35 USD 38.61 USD 38.96 EUR 5.15 USD 36.77 USD 36.67 USD 34.76 USD 36.16 USD 33.23 EUR 4.59 USD 30.11 EUR 4.31 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Social Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 48 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER RATE IN 2014 TUF THAILAND OPERATIONS 15.77% CHICKEN OF THE SEA INTERNATIONAL 21.40% Furthermore, talent attraction We regularly conduct internal and retention management have employee satisfaction surveys to CHICKEN OF THE SEA become one of our key priorities gain insight in key success factors FROZEN FOODS 13% for Thai Union Group to maintain and challenges for employee competitiveness and continuity of engagement. In addition to the strategy execution. Employee employee surveys, trend analysis performance and career of the results is also conducted development reviews, including to help develop the right talent Management by Objectives and attraction, retention and MW BRANDS multi-dimensional performance development strategies. For example, 8.1% appraisal are compulsory for monthly in 2014, employee satisfaction staff at all levels. While performance survey result of our USA subsidiary – appraisal is generally based on Chicken of the Sea showed 86% achievements of Key Performance of total employees satisfied with Indicators (KPIs), competencies the Company which remains and successors’ development, unchanged from the previous year. the career discussion addresses development priorities and goals in the form of the Individual Development Plan (IDP). “Annual review of performance and career development programs are core Human Resources process for all employees. At Thai Union Group, everyone is regarded as talent and valuable to the Company. Hence, we put in place a People Planning Review (PPR) process to ensure our internal talent receives career development opportunity that fit his/her needs and support our business ambition.” Rosanun Chankasame Head of Corporate Human Resources Strategy TUF Sustainability Report 2014 49 HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK Safety is the highest priority in our workplace. It is our responsibility to provide a safe workplace for men and women working for and on behalf of us. We aim to achieve and maintain the highest standards for workplace safety. Europe USA and Africa Thailand We encourage our business units to implement Occupational Health and Safety Management System such as OHSAS 18001 to ensure 0.44 2.29 0.62 the continual improvement of safety and health policies, standards, Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate1 (LTIFR) per 200,000 hours worked. procedures, and processes. Building a Safety Network The “One Page Safety” implemented To ensure that our business units in MW Brands has demonstrated “We are cross-functionally around the world are working as one and shared best practice. It is a basic working together to create team to build a safe workplace, we safety reminder that includes safety the right safety mindset established a safety performance caution, prohibition, safe working and culture to ensure our benchmark to share best practices, instruction, and required Personal workplace is possibly free accident lessons, and safety Protective Equipment (PPE) for each from accident.” knowledge within our group. In 2014, working area. This practice has been we conducted several workshops shared and is in the process of being Boonlam Suebtong which brought our safety personnel developed in other business units. Environmental Health from business units in Thailand and and Safety Manager, Europe together. The exchange of     TUF Samut Sakhon Plant   safety knowledge and information       increased among safety personnel     Engrenage  Ecrasement mécanique   Port de   charge   across business units which led to     Equipement   sous pression      improvement of safety performance            Brûlures in both site level and group level.   thermiques     Produits   chimiques 88dB(A)         Chute                   Ne pas pousser plus de 2 chariots pleins à la fois  Eviter de stopper le bras moteur en mouvement pour   en sortie d’autoclaves. ne pas solliciter le frein moteur.     Pousser les chariots de face et pas en torsion, avec Vérification de la sécurité du trolley en sortie du   les mains sur l’avant du chariot. stériflow.  Remplir une fiche d’anomalie panier et identifier le    Ramener 1 seul chariot à la fois.   Lors de l’utilisation de produit dangereux, il faut panier pour réparation.   utiliser les EPI à disposition.  Lorsque des paniers    Interdiction d’intervenir dans l’enceinte des robots déraillent, utiliser la   pendant leur fonctionnement. technique du chariot avec l’élingue ou un    Lorsque le robot est manœuvré en manuel, s’assurer   qu’il n’y a personne dans l’enceinte du robot palan. Barre à mine si    Ne pas hésiter à se réhydrater régulièrement par déraillé au milieu de    temps chauds. l’autoclave.       0        Le port de gant de    manutention est obligatoire   pour l’encageur manuel et conseillé le reste du temps.       Si >2 One Page Safety 1 Thailand: Thailand Union Frozen Products PCL., Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Songkla Canning PCL., Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd., Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd. (2 factories), Pakfood PCL. (4 factories), Europe and Africa: MW Brands SAS (4 factories), North America: Tri-Union Seafoods, LLC. (Chicken of the Sea) Social Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 50 Building a Safety Culture Moving Forward ACCIDENT STATISTICS In Thailand only, 29,484 men and With the goal to achieve the highest TUF SAMUT SAKHON women from multiple countries, safety standards, we are developing OPERATION different cultures, and various the “Thai Union Environmental, Health, Number of Lost Day Accident languages were working in our key and Safety (EHS) Guidelines” for all Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) factories in 2014. Engaging them our business units. We engaged in building safety culture was a professional advisors to ensure DECREASE big challenge. Thus, we continually that international standards, best 144 51% engaged our employees in their practices, and lessons from outside native languages in safety and inside organization are 0.79 71 education, including lectures, considered in the guidelines. on-the-job training, visual safety 0.52 signs and instruction, safety events In addition to Thai Union EHS and activities. guidelines, we are also developing the “Cross EHS Audit”, where our 2013 2014 The combination of implementing EHS personnel from one business the Occupational Health and unit conduct the EHS audit at Safety Management System, safety another. This does not only network, and safety culture was ensure the EHS performance of each the key success factor in reducing business unit but also strengthens the number of accidents. One of our safety network where safety our success stories was at TUF resources, knowledge, information, Samut Sakhon where the total and best practices are shared. number of lost time accident decreased 51% and its Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) decreased by 34.2% from 2013. TUF Sustainability Report 2014 51 OUR SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES Furthermore, for the communities to become self-reliant, we have worked COMMUNITIES & MARINE CONSERVATION Together with private sector peers, with the local NGOs and potential government, and civil society, customers to seek commercialization “Our Communities” is Thai Union we have worked with coastal opportunities for sustainable Group’s principle of supporting and communities on marine resources fishery products with the concept of working with communities where protection and restoration since Sea-to-Plate traceability that fish we operate all over the world. Our 2013, with the aim to set a leading can be traced back through every support includes philanthropic practice for sustainable community step of the supply chain to the well giving, collaboration, and long-term development. managed and sustainable fishery partnerships with coastal that caught it. communities and NGOs. In 2014, we initiated a discussion with International Union for Our priorities in 2014 included Conservation of Nature and 1) Supporting scientific communities Natural Resources (IUCN) to and local NGOs in sustainable perform biodiversity studies, fisheries and marine conservation, together with authorities and a local 2) Supporting local communities academic institution to measure where we operate. the progress of sustainable coastal community development. Case Study Sustainable Livelihood of SUSTAINABLE COASTAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: Bangson coastal community OUR LONG-TERM INVESTMENT in Chumphon, Thailand Since 2013, we have worked with TUF the Right Livelihood Foundation customers on defining a self-sustaining fishery • Securing wild-caught raw materials supply community model, as well as • Supporting communities to find a niche capacity development for marine market for “Sustainable Fishery Products” conservation and sustainable • Opportunities for “Green Tourism” as fishery practices. communities maintain their traditional way of (sustainable) living “Being one of the leading global From “Sea to Plate” seafood companies brings not Traceability only a duty to operate responsibly, but also an opportunity to create long-term positive value for the society.” ECONOMIC DIMENSION Sasinan Allmand Head of Corporate Communications Scientific Study to ensure Capacity Development a “Healthy Ecosystem” SUSTAINABLE to raise conservation and develop strategies DEVELOPMENT awareness and help and plans for “Fishery develop “Sustainable Improvement” Communities” ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL DIMENSION DIMENSION Scientific Community communities organizations Working with our stakeholders Social Dimension TUF Sustainability Report 2014 52 Case Study Blue Swimming Crab Breeding Project at Kung Krabaen, Thailand To secure healthy crab supplies from Thailand, our subsidiary – Pakfood Public Company Limited has worked in collaboration with Kung Krabaen Bay Royal Development Study Center by His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej and National Fisheries Institute (NFI) to develop a model for resource sustainability at the regional scale and further research in lifecycle, size at maturity and fecundity, hatchery equipment technology for stock enhancement. Our collaboration in a small area in Chanthaburi has resulted in increased population of blue swimming crabs in much wider areas and has helped to promote cooperation among the local fishermen to support the project by donating egg-bearing crabs for breeding. We are also planning to increase conservation awareness among younger generations the area and spread this initiative to other coastal areas in 2015. Case Study MW Brands and WWF UK Announced Sustainable Seafood Partnership In October 2014, MW Brands and WWF UK announced a partnership, to improve the sustainability of seafood supply chains and support WWF’s work with coastal fishing communities in East Africa. One of the main objectives of this partnership, in alignment with our Communities initiative, is to enable essential research and monitoring to ensure the sustainability of inshore fisheries, including migratory tuna, which support livelihoods in Coastal East Africa (CEA). TUF Sustainability Report 2014 53 SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE We have continuously worked with communities where we operate and local NGOs in a number of philanthropic activities, with a primary aim of creating shared value between business and society and supporting the mitigation of key social issues. Chicken of the Sea 100 Years of Good In 2014, Chicken of the Sea, our subsidiary in USA, celebrated its 100th anniversary with 100 Years of Good, a year-long campaign focused on the mission to “pay it forward across America”. On this occasion, a donation of USD 1 million was given to charities and general public in the USA who have significantly contributed to the society. The company has also provided additional contributions of one million sets of food to Feeding America, a nationwide network of food banks fighting hunger. TUF Child Care Center The TUF child care center was established in partnership with Labor Rights Promotion Network (LPN) and local schools in Samut Sakhon, Thailand. It aims to provide our workers’ children of various nationalities access to basic education at the level required for enrolling into the Thai education system. This initiative is in alignment with the mission of the Thai Ministry of Education in preparation for the official establishment of the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) in 2015. TUF has provided sponsorships for developing school facilities, teaching equipment, and manpower for the period of 5 years since the inception of the program in 2012. TUF Performance Summary TUF Sustainability Report 2014 54 TUF PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Economic Performance Economic Performance Unit Thailand Operation 2014 Public Sector(a) Million Baht 487.33 Shareholders(b) Million Baht 2,398.35 Employee(c) Million Baht 6,741.89 Financial Institutions(d) Million Baht 1,146.78 Suppliers(e) Million Baht 6,221.58 Remark: (a) Includes Tax Paid to Government, Social Contribution (b) Dividend paid to Shareholder (c) Includes Employment Expense, Training Expense, Insurance Expense for Employee (d) Interest Expense to Capital Provider (e) Includes Operation Expense, Depreciation, Miscellaneous SUMMARY OF SPENDING Import PERCENTAGE OF LOCAL Import ON LOCAL & IMPORT Local-Thailand & IMPORT PURCHASED Local-Thailand PURCHASES % 100 90 Property, Plant and Equipment 53% 80 70 Total Employees 60 69,112 by Level 50 Million Baht Food Ingredient Factory Supply 40 Raw Material 30 Packaging 20 47% 10 0 TUF Sustainability Report 2014 55 People Performance People Performance Unit Thailand Operation 2014 Number of Monthly Employees Person 5,112 Number of Employees Taking Parental Leave Person 104 Return to Work After Parental Leave Person 102 % Returning After Parental Leave % 98 Number of Daily Employees Person 24,372 Number of Employees Taking Parental Leave Person 425 Return to Work After Parental Leave Person 351 % Returning After Parental Leave % 83 Absent Rate(ME) % 6.71(p) Average Hours of Training per Year by Group Company Hrs/Employee 34.54 Male Hrs/Employee 36.07 Female Hrs/Employee 32.31 Average Hours of Training per Year by Level Daily Staff Hrs/Employee 2.71 Monthly Staff Hrs/Employee 14.86 Supervisor Hrs/Employee 33.40 Senior Supervisor Hrs/Employee 73.27 Manager Hrs/Employee 45.42 Management Hrs/Employee 38.30 New Hire Rate % 18.24 Turnover Rate % 15.77 Remark: NA = Not Appicable (not collect the data due to unavailable data) NR = Not Relevance (p) Excluding data from Asia Pacific Plant and Chao Phraya Cold Storage Company, a subsidiary of Pakfood PCL. (ME) Data collected is only for monthly employees. TUF Performance Summary TUF Sustainability Report 2014 56 Occupational Health & Safety Performance Occupational Health & Safety Performance Unit Thailand Operation 2014 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Case per 200,000 hours worked 0.62 Lost Day Rate (LDR) Day per 200,000 hours worked 4.19 Number of Fatal Injury Person 0 Total Safety Committee’s Representative Person 162 Employee Representative Person 79 Employer Representative Person 83 Environmental Performance RAW MATERIAL Environmental Performance Unit Thailand Operation 2014 CONSUMPTION Seafood Non seafood Raw Material Consumption Ton 536,497.03 Production Ton 417,378.25 17% Energy Management Energy Consumption GJ 2,499,255.75 Direct Energy GJ 1,760,547.15 Total Raw Employees Material Indirect Energy GJ 738,708.60 Consumption by Level Direct Energy by Fuel Type 536,497 Tons Coal GJ 1,273,662.09 Bunker Oil GJ 434,953.05 LPG GJ 25,983.41 83% Gas Oil GJ 25,937.27 Gasoline GJ 11.33 TUF Sustainability Report 2014 57 Environmental Performance Unit Thailand Operation 2014 Indirect Energy by Source Electricity GJ 738,708,599.90 Total Energy Intensity GJ/Ton 5.99 GHG Emissions Scope 1 Ton-CO2eq 257,337.07 Scope 2 Ton-CO2eq 120,415.19 Total (Scope 1 + 2) Ton-CO2eq 377,752.26 Total GHG Intensity Ton-CO2eq/Ton 0.91 Air Emissions NOx Ton 86.13 SOx Ton 173.59 Ozone Depletion Potential Ton-CFC11 4.70 Water Water Withdrawal Surface Water m3 602,257.00 Ground Water m3 781,835.89 Rain Water m3 39,134.00 Public Water m3 5,566,843.13 Water Withdrawal Intensity m3/Ton 16.75 Water Reuse/Recycled m3 531,018.00 Waste Water Released to Environment m3 6,046,521.00 Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) Ton 58.80 Waste Waste Disposal by Type Landfill Ton 10,124.38 Recovery Ton 914.63 Recycling Ton 8,170.30 Non-Hazardous Waste Disposal Ton 5,621.70 Hazardous Waste Disposal Ton 4,502.68 Packaging Material Recycleable Purchased Million Baht 5,835.28 Non-Recycleable Purchased Million Baht 1,809.54 % Recycleable Pakaging Material Used % 76.33 Environmental Expenditure Waste Water Treatment Million Baht 27.10 Waste Disposal Million Baht 6.76 Emissions Treatment Million Baht 0.11 G4-22 Note: The TUF Sustainability Report 2014 uses the same calculation methodologies as the 2013. GRI Content Index & UNGC Principles COP TUF Sustainability Report 2014 58 GRI CONTENT INDEX & UNGC PRINCIPLES COP GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES MATERIAL DESCRIPTION PAGE OMISSION EXTERNAL ASPECTS ASSURANCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from CEO 4-5 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization 1 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 8-9 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Back cover G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 8-9 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 5 G4-8 Markets served 8-9 G4-9 Scale of the organization 8-9 G4-10 Total workforce 9 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered 45 by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 8-9 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 5, 7 in size, structure, ownership, supply chain G4-14 Precautionary Principle 12 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental 13 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations 24 TUF Sustainability Report 2014 59 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES MATERIAL DESCRIPTION PAGE OMISSION EXTERNAL ASPECTS ASSURANCE IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Subsidiaries Company 18, 20, 21 G4-18 Process for defining the report content 18 19 and the aspect boundaries G4-19 Material Aspects 20 21 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 60 63 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 60 63 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information 57 provided in previous reports STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-23 Report significant changes from previous 18 reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged 16, 20 by the organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection 16 17 of stakeholders G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12, 16 G4-27 Topics and concerns that have been raised 16 17 through stakeholder engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 1 G4-30 Reporting cycle 1 G4-31 Contact point for questions Contents, Back cover G4-32 GRI Content Index 58 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 13 15 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards 11 13 and norms G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting 45 concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. GRI Content Index & UNGC Principles COP TUF Sustainability Report 2014 60 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-20 G4-21 MATERIAL DMA AND DESCRIPTION PAGE BOUNDARY COMMENTS/ EXTERNAL ASPECTS INDICATORS OMISSIONS ASSURANCE ECONOMIC ECONOMIC G4-DMA 23 Internal PERFORMANCE G4-EC1 Direct Economic Value 23, 54 Internal Generated and Distributed MARKET G4-DMA 44 Internal PRESENCE G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management 44 Internal hired from the local community at significant locations of operation ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIALS G4-DMA 28 Internal/External G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or 56 Internal volume G4-EN2 Percentage of Materials used 57 Internal that are recycled input materials ENERGY G4-DMA 39 Internal/External G4-EN3 Energy consumption within 39, 56 57 Internal/External the organization G4-EN5 Energy intensity 39, 57 Internal/External G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 40 Internal/External WATER G4-DMA 40 41 Internal/External G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 40, 57 Internal/External G4-EN9 Water source significantly affected 40 41 Internal/External by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of 40 41, 57 Internal water recycled and reused EMISSIONS G4-DMA 37 38 Internal/External G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse gas (GHG) 57 Internal/External Emissions (scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy Indirect greenhouse gas 57 Internal/External (GHG) Emission (scope 2) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) 37 38, 57 Internal/External Emissions intensity G4-EN20 Emission of ozone-depleting 57 Internal/External substances (ODS) G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant 57 Internal/External air emissions EFFLUENTS G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type 57 Internal/External AND WASTE and disposal method OVERALL G4-EN31 Total environmental protection 57 Internal/External expenditures and investments by type TUF Sustainability Report 2014 61 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-20 G4-21 MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA MATERIAL AND DMA AND DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION PAGE PAGE BOUNDARY BOUNDARY COMMENTS EXTERNAL EXTERNAL COMMENTS/ ASPECTS INDICATORS INDICATORS /OMISSIONS ASSURANCE OMISSIONS LABOR PRACTICE AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA 42 45 Internal/External G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates 55 Internal after parental leave, by gender OCCUPATIONAL G4-DMA 49 50 Internal HEALTH AND G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce 56 Internal SAFETY represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, 49 50, 56 Internal occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender TRAINING AND G4-DMA 46 47 Internal EDUCATION G4-LA9 Average hours of training per 47, 55 Internal year per employee by gender, and by employee category G4-LA11 Percentage of employees 48 Internal receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category DIVERSITY G4-DMA 43 Internal AND EQUAL G4-LA12 Composition of governance 44 Internal OPPORTUNITY bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity SUPPLIER G4-DMA 42 Internal/External ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES LABOR G4-DMA 45 Internal/External PRACTICES G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor 45 Internal/External GRIEVANCE impacts filed, addressed, and resolved MECHANISMS through formal grievance mechanisms GRI Content Index & UNGC Principles COP TUF Sustainability Report 2014 62 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-20 G4-21 MATERIAL DMA AND DESCRIPTION PAGE BOUNDARY COMMENTS/ EXTERNAL ASPECTS INDICATORS OMISSIONS ASSURANCE HUMAN RIGHTS FREEDOM OF G4-DMA 45 Internal ASSOCIATION G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in 45 Internal/External AND COLLECTIVE which the right to exercise freedom of BARGAINING association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights CHILD LABOR G4-DMA 42 Internal/External G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as 42 Internal/External having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor SUPPLIER G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential 42 43 Internal/External HUMAN RIGHTS negative human rights impacts in ASSESSMENT the supply chain and actions taken HUMAN RIGHTS G4-HR12 Number of grievances about 45 Internal/External GRIEVANCE human rights impacts filed, MECHANISMS addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIETY / LOCAL COMMUNITIES ANTIG4-DMA 24 25 Internal/External CORRUPTION G4-SO4 Communication and training on 24 Internal anti-corruption policies and procedures PUBLIC POLICY G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions 25 Internal/External by country and recipient/beneficiary PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT G4-DMA 26 Internal/External AND SERVICES G4-PR3 Type of product and service information 26 Internal/External LABELING required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring 27 Internal/External customer satisfaction TUF Sustainability Report 2014 63 FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR DISCLOSURE G4-20 G4-21 MATERIAL DMA AND DESCRIPTION PAGE BOUNDARY COMMENTS/ EXTERNAL ASPECTS INDICATORS OMISSIONS ASSURANCE Procurement/ G4-DMA Sourcing Practices FP1 Percentage of purchased volume 35 from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy FP2 Percentage of purchased volume 35 which is verified as being in accordance with credible, internationally recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standard Labor/Management FP3 Percentage of working time lost 43 Relations due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, by country Healthy and G4-DMA Affordable Food UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES (UNGC) PRINCIPLES PAGE Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 12 13, 20 21, 42 43 proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit 12 13, 20 21, 42 43 in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 12 13, 20 21, 45, 56 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 12 13, 20 21, 45 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor 12 13, 20 21, 45 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 12 13, 20 21, 43 44, 55 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach 12 13, 20 21, 30 41, 56 57 to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 12 13, 20 21, 30 41, 56 57 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 12 13, 20 21, 36 41, 56 57 friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 20 21, 24 25 including extortion and bribery This Sustainability Report 2014 is a joint-effort between Sustainability Development Department and Corporate Environmental Health & Safety Department. The compilation of sustainability initiatives, conducts and performances is expected to provide the stakeholders who have worked with us from the past until present to have a clearer vision of pathway toward sustainable future together. In addition to providing the information necessary for awareness raising and informed decisions, we expect that the disclosure of the context of sustainability shared by the Company and our stakeholders will be the platform opened for everyone in general to provide feedback and recommendation. TUF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 WORKING TEAM Mr. Kanin Mr. Setakul Mr. Comgrit Mr. Kitsana Kaewin Chotichoey Sorchom Wongsangiam Sustainability Corporate Environment Health Corporate Team Leader Environment and Safety Director Environment Health and Sustainability Health and Safety Safety Manager Development Specialist Director (Acting) Designed by Plan Grafik Co., Ltd. Tel.: 0 2237 0080 # 200 THAI UNION FROZEN PRODUCTS PCL. (TUF) Head Office 72/1 Moo 7, Sethakit 1 Road, Tambon Tarsrai, Amphoe Mueang Samut Sakhon, Samut Sakhon 74000, Thailand Tel.: 66 (0) 3481 6500 (Automatic 7 Lines) Fax: 66 (0) 3481 6886 Bangkok Office 979/12 M Floor, S.M. Tower, Phaholyothin Road, Samsennai, Phayathai, Bangkok 10400, Thailand Tel.: 66 (0) 2298 0024, 2298 0537-41 Fax: 66 (0) 2298 0548, 2298 0550 www.thaiuniongroup.com
