2015 Communication on progress Table of Contents Commitment letter from the SOLYSTIC President and CEO ....................... p.3 Presentation of SOLYSTIC .......................................................................................... p.4 Corporate Social Commitment ................................................................................... p.5 Human rights................................................................................................................ p.6 to 8 Labour ........................................................................................................................... p.9 to 11 Environment ............................................................................................................. p.12 to 14 Anti-corruption ......................................................................................................... p.15 to 17 © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 2 Dear Mr Secretary-General, SOLYSTIC decided to embrace and support the values of the United Nations Global Compact in October 2009. I would like to reiterate our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the area of Human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. I would also like to assure you of my intention to promote these principles both amongst SOLYSTIC’s employees and within our sphere of influence, namely our customers, partners, suppliers and all our stakeholders. We are convinced that respecting the principles of the Global Compact is not just a commitment. It is abiding by a social model based on mutual respect and dialogue with all our stakeholders. It is implementing concrete actions that embody the values we share. It is committing to continuous progress and improvement. The annual communication about our progress has now been firmly embedded in our practices and is an integral part of our ongoing drive for improvement and transparency. As CEO, I have made it my priority to implement this policy on a daily basis and to enlist the involvement of all my staff. I am proud that SOLYSTIC, through its support, is helping to further the initiative launched by the UN. Yours sincerely. October 2015 Pierre IGOU President and CEO © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 3 Presentation of SOLYSTIC SOLYSTIC is a French subsidiary of the Northrop Grumman group that designs, manufactures, installs and maintains postal and flat object sorting equipment. It operates out of its head office, based in Bagneux, France, its assembly plant in Bourg-lès-Valence, in the Drôme region (France), and a Belgian subsidiary dedicated to the maintenance of the postal equipment in this country. With a turnover of EUR 117 million in 2014 and over 500 employees, SOLYSTIC ranks first worldwide in the postal sorting sector. The SOLYSTIC range includes: • MARS: a compact machine designed to prepare postal walks and sort mail in private companies. • STAR: a letter-sorting machine capable of processing 53,000 objects an hour. • TOP 2000: this machine sorts large-sized mail including newspapers, catalogues and plasticcovered items. • XMSTM: this solution is able to sort and sequence 95% of the large-sized mail and letter flows separately or in mixed sorting. • Address recognition and interpretation systems for handwritten and typed addresses. • Systems for the centralisation of information and supervision, developed by teams of software engineers. • In autumn 2015, SOLYSTIC launched SOLYTM a solution to optimise the preparatory stage for distribution during the delivery rounds of small packages. SOLYSTIC’s offer is tailored to the specific needs of each customer. The company relies on simulation and modelling tools developed in-house to determine the most appropriate configuration. A range of services, including consulting, support, tutoring as well as the optimisation of existing processes is offered alongside the solutions provided. Finally, SOLYSTIC relies on the expertise of its partners to provide overall operation and management solutions for a sorting centre. SOLYSTIC invests approximately 6% of its turnover in Research & Development. These investments are essential for us to define and design future solutions for postal and logistics operators. > Industrial site > XMSTM > SOLYTM © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 4 Corporate Social Commitment SOLYSTIC, global leader in design and implementation of solutions for different postal operators, provides its development by innovation and listening to its customers. SOLYSTIC, aware of the economic and social issues, registers its strategy and governance into a Corporate Social Responsibility – Sustainable Development approach, and associates all its stakeholders: workforce, customers, partners, suppliers, institutions, residents… This type of governance, based on respect, human rights, transparency, responsibility, teamwork, ethical behavior, compliance with legal requirements and the support of our employees to shared values, leads us to commit to: Respect the interest of the customers and end-users • By offering efficient and quality products and services, economically competitive and able to meet customers’ requirements, relying especially on the ISO 9001 standard certification • By anticipating, from the design, materials and technologies that limit the risks for environment, health and safety, and consume less energy throughout the product life cycle Be a responsible employer • By taking measures to prevent health and safety risks while improving working conditions • By acting in respect for diversity, equality of opportunity and contributing to fight against all forms of discrimination • By managing skills in a proactive and sustainable way • By a will of basing and sustaining our practices and social relations in trust, respect, listening and dialogue Adopt a sustainable procurement strategy • Incorporating sustainable development criteria in our procurement practices, by involving our suppliers • Promoting in geographical regions in which we operate our business activities • Focusing, in our own activities, on supplies developed in the respect of the environment Limit the impact of our business on the environment • By taking preventive actions against all forms of pollutions, reducing waste, among others, and relying on the ISO 14001 standard certification • Contributing to the fight against climate change Apply to ethical principles • By stating the rules of programs management and main principles of the parent company Practice the Corporate Social Responsibility • By joining in 2009 the United Nations Global Compact To carry out these commitments, we: • Transmit information to all the managers • Rely on compliance with legal, regulatory or other requirements • Provide the necessary and sufficient means • Inform, consult and involve our employees and their representatives, to whom we ask to collaborate and actively participate in this approach • Set up, monitor and review our targets in a continuous improvement approach • Be sure the efficiency of our management system. Pierre IGOU President and CEO January 7th, 2015 © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 5 Human Rights PRINCIPES PRINCIPLES Les entreprises sont invitées Businesses should à 1 Promouvoir et respecter 1 Support la protection and respect du droit of the protection international relatif internationally proclaimed de l’homme aux droitsHuman Rights 2 Veiller 2à -ce Make leursthat quesure propres they are compagnies not complicit rendent ne inseHuman abusesde violations des complices Rights Droits de l’Homme OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC respects Human Rights and complies with French legislation, especially the Constitution of 4 October 1958, which is a cornerstone of the Fifth Republic currently in force. The preamble of this Constitution includes the full 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. Generally speaking, SOLYSTIC abides by the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of December 1948. SOLYSTIC requires its suppliers and subcontractors to respect Human Rights through its responsible purchasing policy. SOLYSTIC advocates diversity, equal opportunities and employability and helps to fight against all forms of discrimination. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 6 Application: THE SHARING OF CSR WITH SUBCONTRACTORS GOES HAND IN HAND WITH VIGILANCE ► Context SOLYSTIC is committed to the Global Compact’s ten principles and asserts its willingness to promote the principles within its sphere of influence, in particular its suppliers. This willingness is conveyed through its efforts to raise the awareness of its partners as well as being mindful about sharing its commitments. To ensure that it remains competitive, for the past two years, SOLYSTIC has outsourced the assembling of some components of its machines to an industrial partner located in Eastern Europe. This supplier was selected in view of its attractive offerings and its industrial performance and this partnership has the makings of a long standing one. This supplier has entered into an undertaking with SOLYSTIC via a responsible purchasing charter appended to the contract. This charter covers the social, health, safety, environment, Human Rights and Ethics fields. ► Goals In addition to making a commitment, steps should be taken in the field to ensure that this commitment is reflected through formal rules, genuine good practices and respect for the fundamental Human Rights principles. Accordingly, SOLYSTIC has prepared an audit plan to assess its capacity to take into account Corporate Social Responsibility values. Consequently, the goal is not to assess but to build a climate of trust in order to establish a long-term partnership. ► Approach and implementation The CSR audit was carried out jointly with a Quality audit that helped to focus on the topics from a more holistic perspective. The operation took place in two phases. Firstly a questionnaire was drawn up and sent to the supplier and then a visit of its production plant was organised. The albeit short questionnaire covers the main areas of CSR: The first question relates to knowledge of the Global Compact in order to ensure that it is promoted. The next questions relate to: The Environment, in particular: The description of the policies implemented to Reduce energy consumption, Control waste management and encourage recycling. ISO14001 certification of the industrial plant’s management system and performance of audits by external stakeholders. Social aspects and Human Rights with a description of the policies implemented to Ensure the safety and health of employees, Improve labour conditions, Promote social dialogue, Enhance employees’ skills and career management, © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 7 Ban child labour, Fight against all forms of discrimination, etc. Ethics, in particular: The description of the policies implemented to Fight against corruption, Prevent conflicts of interest, Enforce intellectual property rights, Ensure the protection and confidentiality of customer data. The publication of an Ethics Charter and the identification of a person responsible for these issues. The visit of the production site was held one week after receipt of the full questionnaire. It took place in two phases. The morning of the visit was devoted to examining the replies to the SOLYSTIC’s questionnaire, with provision and analysis of the various documents of the sub-contractor outlining the rules or policies as well as the whole of the steps taken. This presentation was given in person by the site manager, along with the human resources manager and led to an open and cordial discussion. Both parties were able to converge their views despite often diverging experience and regulations, notwithstanding the fact that they both belong to the European Community. During the afternoon, we met with the various managers and employees directly in their work environment. This process made it possible to ascertain that the labour conditions were in keeping with the commitments and to check that the employees were knowledgeable of the rules of the code of conduct. ►Results achieved • The ethical rules transmitted by the subcontractor represent initial evidence of the compatibility with the requirements transmitted in the SOLYSTIC questionnaire, subsequently confirmed by the answers provided. • An overall code of conduct displayed in the workshops summarises the various commitments and guarantees that the staff is indeed involved in the process. • The ISO 14001 certification scheduled for the month following the CSR audit confirms their commitment to environmental protection. • The compliance of the practices observed in the field with the stated rules. These factors are taken as an indication that the subcontractor has implemented good CSR practices and that a sustainable relationship built on trust can be established with SOLYSTIC. Although this is not a total guarantee for SOLYSTIC, this process is necessary to ensure that the subcontractor's practices match SOLYSTIC's own commitments. Equivalent operations are carried out whenever deemed necessary. Moreover, this meeting was also the opportunity to recommend the Global Compact to a company that was not aware of its existence. For more information, contact jean-pierre.baiardi@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 8 Labour PRINCIPLES Businesses should: 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC complies with French labour law in particular the legislations governing freedom of association and the rights to bargain collectively. SOLYSTIC supports the efforts to eliminate all forms of forced or mandatory labour and to effectively abolish child labour. SOLYSTIC applies a series of measures for proactive and sustainable management of employee skills and thereby promote their employability. SOLYSTIC, as a socially responsible employer, advocates diversity and equal opportunity and helps to combat all forms of discrimination. SOLYSTIC takes all necessary steps to prevent health and safety risks and improve working conditions. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 9 Application: PROMOTE EMPLOYABILITY OF STAFF THROUGH SKILLS DEVELOPMENT ► Context SOLYSTIC is confronted with major challenges as regards human resources. The age pyramid shows a clear imbalance between senior employees over 50 years of age (39%) and junior employees under 31 years of age (8%), 19% of managers are over 58 years of age and almost 90 employees are likely to go into retirement within 3 years’ time. SOLYSTIC operates on a niche market in the postal sorting sector and is also seeing a change in its economic sector. Its continuity depends on the development of its range of services as well as thorough skills management. ► Goal For the past ten years SOLYSTIC has implemented a proactive policy in respect of skills management, the steering of recruitment and retirement support with a view to addressing these challenges. This paper is not intended to list all the tools helping to improve the employability of staff through skills development, it only mentions the most representative ones. ► Approach and implementation Skills mapping: This assessment of current and future skills requirements results from an agreement on Forward Planning of Employment and Skills (GPEC) dated May 2012 which specified that an analysis should be conducted to measure the differences between the current resources and those required in the medium term. The goal was to help predict SOLYSTIC’s needs with regards to jobs, trades and qualifications, to provide employees with an improved overview of their needs and help them to define and carry out their career development process as efficiently as possible. Accordingly, each manager identifies the skills of his or her staff; these elements are then reviewed and validated by the directors of each department then presented to the Executive Committee in order to introduce priority actions in its sector. Moreover, the “Generational Diagnosis” analysis document, drawn up each year since 2013 as part of the generation contract, outlines the changing patterns in terms of skills and is used to update this mapping. Flexible working time arrangements: A telecommuting trial agreement was unanimously signed by all social partners in June 2015. The agreement aims to provide more independence to staff whose jobs can partially be carried out at home. This initiative has proven to be a genuine wellspring of skills development. Half-day trainings were conducted for all employees involved in the process as well as their managers to ensure that this trial process is a success. Telecommuting relies on the ability to delegate tasks, goal-oriented steering, remote management, communication and management of priorities which are all essential skills for SOLYSTIC and which complement our key expertise in terms of project and programme management. Internal mobility: The mobility opportunity, which was promoted in GPEC agreements and in the generation contract, has been systemised within the production or installation operations as well as between technical departments. Staff members are apprised of the positions open to internal mobility as well as those open to external recruiting. Steps are also being taken to promote temporary internal mobility between the various European subsidiaries of the group. In this way, the selected employees acquire new skills which are tracked by the Human Resources departments. Training plan: The annual training plan established based on SOLYSTIC’s strategic thrusts, is also a fundamental driver in maintaining or developing staff employability. Every year, training sessions are specially created for our staff and centred on key skills for the future of our company such as marketing, services, big data, functional architects, etc. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 10 ► Results achieved Skills mapping: This tool was used to identify skills that are lacking or which are quite difficult to acquire internally via training programmes or professional experience, and accordingly to initiate external recruiting. “People Review” meetings created in mid-2015 also help us to rely on this analysis and contribute to detecting key potential talents for the Company. Flexible working time organisation: 37 employees volunteered in late September 2015 for this trial process with a maximum of one telecommuted day per week. The skills thus developed both in regards to the telecommuting employees as well as their manager will be assessed. We are already able to estimate that this flexibility element constitutes a significant competitive advantage for SOLYSTIC in its approach to recruit a new generation of employees who attach great importance to the work life balance. Internal mobility: Over the last three years, many employees have been given the opportunity to broaden their range of skills via internal mobility. Some of them have even expressed the wish to remain in their new department and all of them have acquired new skills and now have a much better understanding of the concept of internal customers/suppliers. Those employees who have had the opportunity to visit the sites where our equipment is installed clearly sense the service requirement with regard to the customer. Training plan: The SOLYSTIC training plan is still OVERVIEW OF THE 2014 TRAINING PLAN much higher than the legal obligations with more 3.16% of the payroll trained for a legal than 3.16% of the total payroll invested in training in obligation of 1.6% of the payroll 2014. Every year approximately 75% of employees 7,436 hours of training and 334 employees attend a training course that lasts on average 22 trained, i.e. 75% of the workforce hours. The on-the-spot and delayed evaluations are used to adjust their content to the needs of future trainees and constitute a basis for discussion between the employee and manager during the annual performance review that serves to assess the new skills acquired. In 2014, 36% of the training plan corresponded to these key skills for the future. For example, it should be noted that a training course in tutorship was specially created to help our senior staff transmit their skills before going into retirement or to allow others to give a better welcome to the newly hired Professional Preserving our key skills employees or apprentices joining their department. development (including VAE) Requiring control of manufacturing Integration is still a fundamental factor for Functional trade Being customer-oriented (including languages) SOLYSTIC. Internal mobility budget Safety In addition to these few examples of tools encouraging staff employability through skills development, the following should be noted: • An incentive-based policy in favour of the Validation of prior learning (VAE), SOLYSTIC fully funds the steps taken by the employees. • Partnerships with schools and research laboratories to strengthen the reception of new apprentices fostering collaborative work and acquisition of new skills between external experts and employees. • The introduction of professional interviews with each employee to gain a better understanding of their development wishes and their needs in terms of an updating of their skills. Besides motivating and galvanising staff, the proactive skills management policy initiated by Human Resources allowed SOLYSTIC to gain significant economic advantages including the smoothing of loads between departments, shorter equipment installation times at our customers’ premises, lesser staff turn-over and an increase in the number of patents filed in connection with innovation. For more information, contact marie-pierre.homberg@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 11 Environment PRINCIPLES Business should: 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies PRINCIPES Les entreprises sont invitées à OUR laCOMMITMENTS, 3 Respecter liberté d’association et àOUR POLICY reconnaître le droit de négociation collective 4 Soutenir l’élimination de toute forme de travail forcé ou obligatoire SOLYSTIC 5 Soutenir helps l’abolition to combat effective global des du travail warming enfants by limiting its greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy in the operation of its facilities, employee 6 Agir pour l’élimination de toute discrimination en matière business d’emploi et and travel goods transport. de profession SOLYSTIC takes step to prevent all forms of pollution by reducing waste production, among other actions. SOLYSTIC minimises the environmental impacts of its products and services through the use, from the design stage, of clean, innovative and energy-efficient technologies. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 12 Application: REDUCING THE ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF INFRASTRUCTURE: A CONSTANT GOAL ► Context For the past several years, SOLYSTIC has undertaken a proactive approach to reduce energy consumption. In 2011, an analysis carried out with the Territorial Chamber of Commerce and Industry had made it possible to identify practical avenues for achieving this goal Many of these initiatives were implemented amid economic conditions that were hardly conducive to investment. A new stage should be undertaken by 2016 with the scheduled replacement of the superheated water boiler and the distribution network which have become obsolete and which are difficult to maintain. At a time when SOLYSTIC is contemplating new energy consumption reduction goals, an overview of the actions undertaken since 2013 helps to assess the work accomplished and to consider new measures. ► Goal The goal assigned for the 2013 to 2015 period for the Bourg-lès-Valence production site corresponds to a decrease in energy, gas and electricity consumption of at least 5%. ► Approach and implementation • The actions undertaken from 2012: Many steps have been taken to reduce energy consumption, each with its own interest and broadly contributing to the achievement of our goals. New measures are being studied in connection with the environmental management plan and investigations are being carried out by the departments responsible for infrastructure. The most significant of the many actions undertaken are outlined below: o Strengthening the insulation of buildings A programme to replace windows by dual glazing equipment which has low thermal loss is underway. Windows are gradually equipped with black out roller blinds or solar filters. Airlocks have now been fitted to the main entrances of the workshops, which reduces energy losses. External insulations have been added to certain buildings. o Reducing the consumption of lighting systems During the renewal operations, LED system lighting devices or electronic ballast T5 fluorescent tubes are systematically used, reflectors are always cleaned during replacements. Sector control systems, sometimes associated with proximity sensors and light-sensitive switches, have been installed in the areas to avoid systematically lighting when no one is around or when natural light is sufficient. o Optimising air conditioning systems The operating ranges as well as the control have been adapted as accurately as possible to match the operation of the company. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 13 Start-up in the morning has been deferred by the use of free cooling which involves forcing the natural ventilation of the rooms before an outside temperature threshold is reached. The chilled water pump steering system has been optimised. A control between the two main cooling units has to adapt the cooling power to be supplied as accurately as possible. o Raising staff awareness to good practices Regular messages are issued via the company newspaper and by internal email to encourage staff to save energy, for example, for the use of the air conditioning or turning of the lights and equipment after use. • The next step SOLYSTIC intends to replace its superheated water boiler with a hot water boiler and a portion of the heat distribution network. This will be the opportunity to select a more energy efficient production system that will furthermore significantly reduce air emissions. An energy diagnosis was carried out in July 2015; it should help to identify new opportunities for decreasing energy consumption. Finally, further work is on the way to better adapt the uses to the thermal characteristics of the various buildings. Accordingly, some of these may by solely dedicated to storage and would therefore be less heated and not air conditioned. ► Results achieved 2013-2015 objective: 5% reduction Intermediate assessment: 19% since 2011 Primary energy (Kwh ) Energy consumption Electricity (Kwh) SOLYSTIC GAS (Kwh) Linear primary energy (Kwh) 10000000 Consumption Kwh 8000000 6000000 4000000 2000000 0 June 2009 June 2010 June 2011 June 2012 June 2013 June 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 As well as more than 20 years of energy consumption reduction. SOLYSTIC Bourg Les Valence GAS AND ELECTICITY CONSUMPTION 9000 GAS 8000 7000 6000 5000 MWh 4000 ELECTRICITY 3000 2000 1000 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 YEAR For many years, SOLYSTIC has put great store in reducing the consumption of its energy resources and has succeeded in achieving its goals. The replacement of its heat production source, if the investment project is confirmed, should allow it to continue its efforts to reduce energy consumption. For more information, contact olivier.debarnot@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 14 Anti-corruption PRINCIPLES Businesses should 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC, like all other subsidiaries of the Northrop Grumman group, abides by the Ethics programme transmitted by its parent company. Given that it is a member of an American group that is aware of business integrity and ethical issues, SOLYSTIC has been a forerunner in the drafting of an ethical policy. The key components of the Ethics programme include: • An Ethics officer at each site, • A regularly updated Ethics charter, • An OpenLine, • Annual training provided to each employee. The organisation set up by SOLYSTIC allows employees to receive guidance, get answers to their questions and express their concerns. The annual training covers sensitive issues such as: • harassment and intimidation at the work place, • protection of personal data, • international trade rules, • information security, • corruption. It encourages staff to display the highest level of integrity and accountability in their behaviour. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 15 Application: STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT FOR EFFECTIVE CUSTOMER RELATIONS ► Context SOLYSTIC complies with an ethics charter entitled Standards of Business Conduct drafted in conjunction with its parent company, Northrop Grumman Corporation. This document is a precious resource for SOLYSTIC employees. It covers highly relevant compliance-related topics such as business gifts, kickbacks and conflicts of interest. In connection with its operations, SOLYSTIC bids for international contracts. Ethics and compliance issues form an integral part of its proposals in the same way as the technical and commercial aspects. Customers expect SOLYSTIC to have the same ethical rules as those implemented in their organisations. As a matter of fact, nowadays commercial relations take into account the ethical aspects as proven by the ranking drawn up by non-governmental organisations promoting transparency in commercial transactions. ► Goal The Standards of Business Conduct which are applied by SOLYSTIC provide employees with the required information for them to make decisions and act with the utmost integrity. The principles set out in the ethics charter are based on values designed to establish a working environment that allows employees to perform their jobs in an honest way, in particular as regards customer relations, to fight against corruption and to apply good professional practices. ► Approach and implementation The recent competitive bidding processes in which SOLYSTIC has been involved, all include either an ethics questionnaire or the transmission of the code of business conduct by the future customer outlining the principles which must be observed by the supplier. These principles cover the following aspects: • Compliance with the customer's contractual expectations including the quality assurance and test stages, • No preferential treatment such as gifts, invitations, services or favours must be provided to a customer, • Avoiding any situation which may lead to a conflict of interest, • Protection of customer data, • Enforcing customer intellectual property rights, • Due regard to confidentiality, • Choice and selection of business partners. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 16 The supplier’s reply to this Ethics segment forms an integral part of the customer’s assessment of the proposal. Moreover, aside from the bidding procedures and further to a request from one of its key customers, SOLYSTIC’s CSR performance was assessed by a third party organisation based on a questionnaire. The last assessment was carried out in March 2015; it includes 4 themes, one of which Ethics, and addresses inter alia corruption, anti-competitive practices and responsible marketing. The questions relate to rules as well as actions undertaken to implement these rules, the establishment of a specific organisation and training provided to employees. This independent evaluation was carried out based on the analysis and audit of the documents provided by SOLYSTIC to support each answer. This assessment was placed on the organisation's website to be freely accessible to SOLYSTIC's customers. ► Results achieved SOLYSTIC has noted that the ethics principles required by customers are in keeping with those implemented in the company, which proves that they are fully suited to customer requirements as regards business conduct rules. As a result, SOLYSTIC was able to respond positively to the ethics principles transmitted by its customers in all its proposals to the calls for tenders held during the previous year. The third party organisation selected by two of its key customers assessed SOLYSTIC on a “confirmed” level in the area of Ethics and business conduct. No area for improvement has been identified. Annual conflict of interest statements, drawn up by all relevant employees, shows that there are no conflicts of interest. These best practices make it possible, on the one hand, to help employees conduct business in a sincere, open and transparent way and, on the other hand, to encourage customers to select SOLYSTIC for its integrity, high quality, service and price. The confidence thus built between the customer and the supplier leads to a long standing cooperation that benefits each party. For more information, contact francine.clement@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 17 WE ARE CONVINCED THAT RESPECTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT IS NOT JUST A COMMITMENT, IT IS ABIDING BY A SOCIAL MODEL BASED ON PRINCIPES MUTUAL Les entreprises RESPECT sont invitées ANDà DIALOGUE WITH ALL OUR 1 Promouvoir et respecter la protection du droit international relatif aux droits de l’homme STAKEHOLDERS, 2 Veiller à ce que leurs propres compagnies ne se rendent complices de violations des Droits de l’Homme IT IS IMPLEMENTING CONCRETE ACTIONS THAT REPRESENT THE VALUE THAT WE SHARE, IT IS COMMITTING TO CONTINUOUS PROGRESS AND IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVE. HEAD OFFICE SECONDARY ESTABLISHMENT 152/160 avenue Aristide Briand 25, rue de Chony CS 80013 BP 102 26501 92227 Bagneux CEDEX Bourg-lès-Valence CEDEX France France For more information, contact Tel. +33 (0)1 49 08 41 00 Tel. +33 (0)4 75 40 71 00 jean-pierre.baiardi@solystic.com Fax +33 (0)1 45 36 21 70 Fax +33 (0)4 75 40 71 30 www.solystic.com SOLYSTIC • Simplified Limited Company with a share capital of EUR 28,445,600 • Registered with the Trade Register of Nanterre under number B 393 502 463 • SIRET (business registration number) 393 502 463 00044 • VAT FR 38 393 502 463 • NAF code 3320C © SOLYSTIC SAS 2015 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2015 18
