Westpac Place Level 20, 275 Kent Street Sydney NSW 2000 +61 2 8254 8488 sustainability@westpac.com.au 26 November 2015 To accompany Westpac Group’s Communication on Progress on the UN Global Compact This Communication on Progress (COP) shows how Westpac continued to implement the UN Global Compact Principles during 2015 and reflects our continued support for the Compact. This year the key elements of our COP are included across our reporting suite, most notably in the 2015 Annual Review and Sustainability Report and 2015 Sustainability Performance Report. As in previous years, these reports together with the Group’s underlying policies, systems and processes have been independently assessed against the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). Our reporting remains guided by Global Reporting Initiative G4 Reporting Framework, including the Financial Services Sector Supplement. Highlights of our performance this year that support the principles included:  The development of a Human Rights Position Statement and Action Plan, including endorsement of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights.  Significant progress made against our Reconciliation Action Plan, including the recruitment of an additional 150 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.  A new enterprise agreement developed in close consultation with employees and the Finance Sector Union. New benefits include more flexible long service leave, 12 weeks of flexible lifestyle leave per year, one day of lifestyle and wellbeing leave per year, superannuation paid on up to two years’ unpaid parental leave and 10 days’ paid leave per year to support employees experiencing domestic and family violence and employees caring for family members experiencing domestic and family violence.  An increase in the proportion of women in leadership roles from 44% to 46%.  New workspaces and working style to increase employees’ agility, productivity, flexibility and wellbeing.  The launch of a Social Impact Framework to ensure our investment in communityfocused products, partnerships and programs are weighted towards activity that will deliver the greatest social and business benefit. It includes an industry leading online evaluation tool, called OURImpact.  The release of a Financing Agribusiness position statement, supporting delivery against the Group’s commitments under the Banking Environment Initiative’s Soft Commodities Compact.  Highest Platinum LEED rating for the Group’s Singapore workplace, recognising its ecoefficiency. Commenced moving a number of Sydney CBD employees into a new building at Barangaroo, which is set to be become Australia’s first carbon neutral precinct. This follows the move to a six star Green Star rated building in Melbourne.  $6.1 billion in lending and investment to the CleanTech and environmental services sector.  Achieving all of our environmental footprint targets.  The disclosure of the carbon intensity of 42 investment options across our retail and corporate superannuation products.  An increase in the proportion of renewable energy financing from 45% to 61% in our total electricity portfolio since 2011. Further detail on our Sustainability Strategy and progress against our targets can be found in the sustainability section of our report. We remain active within the Australian Global Compact Network and are excited by the launch of the Sustainable Development Goals this year and the platform the goals provide for business, government and civil society to collaborate to create more sustainable outcomes. For further information in relation to this assessment, please email sustainability@westpac.com.au Yours sincerely Siobhan Toohill Group Head of Sustainability and Community Corporate Affairs, Sustainability and Community 2
