2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress More information online: reports.swissre.com/corporateresponsibility-report/2014/ Cover In large parts of Bangladesh, life revolves around water. But because the country receives water from a drainage area 12 times its own size, it suffers from periodic flooding. Teaming up with several partners, we helped to develop a programme that protects some vulnerable communities against the consequences of a flood. You can read about this and other solutions supporting sustainable progress on pages 14–21. Contents The 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report sets out our commitment as a responsible company and describes the actions we have taken in 2014 to put this commitment into practice. Executive statement 2 Who we are and what we do 4 Our approach to corporate responsibility 8 Creating solutions for sustainability 14 Extending our risk intelligence  22 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape 35 Reducing our environmental footprint 44 Being an employer of choice 54 Ensuring good governance  63 The Swiss Re Foundation 65 Corporate responsibility in context: Expanding re/insurance protection 66 Other Swiss Re publications 68 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich 70 Memberships, awards and index listings 72 The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI): Our Public Disclosure of Progress 74 GRI Content Index, with UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) references 75 Executive statement Dear stakeholders It is our pleasure to present to you our In our core re/insurance business, we Through our solutions we expand 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report. continued to create innovative solutions insurance protection; in our risk In this publication, we describe how we that help our clients and society at large management, however, our focus is on contribute to sustainable progress and to tackle major sustainability-related detecting and addressing risks that we what we achieved during 2014. As in risks. Natural catastrophes and climate feel we should not insure for ethical previous years, our Report doubles as change, volatile weather, renewable reasons or that may pose a challenge to our disclosure document for two energy and funding longer lives remained our business. We have specific tools to voluntary commitments we have made our focus areas. Across these risks, we address sustainability, political, to the United Nations: the UN Global have continued to place special emphasis regulatory and emerging risks. In 2014, Compact and the UNEP FI Principles for on giving vulnerable communities in our underwriting teams referred a total Sustainable Insurance (PSI). We remain emerging and developing countries of 454 transactions to our Sensitive committed to both initiatives and will better access to insurance protection. Business Risks process, up from 210 in continue to play an active role in the PSI. the previous year. This marked increase Reflecting this goal, we have recently was due to our expanding business in Our strategic priorities have largely made two significant commitments. In high growth markets and our ongoing stayed the same in recent years. By 2012, we pledged to the Grow Africa training efforts. All of the transactions building on our earlier work, we made Partnership that we would help insure were carefully screened by our in-house some notable achievements and up to 1.4 million smallholder farmers sustainability experts; in 43 cases we launched important new initiatives in against bad weather that may threaten decided to abstain from the transaction. 2014. Incidentally, we believe that their crops and thus their livelihoods. We this focus on continuous improvement are happy to report that, at the end of Many of the large-scale risks facing is a key reason why we regained the 2014, a total of two million farmers were society today are complex, and finding sector leadership in the Dow Jones newly insured thanks to innovative viable responses to them requires Sustainability Indices. It is a distinction index-based products. Last year, we cooperation between various partners. we are proud of, because it shows that signed a second commitment, this time This is why we place a strong focus on our stakeholders appreciate how we to the United Nations: addressing its open, constructive dialogue. live our commitment as a responsible Climate Summit in New York, we company. announced that we would advise 50 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns by 2020, Below, we would like to summarise offering them up to USD 10 billion of some of last year’s highlights: re/insurance protection. 2 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès Guided by our five Top Topics, we change for our business, our CO2 continued to engage with our partners emissions and energy consumption The Swiss Re Foundation in and share our risk expertise in many remained top priorities. After launching 2014 – Heading for resilience ways during 2014, including several new seven-year cycles of our pioneering This separate report describes new publications. Our own conference Greenhouse Neutral Programme and in detail how the Swiss Re facility, the Centre for Global Dialogue COyou2 Programme in 2013, both Foundation helps communities near Zurich, organised events on a range continued seamlessly last year. We also to build resilience to risk. of different risk topics. For example, a launched the RE100 initiative as one of two-day conference put the spotlight its founding members: in a joint effort on the gradual advent of autonomous with several other large companies, we cars, which are going to pose a major want to encourage better supplies of challenge to established insurance renewable energy in some key emerging practices and require new solutions. markets, so we can cover 100% of our energy requirements from renewable As a typical knowledge company, we do sources by 2020. not cause large environmental impacts. Yet, we firmly believe it is essential for None of these initiatives and any responsible company to minimise achievements would have been possible its footprint, thus leading by example. without our committed and skilful Given the strategic relevance of climate workforce. Remaining successful in today’s fast-moving marketplace and at the same time making a substantial contribution to sustainable progress can be challenging. We are fully aware of this and would like to thank all our employees for the great work they achieved for Swiss Re in 2014. Zurich, June 2015 Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès Chairman of the Board of Directors Group Chief Executive Officer Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Who we are and what we do Swiss Re aims to be the leading player in the wholesale re/insurance industry. We seek to outperform peers in core areas, combined with smart expansion into areas where additional growth opportunities exist. Swiss Re at a glance At Swiss Re we are working smarter biggest markets in 2014 were: the together with our clients. That means United States, the United Kingdom, Swiss Re is a leader in wholesale working side by side, forming a deep China, Australia, Germany, Canada, reinsurance, insurance and risk transfer understanding of their needs, applying Japan, France, Ireland and Switzerland. solutions. Our clients include insurance our expertise and bringing fresh They accounted for 79% of the Group’s companies, corporations, the public perspectives to manage risk in better total business over the year. sector and policyholders. ways. Swiss Re Ltd, the Group’s holding Our corporate structure with three Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, company, is a joint stock company, listed Business Units allows us to sharpen Swiss Re has operations across the in accordance with the Main Standard our client focus, improve transparency globe. At the end of 2014, we had 71 on the SIX Swiss Exchange, domiciled in and accountability, increase capital offices in more than 30 countries. Based Zurich, and organised under the laws of efficiency and operate with greater on “net premiums earned and fee Switzerland. No other Group companies flexibility. income from policyholders”, our ten have shares listed. Our global presence Europe (including Middle East and Africa) Net premiums earned and fee income in 2014 (USD billions) 11.3 (USD 11.3 billion in 2013) Number of offices as of 31 December 2014 24* (22 in 2013)  or more information see F Number of employees (regular staff) as of 31 December 2014 7457 (7 324 in 2013) swissre.com/about_us/ * Counting all Zurich premises as one office 4 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Americas Asia-Pacific Total 12.2 7.8 31.3 (USD 11.5 billion in 2013) (USD 6.0 billion in 2013) (USD 28.8 billion in 2013) 36 11 71 (34 in 2013) (11 in 2013) (67 in 2013) 3300 1467 12224 (2 955 in 2013) (1 295 in 2013) (11 574 in 2013) Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Who we are and what we do The Swiss Re Group Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Admin Re® Reinsurance is Swiss Re’s largest Corporate Solutions serves mid-sized Admin Re® provides risk and capital business in terms of income and the and large corporations, with product management solutions by which foundation of our strength, providing offerings ranging from traditional Swiss Re acquires closed books of inabout 85% of gross premiums and property and casualty insurance to force life and health insurance business, fee income through two segments – highly customised solutions. Corporate entire lines of business, or the entire Property & Casualty and Life & Health. Solutions serves customers from over capital stock of life insurance companies. The unit aims to extend Swiss Re’s 40 offices worldwide and is a growth Admin Re® solutions help clients free industry-leading position with engine of the Swiss Re Group. up capital to redeploy to new business disciplined underwriting, prudent opportunities while reducing portfolio management and diligent administrative burdens. client service. Operational Group structure Group CEO Group CFO Group CRO Americas Group CUO Regional Group EMEA Functions Presidents Group CIO Asia Group COO Group CSO Operating Corporate Group Asset Group Reinsurance Admin Re® Units Solutions Management Operations 6 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report How we operate Swiss Re is a knowledge company. We apply that knowledge to help clients, shareholders and society. In simplified terms, our business model works as follows: We provide tailor-made solutions through traditional reinsurance or insurancebased capital market instruments. At the core of our expertise is the costing, pricing and diversification of non-life and life risks. Against upfront premium payments, our solutions enable our clients to reduce peak risks, reduce earnings volatility, free up capital and finance growth, and achieve capital management targets for solvency and ratings. We invest assets long-term until money is needed, applying asset-liability matching techniques to align the duration and currency of invested assets to the duration and currency of our insurance liabilities, ensuring that we deliver on our promises to our clients. We compensate for our clients’ losses, using effective claims management procedures that are based on industry best practice, providing speed of payment when clients need us most. Key financial data Net earned premiums and fee income The table below provides an overview of some of the Swiss Re Group’s key financial data: by Business Unit (Total: USD 31.3 billion) USD millions unless otherwise stated 2013 2014 Total assets 213 520 204 461 Total investments 150 075 143 987 Total liabilities 180 543 168 420 Total debt 1 18 540 14 316 Shareholders’ equity 32 952 35 930 Retained earnings 30 766 34 257 Total revenues 36 902 37 347 Premiums earned and fee income 28 818 31 262 Net investment income – non-participating 2 3 947 4 103 ̤̤ 50% P & C Reinsurance Net investment result – unit-linked and with-profit 3 347 1 381 ̤̤ 36% L & H Reinsurance Total expenses 32 077 33 120 ̤̤ 11% Corporate Solutions Claims and claim adjustment expenses 9 655 10 577 ̤̤ 3% Admin Re® Life and health benefits Income tax expense 9 581 312 10 611 658 Current taxes 641 1 072 Deferred taxes –329 –414 Net income 3 4 444 3 500 Earnings per share in CHF (basic) 12.04 9.33 Dividends paid to shareholders 2 760 3 129 Return on equity in % 13.7 10.5 1 T otal debt expressed as total carrying value 2 Excluding unit-linked and with-profit business 3 Net income attributable to common shareholders Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to being a responsible company. Contributing to sustainable, long-term value creation serves as a guiding principle for our actions. Swiss Re has a long-standing commitment to being a responsible company. A key element in our ̤̤ Being open, honest and transparent understanding of what this means is the desire to contribute to sustainable value in everything we do; creation, for the benefit of our clients and society at large. This long-term view is embedded in Swiss Re’s normative ̤̤ Treating everyone with respect – both framework and governance, in particular the Group Code of Conduct. It is one of inside and outside the company; the principles that form the foundation of our values: ̤̤ Taking the long-term view and playing our part in enabling sustainable progress – for stakeholders and society in general; ̤̤ Creating an inclusive culture that encourages diversity of thought and opinion.  or more information see F swissre.com/about_us/our_values/  or more information see F swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ 8 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Our understanding of materiality Over the years, we gradually developed it as our Commitment to Corporate a broader under­standing of “corporate Responsibility: It continues to express A key question for any company that responsibility”, though still based our overarching commitment and seeks to take a long-term view and on the key notions of long-term value describes, in general terms, what goals enable sustainable progress is what this creation and sustainable progress. we pursue in which areas of our means in the context of its own business Reflecting this, we updated our business. and industry: which of its activities and overarching statement and reissued which topics are “material” to achieving this goal? We first began to address a specific Our Commitment to Corporate Responsibility sustainability issue more than 20 years ago when we drew attention to the General commitment potential risks created by climate “Corporate responsibility” expresses Swiss Re’s commitment to being an open, change. Our first effort to disclose honest and transparent organisation that treats all its stakeholders – employees, sustainability-related information dates shareholders, clients, government agencies and the general public – with back to 1999, when we published a respect and integrity. In particular, we aim to take a long-term view and to play Corporate Environmental Report our part in enabling sustainable progress. covering the business year of 1998. Sustainability as a guiding principle Our overarching commitment Sustainable progress – or sustainability – can be described as development Reflecting this long-standing that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future engagement for sustainable progress, generations to meet their needs. To be sustainable, progress must improve our understanding of “materiality” has economic efficiency, protect and restore ecological systems, and enhance developed gradually over time. Our social wellbeing. In all our main activities aimed at implementing corporate Sustainability Mission Statement, issued responsibility, the principle of sustainability is a key criterion: together with our initial reports, was the first document to make a public statement; it sought to emphasise the ̤̤ B  usiness solutions comprehensive nature of our Within our core business of re/insurance and asset management, we strive to commitment to long-term value creation develop innovative solutions that help to tackle key environmental and social and listed the areas of our business challenges. To achieve this, we work together with our clients and partners, we considered relevant to this goal. both in the private and public sectors. ̤̤ R  isk intelligence We develop and apply tailor-made tools to extend the scope of our risk management. This enables us to identify and appropriately address sustainability-related and emerging risks in our core business. ̤̤ S  takeholder dialogue Through regular dialogue with our clients and other stakeholders, we help to develop effective responses to sustainability and other key issues, by raising awareness of both the risks and the opportunities arising from them. ̤̤ O  ur footprint We apply best-practice standards of resource management to our properties and logistic operations as well as guidelines to our sourcing activities. In doing so, we continually reduce Swiss Re’s direct environmental impact. ̤̤ A  ctive in society Playing an active role in society beyond our core business is important to us. Globally, we empower vulnerable communities to become more resilient to risk and, where we have offices, we encourage volunteering activities and support local institutions. ̤̤ O  ur employees We want to provide our employees with a working environment conducive to their professional and personal development. We nurture a culture of diversity and inclusion across the company, offer excellent training possibilities, and provide a range of health and other benefits. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our approach to corporate responsibility How we determine key sustainability In our core re/insurance business, we 2014 Financial Report issues have special units, such as our Global This includes a “corporate Our Commitment to Corporate Partnerships function in the Group or the responsibility” section Responsibility is what it says: It Environmental & Commodity Markets focusing on the link to expresses our overarching commitment department in our Corporate Solutions financial performance to long-term value creation and our Business Unit, that identify underinsured (on pages 108–119). general goals in this respect. It does not, markets and risks, and seek to expand however, specify the specific issues we re/insurance protection through Materiality has been a key topic consider material because these may commercially viable solutions. (See in recent discussions about evolve and change over time. special section on pages 66–67.) corporate responsibility reporting. It is our impression, To determine these material issues, In our risk management, the challenge however, that not everyone we continuously harness the deep is to identify sustainability risks we feel understands this term in the understanding of re/insurance markets we should not re/insure for ethical same way. Some stakeholders and the risk expertise that are reasons, and other risks that may pose define materiality as all of a embedded in our company. In many a challenge to our own business. We company’s actions that impact areas of our business, we have special conduct this analysis through our the environment and society; teams, functions and processes to Sustainability Risk Framework and other others narrow down materiality identify and address issues relevant to tailor-made risk management tools. to those aspects that have a sustainable development. Using this tangible link to a company’s embedded know-how means that we The expertise embedded in our core financial performance. employ a decentralised approach to business and the issues we identify in identify material issues. this way directly influence the priorities These two notions of materiality of our stakeholder dialogue, our internal lead to significant differences in environmental management and our reporting focus and scope. This commitment to play an active role in is why we have started to society through the Swiss Re Foundation. provide an extended chapter on corporate responsibility in our You can find a full list of material issues Financial Report that focuses on for all the relevant areas of our business actions with a strong link to our on page 13. financial performance. We’re smarter together. 2014 Financial Report 10 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report A time-lapse view of Hurricane Andrew travelling towards the Gulf of Mexico. Natural catastrophes and the impact of climate change remain key topics for us and our partners. Climate change The four pillars of our climate change strategy ̤̤ Advancing our knowledge and understanding of climate change risks, For a reinsurer, climate change quantifying and integrating them into our risk management and constitutes a key risk because it will lead underwriting frameworks where relevant; to an increase in the frequency and ̤̤ Developing products and services to mitigate or adapt to climate risk; severity of natural catastrophes such as ̤̤ Raising awareness about climate change risks through dialogue with clients, floods, storms, excessive rainfall and employees and the public, and advocating a worldwide policy framework drought. In combination with growing for climate change; asset concentrations in exposed areas ̤̤ Tackling our own carbon footprint and ensuring transparent, annual and more widespread insurance emissions reporting. protection, this will cause a steady rise in losses. The main business impacts of climate change ̤̤ We need to understand how climate change affects natural catastrophe Since detecting the long-term threat risks so we can price our covers accurately; posed by climate change more than See pages 14–15 20 years ago, we have been an ̤̤ Efforts to mitigate climate change create opportunities to offer insurance acknowledged thought leader on the protection for renewable energy projects; topic. To tackle the issue, we pursue a See pages 20–21 comprehensive strategy with four pillars. ̤̤ Efforts to adapt to climate change create opportunities to develop This is described in the box on the right, innovative products offering protection against natural catastrophes; together with the strongest business See pages 15–19 and 66–67 impacts of climate change. ̤̤ Regulatory responses to climate change may bring new reporting requirements we need to be aware of. See page 27 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Our approach to corporate responsibility Governance and management Content definition To get a complete overview of our responsibility The structure of the present report actions as a responsible company, this reflects our Commitment to Corporate report should be read in conjunction At Swiss Re’s highest governance level, Responsibility: each business area with the annual report published by the the task of overseeing implementation specified as relevant there is covered by Swiss Re Foundation (see page 65). of our commitment to corporate an individual chapter – with one responsibility has been assigned to a exception: Our role as an active citizen in Independent assurance committee of the Board of Directors: It society is described in a separate report This is the second year that the five is one of the responsibilities of the published by the Swiss Re Foundation main chapters of the report have Chairman’s and Governance Committee (see page 65). Thus, the report includes received independent assurance from to periodically review the Group’s the following five main chapters: PricewaterhouseCoopers. Their sustainability and citizenship activities. ̤̤ Creating solutions for sustainability assurance statement is included on ̤̤ Extending our risk intelligence pages 70–71. On an operational level, various ̤̤ Exploring and shaping the risk divisions, departments and units are landscape Reporting frameworks involved in implementing Swiss Re’s ̤̤ Reducing our environmental footprint Insofar as is applicable to a business-tocommitment to corporate responsibility ̤̤ Being an employer of choice business company in financial services, in daily business. The Sustainability & this report takes into account the G3.1 Political Risk Management unit also The content presented in these chapters Sustainability Reporting Guidelines carries out certain coordination tasks reflects the material issues within the of the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and is responsible for producing the respective areas, as listed on page 13. (www.globalreporting.org). The detailed Group’s Corporate Responsibility Report. GRI Content Index is included on pages An additional chapter highlights some 75–77. key features of Swiss Re’s corporate Disclosure and accountability governance regime, including the Group Furthermore, the present report Code of Conduct: incorporates our 2014 Communication We have voluntarily reported on our ̤̤ Ensuring good governance on Progress for the UN Global Compact performance as a responsible company (www.unglobalcompact.org). In line with since 1998. Over the years, the range In our 2011 Corporate Responsibility the United Nations’ recommendations, of topics covered in these yearly reports Report we first included special sections references to the Compact’s ten has gradually widened. While early in addition to the core chapters: Under principles are incorporated into the GRI editions had a strong focus on the heading of “Corporate responsibility Content Index. For the third consecutive environmental concerns, later editions in context”, they provide some year, we also report against the gradually extended their focus to social background information on important Principles for Sustainable Insurance, PSI and governance issues. Since 2007, sustainability topics. In this year’s edition (www.unepfi.org/psi). You can find our we have published a comprehensive we present one such section: Public Disclosure of Progress on page 74. Corporate Responsibility Report, ̤̤ Corporate responsibility in context: guided by best practice in corporate Expanding re/insurance protection The present report follows the 2013 responsibility reporting. edition and covers the calendar year of Scope 2014. We plan to maintain our annual Our Corporate Responsibility Report publishing cycle and to present our next covers the whole Swiss Re Group, ie the Corporate Responsibility Report in the publicly listed holding company second quarter of 2016, covering the Swiss Re Ltd., its three Business Units year of 2015. Reinsurance, Corporate Solutions and Admin Re®, and all directly or indirectly held subsidiaries. As in past years, its scope is limited to Swiss Re’s own operations. Although we provide information on our sourcing and procurement policies, we do not report on the performance of our suppliers because the re/insurance business does not involve an extensive supply chain. However, since 2013, we have been disclosing some of the emissions caused along our supply chain (Scope 3 emissions). 12 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview of all material issues Business solutions Our efforts to support sustainable progress by expanding re/insurance protection focus on the following themes: ̤̤ Natural catastrophes and climate change ̤̤ Renewable energy, especially offshore wind ̤̤ Agricultural risks ̤̤ Longevity ̤̤ Insurance in emerging and developing countries Risk intelligence When trying to identify sustainability risks we may want to avoid in our re/insurance transactions and investments, we pay special attention to the following eight sectors or issues: ̤̤ Animal testing ̤̤ Dams ̤̤ Defence industry ̤̤ Forestry and logging ̤̤ Human rights and environmental protection ̤̤ Mining ̤̤ Nuclear weapons proliferation ̤̤ Oil and gas Stakeholder dialogue Our dialogue with stakeholders, which aims to form effective responses to key risks facing society, currently revolves around five Top Topics closely linked to our core business: ̤̤ Advancing sustainable energy solutions ̤̤ Funding longer lives ̤̤ Managing climate and natural disaster risk ̤̤ Partnering for food security ̤̤ Supporting financial stability Our footprint Given the strategic importance of climate change for our business, our priority is to reduce CO2 emissions and energy consumption; furthermore, we apply Group-wide principles to our sourcing activities: ̤̤ CO2 emissions ̤̤ Energy consumption ̤̤ Sourcing Active in society The Swiss Re Foundation seeks to empower communities to build risk resilience by using the expertise from our core business and by focusing on these areas: ̤̤ Climate change ̤̤ Natural hazards ̤̤ Water ̤̤ Society Our employees As a typical knowledge company, we have identified four topics that are both beneficial to our employees and have a tangible link to our longer-term performance: ̤̤ Diversity and inclusion ̤̤ Development and training ̤̤ Employee relations ̤̤ Compensation and benefits Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Creating solutions for sustainability Our re/insurance solutions help to address key environmental and social challenges. We focus on natural catastrophes and climate change, food security, renewable energy, funding longer lives, and insurance cover in emerging and developing countries. By managing risks and covering losses, An overarching goal is to create solutions re/insurance creates stability and enables that suit the special needs of emerging economic growth. However, some and developing countries: If govern­ environmental and social challenges can ments and communities have financial undermine sustainable progress if left protection against risks such as unaddressed. Helping our clients and windstorms, earthquakes, drought and society at large to tackle such risks is flooding, they can better cope with the a key component of our commitment as immediate consequences of a disaster. a responsible company. But, just as importantly, re/insurance Currently, we focus on the following protection safeguards investments, themes: climate and natural disaster allows governments to stabilise budgets risks, agricultural risks, sustainable and gives people the financial stability energy, and funding longer lives. required to get loans. In this way, our We develop our solutions as part of solutions help to create the conditions USD 2.9 bn our established risk modelling and for sustained social and economic underwriting activities or by creating development. innovative new products, in close Natural catastrophe premiums cooperation with our clients and in our P&C Reinsurance business partners. Natural catastrophes and climate (USD 2.75 billion in 2013) change Thus, our solutions frequently include: ̤̤ Public-sector partners: Besides direct Natural catastrophes are a key risk in our insurers and corporate clients, we Property & Casualty (P&C) business. develop risk transfer solutions for, and Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes in cooperation with, governments and and other natural catastrophes can various public-sector organisations; affect millions of lives and the economies ̤̤ Index-based insurance products: We of entire countries. Therefore, providing are a pioneer in creating innovative effective re/insurance protection against insurance solutions that use an index natural catastrophes has large social and to determine payments; economic benefits. In 2014, we received ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities (ILS) or USD 2.9 billion of P&C Reinsurance cat bonds: We are a leading premiums for natural catastrophe covers  or more information see F developer of these products, which (for losses larger than USD 20 million); swissre.com/global_partnerships/ enable large risks to be transferred this accounted for approximately 19% of to the capital markets. total premiums in this business segment.  or more information see F swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ natural_disaster_risk/ 14 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Insured natural catastrophe losses are and collaborate with universities and becoming more frequent and severe scientific institutions. This enables us to Economics of Climate globally due to the increasing use stay abreast of the latest knowledge on Adaptation (ECA) of insurance and the concentration of the economic impact of natural disasters, With a time horizon of 2030, insured assets in exposed areas. The including the effects of climate change. the ECA methodology enables effects of climate change are likely to decision makers to understand further drive up losses. According to the While the impact of climate change will the future economic impact Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) of the manifest itself over the coming decades, of climate change and to identify Intergovernmental Panel on Climate most of our business is renewed the most cost-effective actions Change (IPCC) and its Special Report on annually and our risk models are refined to minimise that impact. This Extremes (SREX), a changing climate every few years. Risks are essentially makes it possible to integrate gradually leads to shifts in the frequency, covered for 12 months, or for up to five adaptation to climate change intensity, spatial extent, duration and years in the case of cat bonds. Thus, with economic development timing of extreme weather events. As reinsurance premiums do not reflect and sustainable growth. we have pointed out in our sigma expected loss trends over the next publication on “Natural catastrophes decades. Instead, for underwriting and and man-made disasters in 2014”, risk management purposes, our models annual insured losses from weatherprovide an estimate of today’s risk. related events have increased ten-fold However, as natural catastrophe losses over the last 40 years, from USD 5 billion continue to rise due to the different in the 1970s to USD 50 billion. factors described above, our models will gradually reflect this trend, as they We need to understand natural are updated at regular intervals. catastrophe risks and the impact of climate change to assess our P&C In addition to providing re/insurance business accurately and to structure covers, we offer our clients strategic sound risk transfer solutions. To achieve expertise and integral risk assessments this, we invest in proprietary, state-ofof natural disasters and climate the-art natural catastrophe models adaptation. These include our expertise publications, free access to Swiss Re’s CatNet® and our Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) studies. Insurance-linked securities We are a leading player in the insurancelosses, for example earthquakes or Non-life ILS underwritten linked securities (ILS) sector. ILS are windstorms. ILS are used for both risk by Swiss Re capital market instruments, typically and capital management purposes in USD millions in bond or derivative format, designed the P&C and the L&H business. For 3000 to meet the risk or capital management reinsurers they are attractive because 2500 49.7 needs of a transaction sponsor. In they free up scarce capital; for insurers 2000 exchange for a coupon or premium and corporate clients they provide payment, the sponsor receives single or multi-year collateralised protection; 1500 multi-year collateralised protection for and for investors they offer attractive 1000 specified risk events. If such an event diversification possibilities, as they 500 occurs, the sponsor receives all or part are relatively uncorrelated with other 0 of the principal; otherwise this is paid asset classes. 2011 2012 2013 2014 back to the investors in full at maturity. In 2014, our registered broker-dealer  as a sponsor Insurance-linked securities are particularly subsidiaries underwrote and distributed  as an arranger for clients well-suited to provide protection against to institutional investors non-life ILS peak risks – events that happen worth USD 1.4 billion, all of them for infrequently but tend to lead to high clients.  more information see For swissre.com/investors/ils/ Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Creating solutions for sustainability In a review of the insurance industry, the In view of this, Tonga decided to join the Strengthening risk resilience: State Council recently issued a mandate Pacific Catastrophe Risk Insurance Pilot, highlights of 2014 to formulate and promote natural along with five other Pacific nations: the catastrophe schemes, which has Marshall Islands, Samoa, the Solomon On the next four pages, we describe key sparked a lot of interest at both central Islands, Vanuatu and – a little later – transactions and initiatives we were and provincial levels. We have worked the Cook Islands. Arranged by the World involved in during 2014. All of them help with the China Development Forum Bank and launched in 2013, the pilot our clients to cope with natural disasters, to produce a report on “Parametric offers the governments of these six climate change and volatile weather. Insurance and Reform of Natural countries insurance protection against Making communities more resilient Disaster Relief System in China”, which earthquakes, tsunamis and tropical to these risks enables them to stabilise was discussed with high-level officials, cyclones, using a state-of-the-art economic and social progress. and we are now involved in setting up “modelled loss” approach which quickly major pilots in two provinces. These approximates the damage caused by a Improving resilience to natural schemes are being designed to provide natural disaster. We cover the insurance disasters in China contingency funding for disaster relief plan jointly with other insurers and have We made an important contribution to and reconstruction efforts based on also given technical feedback. the development of natural catastrophe parametric triggers. insurance markets in China. At present, When the category 5 Tropical Cyclone insurance protection against natural Payout to Tonga after Tropical Ian hit Tonga in early 2014, it caused catastrophes is very low in China: It is Cyclone Ian widespread destruction, killing one estimated that payouts usually cover less Like its neighbours in the Pacific Islands, person, displacing thousands and than 1% of economic losses, so there Tonga is highly exposed to natural destroying vital infrastructure such as is an urgent need to improve resilience disasters: in fact, the whole region is one health centres and schools. In some to disasters such as earthquakes and of the most vulnerable in the world. parts of the Ha’apai island group, up to windstorms. These recurring disasters not only cause 75% of the buildings were damaged. widespread destruction, they also put The intensity of the cyclone meant that a huge financial strain on the islands’ a payout was triggered, thus quickly governments and hamper economic providing funds to the government for development. emergency and reconstruction measures. Despite their idyllic setting, the Pacific Islands are highly vulnerable to natural catastrophes. We have helped to set up a pilot programme that gives six governments in the region quick access to emergency and reconstruction funds in the event of a disaster. 16 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report First payout to flood victims in Hydropower insurance for Uruguay rainfall. We developed this innovative Bangladesh Hydropower causes very few CO2 product with the CCRIF at the request In 2013, we worked with several emissions in production; but as with of several Caribbean governments. It partners from the public and the private other renewable energy sources, its estimates the impact of heavy rain using sector to develop a pioneering scheme actual output depends on the prevailing satellite data so that payouts can be in Bangladesh that offers insurance weather conditions. Uruguay generates made quickly without time-consuming protection against flood damage to a substantial amount of energy through damage and loss assessments. NGOs and other organisations so they hydroelectric plants that largely rely on can provide support to vulnerable low rainfall. The risk of lower-than-usual The governments protected by the new income households. Bangladesh is rainfall has become an increasing burden policy – Anguilla, Barbados, Dominica, particularly vulnerable to periodic to the Uruguayan government: For Grenada, Haiti, Saint Lucia, St. Kitts & flooding, because it receives water from instance, in 2012 hydropower production Nevis and St. Vincent & the Grenadines – a drainage area 12 times its own size. slumped because of a prolonged did not have to wait long for payouts. This has had devastating consequences drought, making it necessary for the The first payment was made to Anguilla for the the country’s development and government to buy costly electricity on 27 October 2014 after flooding has been one of the main reasons for produced from fossil fuels as a substitute. caused by Hurricane Gonzalo just two its widespread and persistent poverty. Not only was this bad for the climate, weeks earlier. Some of the funds will be it also pushed the government into a used to make the island more resistant The programme insures 1 660 families budget deficit. to future flooding. The largest payment in 14 villages located in the Char areas of in 2014 was made to Barbados, which the Sirajganj district. When the floods In 2014, we assumed a portion of risk in received USD 1.3 million in December, of August and September 2014 hit the a USD 450 million weather coverage less than three weeks after the heavy region and caused massive damage bought by the Uruguayan government rains on 21 and 22 November. The four in several villages, the programme was with the assistance of the World Bank payments on the new product totalled triggered for the first time. More than Treasury, which helps to reduce this USD 3.4 million in 2014. 700 families received a total of financial risk. In future, if the government USD 25 000 in compensation, which needs to import electricity because of African Risk Capacity enabled them to start rebuilding their drought and a subsequent fall in energy Drought is a recurring threat across Sublives and avoid desperate emergency generation, it will automatically receive Saharan Africa: since 1980 there have measures. compensation. The payout amount will been over 200 drought events. About be determined by rainfall data and oil two thirds of the area’s population work By using an index-based solution, the prices, thus covering the double risk in agriculture, 80% as smallholder programme has managed to meet two of drought conditions and an increase farmers. This means millions of people challenges at the same time. Building in energy prices. not only depend on farming for their a fully-fledged flood hazard model food, but also for their incomes and would have been time-consuming and By removing a major source of budget livelihoods. A drought can thus have expensive, because there were no uncertainty, this landmark transaction devastating consequences. In addition flood loss data for the area. Instead, the will support continued investment in to the human suffering caused by Bangladesh-based Institute of Water climate-friendly hydropower generation. famine, the costs of aid relief and a fall Modelling (IWM) built a simple model in revenues can wipe out years of based on flood water level/depth and Rainfall protection in the Caribbean development gains. flood duration. This automatically Our innovative risk transfer instruments triggers the payment of an insurance protect a number of Caribbean countries This is why we supported the launch benefit and determines the households from the impact of tropical cyclones of the African Risk Capacity, ARC that are eligible for the payment, and earthquakes through the Caribbean (africanriskcapacity.org). Set up by the ensuring they receive compensation Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility African Union and drawing support from quickly. (CCRIF). We stepped up that protection the public and private sectors, ARC for eight countries in August 2014, is the continent’s first natural disaster We support the programme by extending insurance cover to extreme insurance pool. In the inaugural reinsuring the risks and by offering 2014/2015 risk pool, drought insurance product structuring support, pricing of USD 129 million has been offered and underwriting. to four governments – Kenya, Mauritania, Niger and Senegal. Mozambique also participated in the pool originally, but withdrew later. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Creating solutions for sustainability When there is too little rainfall in the Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility Offering smallholder farmers effective countries protected by the scheme, (CCRIF) and the Pacific Catastrophe Risk insurance protection has huge social and ARC will estimate the adverse impact on Insurance Pilot. We have played an economic benefits beyond protecting local crop production and the resulting instrumental role in both of these, too. their livelihoods. Once farmers can show response costs, using an innovative they have insurance, banks are much software that combines satellite-based First weather index insurance more willing to give them loans. This rainfall estimates with crop models and programme in Nigeria enables the farmers to invest in better local vulnerability profiles. When the Another of our key achievements in seeds and fertilisers to increase yields. response costs exceed a pre-defined 2014 was to help establish the first With a secure minimum income, they threshold, the affected countries receive weather index insurance programme can then gradually accumulate savings, a payout within a few weeks, provided in Nigeria, Africa’s most populous leave subsistence farming behind and that their implementation plans have country and now its largest economy. escape poverty. By supporting been approved. This move from “postDeveloped in partnership with programmes such as this one and the disaster aid” to “pre-disaster risk impact investment firm Doreo Partners ARC, we help to develop the African management” allows governments (www.doreopartners.com) and its insurance markets that facilitate to significantly reduce the cost of agricultural franchise Babban Gona sustained economic and social progress. emergency contingency funds. (www.babbangona.com), the programme protects smallholder farmers against the We support ARC as a major capacity risk of adverse weather patterns. The provider and by contributing our weather index solution underlying it uses expertise to make it a commercially satellite data to determine whether attractive and affordable solution. ARC there is a lack of rainfall and then pays is only the third sovereign risk transfer out automatically. pool worldwide, after the Caribbean  or more information see F swissre.com/rethinking/food_security/ In Sub-Saharan Africa, most people depend directly on farming for their food and income. Working with our partners in programmes such as the African Risk Capacity, we have recently helped to insure 2 million smallholder farmers against weather risks that may threaten their harvests. 18 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Our commitment ... to the United Nations ... to the Grow Africa Partnership To create effective insurance solutions, Many of the innovative insurance The African continent, especially we work closely with several partners transactions we have completed in Sub-Saharan Africa, is a focus area such as Oxfam America, the World recent years cover losses from natural for our efforts to bring risk protection Food Programme, USAID and the catastrophes and weather volatility to underinsured communities. Most Global Index Insurance Facility. By the (eg drought or excessive rainfall). As people in these countries are end of 2014, we helped to establish climate change is expected to increase smallholder farmers and depend a total of 20 programmes that brought these risks, such transactions also help directly on agriculture for their weather insurance to two million communities increase their climate livelihoods, yet have had little or smallholder farmers in 12 Sub-Saharan resilience. no access to insurance protection so countries – reaching our target ahead far. As a result, volatile weather and of schedule, and even exceeding it. Building on the experience we have subsequent harvest failures can have gained with these solutions, we made devastating consequences for them. a significant commitment at the UN Climate Summit held in September To help find answers to this problem, 2014 in New York City. Personally we made an important commitment addressing the government leaders to the Grow Africa Partnership present at the summit, our Group CEO (www.growafrica.org) in 2012. This Michel M. Liès made the following initiative was launched by a number pledge: “By the year 2020, Swiss Re of organisations to promote publiccommits to having advised 50 private collaboration and investment sovereigns and sub-sovereigns on in African agriculture. climate risk resilience and to having offered them USD 10 billion against this risk.” Our commitment to the Grow Africa Partnership includes the following three elements: 2 million Smallholder farmers benefiting from ̤̤ Give farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa the Grow Africa Partnership access to tools such as weather (300 000 in 2013) and yield index insurance products; ̤̤ Invest about USD 2 million per year in resources to support the development of sustainable agricultural risk management markets; ̤̤ Provide agricultural insurance for up to 1.4 million smallholder farmers. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Creating solutions for sustainability Offshore wind farms are an expanding source of clean energy. But because the technology is relatively new and projects are increasing in scale and complexity, they are challenging to insure. Swiss Re Corporate Solutions specialises in understanding these risks and helping our clients to manage them. Sustainable energy solutions expertise to help manage the associated risks. We are continually enhancing Sustainable energy sources play a our understanding of these risks and crucial role in reducing CO2 emissions share our insights with our clients as and securing future energy supplies. well as other insurers. Given our strategic focus on climate change, we are keen to support energy Insurance cover for two offshore generation from renewable sources. wind farms: Dudgeon … But as sustainable energy projects In 2014, we were involved in a number increase in scale and complexity, so of offshore wind transactions. One of do the risks associated with them. them is the Dudgeon Offshore Wind Farm However, innovative risk transfer (www.dudgeonoffshorewind.co.uk), solutions can help reduce these risks which will be constructed over the next and drive investment in the sector. three years on a site 32 km off the UK’s Norfolk coast. As a lead underwriter, Offshore wind is considered one of the Swiss Re Corporate Solutions provides an most promising renewable energy “all risk” cover for the whole construction sources. But like renewable energy in period as well as a “maintenance cover” general, it presents very complex risks. for the first 24 months of the wind farm’s Unlike traditional lines, there is no long operation. Norwegian company Statoil loss history to refer to. Underwriting is one of the shareholders of the limited such risks is therefore challenging from company that is developing the project, an insurance perspective. and will be the operator for both the construction and operational phases.  or more information see F Swiss Re Corporate Solutions takes a swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_ energy/ special interest in offshore wind as it has both the large capacity and the technical 20 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report The Dudgeon Offshore Wind Farm is Life & Health insurance and At the time, the deal with the Aviva Staff planned to comprise 67 highly efficient funding longer lives Pension Scheme was the largest turbines with a total capacity of 400 longevity transaction ever completed. megawatts, sufficient to supply more Life and health (L&H) insurance products It covers GBP 5 billion of liabilities and than 410 000 UK homes with play a crucial role in creating stability protects not only the scheme’s 19 000 sustainable energy. When finished, its for individuals and society. They provide members with pensions in payment, output will be transferred to the UK grid financial security in the event of death but their widows or widowers and through a seabed cable of 38 km and or illness, give access to medical civil partners, as well. Swiss Re is in a an underground cable of 48 km. treatment and offer dependable income position to write such large deals in retirement. We help primary L&H because we have a natural offset through … and Sandbank insurers and other clients from the our mortality business, the capacity to In 2014, Swiss Re Corporate Solutions private and public sector to manage write the business to our own balance also signed an insurance cover for the such risks efficiently, thanks to sheet and the expertise to create tailorSandbank Offshore Wind Farm, which our specialist knowledge of mortality, made solutions. is situated 90 km west of the German morbidity and longevity trends. island Sylt in the North Sea. The wind In technical terms, we worked together farm is being developed by a joint Longevity and health insurance are with two other reinsurers to transfer venture between Vattenfall and two of our strategic priorities in the L&H the longevity risk from the Aviva Staff Stadtwerke München (SWM, Munich business. The demand for longevity Pension Scheme to Aviva Life & Pensions city utility). Swiss Re Corporate Solutions solutions is expected to grow further as UK Ltd and then to the reinsurance offers protection to the project for the demographics shift. We have invested market. entire construction phase, which is in research and development to improve due to start in 2015. our ability to predict mortality and longevity trends. In the last few years, Like the Dudgeon Offshore Wind Farm, we have completed several longevity Longevity deals in the UK Sandbank will use high-tech equipment insurance contracts with pension funds The longevity solution we have to ensure efficient power generation. It in the UK. developed with the Aviva Staff will have an installed capacity of 288 Pension Scheme is the latest in megawatts and produce up to 1.4 TWh Demand for commercial health a series of such transactions in per year with 72 turbines, enough to insurance solutions is also growing, the UK. Our other clients include power 400 000 homes. The power driven by several major demographic one of AkzoNobel’s pension generated by Sandbank and two other and socio-economic trends. These funds (17 000 members), the wind farms nearby (DanTysk and include: the greater healthcare needs LV= pension fund (more than Buitendiek) will be transmitted to a of ageing societies; rising healthcare 5 000 members) and the Royal converter station currently being built, expectations of the new middle class, County of Berkshire Pension SylWin alpha. There, the power will especially in growth markets; and Fund (11 000 members). be converted to direct current, which healthcare finance reform, particularly will help to reduce transmission losses in mature markets. We offer a variety of over the 200 km long sea cable. health reinsurance solutions to meet these needs, from short-term protection against the risk of volatility in medical expenses for insurers or employers, to very long-term protection against the financial impact of disability or critical illness. Longevity transaction with the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme In 2014, we participated in a landmark longevity transaction with the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme in the UK. With life expectancy rising, pension schemes face the risk that they will not be able to meet all their commitments. Longevity transactions cover this risk by insuring the schemes’ liabilities in case their members live longer than expected.  or more information see F swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Extending our risk intelligence We address sustainability, political, regulatory and emerging risks in our core business transactions. To do so, we have developed specific tools and know-how. Risk management is at the core of This extended risk awareness is also key Sustainability risks Swiss Re’s business model. Controlled to managing our assets responsibly. We define sustainability risks risk taking requires a strong risk culture The risk assessments we make through as ethical concerns related to across the organisation, strengthened our Sustainability Risk Framework, potential environmental and by comprehensive risk management in particular, flow directly into our socio-economic impacts of our processes to identify, assess and control investment decisions. business transactions, and the Group’s and the Business Units’ the reputational risks they may risk exposures. The core categories of entail. our risk landscape comprise insurance, Our Sustainability Risk financial market and credit risks (see Framework 2014 Financial Report, pages 62–68). In a market environment, profitable Sound risk management is essential for business activities create economic a re/insurer: Tight control of our exposures value. Occasionally, however, they may guarantees that we can be a reliable also adversely affect the environment partner to our clients when they need us. and certain vulnerable groups. If such There is an additional dimension to risk impacts are ignored, they may pose a management, though: As a responsible threat to societies’ long-term sustainable company, we need to pay attention to development. further, non-standard risks we may be exposed to, especially in the longer term. For companies, this situation can cause dilemmas: A specific business transaction Sustainability, political, regulatory and may be economically beneficial and emerging risks are particularly relevant perfectly fine from a legal perspective, in this respect. We have developed yet may have significant environmental instruments and know-how that help us and social downsides. At Swiss Re, we to identify and assess all of them. This believe it is important to recognise the allows us to determine those risks we existence of such dilemmas and to think should be avoided – because of develop effective responses. Doing so their loss potential, for ethical reasons, requires a well-defined approach and or both. the willingness to make decisions based on ethical principles.  or more information see F swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ managing_env_risks.html 22 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Dams are an important source of renewable energy, but can potentially also have impacts on the environment and local communities. In our Sustainability Risk Framework we have a policy that specifies the risks we examine before underwriting dam projects. Our Sustainability Risk Framework is an The Sustainability Risk Framework advanced risk management instrument consists of: that has been specifically designed to ̤̤ Eight policies on sensitive sectors identify and address such “sustainability or issues; risks” in our core business. It is applicable ̤̤ The Sensitive Business Risks (SBR) to all of our business transactions, ie process − a due diligence tool for re/insurance as well as investments, to assessing individual business the extent that we can influence their transactions; various aspects. ̤̤ Company exclusions; ̤̤ Country exclusions beyond mere compliance with international trade controls. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Extending our risk intelligence Policies Currently, the framework comprises Main concerns in critical sectors policies on eight sectors and issues where we perceive major sustainability Defence industry risks: the defence industry, oil and gas ̤̤ Particularly cruel weapons that inflict indiscriminate harm to humans (including oil sands), mining, dams, and the environment, often after a conflict has ended; animal testing, forestry and logging, ̤̤ The provision of certain services by private security companies. nuclear weapons proliferation, plus an overarching human rights and Oil and gas environmental protection policy. ̤̤ Human rights abuses; ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where We regularly review these policies to critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages ensure they reflect new developments. are impacted. In 2013, for example, we made important amendments to our policies covering Mining the defence industry, nuclear weapons ̤̤ Human rights abuses; proliferation, oil and gas, and forestry ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where and logging. Further details were critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages presented in the 2013 Corporate are impacted; Responsibility Report. ̤̤ Poor occupational health & safety record and risk of increasing HIV penetration. The key concerns addressed by the eight policies of our Sustainability Risk Dams Framework are listed on the right: ̤̤ Human rights abuses; ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages are impacted; ̤̤ Non-involvement of relevant stakeholders; ̤̤ Non-involvement of affected neighbouring states. Animal testing ̤̤ Unethical and inhumane treatment of animals. Forestry and logging ̤̤ Illegal logging; ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages are impacted. Nuclear weapons proliferation ̤̤ Activities associated with nuclear energy or similar in countries that are outside the established framework and international regime of global non-proliferation efforts. Human rights and environmental protection ̤̤ Human rights violations and abuses such as murder, torture, deprivation of liberty, forced labour or harmful child labour; ̤̤ Countries that lack an operational, effective and internationally recognised government; ̤̤ Companies that are causing ongoing, severe and unmitigated damage to the environment, flora and fauna of a particular place and biodiversity in general, especially in industries and activities that have had a problematic track record in this area in the past.  or more information see F swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ sensitive_risks_process.html 24 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report The Sensitive Business Risks process This web of ethical principles helps us to violations; infliction of repeated, Each of the eight policies of our make decisions that are aligned with severe and unmitigated damage to Sustainability Risk Framework contains universal fundamental rights. However, the environment; and unregulated criteria which define precisely when for decisions in a business context this is proliferation of nuclear weapons. our underwriters and client managers not sufficient. Further aspects that need need to refer a transaction to the to be considered are the social and Country exclusions Sensitive Business Risks (SBR) process. economic implications of our decisions Swiss Re also excludes certain countries In such a case, our sustainability and in their respective cultural contexts. from its business, beyond compliance other experts carry out a due diligence Last but not least, we need to take into with international trade controls (ITCs). assessment: they carefully analyse the account the implications for our business. The criteria for these country exclusions benefits and downsides of the Balancing these different aspects requires are a particularly poor human rights transaction at hand and decide whether the careful and consistent assessment record and no prospect of improvement. it is acceptable on ethical grounds. of transactions and their local effects, Our goal is not to directly underwrite often in collaboration and dialogue with risks or make investments in entities that This decision takes the form of a external experts and local stakeholders. are based in these countries. At the end recommendation either to go ahead of 2014, the countries excluded from with the transaction, to go ahead with Thus our decisions are neither subjective our business due to human rights certain conditions attached or to abstain nor entirely objective. In essence, reasons and political risks were North from it. If there is disagreement about they reflect our recognition of global Korea, Somalia, Sudan (North only) and the recommendation, the case can be fundamental rights, of human suffering Syria. In the case of Myanmar, Sensitive escalated to the next management level. and our commitment to limiting Business Risk referrals are mandatory. unwanted negative impacts of our The decisions we take as part of the business transactions. Growth and strengthening of Sustainability Risk Framework are based the framework on internationally recognised ethical Company exclusions In 2014, the number of transactions principles. Swiss Re is a signatory to the The policies of our Sustainability Risk referred to the SBR process rose to UN Global Compact, which derives its Framework specify certain criteria that 454, more than double the number of human rights principles from the may lead to the exclusion of a company the previous year. We issued negative Universal Declaration of Human Rights, from both our re/insurance transactions recommendations in 43 cases and its labour principles from the ILO and our investments, to the extent positive recommendations with Declaration on Fundamental Principles that such an exclusion is permissible conditions in 60 cases. and Rights at Work, its environment (eg by virtue of mandatory law or internal principles from the Rio Declaration on policies) and possible (eg if existing Environment and Development and documentation relating to such its anti-corruption principles from the United Nations Convention against Corruption. re/insurance transactions and investments provide for it). These criteria include: involvement in prohibited war material; 454 Total number of business verifiable complicity in systematic, transactions referred to the Sensitive repeated and severe human rights Business Risks process in 2014 (210 in 2013) Sensitive Business Risk referrals 2014 Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals  20% Oil and gas 19% Defence 500 500  20% Excluded 17% Oil and gas /critical country  11% Defence 14% Excluded/critical country 400 400  14% Mining 11% Mining  9% Dams 9% Environmental degradation 300 300  6% Environmental 9% Other industry /issue degradation 200  5% Other 8% Forestry and logging industry/issue 200  4% Human 6% Human rights rights 100  3% Forestry 4% Dams and logging 100  3% Nuclear 3% Multi-issue weapons proliferation 0  2% Animal 1% Animal testing testing 0 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014  1% Multi-issue 1% Nuclear weapons profileration  Proceed Proceed  Proceed Proceed with conditions Proceed with conditions  Abstain Proceed with conditions Abstain  Not Abstain materialised Not materialised Not materialised Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Extending our risk intelligence This strong increase was due to a Independent internal reviews We take an active role in several industry combination of factors: our continued In 2014, we started to formally organisations that promote sustainable expansion in high growth markets, cooperate with our internal Business business practices. One of them is the where regulation tends to be less Risk Review (BRR) unit. A BRR is an Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Forum stringent, and our continuing efforts to independent quality assessment of (www.thecroforum.org). In 2014, we raise awareness of sustainability risks underwriting and costing activities to helped produce its publication on and to provide appropriate training to review the quality of the technical work “Human rights and corporate insurance”, our underwriting community (see carried out and the decisions made, the fifth in its series on managing section below). including checking whether mandatory environmental, social and governance underwriting standards have been (ESG) challenges in business In view of the steady rise in the number adhered to. transactions. of SBRs, we wanted to establish the approximate percentage of all potentially During a BRR, our underwriting teams sensitive transactions that are currently are now automatically asked a number Human rights and corporate referred to the SBR process. Therefore, of specific questions about their insurance we screened all of our business potential exposure to sustainability risks. The purpose of this paper by transactions according to four “sensitivity” The results and recommendations for the CRO Forum is to build an parameters: countries, country/industry improvement are reported to the understanding of why the combinations, companies and individual Sustainability Management team, which insurance industry has to bring projects. We found that, according to can then take appropriate action if it respect for human rights into its these criteria, around 3 700 of the detects potential problem areas. risk management framework business transactions we completed in and how it can address human 2014 (in both our Reinsurance and Training rights issues in its business Corporate Solutions Business Units) Since we introduced our Sustainability relationships with other had to be considered to contain at least Risk Framework in 2009, we have made corporations. some degree of sustainability risk. considerable efforts to raise awareness of sustainability issues among our Given the total of 454 SBR referrals in underwriters and client managers, and 2014, this means that around 12% of to ensure that they know how to properly all our potentially sensitive transactions apply the framework. Recently, we have were centrally assessed by the focused in particular on high growth sustainability management team at our markets where we want to expand our headquarters. The remaining business. transactions were examined locally by the responsible business teams, based In 2014, 306 employees completed our on the eight policies of our Sustainability eLearning course on the Sustainability Human rights and corporate insurance Risk Framework. Risk Framework. For 278 new joiners November 2014 who work in underwriting and with our Creation of an SBR expert network clients, this training was mandatory. In response to the steady rise in SBR referrals across all geographical areas, In addition, we provided training in 2014 we decided to strengthen the personally or via web-based conference Sustainability Risk Framework at our to 115 experienced underwriters and locations by setting up an SBR expert graduates, and gave 16 presentations network to provide permanent points on the Sustainability Risk Framework, of contact. These experts from Risk which were attended by 382 people. Management will act as interfaces Through all our personally delivered between the headquarter-based training and outreach activities, Sustainability Management team and we reached a total of 606 employees our local underwriting teams. Their in 2014. responsibilities include awareness raising, organising trainings, facilitating Client and industry interaction SBR assessments and maintaining Efforts to address environmental and contact with regional stakeholders. social risks are obviously more effective when many companies join forces. This is why we seek to further promote sustainability risk management within the re/insurance industry. 26 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report We were also strongly involved in the Our knowledge of political risks is also Swiss Re remained engaged in the development of the Principles for highly relevant for ensuring sustainable regulatory debate throughout 2014, Sustainable Insurance (PSI) by the UN business operations in line with supporting regulatory convergence as Environment Programme Finance environmental, social and governance well as increased application of Initiative, UN EPFI (www.unepfi.org/psi). (ESG) principles: Several of the sectors economic and risk-based principles. At We were one of the initiative’s original and issues covered by the eight policies the same time, we strive to mitigate signatories and currently hold its coof our Sustainability Risk Framework developments that may adversely affect chair. Launched in 2012, the PSI address (see pages 22–27) have a significant the re/insurance industry’s ability to environmental, social and governance political dimension. Implementing these foster financial and economic stability. issues in the re/insurance industry, policies, both through SBR assessments spanning risk management, underwriting, and exclusion policies, thus requires a For example, we share the broad product and service development, clear understanding of political risks. concerns of the re/insurance industry claims management, sales and This is particularly true with regard to regarding the cumulative and crossmarketing, and investment management. human rights violations, the proliferation sectoral impacts of some of the proposed Our Public Disclosure of Progress for 2014 of armaments into conflict areas or reforms. Regulatory fragmentation is a is included in this report on page 74. the identification of areas prone to civil key issue, particularly in the context of unrest. protectionist measures introduced in As the PSI’s co-chair in 2014, we some growth markets. Moreover, the contributed to the implementation of its Furthermore, we seek to raise introduction of Solvency II in Europe has global strategy and work programme for awareness of political risk within the not fully achieved the goal of regulatory 2014 to 2016, which spans key projects re/ insurance industry and among the harmonisation. and activities across environ­mental, broader public, and actively engage in social and governance issues. The PSI dialogue with clients and other stake­ We also share concerns that the design have witnessed strong growth since holders. We also distil our ongoing and implementation of regulatory their launch in June 2012: In 2014, four assessments of political risks into several reforms may increase procyclicality, more companies joined the initiative, political and sustainability risk ratings which could exacerbate the effects of with combined gross premiums of at country level, which support our short-term market volatility. In 2014, we approximately USD 192 billion and underwriting and investment decisions. participated in consultations with the USD 3 trillion of assets under Financial Stability Board (FSB), the management. Thus, there were a total International Association of Insurance of 43 PSI signatories at the end of 2014, Regulatory risks Supervisors (IAIS), the Organisation for representing approximately Economic Co-operation (OECD), the USD 766 billion in gross premiums Regulatory risks represent the potential European Insurance and Occupational (approximately 17% of the world total) impact of changes in the regulatory and Pensions Authority (EIOPA) and the and USD 14 trillion in assets under supervisory regimes of the countries in European Commission on the management. which we operate. In 2014, the global implications of regulatory reforms, in regulatory agenda continued to particular on long-term investments, accelerate. Governments and regulators for example in infrastructure. Political risks rolled out new policies and conducted numerous consultations and field tests Climate change In today’s increasingly integrated world on regulations with a direct impact In view of the strategic importance we need to be aware of political on the re/insurance sector. Many reform climate change has for our core developments, actions and decisions proposals reflect the financial super­ business, we closely monitor regulatory that can have an adverse impact on our vision agenda set by the G20, which developments in this area. Awareness of business. Within the Group’s risk includes a focus on internationally active the topic by governments and regulators management organisation, we have a re/insurance groups and global has continued to build, leading to an team of specialists who look at a wide systemically important re/insurers. increase in climate-related reporting range of both commerceand securityrequirements. In 2014, the regulators of related political risks at global, country eight US states mandated that insurers and business transaction levels. domiciled or licensed in those states with USD 100 million or more in direct These specialists identify, assess and written premiums must complete a monitor political risks on an ongoing survey on climate change risks. basis, so we understand their implications Meanwhile, the UK government has and can initiate appropriate mitigation recently introduced new regulations that measures if required. Particular attention have required quoted companies to is paid to developments in high growth disclose their greenhouse gas emissions markets as well as to cross-border issues in their annual reports from the fourth such as terrorism, energy, multi-national quarter of 2013. institutions or international trade. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Extending our risk intelligence Emerging risks SONAR uses an interactive, web Emerging risks 2.0-based platform, which enables all We define emerging risks as The risk landscape in which re/insurers our employees to share risk notions newly developing or changing operate is changing faster today than quickly and easily and to stay up-to-date risks that are difficult to quantify ever before. New economic, on new developments. In 2014, 127 risk and whose potential impact technological, socio-political, regulatory notions and discussions were fed into on our business is not yet and environmental developments all the SONAR process, drawing on all main sufficiently taken into account. have the power to change risks or create areas of the emerging risk landscape. new ones. Moreover, growing inter­ While many of these early signals will dependencies between these never actually turn into emerging risks, developments can lead to accumulations others may well do so. As it is impossible of risk and create significant knock-on to anticipate which signals will fall effects. The general business into which category, all of them warrant environment is undergoing significant equal attention. changes, as well: liability and regulatory regimes continue to evolve, stakeholder Thus, our emerging risk specialists expectations are strengthening and assessed all these risk notions for their people’s risk perceptions are shifting. potential impact on our business and subsequently carried out more in-depth This complex landscape gives rise to investigations of selected topics, for “emerging risks”: newly developing or example of electronic cigarettes (see changing risks that are difficult to page 29). To share some of our key quantify and whose potential impact on insights with external audiences, in our business is not yet sufficiently taken 2014 we published the second edition into account. of our comprehensive Swiss Re SONAR report (see page 30). Detecting and investigating such risks early on forms an important element The emerging risks we have assessed of our comprehensive approach to risk in more detail and featured in our management. Our aim is to reduce Corporate Responsibility Reports in uncertainty and prevent unforeseen recent years include: electromagnetic losses, while identifying new business fields, critical infrastructure, carbon opportunities and raising awareness nanotubes, smart grids, cyber attacks, within the Group and across the industry. 3D printing and new forms of mobility. Therefore, we try to understand how Of these, infrastructure and new risks are changing, assess their impact forms of mobility – or, more specifically, and seek to recognise potential links autonomous cars – have indeed between them. emerged as significant topics for our business, creating risks as well as new 127 Our SONAR framework opportunities. Corresponding follow-up With SONAR (“systematic observation activities are described on pages 39 of notions associated with risk”), and 41, respectively. Total of risk notions and discussions we have a Group-wide framework fed into the SONAR process in 2014 which has been specifically designed to manage emerging risks. Firmly embedded in the Group’s risk management organisation, SONAR allows us to identify and assess these risks in a timely manner and to factor them into our decisions.  or more information see F swissre.com/about_us/managing_risks/ emerging_risks.html 28 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Electronic cigarettes – curse or blessing? Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) While the e-cigarette business is Regulation is also lagging behind. imitate smoking by technical means growing rapidly, knowledge about the After several years of almost without actually burning tobacco. potential health effects is lagging completely unregulated rapid growth, They are battery-powered electronic behind. E-cigarettes and similar the e-cigarette business will likely face devices designed to inhale vaporised devices such as e-shishas or e-pipes more stringent regulation in the liquids. These “e-liquids” are based on are commonly marketed as healthier coming years, as regulators and law a solution of propylene glycol and/or alternatives to conventional tobacco makers in many major markets review glycerine, which is mixed with smoking. However, the long-term their positions . This can also be concentrated flavours and, optionally, effects of inhaling e-cigarette vapour expected to affect the public’s with a variable amount of nicotine. are not yet fully understood. perception of e-cigarettes and the Furthermore, it is not yet clear how associated risks. E-cigarettes were first introduced at e-cigarettes will affect the smoking the start of the millennium and have behaviour of the public: Will the Given the high degree of uncertainty made inroads into the traditional dominant trend be for conventional regarding health effects, consumer tobacco smoking market at an smokers to switch to e-cigarettes, thus perception and regulation, a cautionary exponential rate in recent years. The generally improving public health? approach towards e-cigarettes seems devices are mainly sold over the Or will non-smokers start using justified. All related developments internet, but are also available over e-cigarettes, with potentially adverse should be closely monitored and the counter in tobacco stores, effects on public health? regularly reviewed to ensure that the pharmacies and supermarkets. underlying risk exposure is adequately assessed. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Extending our risk intelligence Strategic risk initiatives WEF Global Risks Report (GRR) CRO Forum Emerging Risk Initiative Identifying and addressing emerging Since its first edition in 2006, Swiss Re (CRO ERI) risks can be challenging: The novelty has been a strategic partner to the GRR, The CRO ERI was launched in 2005 to and interconnectedness of such the flagship publication of the World raise awareness of major emerging risks developments make it difficult to Economic Forum (WEF). In 2014, we relevant to society and the re/insurance determine when a particular risk notion authored an entire chapter under the industry. In 2014, Swiss Re chaired the must be considered an emerging risk. heading of “Generation Lost?”. It Emerging Risk Initiative for the second Timing is thus of crucial importance: If highlights the challenges facing the time. measures to exclude a particular risk are “millennials” against the background www.thecroforum.org/emerging-risktaken too early, we can offer our clients of high youth unemployment, rising initiative-2/ less insurance protection; if measures costs of education and the burden of an are taken too late, we may end up with ageing population. International Risk Governance increased loss potential. www.swissre.com/about_us/ Council (IRGC) managing_risks/Global_Risks_ The IRGC is an independent organisation Given these challenges, we believe it is Report_2014.html whose purpose is to help understand essential to foster risk dialogue with and manage global risks that impact various partners. By sharing perceptions human health and safety, the environ­ and assessments, all parties can gain a ment, the economy and society at large. better understanding of potential www.irgc.org/ emerging risks. In 2014, we contributed to the following strategic initiatives: As a partner of these strategic risk initiatives, we contributed to two reports on relevant risk developments in 2014 (see below). Swiss Re publication Publications with partner organisations Insight Report Global Risks 2014 Ninth Edition Swiss Re SONAR New emerging risk insights July 2014 Pushing the limits – Managing risk in a faster, taller, bigger world Emerging Risk Initiative – Position Paper November 2014 Swiss Re SONAR: Global Risks 2014, Ninth Edition, The CRO Forum’s position paper New emerging risk insights provides a high-level overview of 31 on “Pushing the limits” deals The Swiss Re SONAR report selected global risks, based on a with new dimensions in managing features emerging risk themes that survey with over 700 experts from risks arising from large, complex have the potential to impact the industry, government, academia and and rapidly realised projects in insurance industry in the future. civil society around the world. It construction, engineering, logistics, These topics were mainly derived highlights how global risks are transportation and medicine. Risk from our SONAR process and interconnected and have a systemic management needs to keep pace were assessed by our emerging impact. The report aims to improve with these developments to risk management experts. efforts by the public and the private ensure that tomorrow’s world media.swissre.com/documents/ sector to map, monitor, manage and remains as safe as today’s. SONAR_2014.pdf mitigate global risks, thus helping to media.swissre.com/documents/ build resilience to them. CRO_Forum_Pushing+the+limits. www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_ pdf GlobalRisks_Report_2014.pdf 30 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report The Resilience Action Initiative Building on our substantial experience In 2013 and 2014 we partnered with in helping communities to strengthen Turbulence other large, globally active companies their risk resilience, our sustainability in the Resilience Action Initiative (RAI). and emerging risk specialists The premise of the initiative was that developed a novel concept of T u R bu l enCe ever-greater demands on food, water enterprise resilience. This defines three A Corporate Perspective on and energy systems – in the context of levels of resilience: Collaborating for Resilience climate change – will make the world ̤̤ “structural”, focusing on the a much more turbulent place in future. company’s own systemic nature; Putting a strong focus on practical ̤̤ “integrative”, emphasising the EDITED BY RolanD KupERs action, the Resilience Action Initiative company’s complex argued that our socio-economic interconnections with its systems will have to become more environment; resilient to such turbulences – and ̤̤ “transformative”, highlighting the then sought to explore how multi­ company’s ability to develop over Turbulence: A Corporate national companies can help to time. Perspective on Collaborating strengthen the adaptive capacity of for Resilience their own operations as well as the For each of these levels, the concept This 188-page publication communities they interact with and specifies a set of “resilience lenses”, presents the tools and concepts depend on. which companies can employ to developed by the members of the assess their current resilience against Resilience Action Initiative to potential turbulences and identify foster resilience in an increasingly appropriate adaptation measures. turbulent world. Swiss Re contributed a full chapter focusing on enterprise resilience. Responsible investment can have a positive impact on the longterm financial performance of our Investment mix Asset-liability management (ALM) is investment portfolio. Thus, we apply as of 31 December 2014 the cornerstone of our investment sustainability-related risk information (Total: USD 125.4 bn; assets for own account philosophy. Premiums generated by our consistently across our entire investment only, excluding unit-linked and with-profit) underwriting activities are invested in portfolio. assets whose cash flows match the durations and currencies of our We also remain engaged on long-term re/insurance liabilities, to meet future investment themes, and particularly on claims and benefits. As a result, we have infrastructure as an asset class: an overweight of higher-quality fixed Re/insurance companies are well suited income investments with stable longto bridging the emerging infrastructure term returns. At the end of 2014, such financing gap due to the long-term investments accounted for 72% of our nature of their underlying business; total assets under management1. however, the right pre-conditions have to be set. Swiss Re recognises this and Swiss Re is committed to investing its contributes to ongoing policy dialogue 5% Cash and cash equivalents assets responsibly through a controlled on a global level. For instance, we and structured investment process, recently issued a joint publication with 11 % Short-term investments which integrates environmental, social the Institute of International Finance (IIF), 39% Government bonds and governance (ESG) criteria. We “Infrastructure Investing. It matters.” incl. agency believe that considering these factors (see page 43) and support the World 26% Corporate bonds Bank’s recently established Global Infrastructure Facility as an advisor 5% Securitised products (see page 39). 6% Equities* 2% Mortgages and other loans 6% Other 1 Asset classes considered consist of government bonds (incl. agency), corporate * Listed equities, hedge fund equities, bonds, securitised products, and mortgages private equity and Principal Investments and other loans. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Extending our risk intelligence Responsible investment governance All PRI signatories are required to Our asset management has a wellprovide in-depth reporting on their defined framework, which considers responsible investment activities. The ESG criteria consistent with the Group reports are available on the PRI website Code of Conduct and commitment to at www.unpri.org/areas-of-work/ sustainability. This commitment is reporting-and-assessment/reportingfurther outlined in the Group Asset outputs/individual-2013-14/ Management Responsible Investment Policy, which describes our approach Overarching approach and principles in relation to sustainability Swiss Re is a long-term investor. in the management of Swiss Re’s Therefore, it follows that we take a longinvestments, as well as the roles and term view on the risk factors that responsibilities to ensure the integration may have an adverse impact on our of ESG considerations. This is investment portfolio. complemented by the Swiss Re Voting Policy, which provides guiding principles At the core of our approach to tackling that apply to all our voting activities. ESG related risks in investments is the With this approach, we ensure a Sustainability Risk Framework (see comprehensive commitment to pages 22–27). This framework enables responsible investment in our day-to-day us to identify and analyse potential ESG asset management activities. risks within an investment and to ensure we are aligned with our governance Overall responsibility for sustainable structure. investing lies with the Group Chief Investment Officer, who is advised by The framework consists of eight policies the Asset Management Executive Team. on sensitive topics: the defence industry, Furthermore, an ESG Advisory Group, oil and gas (including oil sands), mining, formed with representatives from all dams, animal testing, forestry and investment units and risk management, logging, nuclear weapons proliferation, oversees and monitors the progress of and an overarching human rights and our responsible investment activities. environmental protection policy. Each policy contains a number of predefined In 2007 we signed the UN Principles criteria and qualitative standards that for Responsible Investment (PRI) and in may lead to the exclusion of a company 2012 the Principles for Sustainable or a country from our investment scope. Insurance (PSI), thereby formally endorsing our commitment to corporate Swiss Re’s Asset Management unit responsibility. The PRI and PSI are taken strictly applies these criteria to the vast into account in Swiss Re’s comprehensive majority of our investment assets, responsible investment framework. excluding companies and countries if they do not meet the predefined criteria and qualitative standards. Specific approaches per asset class In addition to the overarching approach described above, we have identified some key investment areas where we apply further, specific ESG criteria to cater for the different risk characteristics of responsible investment. These key investment areas include rates products, credit products, equities and real estate: 32 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Rates products Credit products, equities and Real estate Rates products2 constitute the largest hedge funds Our investment portfolio consists of asset class in our investment portfolio, At the end of 2014, close to 40% of direct investments in properties, with a share of 55% at the end of 2014. our investment portfolio was externally principally in Switzerland and in Germany. With 39% of total assets under managed. This portfolio is mainly Comprising buildings for both residential management, government bonds (incl. comprised of credit products, equities and commercial use, the total value of agency) are the largest holding within and hedge funds. the portfolio was USD 2.5 billion at the rates products. end of 2014. Approximately 90% of Swiss Re’s At a country level, we have implemented externally managed assets are managed For these real estate investments we political risk and sustainability by PRI signatories themselves. All of apply ambitious sustainability standards. assessments to guide on responsible them have contractual provisions with For projects in Switzerland, the investment decisions and to guarantee Swiss Re, specific to responsible applicable criteria are defined in the the quality of our government bond investments. Energy Mission Statement of Swiss Re. portfolio in this respect. Our rates This stipulates that all new buildings products portfolio is screened against We work closely with the managers need to conform to the MINERGIE® political country risk and sustainability to ensure they consider ESG aspects standard (www.minergie.ch), a Swiss rating considerations on a semi-annual in their investment processes. Before quality label specifying high levels of basis. Furthermore, the rating measures external managers are appointed, energy efficiency and superior user are used to define investment mandates Swiss Re performs thorough due comfort. When an existing building in for our portfolio managers. diligence to confirm their compliance the portfolio is due for renovation, this with our responsible investment standard is applied whenever it is principles. This includes ESG feasible from an architectural, technical considerations in investment decisions and financial point of view. Political Country Risk Rating and monitoring, as well as a review of The Political Country Risk Rating the managers’ commitment to By the end of 2014, the combined value comprehensively measures the responsible investment. After being of our MINERGIE®-certified buildings political risk in a country, which mandated, the managers’ individual had reached USD 0.4 billion, or 19.5% of is defined as events of a political, performances are monitored in line with our Swiss portfolio of direct real estate economic or social nature that our Responsible Investment Policy, and investments. The total energy harm business operations or they are required to report regularly on consumption surface in accordance with adversely affect the business their responsible investment activities. the MINERGIE® standard was 82 497 m2 climate. The overall country score at the end of 2014. In addition, more is derived from multiple external For more systematic and regular than 56 000 m2 had been sold on to and internal data sets and monitoring of the actual integration of third parties in previous years. Swiss Re’s expert assessment. ESG factors into our externally managed portfolio, we have engaged the services In 2014, construction of a new property, Sustainability Rating of a leading ESG research company. built to the MINERGIE-ECO® standard, The Sustainability Rating, a We apply the ratings provided by them was completed: In addition to derivative of the Political Country to our investment portfolio to assess the environmental specifications, this Risk Rating, measures the overall quality of the portfolio and gain further residential complex with 40 flats also social, environmental and human insight into ESG risk exposures. meets health criteria and demands on rights situation in a country, and building materials. Furthermore, supports Swiss Re’s alignment construction of a new building with with relevant United Nations 16 flats which will meet the MINERGIE® principles. standard is currently underway; it is expected to be completed in 2016. 2 Rates products consist of cash, short-term investments, government bonds (incl. agency), and derivatives thereof. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Extending our risk intelligence Voting activities in 2014 Voting In 2014, we exercised our voting rights As an asset owner, and in particular as a on 97% of our listed equity portfolio. We shareholder, we recognise our rights and voted on 4 171 ballots through our responsibilities as an integral part of our external managers, and we voted in commitment to responsible investment. favour of the respective management resolution in 3 817 cases (91%), against We believe that ESG considerations, and it in 280 cases (7%) and abstained from especially good corporate governance voting in 74 cases (2%). and transparency towards shareholders, are key drivers for sustainable value In addition to shares in listed companies, creation. Therefore, we actively exercise investments in our equity portfolio  97% Votes cast our rights to enhance portfolio value. include equity exchange-traded-funds  3% No votes cast (ETFs). The fund managers cast votes on In the case of internally managed assets, these ETFs for all investors in we use our influence as a responsible accordance with the fund managers’ shareholder by directly exercising our own voting policies and processes. Voting behaviour in 2014 voting rights, and with externally managed portfolios, by facilitating the Due to our largeand mid-cap company relevant portfolio managers to execute focus and the moderate total size of our our proxy votes and related engagement equity exposure, we generally hold a activities. very small portion of total issued share capital. This means Swiss Re rarely In line with our voting framework, we controls the outcome of a vote. review the voting policies of external managers during due diligence processes to confirm compliance with our own policy. In addition, external  91% Voted with management managers are required to report on  7% Voted against management voting activities conducted on  2% Abstained Swiss Re’s behalf, including providing an explanation of any votes against management. 34 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Exploring and shaping the risk landscape We engage in regular dialogue with our stakeholders. By sharing expertise and knowhow, we help society to develop effective responses to key risks. With our re/insurance solutions we help The GIM process involves our risk our clients and partners to cope with the specialists, product experts and other risks they face. This helps to create professionals from across the Group. We stability and enables economic growth. share their risk expertise and solutions But many of today’s risks are complex with key stakeholders, ie clients, and may threaten sustainable progress. investors, regulators, policy makers, To find effective, long-term responses to academics and civil society groups. such risks, partners from the public and Through our Top Topics dialogue, we the private sector need to work together. also aim to help shape public policy in a way that facilitates the development This is why we attach great importance of effective responses to the issues to ongoing dialogue with our identified. stakeholders. Using the expertise from our core business, we identify key risk We periodically review our Top Topics topics and take an active role in portfolio to reflect new business discussions on them. We share and developments and shifting global exchange knowledge through many agendas. Following an extensive review channels, eg our renowned publications in 2012, we adopted a revised set of five including the sigma series, international Top Topics for our stakeholder dialogue: dialogue platforms, events at our Centre ̤̤ Advancing sustainable energy for Global Dialogue, and cooperation solutions with governments and academic ̤̤ Funding longer lives institutions. Through this ongoing ̤̤ Managing climate and natural dialogue, our stakeholders give us disaster risk valuable feedback and new insights for ̤̤ Partnering for food security our risk management and product ̤̤ Supporting financial stability development. In 2014, we again worked on these Top Topics with many partners from the Group Issue Management public and private sectors. In the following sections we provide a brief With Group Issue Management (GIM), introduction to each topic, explain we have a formal process to identify why we consider it to be important and topics that are strategically important to give examples of our activities: us, our clients and society at large. These Top Topics denote the global challenges we want to help address and set an important focus for our stakeholder dialogue. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Advancing sustainable energy Funding longer lives solutions People are living longer today than ever Sustainable energy sources are essential before, but the share of the working to combat global warming. Reducing population is shrinking. As a result of this greenhouse gas emissions while, at the demographic megatrend, the costs of same time, satisfying the energy needs funding retirement income, healthcare of a growing population, will be one of and long-term care in old age are the great challenges we face in the increasing dramatically. This could have coming decades. Sustainable energy significant financial consequences for projects continue to increase in scale individuals, insurers, employer pension and complexity, as do the risks funds and society in general. Publicassociated with them. private partnerships are needed to overcome this challenge. Innovative risk transfer solutions help to drive investment in the sector by Life and health reinsurance is part of our reducing risk for investors. Building core business, and we are the world’s on our long-standing commitment to largest reinsurer of mortality risk. sustainability, we have recently Consequently, we are a natural home for intensified our renewable energy the longevity and health risks associated research to help our clients and the with ageing societies, and have the global community to develop and financial strength to take on risks across establish secure energy supplies for a person’s whole lifespan. Our in-depth the future. research and development in the life and health area combines medical, demo­ Our notable achievements in 2014: graphic, social, behavioural and financial ̤̤ Together with the World Energy expertise to deliver unique insights into Council, we launched the three-year the implications of funding longer lives. research project “Financing resilient Our global presence and deep under­ energy infrastructure” (FREI) to standing of different demographic needs identify and characterise the nature, throughout the world allow us to adapt frequency and severity of emerging and develop innovative solutions in new risks in renewable energy markets. installations. Its results will help to make energy infrastructure more Our notable achievements in 2014: reliable and thus encourage ̤̤ We continued our involvement in investment in the sector; Asia Health Symposia, which is an ̤̤ As a founding member, we launched information-sharing platform to the RE100 initiative with several gather a cross-section of key partner companies, setting ourselves stakeholders. Spin-off task-force the goal of obtaining 100% of our groups maintained dialogue on key energy from renewable sources. By health issues identified; increasing demand, this initiative will ̤̤ Our senior management were make it more viable for power engaged as keynote speakers at companies to build renewable energy various US and Canadian industry plants (for more details, see page 46); conferences on “funding longer lives”; ̤̤ We extended Swiss Re Corporate ̤̤ We contributed several articles and Solutions’ partnership with Solar interviews on “funding longer lives” Impulse on the world’s first round-thetopics to different media. world flight with a solar-powered airplane, underscoring our commitment to supporting cuttingedge innovations in the field of sustainability.  or more information see F swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_ energy/  or more information see F swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ 36 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Managing climate and natural By financing measures to mitigate Our notable achievements in 2014: disaster risk disaster risks and adapt to climate ̤̤ We continued to share our data on Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes change, we can strengthen the the potential impact of major nat cat and other natural catastrophes (nat cat) resilience of businesses, local and events on cities. Following on from can have a dramatic impact on the national economies, and societies. As the publication “Mind the risk: a citizens and economies of entire countries. insurance puts a price tag on risk, it global ranking of cities under threat Insurance helps people, businesses and helps to create an incentive to invest in from natural disasters”, we launched societies to get back on their feet after prevention measures. our “Risky cities” publication series in disaster strikes. 2014, which provided more detailed As a result of increased insurance data for Los Angeles, Tokyo, Mexico Although insured losses from natural penetration, losses from natural City and Rome; catastrophes were lower in 2014 than in catastrophes are expected to rise. ̤̤ We shared our expertise regionally recent years, the number of events was Understanding natural catastrophe risks and nationally through the four among the highest ever recorded. The and the impact of climate change is publications “Small quakes, big expectation is that, as a result of climate critical to cost Swiss Re’s business impact: lessons learned from change, extreme weather events like accurately and to structure sound Christchurch”, “Keeping tabs on the hurricanes and floods will increase. alternative risk transfer solutions. By typhoon threat”, “The big one: The Moreover, the economic losses from sharing this knowledge, we help our East Coast’s 100 billion dollar such events are also expected to rise partners to identify cost-effective hurricane event” and “The risk of given a higher concentration of assets measures to protect themselves. In tropical cyclones in Brazil”; in exposed areas. If no action is taken, addition, we provide solutions to cover ̤̤ We produced the animated video climate change could cost the world the residual risk that cannot be avoided. “Resilient Cities: pathway to a more economy an estimated 20% of global sustainable future” to explain the GDP by the end of this century. benefits of “nat cat proofing” the design of cities (see below). For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ natural_disaster_risk/ By taking the right precautionary measures, cities can increase their resilience to natural disasters: A papercraft video we produced in 2014 shows how. You can watch the video at swissre.com/urban_resilience. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Partnering for food security Our notable achievements in 2014: Supporting financial stability 805 million people – or one in 11 – are ̤̤ Ahead of time, we met our Re/insurance supports financial stability chronically hungry and malnourished on commitment to provide insurance by acting as a shock absorber and by the planet today. By 2050, the world’s coverage to 1.4 million African promoting growth. Through its core population is expected to grow to an smallholder farmers by 2017, and business, it helps to reduce the impact estimated 9 billion people, which will even exceeded our initial goal, with of major risk events on the broader further aggravate the situation. Meeting 2 million farmers benefiting at the economy and provides it with long-term this demand for food will be particularly end of 2014 (see page 19 for further investment finance. challenging, as supply is constrained by details); factors such as climate change, depleted ̤̤ We invited ninety clients, NGOs, However, regulatory reforms, the macroagricultural soils and the distribution of banks and other stakeholders to the economic environment and assetland, water and energy. fourth Agricultural Reinsurance liability matching are three areas that Workshop in Nairobi to discuss the currently impact re/insurers’ balance Most farming in the world is still carried measures needed to reshape sheets and their ability to promote out by small-scale subsistence farmers, agriculture in Africa to feed its growing financial stability. Taken together, these who feed their families and sell a small population, identifying a lack of data three pillars form the basis of our Top surplus on local markets. This needs on the importance of agriculture as a Topic “supporting financial stability”. to change as more and more people are key challenge; living in cities. Last year, the urban ̤̤ As a follow-up to the Nairobi Financial stability emerged as a key topic population exceeded the rural one for conference, we began providing such in re/insurance after the 2008/2009 the first time ever, which means that data in the new publication “Subfinancial crisis, which revealed flaws in cities are becoming increasingly Saharan Africa – breadbasket for a the supervisory system. New regimes dependent on the remaining farmers growing population” and by were introduced to address the root for their food. publishing “Agro insurance hotspots” causes of the crisis. Today, insurers face on Mozambique and Kenya, which a new dimension of macro regulation The surplus subsistence farmers include overviews on the economics, and new institutions unfamiliar with our currently produce will not be enough to production and perils of agriculture. sector. This is particularly relevant now, feed the growing population in our cities. given the ongoing debate on systemic Smallholder farmers must make the risk in re/insurance and the impact of transition to commercial agriculture to regulatory reform on investments. That is feed the world. For this, they need why we expanded the financial stability access to credit so they can buy tools, topic in 2014 to include infrastructure seeds and fertilizer. But lending will investment reform and developing remain restricted if banks fear that business from Solvency II. farmers will be unable to pay back their loans in the event of a lost harvest due to Our notable achievements in 2014: drought, flood or other disasters. Here, ̤̤ We cooperated with the Institute of insurance can play the same role in the International Finance (IIF) to publish developing world as it already does in the report “Infrastructure Investing. developed countries: protecting farmers It Matters.”, which highlights the against the perils of nature to keep them importance of infrastructure growth in business, even if disaster strikes. and partnerships to fund its investment; ̤̤ We collaborated with the World Bank’s Global Infrastructure Facility (GIF) as an advisor to help establish infrastructure investments as an asset class and to provide innovative insurance risk solutions for infra­ structure investments (see page 39); ̤̤ We continued to keep a close eye on Solvency II developments, seeing as reinsurance can have a measurable effect on our clients’ capital requirements.  or more information see F swissre.com/rethinking/food_security/  or more information see F swissre.com/rethinking/financial_ stability/ 38 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Swiss Re collaborates with the World Bank on infrastructure investment strategies According to the OECD, less than 1% of the USD 80 trillion or so managed by institutional investors (eg re/insurance companies and sovereign wealth funds) is earmarked for infrastructure investment. However, emerging markets and developing economies, especially, are facing a massive gap in infrastructure investment: it is estimated that an additional USD 1 trillion to USD 1.5 trillion will be required to meet demand until 2020 alone. To unlock the potential of infrastructure investment, the World Bank has launched its Global Infrastructure Facility (GIF), a partnership of public and private sector entities. We took part in the GIF’s launch event in 2014 to announce our collaboration as an advisor. Swiss Re and other re/insurers can play a crucial role in promoting infra­ structure investment: not only is our industry one of the largest institutional and longterm investors, it also offers the risk transfer solutions needed to protect investments. To attract more long-term investment, however, infrastructure needs to become established as a standardised and tradable asset class. In our cooperation with the GIF, we focus both on infrastructure as an asset class and effective risk transfer solutions. www.worldbank.org/en/topic/publicprivatepartnerships/brief/globalinfrastructure-facility Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Our Centre for Global Dialogue The discussion revealed two ways of Natural catastrophes and man-made trying to address the looming pensions’ disasters The Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue crisis. The first is financial: Individuals Each year, an early edition of our is an important platform for interaction should be encouraged to save more, renowned sigma series provides a with our external stakeholders. Located while private and employers’ pensions detailed analysis of natural catastrophes near Zurich, this state-of-the-art must be further developed. Insurance and related losses witnessed in the conference centre hosts client and schemes covering care costs could also previous year. When this sigma edition expert events. It allows us to present our help, but need time to develop. The was published in 2014, the Centre for thinking on some of the key issues second is to challenge our current workGlobal Dialogue held a one-day confronting our industry and society at life patterns. It is neither financially conference to highlight some of the key large, while exploring topics that are feasible nor economically optimal that findings and strategic issues emerging critical to a better understanding of the most workers retire in their early 60s. from the data. risk landscape we are facing. We all need to be much more flexible in rethinking our working lives and Although the numbers vary from one Besides organising dialogue events, retirement, so individuals can choose a year to the next, there has been a clear the Centre is responsible for executive lifestyle that suits their personal and trend: Natural catastrophes are now client training and engages in research financial circumstances. responsible for more human casualties projects with third parties, principally and higher financial losses than ever from academia. These projects provide It was also argued, however, that we before, particularly in densely populated us with fresh perspectives on topics of may not just have to rethink pensions and unprotected locations. In the face of pressing concern to the re/insurance and retirement, but the concept of this mounting challenge, the re/insurance industry. The Centre also manages some ageing altogether. New technologies are industry is looking for ways to better of Swiss Re’s key external networks. already being developed that have the manage natural catastrophe risks. potential to fundamentally change the The Centre reflects our commitment to way we age. They include, for example, Re/insurers have developed some very being a knowledge company. We augmentation of existing organs, bionic sophisticated models to handle natural believe that by openly exchanging and implants, personalised medicine and catastrophe risks. However, a key theme sharing this knowledge we, our clients diagnostics such as biometric sensors. of the conference discussions was and stakeholders can be “smarter When such “next society” technologies how important it is to make societies and together”. begin to influence both our longevity governments more aware of the risks and our investment decisions, this will they face, and to make the existing risk Below you can read summaries of three raise profound moral, social and political expertise available to a wider public. A events we held at the Centre in 2014: questions for our societies. second focal point was the impact that climate change is having on the frequency Connecting generations: Funding and severity of extreme weather events. longer lives Conference participants came to the When we celebrated our 150 Year conclusion that tackling these growing Anniversary in 2013, the Centre for challenges requires better cooperation Global Dialogue launched a series of between all the parties involved. events under the motto of “Connecting generations”. This series continued in early 2014, first focusing on our Top Topic of “funding longer lives”. A mixed group of entrepreneurs, industry experts, government representatives and researchers met to discuss the roles of different generations in tackling the financial challenges posed by our ageing societies.  or more information see F cgd.swissre.com 40 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report The autonomous car: Risks and take over from them, making cars opportunities for the re/insurance autonomous. Almost all major car industry manufacturers are working on such Autonomous cars have recently been prototypes, so this is not the stuff identified by our emerging risk of science fiction. specialists as a development that may pose a significant challenge to the The speed with which autonomous cars re/ insurance industry (see case study on will spread depends on a number of “new forms of mobility” in the 2013 factors, such as consumer preferences, Corporate Responsibility Report, page legal environments and data security. 28). A two-day conference, organised by But questions surrounding insurance the Centre for Global Dialogue, sought to and insurability will also play a crucial stimulate the debate on this topic, by role; what is certain is that the car bringing together manufacturers, insurance market will change and that technology producers, lawyers and road insurers will need to be flexible in their safety experts. product offerings. We will continue to work with our clients and partners Until recently, cars have evolved to keep abreast of the challenges and incrementally in appearance and opportunities created by the arrival capability, and the fundamental model of of the autonomous car. the driven car has changed very little. The new technologies that are already on the market are designed to assist drivers but, in future, they may actually Jayne Plunkett, our Head Casualty Underwriting Reinsurance, personally addresses the two-day conference at Rüschlikon on “the autonomous car”. This is an important topic for us and the industry, because the technology will create significant challenges as well as new opportunities for re/insurers. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Collaboration with (inter-) Working with (inter-)governmental Working with academic institutions governmental and academic agencies to share risk management ̤̤ We support the Integrative Risk expertise Management project at the Swiss institutions ̤̤ With Global Partnerships, we have an Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) We collaborate with various (inter-) entity that works strategically with Zurich, which aims to advance a governmental and academic institutions public-sector bodies to improve risk holistic approach to managing risks both to promote effective approaches to resilience: and educate a new generation of sustainability challenges and to share – directly with governments, recently researchers; our expertise on managing specific risks. eg with the Government of ̤̤ As a member of the steering Uruguay to create a solution committee of Swiss-based ProClim – Working with (inter-)governmental providing cover for drought the Forum for Climate and Global agencies to promote effective conditions that affect hydropower Change – we support integrated sustainability responses generation, with the State Council research activities and get access to ̤̤ In Europe, we worked with Insurance of China to improve resilience the latest scientific findings; Europe in Brussels on the European against natural catastrophe risks, ̤̤ Through our co-chairmanship of the Commission’s Green Paper on the or through the Pacific Catastrophe PSI Board, we cooperate with Temple Insurance of Natural and Man-Made Risk Insurance Pilot (see pages University on the role of insurance in Disasters: In addition to regular 16–18); improving society’s risk resilience. involvement in exchanges and – with the United Nation’s feedback, one of our senior managers International Strategy for Disaster took part in discussions with the Reduction (UNISDR) in a European Commission; consulting role; ̤̤ In the US, we maintain regular – with development agencies such dialogue with the National as the United States Agency for Association of Insurance International Development Commissioners (NAIC), principally on (USAID), the UK’s Department for climate change and natural International Development (DFID), catastrophes; the Swiss Agency for Development ̤̤ In Switzerland, we provide a and Cooperation (SDC), the World committee member of the OcCC Bank, the Asian Development Bank (Organe consultatif sur les (ADB), the Inter-American changements climatiques), an Development Bank (IADB) or the advisory body on climate change German Development Bank (KfW); set up by the Swiss Federal ̤̤ We regularly contribute to platforms Administration. such as the World Economic Forum, B20, G20 and G8 to share our insights on key risks, and support the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) process; ̤̤ We recently contributed to the World Economic Forum’s Global Risks reports (see page 30 for the 2014 edition). 42 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Selected communication products in 2014 The publications and other media we produce in-house or in cooperation with our partners play an important role in our efforts to help clients and society form effective responses to key risks. Listed below are the publications mentioned in this chapter on pages 36–41. Further Swiss Re publications are displayed on pages 68–69. Swiss Re publications No 1/2014 Agro insurance hotspot: Mozambique Floods, cyclones, droughts and hail – these are the main threats to the core China’s coastal cities have been escaping severe storms but how long will it last? of Mozambique s economy: agriculture. Employing 80% of the workforce and generating 29% of country GDP, working the land is the pillar that supports Keeping tabs on the typhoon threat Risky cities: large parts of business in the country. Over the last 30 years, only very few major tropical cyclones have caused Los Angeles Mozambique ranks third among African nations most threatened by weather severe insurance loss in the Pearl River Delta region and Shanghai, the two hazards, making it heavily exposed to major humanitarian crises. Most main exposure clusters along China’s southeast coast. Several storms have Los Angeles is a massive economic hub and highly exposed of the perils present in the country are insurable today – for smallhold farmers made landfall in China every year but most struck areas with relatively low to earthquake risk. Using Swiss Re’s risk models and detailed hazard as well as for professional operations. Still insurance penetration is low, insured values. That said, there is no guarantee that this pattern will remain data available in CatNet®, we have analysed the potential impact exposing farmers and the population at large to the effects of large natural unchanged in the future. And given the exponential growth in population and of this risk and other natural perils on LA’s metropolitan area. This analysis disasters which can overburden society. physical assets the region has experienced during the same period, there is is part of Swiss Re’s report: “Mind the Risk – a global ranking of cities certainly no room for complacency. Should a severe typhoon hit one of China’s under threat from natural disasters” which compares the human and economic Small quakes, big impact: big urban centres today, the economic and insured loss could be substantial. exposure of 616 cities around the world. lessons learned from Christchurch Natural catastrophes and 01 Executive summary man-made disasters in 2013: 02 Catastrophes in 2013 – global overview large losses from floods and 07 Regional overview hail; Haiyan hits the Philippines 15 Fostering climate change resilience 25 Tables for reporting year 2013 45 Terms and selection criteria Agro insurance Keeping tabs on the Risky cities (on Los sigma 1/2014: Small quakes, hotspot (on typhoon threat Angeles, Tokyo, Mexico Natural catastrophes big impact: Mozambique and City and Rome) and man-made lessons learned Kenya) disasters in 2013 from Christchurch Publication with partner organisation The autonomous car: Ten years after the first tropical cyclone ever recorded A publication highlighting the importance of long-term investing and in the South Atlantic, we investigate the possibility and proposing specific initiatives to strengthen the role of institutional investors Sub-Saharan Africa – breadbasket Risks and opportunities for The big one: The East Coast’s potential impact of another event like it. and facilitate infrastructure investing for a growing population the re/insurance industry The risk of tropical cyclones in Brazil Infrastructure Investing. It Matters. USD 100 billion hurricane event Conference report September 2014 Sub-Saharan Africa – The autonomous car: The big one: The East The risk of tropical With the Institute of breadbasket for a Risks and opportunities Coast’s USD 100 billion cyclones in Brazil International Finance: growing population for the re/insurance hurricane event Infrastructure industry (Conference Investing. It Matters. report) Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 Reducing our environmental footprint We want to lead by example and work to mini­ mise the environmental impact of our operations. Cutting CO2 emissions and reducing energy consumption are key targets across the Group. As a typical knowledge company, we Management system and do not cause large environmental certification impacts through our own operations. Nonetheless, we firmly believe it is We operate an integrated global important for a responsible company to management system (GMS) at our minimise its environmental footprint, Corporate Real Estate & Logistics thus leading by example. division, which interlinks quality and environmental management and For our core re/insurance business, ensures that similar processes are climate change represents a key issue. seamlessly managed. Through a Reflecting this, we have been focusing Group-wide systematic reporting on reducing our own CO2 emissions process, we monitor our environmental and energy consumption for many years. performance and implement appropriate Our pioneering initiatives include the improvement measures. Greenhouse Neutral Programme and the COyou2 Programme. Both are now into Environmental objectives and targets their second cycles, running from 2013 are defined centrally at our to 2020. headquarters, but responsibility for implementing improvement measures Furthermore, we apply sustainability also lies with the Corporate Real guidelines to our sourcing and Estate & Logistics departments of the construction activities. Extending our respective locations. efforts beyond our company, we continue to take a leading role in the Up until 2013, our policy was to have Swiss Climate Foundation. our largest locations certified according to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard (www.iso.org). We have since decided to move to a centralised approach and have the whole Corporate Real Estate & Logistics division certified globally according to ISO 14001. The certification process is well underway and is expected to be completed by the end of 2015. As a result, all our employees will be working at locations covered by an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system in the future.  or more information see F swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ reducing_footprint.html 44 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report The Greenhouse Neutral within ten years and, secondly, to Programme fully offset all the remaining emissions by purchasing high-quality emission Climate change has been a strategic reduction credits, thus making the priority for Swiss Re for more than company greenhouse neutral for the 20 years. It is a key topic for a re/insurer, whole period between 2003 and 2013. because it is likely to cause more extreme and more frequent weather After meeting our initial reduction target events, resulting in rising damages and well ahead of time, we gradually raised it insurance losses. Our strategy to tackle to 45% per employee. By the end of the climate change rests on four pillars, programme’s first commitment cycle in 49.3% Total reduction in CO2 emissions one of which is the pledge to reduce our own CO2 emissions (see page 11). 2013, we had achieved a total reduction in CO₂ emissions per employee of 49.3% compared to the base year 2003. per employee between 2003 and 2013 Our Greenhouse Neutral Programme has (Please note that we have had to correct been the principal initiative to achieve the previously stated figure of 56.5%, this goal. Launched in 2003, it originally because a reporting error concerning combined two commitments: firstly, to business travel in 2013 led to a 1.2% Total increase in CO2 emissions reduce our CO2 emissions by 15% per employee (full-time equivalent or FTE) substantial underestimation of total CO2 emissions per employee that year.) per employee in 2014 CO2 emissions per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re Group 2013 2014 Change in % Power 8111 871 7.4 Heating 379 308 –18.7 Business travel 3 8252 3 923 2.6 Copy paper 40 31 –22.5 Waste 51 51 0 Water 11 12 9.1 Technical gases 283 27 –3.6 Commuting4 1 500 1 500 0 Total 6 645 6 723 1.2 1 T he 2013 figure for power has been restated due to an update of the emission factors used for renewable energy. 2 T he 2013 figure for business travel has been corrected to account for two calculation adjustments: a) use of updated emission factors, based on recent scientific evidence regarding the radiative forcing of C02 (DEFRA 2014); b) incompletely reported business flights due to a technical issue. 3 T he 2013 figure for technical gases has been restated due to a reporting error at one location. 4 A t present, we do not compensate the emissions caused by our employees’ commuting. Underlying environmental data, Swiss Re Group 2013 2014 Change in % Power kWh/FTE 4 575 4 435 –3.1 Heating kWh/FTE 1 940 1 584 –18.4 Energy intensity kWh/FTE 6 515 6 019 –7.6 Business travel km/FTE 13 8621 13 931 0.5 Copy paper kg/FTE 34 26 –23.5 Recycling paper % 70 70 0 FSC label % 96 94 –2.1 For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ Waste kg/FTE 182 192 5.5 greenhouse_neutral.html Water m3/FTE 16 17 6.3 1 T he 2013 figure for business travel has been restated due to incompletely reported flights. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 Reducing our environmental footprint Goals and scope of the programme’s In 2014, our total CO2 emissions per second phase employee increased by 1.2%, mainly The RE100 initiative Seamlessly continuing from the driven by a rise in business travel. In many countries where we want Greenhouse Neutral Programme’s first Although we managed to achieve a to grow our business, there is a ten years, we launched a second further reduction in internal energy lack of renewable energy supplies commitment phase running from 2013 consumption (power and heating), in reliable quality. Currently, until 2020. However, we should bear this was not enough to outweigh the around 10% of the power we use in mind that, after halving our CO2 additional emissions caused by globally still comes from nonemissions per employee in the previous business travel. renewable sources. This is a key ten years, the potential for further reason why we have helped to reductions is now much smaller. Our Using renewable power establish the Climate Group’s new target is to keep our CO2 emissions Purchasing power from renewable RE100 initiative as a founding per employee stable at the level of 2013; rather than conventional sources has member. we consider this to be an ambitious been a key measure of our Greenhouse goal in view of our expansive business Neutral Programme. After starting to Officially launched at the sixth strategy, especially in high growth use renewable power at four European Climate Week NYC markets. locations in 2005, we set ourselves the (www.climateweeknyc.org) in goal of using 100% renewable power September 2014, RE100 aims to At the same time, we decided to extend at all locations where it is available unite 100 of the world’s largest the scope of our emissions accounting in reliable and trustworthy quality by companies in a shared commitment and reporting. In the programme’s first the end of 2013. Based on our quality to use 100% renewable power phase, we reported our Scope 1 and assessments of available energy by 2020. The group approaches Scope 2 emissions (heating and power sources, we believe we reached this policy makers and regulators at consumption) as well as a major source goal and used 100% renewable power national and sub-national level to of Scope 3 emissions (business travel). at 25 locations in Asia, Europe, North make renewable energy more In the programme’s second phase our America and Oceania at the end of 2013. available, focusing on countries reporting also covers the following such as China, India, Brazil and activities along our supply chain (Scope In making these quality assessments South Africa over the next three 3): employee commuting, copy paper and selecting suitable sources, we have years. use, waste generation, water use and relied on a “minimum standard” that technical gases. clearly states how we define renewable theRE100.org power and what requirements it needs Our commitment to offset the CO2 to meet. At our Zurich headquarters, for emissions we cannot avoid now includes example, we only buy “naturemade star” paper, waste, water and technical gases, electricity (www.naturemade.ch), which in addition to power, heating and meets high ecological quality standards business travel. in its production, beyond those required by environmental legislation. In Munich, we purchase our electricity from NaturEnergie (www.naturenergie.de), Goals of the Greenhouse Neutral one of Germany’s premier suppliers Programme – Phase 2: of renewable energy. ̤̤ Maintain emissions reductions we achieved over the last ten years regarding power consumption, heating and business travel; ̤̤ Reduce energy intensity (power consumption and heating) by 2% per year (kWh/FTE); ̤̤ Fully offset the remaining emissions from the three former and four new sources. 46 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing energy consumption Minimising business travel In parallel with our switch to using Because of the substantial cuts we have Internal carbon levy on air renewable power, we have made achieved in CO2 emissions from power travel continuous efforts to lower the actual consumption and heating since 2003, Offsetting those CO2 emissions amount of energy consumed per business travel today constitutes we cannot avoid has been a key employee, ie to reduce our energy Swiss Re’s largest emissions source by element of our Greenhouse intensity. For this, we also established a far. While business travel is ultimately Neutral Programme. In the past, Group-wide goal: Measured in kWh per driven by client needs and is thus all the costs of purchasing the employee (FTE), we committed to difficult to influence, we have taken necessary Voluntary Emissions reducing energy intensity by 20% several measures to curb unnecessary Reductions have been borne compared with 2003 levels. Through business trips. Travel budgets are centrally by Group Finance. In many small measures to improve energy continuously monitored and travel data 2014, we introduced an internal efficiency and by concentrating backare collected centrally. carbon levy on air travel, which office tasks in fewer and more energyworks according to the “polluter efficient buildings, we met and clearly We have also built up a dense network pays” principle. exceeded this goal. At the end of 2013, of video conferencing equipment across energy intensity across the Group was the Group. Recently, we have partly As a result, our offsetting costs 46.5% lower than in 2003. replaced these facilities with state-ofare now allocated to the Group’s the-art telepresence technology, which Global Functions in proportion to For the second phase of our Greenhouse creates a real-time, life-size virtual their respective share of air travel. Neutral Programme (base year 2013) meeting experience in specially This internal price on carbon we committed ourselves to reducing designed rooms. By the end of 2014, we heightens awareness of travel energy intensity by 2% per year. In 2014, had 80 video conferencing rooms and costs among our managers and we exceeded this goal and reduced our 64 telepresence facilities worldwide. employees and creates a further energy intensity by 7.6%. The main incentive to reduce air travel, in reason for this was an 18.4% decrease in Despite these measures, the amount of addition to flight costs. energy used for heating. While the kilometres travelled per employee and unusually warm winter in Switzerland the associated emissions have been and our expansion into warmer regions rising in recent years. The general with less demand for heating contributed recovery in the business environment Paper, water and waste to this achievement, we also continued after the financial crisis and the As explained above, we expanded the to decommission existing office realignment of our corporate structure scope of our emissions accounting in buildings and move into new ones by creating a holding company with 2014 to include copy paper, water equipped with more efficient heating three distinct Business Units have been consumption and waste disposal, and systems, eg heat pumps. important factors; recently, however, have committed ourselves to offsetting the increase in business travel has been the emissions from these additional strongly driven by our ongoing three sources until 2020. expansion in high growth markets. The overview of all our emissions Our recent financial results show that sources (see table on page 45) shows our new Group structure and our that paper, water and waste are of much strategic focus on high growth markets less relevance in our business than other 46.5% have benefited our clients and environmental impacts. Furthermore, shareholders. In essence, we thus face water use and waste generation are a dilemma between two objectives: difficult to influence at locations where Reduction in energy intensity necessary adaptation to create we rent office space. Having said this, per employee between 2003 and 2013 economic value in a changing world, in the office buildings we own ourselves and reducing environmental impacts. we require appliances to meet high standards of water efficiency. 7.6% We remain committed to curbing unnecessary business travel and in 2014 introduced an innovative mechanism Reduction in energy intensity that creates an incentive to minimise per employee in 2014 air travel, which accounts for the bulk of business travel (see box to the right). Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Reducing our environmental footprint Paper use, on the other hand, is much Offsetting our remaining CO₂ more responsive to managerial action. emissions Although we have not set any The second commitment of our quantitative targets, we have taken a Greenhouse Neutral Programme is to number of measures to reduce the compensate all CO₂ emissions that average amount of paper used by our remain after our reduction efforts. For employees in recent years. These the first phase of the Greenhouse include our Group Document Induction Neutral Programme between 2003 and Process, which offers a coordinated 2013, we bought and retired highscanning service wherever it is quality Voluntary Emissions Reductions requested, and encouraging our (VERs) for a total of 553 000 tonnes employees to use double-sided printing of CO2e. by setting it as the default option on our computers. As a result, we managed to In 2014, we calculated our CO2 reduce our paper use by more than 60% emissions according to our new, per employee between 2003 and 2013. extended setup for the first time (see table on page 45). To offset these In 2014, we achieved another emissions, we bought and retired VERs substantial decrease in paper use per for 69 800 tonnes of CO2e. This amount employee, mainly through the My includes an additional voluntary Productivity Initiative: Using a commitment to offset the CO₂ emissions gamification approach, we encouraged caused by events held at our Centre our employees to compete as teams for Global Dialogue in Rüschlikon near against each other to see who could Zurich. achieve the biggest cut in paper consumption. As a result, the total We are keen to ensure that the VERs we amount of printouts in the Group fell by buy are of a high environmental 27%, leading to a decrease in paper standard. Therefore, we have developed consumption of 22.5% and cost savings a set of criteria to select projects that of approximately USD 350 000. generate certificates. In particular, we give priority to those which create strong We also have guidelines in place to social side-effects and benefit the ensure that we use copy paper of a high poorest regions. ecological quality. Through our Group Sourcing Policy and our “minimum External verification of our CO₂ standard for copy paper”, we set clear reporting environmental requirements for the type From the very start of our Greenhouse of paper we purchase (see page 50). In Neutral Programme in 2003, we have 2014, the share of recycled paper disclosed our CO₂ emissions, their remained stable at 70%, while that of principal sources and relative FSC-labelled paper fell slightly, from performance over time. Both for the 96% to 94%. programme’s first phase and its current second phase, we have calculated our Water consumption and waste emissions based on the guidelines generation increased somewhat in of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the 2014, after a fall in the previous year. most widely-used emissions accounting It needs to be stressed, though, that standard (www.ghgprotocol.org). data quality is moderate at best for both, so we do not consider the rise to be Before our emission figures are significant. published, PricewaterhouseCoopers checks them to verify our calculations. Their complete assurance report, which covers this and the four other main chapters, is included on pages 70–71. 48 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Clean cooking stoves and water filters for Kenya One of the principal CO2 offsetting for firewood by 50%. These stoves are In total, the lower rates of projects we supported in 2014 is offered to poor families at reduced deforestation achieved by the project’s based in Kenya. Despite being East prices. Not only does this slow down two measures prevent around 20 000 Africa’s biggest and most advanced deforestation, it also improves indoor tonnes of CO2 from being released into economy, Kenya is still a poor country air quality and means women and the atmosphere per year. The revenues in wide areas: It is estimated that half children need to spend far less time generated by these emissions the population lives in absolute collecting wood. By the end of 2014, reductions have made it possible to poverty. Two of the biggest challenges more than 128 000 stoves were secure investment for subsidising the involve the burning of wood and distributed. manufacture and sale of the stoves biomass, and the lack of access to and chlorine dispensers. clean drinking water. By funding In rural Kenya, over 65% of all people improved cooking stoves and chlorine lack access to clean drinking water, dispensers, the project addresses both which exposes them to diarrhoea, these challenges. cholera and other water-borne diseases. To improve water treatment, Firewood and biomass fuels put chlorine dispensers are being installed immense pressure on natural at communal water points such as resources in Kenya (and East African springs and boreholes. This further countries in general). In the last 15 reduces the demand for firewood, years alone, the region has lost over because families no longer have to 10% of its forest cover. The project sterilise water by boiling it. By the end funds high-quality and efficient of 2014, more than 80 000 chlorine cooking stoves that can cut demand dispensers were distributed. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Reducing our environmental footprint Group sourcing policy and We consider environmental criteria In 2014, we screened our critical, minimum standards relating to materials and ingredients, important and material (CIM) suppliers production methods, recycling and using a risk-based approach: It included As a re/insurance company, Swiss Re waste. For some sourcing categories, we country and industry specific does not have an extensive supply chain. have developed “minimum standards” sustainability criteria established Our core business does not require us to that further specify our requirements: through our Sustainability Risk buy intermediate inputs like a manu­ besides power (see page 46) and paper Framework (see pages 22–26) as well facturing company. However, to run our (see page 48), these cover office as specific country risk ratings (see page operations, we need a range of goods supplies, cleaning services and agents, 33). The assessment did not reveal any and services. furniture and building materials. Each significant sustainability or reputational standard lists objectives, ecological risks among our CIM suppliers. When procuring these goods and aspects, ecological minimum standards, services, we apply general and exceptions, controlling and labels. individual criteria. In line with our Sustainable construction and overarching Group Sourcing Policy, we When selecting new suppliers, we Swiss Re Next select suppliers that offer the best value examine whether they comply with for money, meet high quality standards these requirements as part of the overall Swiss Re has around 70 offices in more and adhere to the UN Global Compact. evaluation process. We take a fresh look than 30 countries. For new building or As a signatory to the Compact, we are at existing strategic suppliers in our renovation work, we apply a number of committed to honouring all its ten periodical contract reviews, and we visit principles. One of them is sustainability, principles; amongst other things, these individual suppliers to inspect them which translates into criteria such prohibit any sort of discrimination or the onsite. Internally, we hold regular aware­ as stringent construction standards, use of child or forced labour, and require ness trainings with all our sourcing staff. high-quality fittings and finishes, a that the freedom of association and the comfortable ambient climate, right to collective bargaining be upheld. environmentally sound, durable materials, low energy consumption and The groundwork is being laid for Swiss Re Next, our new headquarter building that will set a leading example of sustainable construction. The “strut platform” shown in the picture was erected to support and preserve the existing excavation enclosure made of of 60 cm thick reinforced concrete. Originally constructed in the 1960s for the previous Neubau building, it is still in superb condition today. 50 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report low maintenance and running costs. Swiss Re Next is not a greenfield project: Swiss Re Next online Constructing or renovating an office It is being constructed in the same place Extensive background building in line with such sustainability where the previous Neubau stood, on an information on the Swiss Re criteria is the most effective way to urban site surrounded by roads as well Next project and its progress minimise its environmental footprint. as office and residential buildings. This is available on a special website is challenging at the best of times, but at next.swissre.com. For construction projects in Switzerland, things are complicated further by the the applicable criteria are defined in fact that the site is located on artificial detail in the Energy Mission Statement land created in the 19th century when of Swiss Re, Zurich: They stipulate that the quayside areas of lower Lake Zurich new buildings need to conform to the were developed. The bedrock only MINERGIE® standard (www.minergie.ch), begins some 30 metres below the a Swiss quality label specifying high ground. Thus, when the original Neubau levels of energy efficiency and superior building was erected in the 1960s, the user comfort. When we renovate old engineers had to construct a special buildings, this standard is to be applied if excavation enclosure, consisting of a feasible from an architectural, technical 60 cm thick trench wall made from and financial perspective. Our pension reinforced concrete: It has the shape of a fund in Switzerland applies the same giant sump and extends 25 metres into criteria for all its direct investments into the construction ground. real estate projects. This trench wall is still in superb In practice, we usually go beyond these condition today. Therefore, the most requirements and use further standards desirable and sustainable solution was such as MINERGIE-ECO® – which also to keep it and reuse it as the excavation includes health criteria and demands on enclosure for Swiss Re Next. As long as building materials – and, more recently, the previous building was in place, the MINERGIE-P-ECO®, which specifies trench wall was supported by the the characteristics of a “passive house” basement floors against the horizontal that consumes even less energy than forces of earth and water pressure a MINERGIE®-certified building. outside. But as the building was gradually demolished down to the basement Swiss Re Next floors, a different support structure was Under the title of Swiss Re Next, we are required for the wall. For this purpose, a currently constructing a replacement “strut platform” consisting of 988 tonnes building for the Neubau (“new building”) of steel was constructed and pre-stressed at the Group’s Zurich headquarters. by hydraulic pressure. From the start, sustainability was defined as one of the key features of the The presence of this strut platform has project: Our goal is to be awarded the made it possible to demolish all the MINERGIE-P-ECO® certificate as well basement floors, right down to the old as the highest certification level of the floor slab. It will be dismantled when the US LEED system – LEED Platinum. ceiling above the second basement floor We recently received the preliminary is completed. MINERGIE®-P-ECO certificate and successfully passed the LEED design review. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Reducing our environmental footprint The COyou2 Programme 9 000 subsidies. In view of this, we decided to start a new seven-year cycle, Reducing our own CO2 emissions is running from 2014 until 2020, for which one of four pillars of our climate change all our regular employees have a new strategy (see page 11). In 2007, subsidy allowance. In 2014, we granted we launched the COyou2 Programme a total of 2 268 subsidies. because we wanted to make our commitment more tangible for our Amongst the largest Swiss Re locations, employees and help them to become uptakes per employee were highest in more aware of climate change. The Slovakia, Germany and Switzerland. Our programme offers subsidies for a range office in Slovakia has witnessed of investments through which our particularly strong growth recently and employees can reduce their own carbon many new employees made use of the 2 268 CO you2 subsidies granted to our footprints. To our knowledge, it was the first global corporate initiative of its kind when we launched it. opportunity to claim subsidies in 2014. In Europe, in general, mobility is a popular category, with bicycles the most common type of subsidy. employees in 2014 The investment options eligible for subsidies are clearly specified in the China is another location that has seen programme. Some of them are strong growth and, consequently, a high supported at all our locations, while rate of subsidies. Energy efficient home others vary to account for regional appliances were particularly popular differences in climate, living conditions there, as elsewhere in Asia. etc. Our subsidies cover 50% of the investment amount up to a locally In the US there was a spike in subsidies determined maximum allowance. The for home energy audits and installations programme is open to all regular of windows and doors following the cold employees who have successfully spell between December 2013 and completed their probation period and April 2014. Home appliances and more have been with Swiss Re for a minimum expensive home infrastructure subsidies period of time (currently three months). were both popular subsidy categories across the Americas region.  or more information see F In the first seven years of its existence, swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ the programme was a resounding coyou2_programme.html success: In total, we granted more than COyou2 payouts in 2014, by category Number of COyou2 payouts in 2014, per 1000 employees 400 350 300 250 200 42% Home appliances 150 19% Home infrastructure 39% Mobility 100 50 0 Slovakia Germany Switzerland China Singapore US UK Australia 52 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Partner initiative: Since becoming operational in 2009, The Swiss Climate Foundation the Swiss Climate Foundation has supported more than 900 SMEs in In 2008, we set up the Swiss Climate Switzerland and Liechtenstein with Foundation with a number of partner CHF 12 million in total. In 2014, companies. It was a response to the 470 SMEs were supported with a total introduction of the Swiss CO2 law, which of CHF 2 million. These projects are provides the basis for the CO₂ levy on expected to help avoid about 65 000 heating fuels in Switzerland. This levy is tonnes of CO₂ emissions over the next not a proper tax but an environmental ten years. market mechanism: It imposes a charge on the use of heating fuels and then In addition to paying our net levy reimburses the money thus raised – to reimbursement, Swiss Re has been private companies proportionate to sponsoring the Foundation’s managing their total salary expenses. For financial director position since it was established service providers, who use relatively in 2008. small amounts of heating fuel but employ large workforces, this means they receive a total “net reimbursement”. The purpose of the Swiss Climate Foundation is to collect these funds and to use them to support various climatefriendly projects undertaken by small and medium-sized companies (SMEs) in Switzerland. In 2012, the Foundation broadened its scope and started to collaborate with the LIFE Climate Foundation Liechtenstein, generating more partner companies and enabling SMEs in Liechtenstein to benefit from the funds, too. By the end of 2014, 26 renowned financial service providers from Switzerland and Liechtenstein were partner companies of the Swiss Climate Foundation. For more information see swiss-climate-foundation.ch Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 Being an employer of choice Our goal is to attract talented people from a broad range of disciplines and backgrounds. We offer them a culture of diversity and inclusion, excellent development opportunities, a supportive environment and attractive total rewards. Employees by region Swiss Re’s mission is to be the leading We continually seek to further develop as of 31 December 2014 player in the re/insurance industry. We our employees: By focusing both on want to be the preferred partner for our what was achieved and how it was clients – earning their long-term trust achieved, we encourage them to build and confidence, and delivering a service strong relationships within our company. unmatched elsewhere in the market. Swiss Re is a global company with a Our employees are the key to fulfilling presence in all major markets. As of this mission, through the skills, diversity, 31 December 2014, we employed talent and commitment they bring to us. 12 224 people (regular staff) from 89 Our goal is to be seen as an employer of nationalities. Currently, 61% of our choice that can attract talents from employees work in Europe (including the 61% Europe (including 2 788the around Americas world and offer them a place Middle East and Africa), 27% in the Middle East and Africa) to succeed. 6 973 EMEA Americas and 12% in the Asia-Pacific 27% Americas 1 027 ASIA-Pacific region. 12% Asia-Pacific We consider four areas as key to being an employer of choice: we foster diversity and inclusion; we provide excellent development and training opportunities; we work to maintain favourable employee relations; and we offer competitive compensation and benefits. Employee data 2012 2013 2014 Total headcount regular employees 11 193 11 574 12 224 Full-time 10 237 10 611 11 159 Part-time 956 963 947 Temporary employees 373 244 271 Turnover rate (incl. company sales) 10.1% 8.0% 9.8% Voluntary 5.0% 5.5% 6.6% Involuntary 5.1% 2.5% 3.2% Average tenure regular staff (years) 9.0 9.1 9.3 54 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Asia Insurance Industry Award At the 2014 Asia Insurance Industry Awards, we won three of the coveted awards conferred by the Asia Insurance Review. One of them was its first-ever Employer of the Year award. We were honoured for our various development and training initiatives, such as the High Growth Development Programme and the graduates@swissre programme and also received praise for our Own the Way You WorkTM: Living Team Spirit initiative, which gives our employees more autonomy to organise their work. We see the award as confirmation that we are moving in the right direction in attracting and developing the talented people that will help us and our clients to Sharon Ooi, Head of P&C Reinsurance, Southeast Asia, India & Dragons, receives the achieve our objectives. 2014 Employer of the Year award on behalf of Swiss Re. Diversity and inclusion There is strong evidence that diverse Our Global Inclusion Framework teams outperform non-diverse ones. As Our Global Inclusion Framework rests on We aim to be a leading employer that diverse teams avoid group think − and three pillars: attracts talented people from a broad therefore institutional blindness − they range of disciplines and backgrounds. can respond more quickly to changes in Recognising the important role each of By fostering a culture of inclusion, we the external environment. Furthermore, our managers plays in fostering an can leverage and grow the diversity of a strong representation of local talent inclusive culture and benefiting from its our workforce. Our diversity and is crucial to developing new markets, strengths, the framework’s first pillar inclusion (D&I) vision is “to see, feel and which is one of our key strategic focuses on Inclusive Leadership. We live diversity – diversity of gender, race, priorities. have developed Inclusive Leadership ethnicity, generation, sexual orientation Principles that describe exactly what (LGBT), physical abilities and To foster diversity and inclusion across behaviours we expect of our leaders and experiences – at all levels, functions the whole organisation, we have set up managers to foster an inclusive work and regions of Swiss Re”. a comprehensive strategic framework. environment for all employees. These are Backed by the Group CEO and the Group firmly embedded in our Leadership Such an inclusive corporate culture is Executive Committee, our diversity & Imperatives – our behavioural essential for a diverse workforce, given inclusion agenda is driven by a network framework for leaders that support our the diversity of thought, opinion and of 35 D&I Champions, who are senior strategy, values and brand attributes – experience this helps to create. In managers from a wide range of business and our leadership development essence, inclusion is about respecting units, in addition to multiple curriculum. To make these principles the uniqueness of every individual and geographically-based D&I Councils and tangible for all our employees, we have about providing an atmosphere in which 25 inclusive employee networks at also included them in our Personal everyone feels valued and empowered grassroots level worldwide. Imperatives – our behavioural to perform at a consistently high level. framework for all employees without line Thus diversity and inclusion is motivating management responsibilities – and for our employees, helps to attract embedded both the Leadership fresh talent and is good for bottom-line Imperatives and Personal Imperatives results. into our performance management framework. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/diversity/ Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Being an employer of choice The second pillar Smashing Stereotypes, Opening Minds tackles stereotyping of people based on all dimensions of As part of our efforts to promote gender diversity. It centres on raising awareness balance, we recently started the of the “unconscious bias” that every one assessment process for a leading of us has and which can unintentionally certification standard in gender equality, influence our decision-making and our beginning with our Switzerland-based behaviour towards others. operations. In the UK, we have launched a similar process to achieve equality and Through awareness events as well as foster inclusion of our LGBT employees. face-to-face and web-based training, These assessments are just two of employees participate in dialogues that the many initiatives currently underway increase self-awareness of unconscious to improve the inclusiveness of our biases such as those related to workplace. generations, sexual orientation and gender. Training on inclusive leadership In line with Swiss Re’s policy of fostering and overcoming these unconscious diversity, we have strong provisions in biases has also been embedded into our place to penalise any infringing leadership development and manager behaviour. Our Group Code of Conduct training. clearly states that discrimination in the workplace against any employee or job Our third pillar is Own the Way You applicant based on the person’s age, WorkTM: Living Team Spirit. This is a (dis)ability, origin, gender, religion or cultural change initiative, which gives sexual orientation (or any other managers and employees more characteristic protected by local law) is autonomy to decide how, when and not tolerated under any circumstances. where work is carried out, within We encourage our employees to applicable laws, rules and regulations. report violations of the Group Code of Our future success depends on our Conduct, laws, rules or regulations, ability to create a flexible, global work­ explicitly stating that reporting in good force that is responsive to the needs of faith is treated with discretion and our business. We have already made that retaliation will not be tolerated. good progress in advancing our employment brand internally and externally in this area, thus meeting the needs of a multi-generational workforce. Women in management positions (in %) 2012 2013 2014 Total workforce 47.3 46.8 46.3 Executive/senior management positions* 21.7 21.5 21.4 All management positions* 30.7 31.1 31.5 * “ Executive/senior management positions” comprises the management levels of Director/Senior Vice President upwards. “All management positions” refers to Vice President and above. 56 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Learning data* 2012 2013 2014 Total learning hours recorded 172 120 163 305 159 551 Learning hours per employee 15.4 14.1 13.1 Learning costs per employee (in USD) 1 900 1 800 1 500 * To align with general reporting standards, we changed the basis for the calculation of our learning data from “employees trained” to “employees” (ie total headcount regular employees), and adjusted the 2012 and 2013 data accordingly. Development and training To support the professional development In support of our flexible development of our employees, Swiss Re Academy and training philosophy, the Swiss Re Developing our people at every level and provides a portfolio of “blended” Academy intranet site gives our in all functions remains a strong focus learning paths, combining face-to-face employees easy access to our global for Swiss Re. By offering our employees learning, eLearning, peer-to-peer learning catalogue, links to regional first-class development and training coaching and virtual classrooms. learning offerings and a multimedia opportunities, we create significant Together, they offer a flexible approach library. Close to 80% of our training is mutual benefits: Highly skilled employees to learning. Topics addressed in blended delivered through eLearning formats. help Swiss Re retain a competitive edge learning paths include communication Using such online learning formats in ever-changing market conditions. skills, conflict handling, influencing reduces the need for our employees to In return, as a global market leader, we skills, presentation skills, and remote travel and spend time away from the can offer our employees exciting and managing and working. office, while supporting our commitment fulfilling career prospects. to reducing our carbon footprint. Swiss Re Academy in numbers Our approach In 2014, all our employees took Our value proposition for clients and Professional and personal development part in our development and training other stakeholders at Swiss Re combines technical, programmes. They completed Swiss Re Academy also provides professional and leadership skills 159 551 hours of training overall, industry-leading insurance and finance training. We design our training internally averaging 13.1 hours and training to clients, regulators, or in collaboration with leading external USD 1 500 per employee. government officials and members of partners and deliver it through our non-governmental organisations. These long-established Swiss Re Academy. Total learning hours recorded in 2012 courses are tailored to different global were noticeably higher due to increased markets and client needs. In 2014, the Swiss Re Academy has developed activity in compliance risk training. As a Academy trained 939 representatives extensive professional and personal general trend over the past three years, from clients and other stakeholders development curricula to respond to we have observed that employees tend onsite in classroom sessions. The changing business needs. Currently, we to prefer to learn online, thus spending feedback on our external client training offer more than 730 different training fewer hours in the classroom and courses continued to be very positive. courses. Our employees and line contributing to a decrease in average Also in 2014, Swiss Re Academy managers attend training in areas as learning costs. launched an eLearning portal for clients diverse as underwriting, finance, sales based in South Africa and the Americas, and negotiation, leadership, diversity increasing their access to cost effective and inclusion, interpersonal skills, training opportunities. project management, office tools and language skills. Certain courses, such Career development at Swiss Re as compliance training, are mandatory. Our philosophy at Swiss Re is that career Employees who work directly with development is a shared responsibility our clients are recommended to invest between each employee, his or her at least two days per year in formal line manager and the company. We sales training. encourage our employees to think in terms of a multidimensional career “lattice” and not just a vertical career ladder. There is no single, pre-set career path at Swiss Re; rather, the paths are as diverse as the individuals working in our company. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 Being an employer of choice Our Virtual Career Centre (VCC) As mentoring is by nature “selfSwiss Re also offers around 65 supports and embeds this philosophy. organising”, it is not possible to provide internship positions in Europe, India and It includes extensive information about exact statistics on how many of our the US each year. The interns@swissre different roles in the organisation, and employees and managers are formally programme is mainly aimed at university brings together useful tools that our involved in a mentoring relationship, but students who are pursuing a Bachelor’s employees can use to raise their selfan estimated 500 people are currently or Master’s degree, and at graduates awareness, to reflect and to plan their listed as interested in being mentored or with less than one year of full-time work career. The number of employees offering to be a mentor. experience. Interns join teams in core who used the VCC averaged 1 459 per business areas, where they take on month in 2014, with a peak of 1 901 Intensifying senior management specific tasks and various projects. In in February. development India, the US and the UK we offer In today’s business environment, which traditional summer internships that In line with our Leadership and Personal is characterised by increased competition, typically last between 8 and 12 weeks, Imperatives, we have developed a growth volatility, uncertainty and complexity, while in Germany and Switzerland survey tool involving a 360° process. strong leadership capabilities are vital the internships usually span three to six This survey is designed to provide for Swiss Re to be successful and to months. feedback on the effectiveness of leaders remain a global market leader. For the and experts as well as to identify areas future, we have set ourselves the In three locations we offer a Junior of further development. In 2014, 150 ambitious goal of strengthening the Power programme. Originally launched leaders conducted the survey during leadership capabilities of our senior in Zurich in 1981, it was also introduced the enrolment process for our internal leaders. in Munich in 2008 and, most recently, leadership programmes. in London in 2014. In total, we have In 2013, we began offering executive developed over 550 apprentices and Mentoring development programmes and selective trainees through the programme. We also offer our employees a master classes that focus on leadership. Currently, a total of 90 apprentices and mentoring programme. In a mentoring They aim to create a common trainees, aged between 15 and 25, relationship, a person with less understanding of how to drive Swiss Re participate in it and are being trained in a experience in any area of business or forward and how to develop leaders broad range of occupations. We provide personal development (“mentee”) is consistently across the entire Group. them with an innovative and high-quality matched with a more experienced learning environment that enables them person (“mentor”), who acts as an active Our Early Joiners programmes to build up the competencies and listener and guide. This offers a Each year, the graduates@swissre skills they need for the labour market. confidential relationship outside the programme provides entry positions for In this way, we also make a positive reporting line that helps individuals around 50 university graduates who contribution to youth employment. develop their skills, knowledge and have little or no work experience. It behaviours as well as to move offers an excellent opportunity for young In turn, our apprentices and trainees successfully through times of change talents to discover the exciting world of contribute to the success of their and transition. Our VCC includes a a leading global re/insurer. respective teams, add new perspectives special search tool that helps our to Swiss Re and challenge established employees identify potential mentors. Over a period of 18 months, the practices. We offer training for business graduates receive on-the-job training in roles, computer specialists, chefs, hotel As part of the enrolment process for two their respective functions. They also housekeepers and media specialists. of our senior leadership programmes, attend a number of classroom-based About 25% of all our former apprentices we established cross-divisional training sessions which are specifically and trainees are still working at mentoring relationships with our senior designed for the programme and focus Swiss Re. leaders. 120 employees benefited from on Swiss Re’s core business areas. this valuable opportunity during their At the end of 2014, there were about Participants of our Early Joiner 15-month programme. 320 employees who had either programmes have said that they completed the programme since its particularly appreciate the multicultural launch in 2007 or were participating and open environment we offer, as well in it. They are employed across many as the daily exchange with specialists different functions and regions. from various disciplines.  or more information see F swissre.com/careers/recent_graduates/  or more information see F swissre.com/careers/apprenticeships/ 58 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Impressions from our High Growth Development Programme for Latin America: Carrying the team spirit from their working groups with them, the participants also spent some fun time together at the Iguaçu waterfalls. High Growth Development Programme Our High Growth Development Sponsored by senior executives, the This unique programme was cited as Programmes (HGDP) is a specialised participants work in small groups one of the reasons why we won the development programme for on real business challenges and are first-ever Employer of the Year award promising and talented employees tasked with delivering innovative conferred by the Asia Insurance from high growth markets or working solutions to global business leaders. Review at the 2014 Asia Insurance for high growth markets. It is designed Industry Awards (see page 55). to prepare these leaders for the An HGDP runs over the course of specific challenges and opportunities 12 months and includes three face-toof high growth markets. face modules at high growth locations. Currently, we offer the programme for Latin America and Asia. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 Being an employer of choice Employee relations In the UK, we introduced the “Healthy In the UK, a well-established range of Me” initiative, which is designed to family services is available to meet the Swiss Re sets high standards in terms support and encourage our employees’ typical challenges faced by working of caring for the physical and mental wellbeing by focusing both on a healthy parents and carers. Services include wellbeing of its employees. Our services body and a healthy mind. In the US, we offering employees a certain number of not only provide support to our held health fairs in Armonk and Kansas emergency childcare sessions or school employees, they also help to preserve City and offered biometric screenings holiday cover, as well as providing valuable skills and know-how. and flu shot events. back-up adult and elder care. Assistance and prevention To accommodate the needs of working Employee engagement surveys We regularly review and enhance our parents, we have a number of initiatives We aspire to communicate openly prevention and support services. Our in place. Last year, 143 children in and transparently with our employees. goal is to help employees take a Switzerland attended our one-week An integral part of this is having a constructive approach to their own vacation programmes during the spring constructive dialogue across the whole health, while improving and retaining and summer school holidays, enabling Group on how we want to develop our their ability to perform. This also their parents to continue working. We corporate culture and live our corporate supports their sense of wellbeing and also offer a number of reserved places at strategy. One way we do this is through ability to balance work and family life. day care centres in and around Zurich. our employee engagement survey, Furthermore, our external childcare which asks employees for their views on Examples of prevention activities carried provider helps parents find emergency over 70 questions. The most recent out in 2014 include a Lunch & Learn nannies and gives guidance in all surveys were taken in 2011 and 2013, session in Switzerland dedicated to early questions related to childcare as well with the next one planned for 2015. We stress detection and how to cope with it. as for adult and elder care. have redesigned our engagement survey We also offer our employees individual to better identify barriers to performance self-assessments, accompanied by As part of the Parents@Swiss Re and to measure progress on our Human coaching sessions. Building on earlier initiative, which was launched in 2012 Capital Strategy 2015–2020. From health programmes in Zurich, we to provide important information on 2015 onwards we plan to run the survey organised health management initiatives pregnancy and parenthood, we created annually. for our employees in Bangalore and a brochure and an online support page Bratislava. In Munich we held a series for employees in Munich and Bratislava. of seminars focusing on mindfulness in Both our Bangalore and Bratislava stressful situations. locations organised local childcare events to support employees with children. Munich held a two-week summer vacation programme and organised childcare support for various public holidays in November to assist working parents. Employee health data: Sick leave days, Switzerland regular staff 2012 2013 2014 Number of employees 3 171 3 259 3 321 Number of employees who have recorded absence due to illness 1 918 1 893 1 900 Average number of sick days 6.9 7.0 7.4 60 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Employee groups In the UK, Swiss Re has an Employee Our smaller branches in Europe (eg We are a signatory to the UN Global Liaison Group (ELG), consisting of France, Italy, Luxembourg, Denmark) Compact and support its ten principles representatives from across all functions, also have Works Councils or Staff in the areas of human rights, labour, the who are elected by employees for a twoDelegates, depending on the size of the environment and anti-corruption. Many year term. The ELG provides a forum for branch and local regulations. of our locations have active employee employee representatives and managers groups. These employee representatives to discuss company policy and practices Networks play an important part in the company’s which affect all employees. It is legally Our former employees have helped success by contributing valuable recognised as the collective consultation to make Swiss Re what it is today and perspectives and by helping to identify body for redundancy purposes. When a form an essential part of our extended employment-related challenges. business unit is likely to be affected by employee community. They remain proposed collective redundancies, the important stakeholders for Swiss Re. These bodies are elected by local respective employee representatives are Furthermore, as many of our alumni employees and have clearly defined consulted. work for our clients, they also help to information and consultation rights. deepen our client relationships. Although there are significant local At our Munich office we have a Works differences in the applicable legislation, Council with clearly defined coThrough the Swiss Re Alumni Network, their rights typically concern: determination rights in several areas. It we offer our former employees the ̤̤ Working conditions has the legal obligation to support topics opportunity to continue sharing their ̤̤ Benefits such as diversity, development and knowledge and experience and to keep ̤̤ Reorganisation and restructuring training, career opportunities and workin contact with colleagues. Currently, ̤̤ Redundancies life balance. The eleven members of there are more than 3 200 active ̤̤ Disciplinary actions and conflict cases the Works Council are elected by the members. employees for four years. At our Zurich headquarters, where The network also includes our retirees. almost a third of our total workforce is This important group of stakeholders employed, we work closely with the continues to take great interest in Personnel Committee (PECO). the company. Through extended access Representing the interests of all Zurich rights we enable them to read news employees, PECO aims to create and items and utilise resources that are maintain a positive working normally available to employees only. environment. It is involved in changes or adaptions to the General Working The Senior Consultants initiative, intro­ Conditions or other important policies duced as a pilot in 2012, has continued such as the Social Plan. The Committee to grow and was officially launched in also seeks to ensure the de facto 2014. The initiative gives our retirees the equality of men and women, and places opportunity to get involved in specific special emphasis on the challenges projects on a part-time basis. This is a faced by employees with family beneficial situation for all involved: obligations. Swiss Re gains access to people with extensive knowledge of our company and business, while the retirees can continue to work flexibly. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/alumni/ Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Being an employer of choice Compensation and benefits The balanced compensation package is business strategy and purpose. The generally complemented by competitive what is assessed based on challenging Swiss Re is committed to a pension plans and other employee targets and goals. For measuring the compensation system that is balanced benefits. Such benefits include, for how, we use our Leadership and and performance-oriented, and which example, the Continuous Contribution Personal Imperatives to ensure that all aligns the interests of both shareholders Award, which recognises the loyalty, of our employees are behavioural role and employees. Our compensation commitment and continuous models for the next generation, creating framework is designed to attract, contribution of our employees by an environment that inspires and motivate and retain the qualified talent offering them opportunities at defined engages others. Our imperatives put our the Group needs to succeed, while milestones to enjoy additional, paid values and brand promise into action creating a tangible link between time off. and are critical to our performance and performance and pay. The aim is to future success. provide compensation that is Health benefits and financial protection competitive in local labour markets, in case of ill-health are also an important The overall performance assessment is while ensuring that employees focus part of our overall packages. We provide then aligned to variable reward on delivering outstanding results medical, life and disability insurance in outcomes to reflect achievement and considering our business strategy, excess of state provisions in many of our contribution, and to reinforce a pay-fortargets, risk awareness and corporate locations. Furthermore, we support performance linkage. values. employees in accumulating retirement benefits to supplement any state In addition to our publicly available 2014 For most employees, total compensation provisions. Compensation Report, employees also comprises the base salary and the have online access to the Swiss Re Annual Performance Incentive (API), In addition, the COyou2 Programme Group Compensation Policy as well as which includes communication of the continues to offer our employees the deferred compensation plan rules and individual target incentive that opportunity to claim subsidies from the other compensation and benefits-related influences the level of payout when company for a range of emissionsinformation on our intranet. Additionally, business and individual performance cutting investments they want to make employees receive an annual Swiss Re objectives are achieved. in their private lives. Compensation Statement. Swiss Re uses additional incentive At Swiss Re, we strive for a high Dialogue and feedback are important programmes which reflect the longerperformance culture in which our aspects of our performance term nature of our business: Both the individual and team goals and management cycle. In 2014, close to Value Alignment Incentive Plan (VAI), behaviours – what we do and how we 100% of the Group’s employees which is the deferred part of the API, and do it – are aligned to the Group’s completed year-end performance the Leadership Performance Plan (LPP) reviews. aim to reward sustained performance and long-term company success, rather Further information on Swiss Re’s than short-term results. This helps to approach to compensation and benefits align shareholder and employee can be found in our 2014 Financial interests more closely. The VAI applies Report (pages 122–144). for employees who have an API in excess of a defined threshold, and the LPP is awarded to our senior executives and select key employees. We also encourage our employees to own Swiss Re shares by providing the Global Share Participation Plan (GSPP) and the Incentive Share Plan (for all employees who receive an API – such employee can elect to receive his or her API in form of shares at a discount under the Incentive Share Plan). 62 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Ensuring good governance Swiss Re’s corporate governance aims at safeguarding the sustainable interests of the company. Swiss Re considers good corporate In our Corporate Responsibility Report, Chairman is not considered independent. governance indispensable to we highlight key elements of Swiss Re’s All members of the Board of Directors, maintaining long-lasting, valuable corporate governance concerning the with the exception of the full-time relationships with its stakeholders. We structure and independence of the Chairman, meet our independence recognise that transparent disclosure Board of Directors, shareholder rights criteria. of our governance structure fosters and the Group Code of Conduct. assessment of the quality of our Comprehensive information following The members of the Board of Directors organisation and business conduct. the structure of the SIX Directive is are also subject to procedures to avoid available in the 2014 Financial Report, any conflict of interest. Swiss Re’s corporate governance pages 72–107. adheres to the SIX Swiss Exchange’s The organisation of the Board of Directors Directive on Information Relating to is set forth in the Group Bylaws, which Corporate Governance, including its Swiss Re’s corporate governance define the responsibilities of the Board of annex. It is also in line with the principles framework Directors, its committees and the Group of the revised Swiss Code of Best Practice Executive Committee, as well as the for Corporate Governance (Swiss Code) Swiss Re has a dual board structure: the respective reporting procedures. of September 2014, issued by Board of Directors is responsible for economiesuisse, the Swiss business oversight, while the Group Executive The Board has delegated certain federation. Swiss Re, moreover, Committee is responsible for managing responsibilities, including the preparation conforms to the Swiss Financial Market operations. This structure maintains and execution of its resolutions, to Supervisory Authority (FINMA) effective mutual checks and balances five committees: the Chairman’s and provisions on corporate governance, between the top corporate bodies. Governance Committee, the Audit risk management and internal control Committee, the Compensation systems, which came into effect on Committee, the Finance and Risk 1 January 2009. Swiss Re’s corporate Independence of the Board of Committee, and the Investment governance also complies with Directors Committee. applicable local rules and regulations in all jurisdictions where it conducts Swiss Re’s Group Bylaws stipulate that Audit Committee business. the Board of Directors consists of at least The central task of the Audit Committee a majority of independent members. To is to assist the Board of Directors in The “Ordinance Against Excessive be considered independent, a director fulfilling its oversight responsibilities as Compensation at Public Corporations” may not be employed as an executive they relate to the integrity of Swiss Re’s (Ordinance) entered into effect on officer of the Group, or have been and the Group’s financial statements, 1 January 2014. Swiss Re has under­ employed in such a function for the the Swiss Re Group’s compliance with taken the steps necessary to ensure previous three years. Moreover, he or legal and regulatory requirements, the timely compliance with the Ordinance’s she must not have a material relationship external auditor’s qualifications and requirements. The requirement to with any part of the Group, directly or independence, and the performance of instruct the Independent Proxy as a partner, director or shareholder GIA and the Group’s external auditor. electronically had already been of an organisation that has a material introduced at the Annual General relationship with the Group. All members of the Audit Committee are Meeting 2013. Furthermore, in line with the Group’s non-executive and independent. In independent criteria, a full-time addition to the independence criteria applicable to Board members in general, For more information see swissre.com/about_us/corporate_ additional independence criteria apply governance/ for members of the Audit Committee. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 Ensuring good governance They are required to possess such Business firms, partnerships and Bribery and corruption additional attributes as the Board may, corporate bodies may be represented The Code’s section on moral behaviour from time to time, specify. Each member by legal or authorised representatives or contains, among other things, our of the Audit Committee has to be other proxies, married persons by position on bribery and corruption. This financially literate. At least one member their spouses, minors and wards by clearly states that “Swiss Re pursues a must possess the attributes to qualify their guardians, even though such ‘zero tolerance’ policy with respect to as an Audit Committee financial expert, representatives are not shareholders. bribery and corruption” and that “bribing as determined appropriate by the Board governmental agents, regulators or of Directors. Defence measures other officials is a crime”. Swiss Re has not put in place any specific measures to defend against We rolled out our Group Anti-Bribery Shareholders’ participation rights potential unfriendly takeover attempts. and Corruption Policy, and delivered The Board of Directors believes that Group-wide training on it in 2012. Shares the company’s best protection is a fair All shares issued by Swiss Re Ltd are valuation of its shares, and that the Employee training on the Group Code fully paid-in registered shares, each with efficiency of a free market is preferable of Conduct a par value of CHF 0.10. Each share to artificial obstacles, which can have All new permanent and temporary carries one vote. There are no categories a negative impact on the share price employees joining Swiss Re must undergo of shares with a higher or limited voting in the long term. mandatory training on the Group Code power, privileged dividend entitlement of Conduct. Completion of the training is or any other preferential rights, nor are tracked and instances of non-completion there any other securities representing Group Code of Conduct are escalated until resolution. a part of the company’s share capital. The company cannot exercise the voting The Group Code of Conduct (Code) is All employees are required to complete rights of treasury shares. one in a series of documents governing a Code of Conduct Acknowledgement the organisation and management of every two years. The next Voting right restrictions, statutory the company. It sets the framework and Acknowledgement will take place group clauses and exception rules defines the basic legal and ethical in 2015. There are no voting right restrictions and compliance principles and policies we no statutory group clauses. Therefore, apply globally. there are no procedures or conditions for cancelling restrictions and no rules on The Code also offers practical guidance making exceptions to them. Accordingly, and examples for deciding the no such exceptions were made in 2014. appropriate course of action and solving ethical dilemmas. It further sets out how Statutory rules on participating in the all employees should react when they General Meeting of shareholders observe a possible breach of the The share whose owner, usufructuary or principles in the Code. All employees are nominee is entered in the share register obligated to uphold both the letter and as having voting rights on a specific spirit of the Code and the Group’s qualifying day determined by the Board corporate governance principles in their of Directors entitles its holder to one vote daily business activities, and to respect at the General Meeting of shareholders. and obey applicable laws and regulations in all jurisdictions where we Swiss Re’s Articles of Association allow do business. any shareholder with voting rights to have his or her shares represented at any We regularly review and update the General Meeting of shareholders by Code to reflect changes in regulations another person authorised in writing and principles. or by the Independent Proxy. Such representatives need not be Swiss Re’s commitment to shareholders. sustainability Our commitment to sustainability is fully integrated in the Code’s section on business ethics. It provides a guiding principle for our efforts to act as a responsible company. 64 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report The Swiss Re Foundation Empowering communities to build resilience. Who we are How we help Social entrepreneurship We support social entrepreneurs whose The Swiss Re Foundation reflects the Disaster risk reduction ideas and connections can provide social and humanitarian values of We support development efforts aimed innovative solutions to address critical Swiss Re. We empower vulnerable at preventing and preparing for the social and environmental issues. communities to become more resilient adverse impacts of natural disasters to risk and to adapt to changing and the suffering they cause. Emergency aid circumstances. Our global programmes Rapid assistance can save lives during address the underlying causes and Capacity building an emergency. We respond quickly challenging effects of changes in the We help to develop human skills through donations and Swiss Re natural and social environment. These and improve the social environment, employees’ fundraising matching are areas where Swiss Re’s core so people can improve their living programmes. competencies can be brought to bear conditions and their resilience. on our work. Volunteering Research and innovation We support communities where Continuous research and innovation Swiss Re has offices and engage allow us to develop new approaches Swiss Re employees in volunteering to risk management that can work in activities. Our community programmes areas often thought uninsurable. aim to promote social welfare and protect the environment in our neighbourhood. The Swiss Re Foundation in 2014 – Heading for resilience What we What our This report presents the Swiss Re Foundation’s strategic respond to priorities are focus, its activities in 2014 Threats to health, security, ̤̤ Climate and a focus section on its work prosperity and opportunity ̤̤ Natural hazards in disaster risk reduction. ̤̤ Water ̤̤ Society The Swiss Re Foundation in 2014 Heading for resilience Who we Where we support help Social entrepreneurs, NGOs and ̤̤ In emerging and developing academic institutions that help countries communities address critical ̤̤ In regions where Swiss Re issues has offices For more information see swissrefoundation.org/ Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 Corporate responsibility in context: Expanding re/insurance protection For 151 years, we have provided our earthquakes and floods tend to have companies and NGOs to “aggregators” clients with effective financial protection huge social and financial impacts. Yet, such as financial institutions or service against the risks they face. Traditionally, the global gap between total and providers. We actively seek to build such our most important client groups are insured natural catastrophe losses is client and partner relationships, insurers and large corporations. We offer still massive (see illustration below). depending on the specific risk to be them a large range of products covering addressed. To offer tailor-made solutions many different types of losses. Agriculture is another case in point, and expertise to public sector clients, for especially in emerging and developing example, we established our Global With new challenges and new needs countries. All too often, farmers there Partnerships function several years ago. for risk protection emerging around the face the devastating effects of adverse world, we have made considerable weather without insurance protection. Moving into new markets efforts in recent years to widen the reach What is more, both natural catastrophe It stands to reason that many under­ of our re/insurance solutions. An and agricultural risks are expected insured risks are located in countries important part of this has been to look to increase and become more where insurance markets are less beyond our established client base and unpredictable as a result of climate developed. This means that a special traditional business model. We believe change. effort is required to gain a foothold in there is significant unmet demand these markets and to develop a good for effective, commercially viable Working with different clients and understanding of local needs, conditions re/insurance protection, but offering partners and challenges. Selecting and working suitable solutions requires innovative To provide effective re/insurance with the right partner organisations can thinking on several levels. protection for such risks, we need to greatly help this. To intensify our efforts cooperate with a wider range of in Africa, for example, we have Identifying risks with a protection gap partners, ranging from governments, dedicated market development teams In many parts of the world, re/insurance supranational organisations, private in both Reinsurance and Corporate protection against key risks remains Solutions. limited. For example, natural catastrophes such as windstorms, Developing innovative risk transfer instruments If we want to expand the reach of our re/ insurance covers, we must take into account special requirements. For example, effective protection against natural catastrophe risks means that Insured losses vs uninsured losses, 1970–2014 funds for relief and emergency measures 450 in USD bn, at 2014 prices need to be available quickly, so financing 400 arrangements must be in place before an event (“ex-ante financing”). Likewise, 350 agricultural insurance schemes in 300 emerging and developing markets need 250 to add real value, yet be affordable. 200 Parametric and index insurance 150 products are suitable for these purposes, 100 because they enable automatic payouts 50 and have low administrative costs. As 0 they are considered acceptable 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 collateral by banks and input providers, they help secure and raise incomes. Insured losses – 10-year average insured losses Insured losses Uninsured losses Swiss Re is an acknowledged leader in Uninsured losses – 10-year average total economic losses the development, structuring and pricing 10-year average insured losses Source: Swiss Re Economic Research & Consulting of such products. 10-year average total economic losses 66 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Key terms: what they mean Public-private partnerships Parametric insurance Index-based products used in Effectively reducing and financing Parametric insurance uses measured or crop insurance catastrophic risks requires a combined modelled parametric data to determine response by both private and public payouts. The payout model aims to Area-yield index products sector players. While the public sector closely mirror the actual damage on the The payout is made at any time plays a key role in setting a legal ground and is usually based on the the realised average yield (eg over framework that enables the physical parameters of a catastrophic a valley, a country or a defined development of a private insurance event or an index of such parameters, eg geographic unit) falls below some sector, it is the primary role of private wind speed, geographic location of a threshold yield, regardless of the insurers and reinsurers to develop hurricane or earthquake magnitude. realised yield on the insured farm. appropriate risk transfer solutions and Parametric insurance enables a more to absorb and manage those risks rapid payment than indemnity insurance Weather index products most effectively. because it requires no loss adjustments The payout is made at any time to assess the actual damage after an an objective weather parameter In developed countries with a event. (eg rainfall, temperature, or soil functioning insurance market, there is moisture) triggers a defined no need for the government to actively Parametric insurance products can be threshold. absorb natural catastrophe risks. In further distinguished based on how countries where the insurance market is payment is determined: Remote sensing index products not yet sufficiently developed, however, ̤̤ Pure parametric triggers: using The payout is made at any time the government may need to assume location and physical parameters; an objective weather parameter a more active role as an enabler of risk ̤̤ Parametric index triggers: a refined derived from a satellite (eg rainfall transfer. In addition, governments form of pure parametric triggers, and ”normalised differenced themselves may choose to buy private using more granular loss data and vegetation index“ for crop and insurance coverage in order to pregiving relative weights to the livestock) triggers a defined finance public disaster expenses. locations; threshold. ̤̤ Modelled loss triggers: using a Microinsurance third-party model to calculate losses Although the concept of microinsurance (and determine payouts). is gaining in popularity across the globe, there is no commonly accepted Insurance products with a parametric Insurance-linked securities definition. The term typically refers to index trigger – or index-based insurance Insurance-linked securities (ILS), such as insurance products designed for lowproducts – are used to provide catastrophe bonds, are a means of income individuals. The word protection against both natural ceding insurance-related risks to the “micro” represents the relatively small catastrophes and adverse weather capital markets. They usually rely on transaction size or lower premiums, a conditions harming crops. In the latter index-based payout mechanisms. Since concept similar to microfinance with case, they are particularly suited to the first cat bond in 1997, ILS have been small ticket loans. Microinsurance differs protecting smallholder farmers in used to transfer a wide range of risks from traditional insurance in many emerging and developing countries. from natural catastrophes to life ways, such as the size of premiums, Three types of products are popular: insurance risks (see page 15). coverage limits, product features, distribution, policy administration and target customers. Sources: – Closing the financial gap – New partnerships between the public and private sectors to finance disaster risks (2011) – The fundamentals of insurance-linked securities (2011) – Sub-Saharan Africa – breadbasket for a growing population (2014) Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Other Swiss Re publications Our publications provide the gateway to Swiss Re’s broad knowledge base and expertise. They cover a wide range of topics: from technical reinsurance issues and emerging risks to natural perils, economic trends and strategic issues in our industry. This is a selection of recent publications, in addition to those featured on page 43. You can download or order our publications at www.swissre.com/library/ A History of Insurance A mature market Building a sustainable energy future: Building a capital market for longevity risk risks and opportunities Compagnie Suisse de Réassurances SA Mythenquai 50/60 Boîte postale 8022 Zurich Mind the risk Suisse A global ranking of cities under threat from natural disasters Téléphone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Dotstitle Category: Categorytitle Scriptographer Plugin 10 50 Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Mind the risk_Umschlag.indd 1 16.09.13 09:33 SR Mature Market brochure v7 11825.indd 1 13/09/2012 11:48 Building a sustainable Mind the risk: A global A History of Insurance A mature market: Building a energy future: risks and ranking of cities under Since the time of our capital market for longevity opportunities threat from natural foundation in 1863, the risk With an expanding population disasters world has changed a lot. A capital market for longevity and world economy powered This publication provides a And insu­rance has been an risk could help address the by oil, coal and gas, fossil fuels comprehensive analysis of instrumental part of this challenges of funding longer have become a large part of natural disaster risk in change. We all know that lives. Such a market would our daily lives. But this has locations around the world. without risk protection, no form part of an overall solution come at a price: greenhouse skyscraper could be built, involving the cooperation and gas emissions, which no products marketed, no innovation of the public and adversely affect our climate. goods shipped. private sectors to ensure that How much higher will this we continue benefiting from price rise before we achieve a our ageing societies. more sustainable energy system? 68 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report you Flood – an underestimated risk Inspect, inform, insure The future of human longevity: Understanding the focusing on you Drivers of Longevity Risk Dialogue Series Swiss Swiss Re Re Conference report Centre Centre Global for for Global Dialogue Dialogue Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue you The future of human Understanding the Drivers Flood – an underestimated Floods in Switzerland – longevity: focusing on you of Longevity (Risk Dialogue risk: Inspect, inform, insure an underestimated risk (Conference report) Series) Floods affect more people Floods are the most important This stakeholder conference Over the past 150 years, life worldwide than any other type natural peril in Switzerland. was the latest in a series about expectancy among the world’s of natural disaster. But the risk And Swiss Re’s new our growing life expectancy population has increased by from flooding is often underprobabilistic model makes one and its implications for the more than 30 years. How has ­estimated. In many countries, thing clear: It would not take future. Focusing on consumer this happened? Why do we flood insurance is not widely much for the magnitude of behaviour, health policy and live longer? Can the current available or affordable. flood damage to exceed that translational medicine, it trend continue and, if so, to of the August 2005 flood sought to answer what recent what extent? This publication event. developments mean for the provides a broad overview of individual. current research on the mechanisms and drivers of longevity. No 2 /2015 The hidden risks of climate change: Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) An increase in property damage from Shaping climate-resilient development soil subsidence in Europe Closing the financial gap A framework for decision-making New partnerships between the public “We must build a and private sectors to finance disaster risks stronger, more resilient city – and this plan puts us on a path to do just that.” -New York City Mayor, Michael Bloomberg Background Hurricane Sandy was the most costly natural disaster to ever hit New York City. Fortythree New Yorkers lost their lives and many more lost homes or businesses. Economic losses for the city were $19billion but rising sea levels mean a similar storm in the future could cause far greater losses. Climate adaptation is an urgent priority for the custodians of national and local economies, such as finance ministers and mayors. Such decision-makers ask: What is the potential climate-related loss to our economies and societies over the coming decades? How much of that loss can we avert, with what measures? What investment will be required to fund those measures – and will the benefits of that investment outweigh the Swiss Re Dots Imagery costs? Title: Dotstitle Category: Categorytitle The ECA methodology 1 provides decision-makers with a fact base to answer these questions in a systematic way. It enables them to understand the potential impact of climate change on their economies – and identify actions to minimize that impact at the lowest cost to society. It therefore allows decision-makers to integrate adaptation and resilience building measures with economic development and sustainable growth. In essence, we provide a methodology to pro-actively manage total climate risk, which means: ̤ Assess today’s climate risk and how that might change under future economic paths and climate change scenarios, and assess the most cost effective risk reduction Natural catastrophes and 1 Executive summary 2 Catastrophes in 2014: measures to minimise future losses. man-made disasters in 2014: global overview Scriptographer Plugin Where and from what are we at risk? In a first step, for a given location, economic sector and affected population, we identify the most relevant hazards and analyze historic events (e.g., from disaster data sets). convective and winter storms 7 Regional overview 14 Severe convective What is the magnitude of the expected Using state-of-the-art probabilistic modeling, we estimate the expected economic loss today and any further incremental increase due to economic development paths and generate most losses storms: a growing loss? climate change. global risk 10 21 Tables for reporting 50 1 The methodology is based on the findings of a study by the Economics of Climate Adaptation Working Group, a partnership between the Global Environmental Facility, McKinsey & Company, Swiss Re, The Rockyear 2014 efeller Foundation, Climate Works Foundation, the European Commission and Standard Chartered Bank. 43 Terms and selection http://media.swissre.com/documents/rethinking_shaping_climate_resilent_development_en.pdf criteria Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Bild: Getty Images 99047250 The hidden risks of climate Closing the financial gap: Economics of Climate sigma: the series change: An increase in New partnerships between Adaptation (ECA) fact sheets For more than three decades, property damage from soil the public and private The Economics of Climate the sigma series has been a subsidence in Europe sectors to finance disaster Adaptation (ECA) methodology trusted source of market Property damage from risks provides decision-makers with information for managers and drought-induced soil This publication features some a fact base to identify the most specialists in direct insurance subsidence has risen of our most innovative cost-effective investments to companies worldwide. To dramatically across Europe. transactions and shows how make their communities more ensure a truly global Climate change will further governments in different resilient to the impact of climate readership, sigma appears magnify the risks. regions have used risk transfer change. These fact sheets in six languages: English, products to prepare for the summarise the findings of ECA German, French, Spanish, economic consequences studies we have completed. Japanese and Chinese. of catastrophic events and to make their societies more resilient. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 ­ Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”) ­ We have been engaged to perform d) The consolidated CO2 emissions The accuracy and completeness of assurance procedures to provide 2014 (Scope 1, 2 and business CR indicators are subject to inherent limited assurance on the consolidated travel-related Scope 3 in adherence limitations given their nature and CO2 emissions reporting and CR topics with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) methods for determining, calculating and sections disclosed with the 2014 of the tables entitled “CO2 emissions and estimating such data. In addition, Swiss Re Corporate Responsibility per employee (full-time equivalent, the CO2 emissions quantification is Report (“CR Report”). FTE), Swiss Re Group” on page subject to inherent uncertainty because 45 and “Underlying environmental of incomplete scientific knowledge Scope and subject matter data, Swiss Re Group” on page used to determine emissions factors Our limited assurance engagement 45 in the 2014 CR Report for the and the values needed to combine focused on the following data and period of 1 October 2013 till emissions of different gases. Our information disclosed in the CR Report 30 September 2014; assurance report should therefore be of Swiss Re and its consolidated e) The retirement of 69 800 tonnes read in connection with Swiss Re’s subsidiaries, for the financial year of CO2e (CO2 equivalents) described internal guidelines, definitions and ended 31 December 2014: on page 48 of the 2014 CR Report. procedures on the reporting of its a) The management and reporting CR performance. processes with respect to the Criteria consolidated CR reporting as well as The management reporting processes Swiss Re’s responsibility the control environment in relation with respect to the CR Report were The Swiss Re management is to the aggregation of data and assessed against the internal and responsible for both the preparation information; external policies and procedures as set and the presentation of the selected b) The organizational measures and forth in the following: subject matter in accordance with internal key controls in place ̤̤ “Internal Environmental the reporting criteria. Our responsibility at the corporate level regarding Performance Indicators for the is to form an independent conclusion, aggregation of information Financial Industry” published by the based on our limited assurance obtained from the subsidiaries and Verein für Umweltmanagement in procedures, on whether anything has reporting functions; Banken, Sparkassen und come to our attention to indicate that c) The consolidated data and Versicherungen e.V. (VfU) published the subject matter is not stated, in information disclosed in the in 1997 and 2011; all material respects, in accordance sections “Creating sustainability ̤̤ “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: with the reporting criteria. solutions” on pages 14–21, A Corporate Accounting and “Extending our risk intelligence” Reporting Standard (Revised Our responsibility on pages 22–34, “Exploring and Edition)” published in 2001 by We conducted our limited assurance shaping the risk landscape” on the World Resources Institute and engagement in accordance with pages 35–43, “Reducing our the World Business Council for International Standard on Assurance environmental footprint” on pages Sustainable Development; Engagements 3000, Assurance 44–53 and “Being an employer ̤̤ The framework document Engagements other than Audits or of choice” on pages 54–62; “Environmental Performance Reviews of Historical Financial Indicators Reporting at Swiss Re”, Information, and, in respect of green­ version 2014 including Annex; and house gas emissions, International ̤̤ The defined internal guidelines, Standard on Assurance Engagements by which CR data and information 3410, Assurance Engagements on are internally gathered, collated Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by and aggregated. the International Auditing and 70 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ Assurance Standards Board. These contacts to assess whether the We have not carried out any work in standards require that we plan and internal Environmental Performance respect of projections and targets perform this engagement to obtain Indicators Reporting guidelines and nor such outside of the agreed scope limited assurance about whether the CR guidance were consistently and therefore restrict our conclusion identified CR indicators are free from applied by the selected locations; to the 2014 CR Report of Swiss Re. material misstatement. performing enquiries of personnel responsible for internal CR reporting We believe that the evidence we have For the subject matter for which we and data collection at the Swiss Re obtained is sufficient and appropriate provide limited assurance, the nature, corporate level to evaluate the to provide a basis for our limited timing and extent of procedures for reporting and aggregation process assurance conclusion. gathering sufficient appropriate and to assess its appropriateness; evidence are deliberately limited ̤̤ Reconciliation of CO2 emissions Conclusion relative to a reasonable assurance data Based on our work described in this engagement. Reconciling the CO2 emissions report: data for energy consumption and a) Nothing has come to our attention We have complied with the business travel and CR data and that causes us to believe that the independence and other ethical information to the data used for the Swiss Re internal CR reporting requirements of the Code of Ethics for internal CR emissions reporting of guidelines are not applied in all Professional Accountants issued by the selected locations; material respects, in accordance the International Ethics Standards Board ̤̤ Assessment of the key figures with the reporting criteria; for Accountants, which is founded on Performing tests on a sample basis b) Nothing has come to our attention fundamental principles of integrity, of evidence supporting selected that causes us to believe that the objectivity, professional competence CR data and information (sensitive internal reporting processes to and due care, confidentiality and business risk process, management collect and aggregate CR data and professional behaviour. of emerging and political risks, information is not functioning as responsible investment, HR data and designed and does not provide an During 2014 we have not performed information, diversity and inclusion, appropriate basis for the any tasks or services for Swiss Re that development & training, presentation of CR data and would conflict with our independence, compensation & benefits, energy information, in all material respects; nor have we been responsible for the consumption, business travel, c) Nothing has come to our attention preparation of any part of the CR data other environmental data, group that causes us to believe that the CR reporting; and therefore qualify as sourcing, construction data and information disclosed in independent as defined by Code of management) to assess their the 2014 CR Report is not stated, in Ethics and applicable legal and completeness, accuracy, adequacy all material respects, in accordance regulatory requirements. and consistency; with the reporting criteria; ̤̤ Review of the documentation d) Nothing has come to our attention In accordance with International Reviewing the relevant that causes us to believe that the Standard on Quality Control 1, documentation on a sample basis, CO2 emissions data and information PricewaterhouseCoopers AG maintains including Swiss Re’s CR-related disclosed in the 2014 CR Report is a comprehensive system of quality policies, the management of not stated, in all material respects, in control including documented policies reporting structures, the accordance with the reporting and procedures regarding compliance documentation and systems used criteria; and with ethical requirements, professional to collect, analyse and aggregate e) Nothing has come to our attention standards and applicable legal and reported CR data and information; that causes us to believe that the regulatory requirements. ̤̤ Assessment of the processes and retirement of 69 800 tonnes of CO2e data consolidation has not been conducted, in all Summary of work performed Reviewing the appropriateness material aspects, in accordance Our assurance procedures included the of the management and reporting with the internal requirements. following work: processes for CR reporting; and ̤̤ Evaluation of the application of assessing the processing and Zurich, 29 May 2015 Swiss Re CR reporting guidelines consolidation of data at Swiss Re’s Assessing whether the methodology Group level; and PricewaterhouseCoopers AG applied by Swiss Re is in line with ̤̤ Review of verified emission the reporting criteria; reductions ̤̤ Interviews and management Reviewing the retirement of 69 800 inquiry tonnes CO2e verified emission Marc Schmidli Stephan Hirschi Evaluating the CR reporting and reductions (VER) according to the underlying performance indicators Voluntary Carbon Standard or Gold by performing analytical procedures Standard. and interviewing selected key Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 Memberships, awards and index listings Listed here is a selection of Swiss Re’s most important memberships, recent awards and index listings with regard to corporate responsibility. ­ Memberships Clinton Global Initiative Öbu (“Ecologically conscious Established in 2005 by former enterprises” network) CDP US President Bill Clinton, the Clinton Öbu is a Swiss think tank for CDP is an international, not-for-profit Global Initiative (CGI) convenes sustainability and management topics. organisation providing the only global global leaders to devise and implement It carries out projects focusing on system for companies and cities to innovative solutions to some of the corporate and economic policy, and measure, disclose, manage and share world’s most pressing challenges. promotes experience-sharing among vital environmental information. CDP www.clintonglobalinitiative.org its members. works with market forces to motivate www.oebu.ch companies to disclose their impacts on ICRC Corporate Support Group the environment and natural resources The ICRC Corporate Support Group Principles for Responsible and take action to reduce them. is an innovative and long-term Insurance www.cdp.net partnership set up by the International Developed by the UN Environment Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) Programme’s Finance Initiative, the Chief Risk Officer Forum and a group of selected Swiss Principles for Sustainable Insurance The CRO Forum is a group of companies. The members of the (PSI) are a framework for the global professional risk managers from the Corporate Support Group have insurance industry to address insurance industry that focuses on committed themselves to supporting environmental, social and governance developing and promoting industry the ICRC’s humanitarian work in risks and opportunities. best practices in risk management. The the years ahead. Currently, a Swiss Re representative Forum consists of Chief Risk Officers www.icrc.org has the co-chair of the UN PSI Board. from large multinational insurance www.unepfi.org/psi companies. International Risk Governance www.thecroforum.org Council The Climate Group IRGC is an independent organisation The Climate Group is an independent, ClimateWise whose purpose is to help the not-for-profit organisation working ClimateWise is the global insurance understanding and management of internationally with government and industry’s leadership group driving global risks that impact on human business leaders to advance smart action on climate change risk. health and safety, the environment, policies and technologies to cut global The group leverages the insurance the economy and society at large. emissions and accelerate a clean industry’s expertise to better www.irgc.org industrial revolution. understand, communicate and act www.theclimategroup.org on climate risks. Klimastiftung Schweiz www.climatewise.org.uk (Swiss Climate Foundation) The Swiss Climate Foundation is a non-profit foundation that directly champions the cause of climate protection in Switzerland, helping to fund small and medium enterprises that are proactive in their approach to reducing CO2 emissions. Swiss Re is one of the foundation’s members and is sponsoring its managing director. www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch 72 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ The Geneva Association Recent awards Selected index The Geneva Association is a leading inter­national insurance think tank for Employer of the Year award at listings and ratings strategically important insurance and the 2014 Asia Insurance Industry Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, risk management issues. It identifies Awards Industry Leader 2015 fundamental trends and strategic We won the inaugural edition of issues where insurance plays a this award for our talent development substantial role or which influence and diversity initiatives. the insurance sector. www.genevaassociation.org ANZIIF Women’s Council Employer of the Year 2014 ECPI Indices The RE100 initiative In recognition of our ongoing The Climate Group is partnering with commitment to diversity and inclusion, CDP to encourage the world’s most we received this award at the 2014 influential businesses to join RE100 Australian Insurance Industry Awards. and commit to going 100% renewable. The aim is for at least 100 companies Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical to make a global 100% renewable Companies 2014 Ethibel Pioneer & Excellence commitment with a clear timeframe Swiss Re was once again listed as one Investment Register for reaching their goal. of the world’s leading ethical firms www.theRE100.org by Ethisphere, a leading international think tank. UNEP Finance Initiative UNEP FI is a global partnership European Diversity Awards 2013 between UNEP and the financial Jean-Jacques Henchoz, Swiss Re’s sector. Over 190 institutions, including CEO Reinsurance EMEA, won the banks, insurers and fund managers, 2013 European Diversity Award in the oekom research, work with UNEP to understand the “Inspirational role model of the year” Prime investment status impacts of environmental and social category. considerations on financial performance. AIIA General Reinsurer of the Year www.unepfi.org 2013 Swiss Re won this Asia Insurance Industry Award (AIIA) for enhancing natural catastrophe tools and partnering with governments for preFTSE4Good Index Series disaster financing, amongst other things. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI): Our Public Disclosure of Progress Developed by the UN Environment Swiss Re and the PSI We support the PSI’s call for Programme’s Finance Initiative We are keen to support the spread of transparency and disclose our progress (UNEP FI) in collaboration with leading sustainable business practices in the on implementing its principles below. re/ insurance companies, the Principles re/insurance industry. Not only are we for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) provide one of the original signatories to the a framework for the global insurance Principles of Sustainable Insurance, industry to address environmental, we have played an active role in their social and governance (ESG) risks and development and have provided its opportunities. co-chair since 2012. Principle 1 Principle 2 Principle 3 We will embed in our decision-making We will work together with our clients We will work together with ESG issues relevant to our insurance and business partners to raise governments, regulators and other key business. awareness of ESG issues, manage risk stakeholders to promote widespread and develop solutions. action across society on ESG issues. As expressed in our Commitment As expressed in our Commitment As expressed in our Commitment to Corporate Responsibility, we to Corporate Responsibility, we to Corporate Responsibility, we seek to embed ESG issues in both engage in regular dialogue with engage in regular dialogue with our business solutions and risk our clients and other stakeholders, all our stakeholders (see page 9). management (see page 9). and apply ESG guidelines in our sourcing activities (see page 9). ⇒ We plan to achieve this by: We plan to achieve this by: sharing and advancing our risk a) developing innovative risk We plan to achieve this by: expertise with a special focus on transfer solutions (eg index a) interacting with clients and five Top Topics, supported by our insurance products and cat taking an active role in industry own dialogue platform, the Centre bonds) and by working closely initiatives to advance sustainable for Global Dialogue. with partners both in the private business practices; and public sectors; b) sharing and advancing our risk Key actions taken in 2014: b) using tailor-made tools in our expertise with a special focus on See stakeholder dialogue risk management to address five Top Topics, supported by our achievements on pages 35–43. sustainability risks; own dialogue platform, the Centre c) integrating ESG criteria in our for Global Dialogue; Principle 4 asset management. c) applying overarching guidelines We will demonstrate accountability and specific “minimum standards” and transparency in regularly Key actions taken in 2014: in our sourcing activities. disclosing publicly our progress in a) for business solutions, implementing the Principles. see achievements described Key actions taken in 2014: on pages 14–21; a) for client and industry Starting in 2012, we have been b) for risk management, cooperation, see achievements disclosing our progress in see achievements described described on pages 26–27; implementing the Principles on an on pages 22–30; b) for general risk dialogue, see annual basis, as an integrated part c) for asset management, achievements described on of our Corporate Responsibility see achievements described pages 35–43; Report. on pages 31–34. c) for sourcing guidelines, see achievements described on page 50.  or more information see F www.unepfi.org/psi/ 74 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index with UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) references This content index refers to the Global References to the UN Global Compact Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 principles addressed as part of our Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting. Communication on Progress (COP) are The guidelines form a voluntary incorporated into the GRI content index, framework setting out principles and in line with UN recommendations. indicators that companies can use to measure and report their economic, environmental and social performance. UN Global Compact principle Page Profile Strategy and analysis 1.1 Chairman’s and CEO’s statement Statement of continuing support 2–3 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities  9–11, 13 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation  4 2.2 Brands, products and services  4–6 2.3 Operational structure  6, FR 2–3 2.4 Headquarter location  4 2.5 Countries of operation  4–5, FR 172 2.6 Nature of ownership  4, FR 76–81 2.7 Markets served  4–5, FR 162–172 2.8 Scale of the organisation  7, 54, FR 26–45 2.10 Awards received  73 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period  12 3.2 Most recent previous report  12 3.3 Reporting cycle  12 3.4 Contact point  78 3.5 Content definition  12 3.6 Boundary of the report  12 3.7 Limitations on the report’s scope  12 3.8 Reporting on other entities  12 3.9 Data measurement techniques  45–46, 56–57, 70–72 3.12 GRI content index  75–77 3.13 External assurance 70–71 FR = 2014 Financial Report Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 75 GRI content index UN Global Compact principle Page Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure  63–64, FR 74, 82–95 4.2 Independence of chairman  63 4.3 Independence of board members 63–64, FR 82–90 4.4 Shareholder and employee representation 64, FR 102–103 4.5 Executive compensation  FR 120–144 4.6 Conflicts of interests  63–64, FR 74, 82–90 4.8 Mission statements and Code of Conduct  9, 64 4.9 Governance procedures on CR 12 4.11 Precautionary approach principle 7 8–11, 13, 22–34 4.12 Externally developed charters and principles  2, 26, 32, 72 4.13 Memberships  72–73 4.14 List of stakeholder groups  9, 35 4.15 Stakeholder identification  35 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement  2–3, 9, 26–27, 35, 40 Management approach and performance indicators Product and service impact Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to product and service impact in the two chapters “Creating solutions for sustainability” and “Extending our risk intelligence”. FS1 Environmental and social policies in business lines 1, 2, 7–9 9, 14, 22 FS2 Screening of environmental and social risks 1, 2 and 8 22–26, 31–32 FS4 Environmental and social training for staff 1, 2 and 8 26 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners 1 and 2 14, 26–27 FS7 Products with specific social benefit  14–21, 66–67 FS8 Products with specific environmental benefit 7 and 8 14–21 FS11 Environmental and social screening in asset management  31–34 Economic dimension Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to the economic dimension is primarily disclosed in the 2014 Financial Report. Specific aspects (“implications of climate change” and “indirect economic impacts”) are disclosed in this report in the “Who we are and what we do”, “Creating solutions for sustainability” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape” chapters. EC1 Direct economic value generated  7, FR 148–153 EC2 Implications of climate change 7 14–21, 35–38, 66–67 EC3 Benefit plan obligations  FR 216–223 EC9 Indirect economic impacts  6, 14–21 Environmental dimension Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to the environmental dimension in the chapter “Reducing our environmental footprint”. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 8 45, 47–48 EN2 Recycled materials used 8 and 9 45, 48 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8 45–47 EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency 8 and 9 46–47 EN6 Initiatives to use renewable energy 8 and 9 46 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 8 and 9 46–47, 51 EN8 Total water withdrawal 8 45 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 8 45–46 EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 8 45–46 FR = 2014 Financial Report 76 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report UN Global Compact principle Page EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 and 9 44–47, 51 EN22 Total weight of waste 8 45 EN29 Environmental impact of transport 8 45–47 Labour practices and decent work Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to labour practices and decent work is disclosed in the chapter “Being an employer of choice”. LA1 Breakdown of workforce  54, 56 LA2 Employee turnover 6 54 LA4 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 3 50, 61 LA7 Number of lost days  60 LA8 Training on serious diseases 1 60 LA10 Training hours 6 57 LA12 Performance review  62 LA13 Workforce diversity 1 and 6 55–56 Human rights Disclosure on management approach: We address human rights aspects relevant to our business through our Sustainability Risk Framework and our sourcing guidelines. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Extending our risk intelligence” and “Reducing our environmental footprint”, respectively. HR2 Supplier screening on human rights 1–6 50 HR6 Child labour 1, 2 and 5 22–25, 50 HR7 Forced or compulsory labour 1, 2 and 4 22–25, 50 Society Disclosure on management approach: We address society aspects relevant to our business through our business solutions, Group Code of Conduct and stakeholder dialogue. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Creating solutions for sustainability”, “Ensuring good governance” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape”, respectively. FS14 Access to financial services for disadvantaged people  14, 17–19, 66–67 SO3 Anti-corruption training 10 64 SO5 Public policy positions  35 Product responsibility We consider the definition of product responsibility in the GRI guidelines to be of little relevance for a company providing business-to-business services in the financial industry, and hence provide no information in this area. Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 77 Contact details Contact address Sustainability & Political Risk Management David Bresch Telephone +41 43 285 6361 Fax +41 43 282 6361 David_Bresch@swissre.com 78 Swiss Re 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report © 2015 Swiss Re. All rights reserved. Title: 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Production: Sustainability & Political Risk Management Group Communications Graphic design and production: Swiss Re Corporate Real Estate & Logistics/ Media Production, Zurich Writing and editing: Stefan Moser/Swiss Re Printing: Multicolor Print AG, Baar Additional editing: Orla Harte/Swiss Re Photographs: Auscape/UIG/Getty Images (Cover & back cover) Geri Krischker (page 3) Swiss Re (page 6) Stocktreck/Getty Images (page 11) Paul Chesley/Getty Images (page 16) Swiss Re (page 18) Antti-Pekka Lehtinen/Getty Images (page 20) This report is printed on sustainably produced paper. Visage/Getty Images (page 23) The wood used comes from forests certified to Victor de Schwanberg/Getty Images (page 29) 100% by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Swiss Re (page 37) Swiss Re (page 39) Visit www.swissre.com to David Ausserhofer/Swiss Re (page 41) download or to order additional South Pole Carbon (page 49) copies of Swiss Re publications. Stefan Birrer/Swiss Re (page 50) Asia Insurance Review (page 55) Order no: 1490937_15_EN Swiss Re (page 59) 06/15, 3000 en Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com
