ANNUAL R EP OR T Comprehensive solutions for global needs ANNUAL REPOR T AN N UA L R E P O R T INDEX 04 06 22 Letter Ineco at a glance Activity from the Chairman About Ineco 08 Aviation 24 Around the world 12 Railways 38 Management team 14 Roads 52 ·· Board of directors 15 Urban transport 62 Our figures 16 Ports 68 ·· Balance sheet 18 ·· Profit and loss statement 20 Intermodal 76 2 INDEX 82 152 Corporate culture About this report Strategy 84 Scope 154 ·· Soundness and stability to compete in a global market 85 Integrated indicators of the Global Compact and the GRI 155 Ethical integrity 88 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ·· Responsible and committed 89 indicator index 156 Commitments 102 Statement GRI application level check 172 ·· Committed to our clients 103 ·· Committed to our team 113 ·· Committed to society 127 ·· Committed to the environment 135 ·· Committed to our suppliers 149 3 AN N UA L R E P O R T let ter from the Dear shareholders, clients and employees, CHAIRMAN The development of the business, in a competitive, profitable and efficient way, along with the supply of quality and valueadded engineering services have been the reference axes in all of Ineco’s activities in 2013. All this under the premise of consolidating the internationalisation strategy launched in 2012, the results of which have been significantly evidenced in this period. Throughout this year, we have continued to increase our business activities with international clients, which yielded 19% more income than the figure reached last year. In spite of the difficulties the domestic market is going through and the challenge involved when opening up to new countries, the great internal effort made in terms of efficiency and competitiveness has made it possible to maintain the profit level, which entails a key sustainability element for the company. In order to maintain profitability, it has been necessary not only to make a significant adjustment of production capability to adapt the dimension of the company to the market’s demand, but also to develop the activity under a severe cost containment policy and a focus on “core” and value-added activities of Ineco as a benchmark in transport consulting and engineering. This special effort has allowed to reduce exploitation expenses and, particularly, general expenses, which have been 18% lower than last year. The financial situation of the company continues to be solid and the order book as of 31st of December 2013 amounts to approximately 300 million euros. It is worth highlighting the change in the composition of this variable, which evidences the strategic shift of the company towards foreign countries with a significant increase in the relevance of clients not related to the State’s General Administration. The effort made in the international market positions us among the Spanish engineering companies of reference abroad. Examples of this are the large railway projects we continue to perform in Saudi Arabia and United Kingdom, LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Ecuador’s national transport plan, Mexico’s highway and commercial projection on an international scale. project and the aeronautical works in Nepal and On the international stage, we have participated in 13 Kuwait, among others. In the aviation sector, it is worth European R+D+i consortia, 5 out of which are led by mentioning the awarding, on the one hand, of Ineco’s Ineco, and we are active partners of different platforms first project in Brazil, undertaken with local partner ATP, at national and European level. to carry out the feasibility studies and draft project to develop 50 regional airports and, on the other hand, Likewise, Ineco has renewed its commitment to the the drafting of the operational model for Abu Dhabi 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, International Airport in the United Arab Emirates as a acquired in 2008, incorporating in its actions (or first step in the project of enlarging such airport. The strategy) concerns about work, human rights, completion of the works at Pristina international airport environment and fight-against corruption-related in Kosovo should also be noted. matters suggested by the initiative. The consolidation of major projects in three continents Once again this year, I cannot fail to recognise has led us to secure a network of permanent offices, in the talent, effort and value each of the workers which Singapore, London, Quito and Kuwait add up to of the company has contributed to make these those in Jeddah, São Paulo and Mexico. results possible. I am also specially grateful for the commitment all the organisation has shown to the As far as the domestic market is concerned, the close company and its sustainability. cooperation with shareholding companies and with the Ministry of Development is maintained, in line Furthermore, I would like to thank our clients, in Spain with the continuity of current projects and our firm and abroad, for the trust placed in the expertise and willingness to guarantee excellence in the service technical capability we offer them in order to provide offered to our main clients. Such is the case of the the best possible solutions, which makes us eagerly Mediterranean Corridor, one of the country’s largest believe on the good course of our transformation railway projects, and the works on railway security and process. interoperability with the Ministry of Development, the General Railway Directorate and the Railway Accident All the above-said would hardly be possible without Research Committee, CIAF. As described in this Report, the commitment of our shareholders to the company we have also carried on with the collaboration, and its sustainability. We are also grateful for the value maintenance and technical assistance in multiple they grant our services every day to contribute to projects with Aena, Adif and Renfe, main transport the excellence in development and exploitation of operators in Spain. transport infrastructure in Spain, which they represent as main managers and operators. We continue to be constantly committed to innovation, since we understand it is an instrument Looking ahead, Ineco will continue to boost the that strengthens our teams from a technical point of internationalisation strategy launched years ago view, as it allows them to face challenges and favour through a comprehensive offer of quality and collaboration with the best technicians from other competitiveness, thus consolidating the company as organisations. An example of this is the Arid-Lap a reference in the transport infrastructure sector on project to minimise the effects caused by extreme a world scale and reinforcing its leading position at a weather conditions on railway infrastructure in arid national level. areas. Framed within the INNTERCONECTA national program, it is a significantly strategic project which Pablo Vázquez Vega may facilitate our development in areas with economic Chairman 5 ANNUAL REP O R T ineco AT A GLANCE About Ineco Around the world Management team ·· Board of directors Our figures ·· Balance sheet ·· Profit and loss statement AN N UA L R E P O R T ABOUT Ineco is a global leader in transport engineering and consultancy. With an expert team of 2,500 INECO professionals it has been contributing for over 45 years to the development of infrastructures in the aviation, railway, road, urban transport and port industries in over 45 countries around the world. railways 2,500 ports MORE THAN PROFESSIONALS 45 YEARS GLOBAL ENGINEERING AND roads CONSULTANCY aviation MORE THAN 45 urban transport COUNTRIES Thanks to our high degree of technical specialization, apart from reinforcing our presence in the countries where we are currently operating, we have diversified our activity to new markets. We offer comprehensive and innovative result-centric solutions tailor-made for each client. Our services cover the whole project life cycle from preliminary and feasibility studies to commissioning and maintenance. Our high technological capacity contributes state-of-the-art and profitable solutions aimed at the public and private sector. 8 INECO AT A GLANCE · ABOUT INECO Our strengths Global and multimodal make us different We are present in over 45 countries in 5 continents. We offer a comprehensive approach to the projects that we develop in all modes of transport. Multidisciplinary and specialized team Commitment The value of Ineco lies in its people –about 2,500 expert professionals ready to address to our clients any engineering challenge. This commitment is translated into the excellence and quality of our work, its long-term success and bet on innovation. Flexibility and competitiveness Wide experience We adjust to the clients’ needs and successfully address the challenges posed by the different Over 45 years working to develop efficient geographic, climate, social and cultural and sustainable transport systems aimed at contexts. improving people mobility. Cost-efectiveness High technological and efficiency We guarantee maximum efficiency in our capacity methodologies and propose the most profitable alternatives. Research and innovation are a major part of our essence to deliver the best quality in our work. Strong commitment Support in to society Our activity directly impacts on the decision making progress of society. We evaluate all the possibilities to identify the best solution. 9 AN N UA L R E P O R T Strategic lines Ineco consolidates its decisive bet strategy on the globalization and multimodality of its activities. The company’s transformation is supported by four basic cornerstones defining the company’s global activity: efficiency, growth, profitability and quality. Thus, Ineco maintains its global and dynamic benchmark engineering and consulting position in a growing competitive market as the present one. Growth Efficiency Profitability Quality Ineco and a new brand as part of its bet on the future CMYK / 100 43 41 Throughout 2013, Ineco developed a brand renewal exercise in line with its strategy aimed at providing the new 13 company with an identity that is modern, technological and, in sum, more appropriate for the new times. This initiative, which has been fully developed in-house, arises from the need to face new challenges that require that the company be more global, dynamic and flexible in the light of the international expansion process in which it is involved. Under this willingness to become more modern, we have used our corporate colours, thus maintaining Ineco’s essence but providing it with a lighter new vision through the progression of colour, a reflection of evolution seeking to transmit the sum of the parts. 10 INECO DE UN VISTAZO · SOBRE INECO 11 AN N UA L R E P O R T AROUND THE WORLD During its almost 50 years of operations, Ineco has adapted to the needs of the market and it presently boasts experience in over 50 countries with more than 150 international contracts in place and over 300 clients. Ineco has two affiliates, Ineco do Brasil (in Brazil) and Inecomex (in Mexico) and it holds interests in Tenemetro (10%), CEAVMM (1.5%) and AIE Crida (16.67%). Ineco is also represented in the following countries: • Ecuador • Mexico • Chile • Colombia • Argentina • United Kingdom • Turkey • India • Saudi Arabia • Kuwait • United Arab Emirates AMERICA • Singapore Argentina Ecuador In addition, Ineco has also formed –due to the Bolivia Jamaica agreements in place in certain countries in Brazil Mexico which it is currently working– different types of Chile Nicaragua associations with other companies, such as joint Colombia Panama ventures. Costa Rica Peru El Salvador Venezuela 12 INECO AT A GLANCE · AROUND THE WORLD AFRICA EUROPE ASIA AND MIDDLE EAST Algeria Mali Bulgaria Lithuania Saudi Arabia Kuwait Angola Morocco European Commission Norway United Arab Emirates Nepal Cape Verde Mauritania Croatia Poland Philippines Oman Egypt Namibia Denmark Portugal India Catar Ethiopia Uganda Spain United Kingdom Iraq Singapore Kenya Estonia Serbia Jordania France Turkey Italy Ukraine 13 AN N UA L R E P O R T MANAGEMENT TEAM José Manuel Tejera Pablo Vázquez Berta Barrero Ana Rojo Infrastructures and Chairman Corporate Managing Engineering and Services Transport Managing Director Managing Director Director Management team as at June 2014 14 INECO AT A GLANCE · MANAGEMENT TEAM Board of Directors Board of Directors of Ineco as at December 2013 CHAIRMAN D. Pablo Vázquez Vega. Chairman. INECO DIRECTORS D. José Manuel Vargas Gómez. Chairman. AENA D. Javier Marín San Andrés. Director of Spanish Airports. AENA Dª. María García Capa. Director of Communication of the Office of the Minister of Public Works. MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS D. Gonzalo Jorge Ferré Moltó. Chairman. ADIF D. Julio Gómez-Pomar Rodríguez. Chairman. RENFE OPERADORA Dª. Belén Bada de Cominges. Deputy Director-General. MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS D. Mariano Navas Gutiérrez. Director General. CEDEX D. Sergio Pérez Saiz. Office of the Secretary of State for Trade. MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND COMPETITIVENESS D. Rodrigo Marabini Ruiz. AENA INTERNACIONAL D. Luis Pérez Fabregat. Director of Projects and High-Speed Works. ADIF D. Luis Fernando López Ruiz. Director of Strategy and Development. ADIF Dª Carmen Sánchez Sanz. Deputy Director General of Conservation. Department of Roads. MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS D. Ignacio Garay Zabala. Director of Communication and External Relations. ADIF Dª. Alejandra Sánchez Yánquez. Advisor to the Technical Department. ECONOMIC AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT OF THE PRESIDENT’S OFFICE SECRETARY OF THE BOARD D. Carlos Hugo Cea Pinilla. Secretary General. INECO Appointment and resignations for 2013 SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING (07-02-2013) RESIGNATION: APPOINTMENT: D. Enrique Verdeguer Puig D. Gonzalo Jorge Ferré Moltó SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING (22-05-2013) RESIGNATION: APPOINTMENT: D. Manuel Varela Bellido D. Ignacio Garay Zabala SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING (06-09-2013) RESIGNATION: APPOINTMENT: Dª. Inés Carpio San Román Dª. Alejandra Sánchez Yánquez 15 AN N UA L R E P O R T OUR Ineco generated turnover of 187.4 million euros in 2013. We have increased our revenues FIGURES from our activity abroad by 30%, following our strategic approach to internationalization. At 31 December 2013 and 2012 Revenue by geographic market 2013 2012 Euros Domestic market 137,158,848 180,750,709 Rest of EU market 5,533,942 5,153,043 Foreign market 44,763,095 34,154,097 187,455,885 220,057,849 By activity 2013 2012 Euros Railways 121,432,378 141,930,137 Aviation 44,705,404 63,149,033 Intermodal 21,318,103 14,978,679 187,455,885 220,057,849 Service charge income 2013 2012 Euros Services rendered to the public sector 134,351,824 174,945,990 Services rendered to the private sector 53,104,061 45,111,859 187,455,885 220,057,849 16 INECO AT A GLANCE · OUR FIGURES At December 2013 187.4 3.6 2,531 Turnover Operation income Headcount (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) Distribution of 2013 portfolio per activity DOMESTIC PORTFOLIO INTERNATIONAL PORTFOLIO Railways 78.3% 60.6% Aviation 5.3% 16.2% Intermodal 16.4% 23.2% 17 AN N UA L R E P O R T Financial Statements At 31 December 2013 and 2012 Figures stated in euros Assets 2013 2012 Intangible fixed assets IT applications 540,010 741,123 Tangible fixed assets Land and buildings 7,409,216 7,799,031 Technical installations, machinery, tools, 2,871,009 3,622,302 furniture and other tangible fixed assets Long-term investments in group and other related companies Equity instruments 1,414,864 1,349,878 Long-term financial investments Other financial assets 987,449 538,572 Deferred tax assets 7,583,506 8,529,207 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 20,806,054 22,580,113 Inventories Advance payments to suppliers 59,164 298,865 Trade debtors and other accounts receivable Short-term receivables from clients for sales and services rendered 45,206,843 44,474,873 Short-term receivables from clients, group and other related companies 34,037,377 56,851,023 Sundry receivables 274,346 77,743 Payroll 174,075 Current tax assets 1,478,522 559,317 Short-term investments in group and other related companies Other financial assets 30,369 105,000 Short-term financial investments Debt securities 359,506 53,298 Other financial assets 717,129 455,954 Short-term accruals and deferred income 105,188 104,712 Cash and cash equivalents Short-term investments readily convertible into cash 14,974,176 26,749,995 Cash 40,825,018 25,781,646 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 138,067,638 155,686,501 TOTAL ASSETS 158,873,692 178,266,614 18 INECO AT A GLANCE · OUR FIGURES Equity and liabilities 2013 2012 Shareholders’ equity 82,705,389 79,152,784 Capital Registered capital 8,250,660 8,250,660 Share premium 12,857,007 12,857,007 Reserves Legal and statutory 1,650,132 1,650,132 Other reserves 56,394,989 52,312,797 Profit for the year 3,552,601 4,082,192 Grants, donations and bequests received 146,435 164,747 TOTAL EQUITY 82,851,824 79,317,535 Long-term provisions Other provisions 1,735,694 2,105,202 Long-term payables Other financial liabilities 739,377 1,000,985 Deferred tax liabilities 205,898 228,059 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,680,969 3,334,246 Short-term provisions Other provisions 10,604,443 16,605,284 Short-term payables Other financial liabilities 116,477 248,508 Trade creditors and other payables Short-term payables to suppliers 9,787,455 11,565,025 Short-term payables to suppliers, group and other related companies 82,708 3,446 Sundry payables 36,961 24,553 Payroll (accrued salaries and wages) 2,823,486 1,820,452 Current tax liabilities 2,218,419 Other taxes payable 7,427,356 7,647,522 Advance payments from clients 42,462,013 55,481,624 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 73,340,899 95,614,833 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 158,873,692 178,266,614 19 AN N UA L R E P O R T Financial Statements At 31 December 2013 and 2012 Figures stated in euros 2013 2012 Net revenue Sales 187,347,017 219,884,015 Services rendered 108,868 173,834 Raw materials and consumables Subcontracted work (33,967,523) (40,036,315) Other operating revenue Non-core and other current operating revenues 362,092 466,293 Operating grants released to income for the year 886.915 121,693 Payroll expenses Salaries, wages and other similar items (90,430,567) (97,992,634) Employee benefits (35,236,160) (39,076,367) Provisions (8,689,626) Other operating expenses External services (18,158,036) (21,299,409) Taxes (967,819) (488,744) Losses, impairment and changes 1,062,687 (4,250,353) in trade provisions Other operating losses (2,713,192) (1,520,116) Fixed assets depreciation and amortization (1,810,879) (2,107,809) Losses and impairment of fixed assets (26,319) OPERATING INCOME 6,457,084 5,184,462 Financial income From interest in equity instruments In group and other related companies 2,152 4,003 From negotiable instruments and loans on fixed assets From group and other related companies 32,333 From third parties 855,178 681,711 Financial expenses From payables to third parties (165,521) (154,010) Foreign exchange differences (1,630,436) (188,278) Impairment and gains/losses from disposal of financial instruments Impairment and losses (4.612) Changes in the fair value of financial instruments 81,362 FINANCIAL (EXPENSE) INCOME (857,265) 371,147 Profit before taxes 5,599,819 5,555,609 Corporate income tax (2,047,218) (1,473,417) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 3,552,601 4,082,192 20 A N N U A L R E P O R T ACTIVITY Aviation Railways Roads Urban transport Ports Intermodal activity AVIATION A N N U A L R E P O R T ACTIVITY · AVIATION I nnovative and efficient Internationally, with over 25 projects in progress, SOLUTIONS Ineco maintained its presence in mature markets such as the European and started working in the Asian market, signing a first agreement in Singapore to design instrumental procedures of performanceIn a technologically complex sector such as aviation, based navigation. In addition, the Sultanate of where competition demands a high level of Oman has chosen Ineco to design and validate the development, Ineco has proved to be a company procedures and airspace of its two main airports, capable of implementing innovative, modern and Muscat and Salalah, and the four regional airports in efficient solutions. such country. The Company’s capabilities cover several knowledge Concerning the airport business, Ineco has a areas, from the technical development of the air strategic view on the development, construction navigation system in connection to all of its fields, and improvement of airfields, which the Company such as communications, navigation and surveillance, considers to be means for territorial articulation and to the area of research, development, implementation cohesion, and whose infrastructure and services and operation of systems and processes related to air it deems essential for a country’s socio-economic traffic management, as well as sectors such as satellite growth. navigation, strategic air navigation planning or web portals development and exploitation. In 2013, Ineco continued expanding internationally, working in the Americas (Ecuador, El Salvador, In 2013, Ineco provided Aena with local support Colombia, Mexico and Jamaica), Africa (Morocco, related to air traffic management (ATM) in projects Cape Verde and Uganda), the Middle East (Kuwait, such as Caelus, which optimised processes related to Oman and Iraq) and Asia (the Philippines and India). air traffic control and the structure of Spanish airspace, The projects in all these countries focused mainly as well as support in the field of air navigation systems on the first stages of the life cycle, i.e. planning and through works such as the new functionalities designing new infrastructures or enlarging the old to developed in the COVERCOM and INVENTA systems. increase their capacity and/or improve quality service The Company also collaborated in maintaining and in view of a growing demand. technically operating such systems, as well as in It is worth highlighting the role assumed by Ineco as designing and developing software tools to facilitate the project manager of ambitious projects, such as their management, which included implementing the expansion of the Kuwait International Airport, or KPIs to measure the quality levels of the air navigation complex projects such as the Pristina airport project services. in Kosovo, where Ineco played an essential role as an Concerning global navigation satellite systems (GNSS), independent engineer in a public-private partnership Ineco also was in charge of operating and maintaining (PPP). the EGNOS system in Spain. Other equally important projects of the Company Ineco has assisted Aena in its spin-off process of during 2013 include being awarded its first project in splitting into Aena and Aena Aeropuertos S.A, Brazil, undertaken with local partner ATP to carry out giving support in implementing its brand image, the feasibility studies and project draft to develop 50 at the same time that it continues developing and regional airports, as well as drafting the operational maintaining applications, portals and services in the model for the Abu Dhabi International Airport in the public network and the intranet. In this regard, it is United Arab Emirates as a first step in the project of worth noting the support in promoting the airports’ enlarging such airport. commercial services and the launch of the Juno corporate intranet portal in 2013. 25 A N N U A L R E P O R T AIRPORT PROJECTS DEVELOPMENT MASTER PROGRAMMES FOR PACIFIC AIRPORTS GROUP. MEXICO-PACIFIC For the period 2015-2029, Aena Internacional, a shareholder of Pacific Airports Group, has awarded Ineco, for the fourth time, the project of preparing the master plans for the airports at Aguascalientes, Bajío, Guadalajara, Hermosillo, La Paz, Los Mochis, Morelia, Mexicali, Puerto Vallarta, San José del Cabo, Tijuana and Manzanillo. In 2013, Ineco implemented the studies which define the basic guidelines to develop these airports and prepared drafts of these master plans. In 2014, it will perform the relevant processing in accordance with Mexican legislation to get the approval of the Department of Communications and Transport by the end of the year. These development master plans include, for each of the twelve airports of the group, growth and development expectations in stages, passenger demand projections, operations and cargo for the following fifteen years and the programme of construction, preservation, maintenance, expansion and modernisation of the infrastructure, installations and equipment, taking into account the required quality and efficiency standards. Additionally, the plans also include a detailed investment programme for the 2015-2019 period, as well as the items and estimates related to the main investments in the ten subsequent years and the measures to preserve the environment according to applicable rules. 26 ACTIVITY · AVIATION · PROJEC TS SAFETY STUDIES FOR THE FIUMICINO AIRPORT IN ROME. ITALY Fiumicino airport in Rome was seeking an improvement in the safety levels of its daily operations, and it hired Ineco to review its current operating procedures in the air and on the ground. Both companies conducted a safety study and a risk analysis using a system to perform analyses of ground vehicle flows and microsimulation called AIMSUNNG, which was modified by Ineco to identify the special features of ground handling vehicles and aircraft. This allowed assessing multiple scenarios and alternatives to find the best solution for the Italian airport. 27 A N N U A L R E P O R T GREENFIELD AIRPORT IN TIKRIT. IRAQ As part of the country’s reconstruction after the war, Iraq, through its client Aspin, has hired Ineco’s services to develop a modern airport in the town of Tikrit, a project which will be carried out in two stages. During the first stage, Ineco drafted the Master Plan for the new international airport, taking advantage of the territories belonging to the former airport, which was destroyed in the war. This proposal included building two runways of 3.4 km each and a terminal area comprising a total of 18 buildings, notably the terminal building of 24,000 m2, the control tower and the aprons for airliner parking (85,000 m2) and cargo aircraft parking (45,000 m2). The scope of the second stage included, in addition, basic airport work related to construction and airfields. 28 ACTIVITY · AVIATION · PROJEC TS ADEM JASHARI AIRPORT IN PRISTINA: DESIGN, ENGINEERING, PURCHASING AND CONSTRUCTION. KOSOVO By means of a public-private partnership, Ineco has provided independent engineering services to enlarge and renovate the Adem Jashari airport located in Pristina, Kosovo. Ineco worked for Kosovo’s Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Turkish constructor Limak for two years, undertaking design, engineering, purchasing and construction works for a new terminal building of 20,000 m2 and a capacity for 2.5 million passengers a year. With the start-up of these new facilities in 2014, the airport took a quantitative and qualitative leap as regards quality. 29 A N N U A L R E P O R T SUPPORT AND LEGAL AND TECHNICAL ADVICE FOR THE CIVIL AVIATION DEPARTMENT. SPAIN Ineco provided advisory for the Spanish aviation authorities, the Civil Aviation Department (DGAC), regarding the study of airport effects. In this analysis, the Company examined the territorial planning documents presented by urban authorities and issued the relevant compulsory and binding report ensuring the regularity and safety of air operations through navigation easements and environmental and acoustic obligations. It also supported the DGAC in regulating the sector by developing new regulatory proposals and the amendment of the Spanish technical regulations, as well as their adaptation to international aeronautical organisations. The advisory also concerned the amendment of the royal decrees on navigation easements and zoning of general interest airports and their service areas, for the purpose of publishing the new Royal Decree No. 297/2013. Additionally, in the European scenario, the Company amended and provided advisory on the European Parliament’s proposal of rules for the introduction of operating restrictions. Ineco participated in preparing strategic documents, plans, reports and studies for the aviation sector, and it provided advisory for high officials in the Spanish administration of air transport. It also supported the Air Sector Development Plan (PDSA for its acronym in Spanish) for 2014-2017 and the Infrastructures, Transport and Housing Plan (PITVI for its acronym in Spanish) for 2012-2024. 30 ACTIVITY · AVIATION · PROJEC TS AIR NAVIGATION PROJECTS DESIGN OF INSTRUMENT FLIGHT PROCEDURES AND AERONAUTICAL CHARTS. OMAN The Sultanate of Oman has undertaken the development of its airport plan, the biggest project in its history. As part of these activities, Oman’s civil aviation authorities requested that Ineco prepare the instrument flight procedures and aeronautical charts to be published in Oman’s aeronautical information to ensure that all aircrafts operate safely and efficiently in the Omani airspace, complying with the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. To address these needs, Ineco designs and validates the procedures and airspace of Oman’s two main airports, Muscat and Salalah, and its four regional airports. The agreement with the Ministry of Transport and Communications, expected to be performed late in 2015, also includes nine weeks in Spain to train the technical and management team of Oman’s civil aviation authorities. 31 A N N U A L R E P O R T OPERATING AND MAINTAINING EGNOS. EUROPEAN UNION Aena, through the Air Navigation Office, awarded Ineco several agreements within the framework of the international agreement with the European Satellite Services Provider (ESSP), the European Commission and the SJU, joint authority of the SESAR programme (Single European Sky ATM Research), to operate and maintain the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) sub-systems located in Spanish territory. The activities assigned to Ineco until 2021 to use EGNOS as a landing approach system in Spanish airfields include reviewing the mission/system documentation for the civil aviation requirements applicable to the programme and established by European authorities (European Space Agency –ESA–, Eurocontrol, European Commission), monitoring changes in EGNOS and GPS elements, and preparing reports on activities. Ineco also controls the quality of the GNSS signals used in air navigation (namely GPS, EGNOS and GBAS) and analyses anomalies in the satellite navigation systems located at Aenas’s facilities. 32 ACTIVITY · AVIATION · PROJEC TS OPTIMISING CAPACITIES AND REFERENCE CONFIGURATIONS IN SPANISH AIRPORTS. SPAIN With the purpose of increasing the productivity of Spanish airports in the shortand mediumterm, Aena awarded Ineco several works on the capacities and reference configurations of the airfields in its network. Thanks to the trust placed in Ineco, it conducted runway capacity studies on a total of eight airports, including Madrid-Barajas Adolfo Suárez and Barcelona-El Prat, and it also collaborated in reviewing three master plans. In the 25 main airports of Aena’s network, Ineco performed a traffic prognosis for each day and time, as well as a traffic estimation for the entire Spanish airspace, especially for the four main area control centres (ACCs) and the two terminal area control centres (TACCs). It is important to mention the use of the software system PICAP, which Ineco developed for Aena to measure and calculate runway capacity, widely renowned and certified by civil airspace authorities. 33 A N N U A L R E P O R T RADIO-ELECTRIC SIMULATION STUDIES. SPAIN To ensure safety concerning the proper operation of radio-electric navigation and air traffic installations, Aena appointed Ineco to conduct impact studies on the radio-electric installations of its buildings and infrastructure and analyse the space signal in radio navigation and radar surveillance systems. Ineco also conducted technical analysis on radio navigation location, including coverage studies; provided engineering services for establishing potential locations and developing specifications for ground stations; identified critical and sensitive areas in instrumentation systems for landing applying the ILS; and performed studies on RNAV air navigation services in different air spaces for implementation purposes. To carry out all these safety improvements on Aena’s activities, Ineco used COVERNAV, a modern software system which it developed specifically to analyse radio navigation services, apart from commercial tools for radio-electric simulation such as OUNPPM, OUGS, ATOLL or LAGON. 34 ACTIVITY · AVIATION · PROJEC TS INTRODUCING NEW FUNCTIONALITIES INTO THE COVERCOM AND INVENTA TOOLS. SPAIN The tools to calculate ground/air communications coverage (COVERCOM) and control the configuration and dimension of ground/air and ground/ground communication systems (INVENTA), both of which were developed by Ineco, have been modified to adjust to the new needs of the Spanish Air Navigation Administrator (Aena). The scope of these works included, in COVERCOM’s case, enhancing the representation and result export module to facilitate the tasks of analysing, designing and optimising the communications system. In addition, two new functionalities were added to calculate stations which offer coverage during flights as well as above ground level (AGL) and mean sea level (MSL) minimum altitudes in a sector. In the case of INVENTA, improvements were made in its capacity to manage the configuration of ground/air and ground/ground communication services, its graphic representation capacity and the information exploitation modules. To this end, four new functions were introduced: the first was related to georeferenced information representation; the second serves to represent information on plans and dynamic diagrams; the third, to manage the configuration of radio channels (frequencies); the fourth, to export results and support other systems (web service). These modifications ensure tool optimisation and provide Aena with new capabilities. COVERCOM allowed automatic complex analysis and obtaining more detailed parameters to identify deficiencies and plan the deployment of new stations. Moreover, INVENTA was used to conduct a detailed study on the coverage provided by the current ground/air communications network, in relation to both the current and future airspace structure. INVENTA also made it easier to manage the frequencies of the VHF communications band and its DOC, as well as microwave communications (radio links). 35 A N N U A L R E P O R T MEASUREMENT, CONTROL, ASSESSMENT AND INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL REPORT ON THE QUALITY LEVELS OF AIR NAVIGATION SERVICES. SPAIN In 2013, Aena implemented a new performance system adapted to European regulations related to the certification and supervision of air navigation service providers and, more specifically, to information and performance, which were published last year. Ineco was in charge of providing Aena with technical support by identifying the requirements of European laws and also of establishing measurable and realistic KPIs to calculate and compare more simply the activity performed in terms of air navigation. Specifically, Ineco identified potential technical and operational incidents in the network, managed the volume indicators and traffic management dashboard and assessed airspace movements, delays and punctuality. The Company also analysed the main indicators in the Spanish air navigation system and set up a virtual office with the customer to assess the quality of the service. 36 activity RAILWAYS A N N U A L R E P O R T ACTIVITY · RAILWAYS T echnologic and sustainable SOLUTIONS A comprehensive and leading approach adopted supervising the implementation of a PLC system since it was set up made Ineco a touchstone in the Operation and Control Centre (OCC) of of railway technology and its multi-disciplinary Lithuania’s railways, providing technical assistance experience made it a leader in Spain and in overseeing the project to protect the main internationally. intersections of Ecuador’s railways and its federal road network, and conducting feasibility studies Ineco is a pioneer in railway-related activities in all on the use of satellites as the European system of of their stages: from preliminary and informative railway mobile communications. studies, functional, preliminary and construction projects, and works control and management to Ineco is an expert in different areas that range from commissioning, operation and maintenance, in transport consulting and project management to both conventional and high speed networks. works management, control and surveillance. Ineco participated in Spain’s main railway Moreover, Ineco offers its advanced know-how infrastructure projects together with the Ministry of in its technical support and works services, Public Works and its shareholders Renfe and Adif. maintenance and operation, rolling stock Its main latest works include the commissioning of supervision, and information and communications the Albacete-Alicante high-speed stretch, the work technology (ICT) development through IT management and technical assistance services applications related to railway management and provided for the works at the Vigo´s high speed operation, website and intranet maintenance and station and the drafting of a functional study and geographic information systems. construction project for the Southern access to the Barcelona port. In 2013, Ineco increased its international presence. It also continued its work on big projects initiated in previous years, such as the Makkah-Madinah high-speed line in Saudi Arabia, the design of a high-speed stretch (HS2) in the United Kingdom and the supervision of the central stretch of the Ankara-Istanbul line in Turkey, but it also began collaborating in new projects such as 39 A N N U A L R E P O R T RAILWAY PROJECTS PLCS SYSTEM FOR THE RAILWAY NETWORK’S OCC. LITHUANIA Ineco is currently offering its skills as technical project manager to supervise the implementation of a Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) system and its integration in the Operation and Control Centre (OCC) of Lithuania’s railway network. Thanks to its broad experience in railways, Ineco has provided Indra with advice on managing and directing the PLC, SCADA, SDH, CTC and Da Vinci equipment, as well as on the systems to develop the new OCC. 40 ACTIVITY · RAILWAYS · PROJEC TS RAILWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM FOR SAN JOSÉ. COSTA RICA As part of the collaboration agreement between the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness and the Costa Rican Railway Institute (INCOFER), Ineco conducted a feasibility study on a new railway system in the Great Metropolitan Area (GMA) of San José de Costa Rica which takes advantage of the existing railroad alignment. The project includes reviewing, analysing and updating existing studies, demand studying and modelling, diagnosing existing infrastructure and the technical and design proposal of the necessary infrastructure to put the new system into service. Ineco also prepared a system operation and maintenance plan as well as a construction plan, identified the necessary investment in infrastructure and rolling stock, defined the economic-financial structure, identified sources of project financing and performed a Costbenefit analysis. 41 A N N U A L R E P O R T COMPREHENSIVE SIGNALLING SYSTEM FOR THE RAILWAY NETWORK. ECUADOR The services provided by Ineco for the Ministry of Transport and Public Works of Ecuador consist in overseeing the agreements to provide and implement national railway signalling. In this project, the Company controls the works undertaken, which range from installing horizontal and vertical signals and safety fences in 140 intersections of the Ecuadorian federal road network to installing signals and safety fences in 422 secondary intersections, as well as remodelling such secondary intersections. 42 ACTIVITY · RAILWAYS · PROJEC TS USE OF SATELLITES AS A EUROPEAN SYSTEM OF MOBILE RAILWAY COMMUNICATIONS. EUROPEAN UNION The European Space Agency (ESA), as part of its ARTES 1 programme, is researching the potential application of satellite communications in the railway sector to replace current GSM-R technology. The project is led by Ineco who, as main contractor, is managing the project and in charge of coordinating and managing the customer (ESA) as well as the rest of sub-contractors. To this end, the Company supervises and controls compliance with agreement specifications; follows up on documentation preparation, filing and modification; prepares monthly progress reports and updates the project’s actions and risk register. Furthermore, it made a technical contribution to the project which consisted in a study on the state-of-the-art concerning the application of satellite communications to the railway sector, and defining current and future applications, safety related and not, which use communication channels. Moreover, the Company identified the requirements imposed by the railway operations to these applications, it specified the regulatory framework applicable to the introduction of these communications, and it performed an analysis of the cost related to the current GSM-R communications network as compared to the cost of the satellite architecture proposed. 43 A N N U A L R E P O R T SUPPORT TO THE GENERAL RAILWAY DEPARMENT. SPAIN In the last few years the General Railway Department, formerly General Infrastructure Department, has found it necessary to adjust its activities to European standards. For a successful adjustment, it requested Ineco to draft technical standards adapted to European laws. It also took advantage of Ineco’s knowledge and experience in works related to implementing the ERTMS railway safety system, and it awarded the Company the advisory services on homologating and supervising the rolling stock maintenance centres. 44 ACTIVITY · RAILWAYS · PROJEC TS RAILWAY CONNECTION BETWEEN THE MEDITERRANEAN CORRIDOR AND THE MADRIDBARCELONA-FRENCH BORDER HIGH-SPEED LINE. SPAIN Ineco has drafted the construction projects related to the systems to be installed in the new double-track alignment that will connect the Mediterranean corridor with the MadridBarcelona-French border high-speed line near Tarragona. These works include operations in the areas of energy, signalling and communications. We seeked integration and compatibility between the different safety and signalling architectures installed, and their coordination with the Operation and Control Centre (OCC) to implement the Centralised Traffic Control (CTC) system. The mobile telecommunications project is developing a high-quality service solution based on the GSM-R system which, among other functions, will ensure reliable communications. 45 A N N U A L R E P O R T PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE VIGO-URZÁIZ STATION WORKS. SPAIN For the station located in Vigo of the high-speed line Ferrol-A Coruña-Santiago-VigoPortuguese border, Ineco is providing Adif with technical assistance and project management services with a scope covering three agreements. At this station, whose entry into service is planned for late 2014, the Company is controlling the coverage of the station box as well as the works connected to its metallic structure. Ineco also adapted the passenger boarding platforms to the station box and provided architecture advisory on the temporary station. 46 ACTIVITY · RAILWAYS · PROJEC TS MADRID-LEVANTE HIGH-SPEED LINE. ALBACETEALICANTE STRETCH. SPAIN Once more, Adif has trusted Ineco to implement a new stretch in the Madrid-Levante highspeed line. In this stretch, which connects Albacete and Alicante, Ineco carried out works which may be divided into four activity blocks: platform projects, tracks, energy and installations. The platform area includes works such as monitoring and surveillance of the geotechnical campaign, supervision and validation of the alignment proposal, drainage, water quality, road replacement, types of structures, tunnels, among others; a review of the preliminary project and related expropriations; a complete review of the construction project and compliance with Adif standards; and the preparation of a summarised document, a virtual video and some explanatory brochures. During the tracks stage, Ineco developed track assembly and technical advisory projects for several stretches, and it led the project and technical advisory services for the Albacete interchanger and the supervision of operation during the works, as well as the technical advisory to control railway materials. During the energy stage, the Company drafted the construction projects related to different electrical sections and performed project management, control and surveillance tasks in the installations of substations and remote control. Also, for several stretches Ineco designed the project involving signalling, fixed telecommunications, centralised traffic control, protection and safety, train protection systems and GSM-R, and infrastructure for public operators of mobile telephones. It also developed control and surveillance activities related to signalling and telecommunications systems in their different stages of stake out, material reception and tensile testing, installation and system testing. 47 A N N U A L R E P O R T RENFE OPERADORA’S RESTRUCTURING. SPAIN In keeping with the works awarded to the Company in 2012 to provide economic-financial technical assistance in restructuring Renfe Operadora, Ineco legally analysed and assessed the restructuring process and design, made proposals within the holding company model, reorganised and reassigned equity interest, and provided legal advice and assistance in preparing the necessary documentation to formalise the legal and commercial filings with the required entities. Ineco also assisted Renfe Operadora in preparing and processing the document to be filed with the relevant ministries and the Board of Ministers, performed the transactions between the separated business areas, appraised the rolling stock transferrable to the new leasing company and, lastly, it provided Renfe Operadora with advisory services during coordination or negotiation meetings and legal advice in the process of integrating the goods and logistics subsidiaries. These works led to the project’s main milestone on September 27, 2013, with the consent of the Board of Ministers which authorised Renfe Operadora to divide partially into three government-run business associations: Renfe Viajeros, Renfe Mercancías and Renfe Fabricación y Mantenimiento; the merger by absorption between Renfe Mercancías S.A. as the absorbing company and Multi, Irion and Contren as absorbed companies; and, lastly, the incorporation of the new government-run business association Renfe Alquiler de Material Ferroviario, S.A. 48 ACTIVITY · RAILWAYS · PROJEC TS MONITORING AND CONTROL OF THE HIGH-SPEED LINES IN SERVICE. SPAIN Since 1992, when the first high-speed line in Spain which covered the Madrid-Sevilla route was opened, Ineco has shown its good work in maintaining, monitoring and controlling the North-East, South, North and North-West railway lines, and has been supervising high-speed infrastructure in Spain as from such moment. Among others, the Company’s activities include preventive maintenance of superstructures and infrastructures and, based on the results of the inspection of these, investment proposals and technical advisory on the works. Ineco’s work also includes preparing reports, monitoring inventory and performing proactive surveillance tasks, which give rise to suggestions for improvements, renovations or reforms. 49 A N N U A L R E P O R T WORKS FOR THE PORT OF BARCELONA. SPAIN In the framework of the collaboration protocol to promote and achieve a new railway access to the port of Barcelona, Ineco has worked in creating a new Southern railway and road access and prepared an economic-financial analysis which supplements the alternatives suggested. In a global action comprising different consulting and engineering aspects, the Company has analysed the existing projects and suggested alternatives. It also conducted functional and demand studies, and construction projects for different parts of the port. 50 activity ROADS A N N U A L R E P O R T ACTIVITY · ROADS C ompetitive efficient SOLUTIONS Improving the road network favours proximity Ring roads in great urban agglomerations play a between territories, bringing regions and people prominent role in ensuring the fluidity of the rest of close to development centres and, at the same the road network. Specifically, in the São Paulo road time, relieving the most congested areas. Road network in Brazil, one of the largest in the world construction has beneficial effects such as the with 19 million inhabitants in its metropolitan area, strengthening of interregional commercial Ineco supervised the enclosure of the Northern relationships. Ineco acts according to this vision stretch of the Rodoanel Mário Covas highway, of strategic business growth, participating in the continuing the work initiated in 2012. design, construction and maintenance of roads while contributing to the creation of efficient Ineco worked as an ‘Administration Agent and and safe transport systems as key elements in the Supervisor’ under concession in the Guadalajaradevelopment of society. Colima highway located in Mexico, another geographic area where it continued performing Ineco has accumulated broad experience in exceedingly in 2013. this field, carrying out work involving drafting preliminary and informative studies, preliminary In the Spanish market, the Company participated projects, alignment and construction, and in several actions to modernise the road network. environmental studies, as well as the development It has been working on the plan to recondition of work supervision, control and surveillance tasks, 1,000 km of first-generation highways since 2007, expropriation management, preparation of road as well as on doubling the corridor of the N-II safety audits and technical, economic and legal national road to the North of the Gerona Province, advice for clients. more specifically in several projects in the towns of Orriols and Figueres and a little further South in the For instance, in 2013 Ineco developed several Maçanet-Sils stretch. projects in Ecuador as part of the country’s plans to modernise its transport system. These Concerning the improvement of connections projects include the E-20 road which connects between Spain and Portugal, the draft project to Santo Domingo with Esmeraldas, for which draft build the last stretch of Castilla’s A-62 highway has construction project and technical, financial and been finished. This will provide a connection with legal concession structuring have already been Portugal by means of a high-capacity road which prepared. goes through the Salamancan town of Fuentes de Oñoro. To convert the stretches of the E-25 road between Río Siete and Tillales, and Tillales-Corralitos-Santa Worth of noting are the works at the Barcelona Rosa-Huaquillas into a highway, the Company port, centre of great economic activity, where prepared the technical, financial and legal Ineco developed an ambitious plan of road and structuring, the draft project, the architectural railway access improvement, which entailed project and the construction project. intermodal work. Ineco finished drafting the road access construction project in 2013. Also in Ecuador, the Company carried out auditing tasks involving the expansion of the Pifo-Papallacta road. 53 A N N U A L R E P O R T ROAD PROJECTS DRAFT PROJECT ON THE CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL, FINANCIAL AND LEGAL STRUCTURING OF THE CONCESSION OF THE E-20 SANTO DOMINGOESMERALDAS ROAD. ECUADOR In 2012, the Ecuadorian Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP) decided to finance the expansion of the road corridor between Santo Domingo and one of its most important ports, the port at Esmeraldas, by means of a public-private partnership (PPP). For this project, the part awarded to Ineco consisted firstly in conducting the preliminary study on financial feasibility. In this study, the Company analysed a blended finance model with contributions from users by means of a subsidised toll (peaje social) and a system of penalties or bonuses based on compliance with the quality indicators established in the agreement. At the same time, Ineco prepared the draft construction project of the corridor, which has a length of 180km and the features of a high-capacity road, i.e., roadways separated by a rigid barrier, returns and roundabouts, direct entries with acceleration and deceleration lanes and toll installations. At the beginning of 2013, Ineco was hired to provide advice and assistance in preparing the basis and the bidding stage, making assessments and subsequently awarding of the concession between the cities of Santo Domingo and Esmeraldas. 54 ROADS · PROJEC TS SUPPORT ENGINEERING SERVICES TO COORDINATE THE NORTHERN STRETCH OF THE RODOANEL MÁRIO COVAS RING ROAD. BRAZIL In 2012, a consortium led by Ineco, together with the Brazilian engineering company Ebei, was awarded a contract to provide support for the DERSA joint venture (Desenvolvimento Rodoviário SA), in which the state of São Paulo participates, in coordinating, planning and monitoring the works of the Northern stretch of the ring road Rodoanel Mário Covas, which are expected to be concluded in 2016, thus closing the 177 kilometre road surrounding the city. The ring, whose first stretch was inaugurated in 2002, is pending completion with these last works, which comprise 43.86 km, over 100 structures and 7 double tunnels wide enough for 4 lanes and shoulders. This is the most complex project of the entire highway, as it goes through environmentally protected areas such as Parque Estadual da Cantareira and it requires relocating 5,000 families due to the road’s alignment. To perform the engineering tasks to support the coordination, Ineco uses the highly tested IT system SIOS, developed by the Company itself, to follow up on the progress of the works. 55 A N N U A L R E P O R T SUPERVISING IMPROVEMENT WORKS IN THE GUADALAJARA-COLIMA HIGHWAY. MEXICO In 2013, Ineco continued supervising the works involving the expansion and modernisation of the Guadalajara-Colima highway in Mexico as part of the agreement subscribed with Banobras (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos) to act until 2025 as Administration Agent and Supervisor of the concession. The renovation of the road includes up to 4 lanes in 19 kilometres yet to be built and 6 lanes in the final 14 kilometres, out of a total of 148. Ineco is also adjusting 7 junctions linking with state roads and several grade separations, supervising the installation of intelligent transport systems in the 3 existing toll areas and controlling the installation of optic fibre along the highway. Built in 1983, the Guadalajara-Colima highway is part of the Manzanillo-Tampico corridor, the main communication road between the cities of Guadalajara, Ciudad Guzmán, Colima and the port at Manzanillo. It alternates free-access and toll stretches. 56 ROADS · PROJEC TS ALIGNMENT AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE MAÇANETSILS STRETCH (BARCELONA-FRENCH BORDER) IN THE A-2 NORTHEAST HIGHWAY. SPAIN In the context of improvement actions on the A-2 highway, the Road Department of the Ministry of Public Works through the State Roads Department in Catalonia entrusted Ineco the project of building the Maçanet-Sils stretch. To improve road connections between Girona, the regions of La Selva and El Maresme, and Barcelona, Ineco designed the road, which formerly had a single lane in each direction and lacked access control and service roads. The works took place between the junction of Vidreres and the C-35 highway and the junction of Sils with the C-63 highway, and resulted in a 2.7 km road which goes through the municipalities of Maçanet de La Selva, Vidreres and Sils. 57 A N N U A L R E P O R T PLAN TO RECONDITION FIRST-GENERATION HIGHWAYS. SPAIN In the context of a plan to improve, preserve and operate the existing first-generation highways established by the Ministry of Public Works, Ineco was requested to coordinate, control and monitor the concession agreements included in the plan. Built in the 1980s, these highways needed to undergo a series of adjustments and reforms to be homologated and attain the safety and service levels of the newest highways. The work programme was divided into two stages. The first stage included works on 1,525 km of the corridors of highways A-1 (Madrid-Burgos), A-2 (Madrid-Zaragoza), A-3 and A-31 (Madrid-Alicante), and A-4 (Madrid-Sevilla), 1,000 km out of which have already been reconditioned. A second stage included working on 580 km of the corridors of highways A-2 (Igualada-Martorell), A-5 (Madrid-Badajoz) and A-6 (Adanero-Benavente). Contributing its experience, Ineco reviewed the draft projects and feasibility studies of the concessions by drafting the relevant monitoring technical reports and preparing the required documentation. The Company also provided technical assistance in reviewing the public information files and analysing the environmental impact statement. Once the concession agreements were awarded and the projects drafted, Ineco drafted the technical reports on the supervision of construction projects. Other tasks within the scope of the project include developing inspection campaigns by performing standardised tests to measure road surface indicators and horizontal and vertical signalling. The goal was to ensure compliance with requirements related to serviceability, safety and comfort of the highways. 58 ROADS · PROJEC TS SOUTHERN ROAD ACCESS TO THE PORT OF BARCELONA. SPAIN The port of Barcelona, the third most important Spanish port in 2013 in terms of goods volumes and essential to the Mediterranean corridor, needed remodelling of its accesses; this is why the Ministry of Public Works assigned Ineco the project to modernise the road and railway line which act as entrance to the port’s facilities. As far as the road is concerned, three alignment solutions were designed depending on the different zones. Implementation was challenging due to high technical complexity. The first solution consisted in increasing the capacity of the Ronda Del Litoral ring road by building a new lane in the two carriageways, from the overpass located at the beginning of the stretch of the A-2 highway up to the new L’Hospitalet junction. Secondly, Ineco projected a highway with two carriageways and two lanes per direction in each carriageway to be built on filling and retaining walls between the junction at L’Hospitalet and the junction with the C-31 highway. Lastly, for the third stretch, a viaduct was projected as from the junction with the C-31 highway to include both carriageways and save the port’s free trade zone from the left bank of the Llobregat river. After passing the Mercabarna bridge, the layout runs along an embankment on the former riverbed, now dry, until it reaches the future entry to the port. The actions involved expanding seven structures and defining and projecting seven more, most notably a 1,611 m-long and 24.30 m-wide viaduct prefabricated beams, 3 composite viaducts made of steel and concrete with lengths of 330 m, 394 m and 180 m, and a 67 m-pergola. Apart from the technical difficulties, which Ineco overcame by applying its broad technological experience, the Company also applied preventive, protective and corrective measures related to environmental impact to protect the soil, vegetation, fauna, hydrological systems and air quality, as well as prevent noise inconveniences. 59 A N N U A L R E P O R T UPDATE OF THE PROJECT TO BUILD THE FUENTES DE OROÑO-PORTUGUESE BORDER STRETCH OF CASTILLA’S A-62 HIGHWAY. SPAIN-PORTUGAL Ineco prepared, for the Road Department of the Ministry of Public Works, an update of the construction project involving the A-62 highway in Castilla, specifically the 5-kilometre stretch between Fuentes de Oñoro, Spain, and the border town of Vilar Formoso, Portugal. These works involved finishing the last highway stretch, which was pending completion in the junction with Portugal through Castilla y León. This stretch is a strategic corridor to articulate the regional community, a road axis for connecting Portugal with France and part of the Lisbon-Stockholm international corridor. 60 activity URBAN TRANSPORT A N N U A L R E P O R T ACTIVITY · URBAN TRANSPORT S olutions FOR A BETTER MOBILITY Urban transport is essential for the improvement of country, which has entrusted the Company with the daily life of citizens. It involves different fields of different tasks concerning urban transport many expertise to allow the implementation of efficient times, has relied on Ineco once again to conduct systems in order to optimise urban mobility. The a comparative study on vehicle technologies for fact that Ineco is multidisciplinary, as well as its vast medium-and low-capacity transport in São Paulo. experience, guarantee the Company to offer safe, efficient and reliable solutions. It is also worth mentioning the comprehensive works of the sustainable urban mobility plans Ineco is capable of offering the most innovative that the Company is implementing in Spain. In solutions with the most advanced technology in 2013, Ineco worked on preparing two sustainable all the stages of a project, from economic-financial urban mobility plans for the cities of A Coruña, and environmental assessment studies to audits L’Hospitalet de Llobregat and Logroño, which and system integration through architecture, urban are looking for an improvement in the quality of planning or urban design services. life of their inhabitants by implementing tools to enhance mobility and public transport. We have noticed that in most countries the different transport modes have evolved unevenly. Road transport grew the most, which led to an increase in the number of private vehicles and brought about many contamination and congestion problems which worsened living conditions in the big urban areas. Ineco believes that addressing urban reorganisation with respect for the environment is essential to overcoming all these difficulties. The goal should be to efficiently satisfy every mobility need of the citizens. Though Ineco’s experience in the urban transport area has expanded internationally, we may perhaps emphasise the awarding in Brazil. This 63 A N N U A L R E P O R T URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECTS COMPARATIVE STUDY ON VEHICLE TECHNOLOGIES FOR MEDIUM-AND LOW-CAPACITY TRANSPORT SYSTEMS IN THE SÃO PAULO METROPOLITAN AREA. BRAZIL The enormous growth experienced in the last few years by the São Paulo Metropolitan Area (SPMA) with about 20 million inhabitants, 7 million private vehicles and over 25 million daily journeys has sharply deteriorated the efficiency levels of public transport, increasing congestion and the use of private vehicles. Consequently, São Paulo’s Public Transport Authorities (EMTU) hired the consortium InecoSystran to conduct a comparative study on vehicle technologies for mediumand lowcapacity transport systems in order to improve the network’s efficiency and quality as well as reduce contaminants emission, acoustic impact and associated costs. 64 ACTIVITY · URBAN TRANSPORT · PROJEC TS ACTIONS ON METRO LINES 1 AND 2 IN VALENCIA. VENEZUELA In the metro network at Valencia (Venezuela), Ineco is rehabilitating line 1 and carrying out the comprehensive project on suburban line 2, which will have six new stations apart from the seven stations that have been operating since 2006. Regarding line 1, the Company is verifying the compatibility between the different remodelling elements and the solution to any interface issues detected, as well as preparing and updating the work programmes and monitoring reports. Concerning line 2, Ineco is processing the technical documentation required, monitoring the works’ progress and supervising and inspecting compliance with the specifications of the Spanish construction consortium. It also monitors the preparation, filing and modification of studies and documentation, and prepares total or partial deliveries of the work. 65 A N N U A L R E P O R T SUSTAINABLE URBAN MOBILITY PLAN IN LA CORUÑA. SPAIN A deficient urban planning and the expansion of A Coruña’s metropolitan area in the last few years demanded an urgent implementation of a Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan (SUMP) which involved works focused on developing efficient and sustainable transport. Ineco, with a 50% participation in a The Temporary Company Merger of which Ineco is a member was chosen by the Emalcsa foundation –organised by A Coruña’s town hall and the municipal company Aguas de La Coruña S.A.– to draft the SUMP and set up a Mobility Technology and Operation Office (MTOO) at the same time to support the plan and define the technological tools to be used in its application and monitoring. The Mobility Plan was approved in December 2013 and carried out in four stages: firstly, the initial situation was diagnosed; secondly, the goals to be attained were defined; thirdly, measures to achieve them were designed, which make up the Plan; lastly, indicators were established to monitor implementation and goal attainment. 66 ACTIVITY · URBAN TRANSPORT · PROJEC TS SUSTAINABLE URBAN MOBILITY PLAN IN LOGROÑO. SPAIN In a Temporary Company Merger with ETT-Deloitte, Ineco is part of the Temporary Company Member which has elaborated a Sustainable Sustainable Mobility Department. The works, which lasted a year, involved the participation of the citizens to identify issues. After gathering all the information, the Company performed a detailed analysis of mobility in all its forms, including general, pedestrian and bicycle transport and their management; traffic and circulation; public transport, road safety and environmental aspects. Based on this information, a diagnosis was made to identify issues and opportunities for the municipality regarding mobility, and the plan’s goals and actions to attain them were established. Ineco also established monitoring indicators to provide the town hall with the necessary tools to assess the degree of achievement of the goals throughout the plan’s time horizon (2025). 67 activity PORTS A N N U A L R E P O R T ACTIVITY · PORTS A ccessibility SOLUTIONS Ports are an intermodal node par excellence, as connections. In this context, Ineco has worked on they are the place where the land modes (road projects such as the electrification of the port of and railroad) meet the sea mode. This makes them Barcelona or the implementation of the standard one of the most complex transport infrastructures, gauge at the port of Tarragona. and their design and operating capacity are a determinant for the logistic chain efficiency. Furthermore, in order to take advantage of growth opportunities, other ports such as the one at The search for such efficiency is a key goal to Castellón or Marín have requested that Ineco adapt Ineco, even more so in the current context where their railway infrastructures, which are reflected production sectors and international markets seek in the construction projects prepared by the competitiveness. Due to this demand for quality, Company. the Company offers innovative solutions oriented to customers and adapted to their needs. In 2013, global sea traffic experienced a tendency towards continuous growth, most notably in the developing geographic areas. It is precisely in these areas where port infrastructures need to adapt to the growing needs of expansion and modernisation of facilities posed by increasing demand. Such is the case of the port of Manta, Ecuador, where Ineco has worked on designing and defining the specifications for the concession of a new port terminal. Concerning Spanish ports, after a period when most of the investments were allocated to enlarging the side of the sea, port planning became mainly oriented towards road and railroad 69 A N N U A L R E P O R T PORT PROJECTS DEVELOPMENT OF THE “DEEPWATER” PORT OF MANTA. ECUADOR As part of Ecuador’s Strategic Mobility Plan developed by Ineco, the Ecuadorian Ministry of Transport and Public Works has promoted the adaptation works at the port of Manta to receive high-draft ships and increase its capacity in view of the expected growing demand. Ineco drafted the so called “deepwater” plan, for Manta, which includes both a preliminary analysis of the distribution and development of infrastructures in the shortand longterm, and a technical, legal and financial structuring of the concession tender and the construction project. The actions projected in the plan include creating 1,400 m of new dams, a new 400 m-long pier and a 16.2 m operating draft at low tide, as well as building a new fishing jetty with 400 m berth lines to alleviate the current situation of multi-purpose loading docks. It was also suggested that fillings be used to expand the port area by about 25 ha, which would treble the current area. The plan also includes infrastructure improvements such as dredging 12 m below the minimum sea level in the operating area, and repairing the breakwater. 70 ACTIVITY · PORTS · PROJEC TS ELECTRIFICATION OF THE PORT OF BARCELONA. SPAIN Aside from the works in several disciplines entrusted by the Spanish Ministry of Public Works to design new road and railroad accesses, Ineco was in charge of drafting the project to electrify the tracks of the new railway infrastructure at the Prat pier (dispatch/receipt terminal and an end of the loading and unloading terminal) for Barcelona’s Port Authorities. To adjust to the needs created by the new infrastructures and the development expected, Ineco suggested a solution that consists in implementing a traction substation with two 6,600 kV transformers and catenaries for the access, dispatch and receipt accesses and the loading and unloading track heads. All these works are included in the study of power measuring of the traction substation and the construction projects related to the traction substation and the catenaries, which were performed by Ineco. 71 A N N U A L R E P O R T STUDY OF ALTERNATIVES AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT TO EXPAND THE TRACK BED AT THE TCV TERMINAL OF THE PORT OF VALENCIA. SPAIN The construction project to expand the track bed of the TCV terminal at the port of Valencia, which was prepared by Ineco, was completed in 2013 as part of the works that the Company has been performing for almost a decade for Valencia’s Port Authorities. These works will achieve parking lengths of 750 m in the largest number of tracks possible, and it will allow operating portal cranes when loading and unloading compositions. The project also plans signalling and monitoring three level crossings and reorganising roads as part of the terminal’s expansion. Ineco has adapted the regular design criteria for this type of infrastructures to the needs associated to a port facility in terms of layout parameters, safety and signalling systems, and material selection, among other areas, thus optimising the facilities and adapting them to the high demands of a port environment. 72 ACTIVITY · PORTS · PROJEC TS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STANDARD GAUGE AND ELECTRIFICATION OF THE ACCESS TO THE NEW INTERMODAL TERMINAL AT THE PORT OF TARRAGONA. SPAIN Ineco has worked for the Port Planning area of the port of Tarragona on the construction project to implement the UIC gauge (1,435 mm) and electrify the accesses and track bed of its new intermodal terminal. The port of Tarragona, the fourth most important with regard to load volumes and one of the key hubs of the Mediterranean corridor, needed a direct connection to Europe to favour activity expansion and gain new commercial opportunities. This is why one of the design goals was to manage longer trains (of up to 750 m). By means of a solution based on adopting the third rail, the port’s traffic will be able to move on both gauge widths (Iberian gauge for Spain and standard gauge for European connections). 73 A N N U A L R E P O R T CONSTRUCTION PROJECT FOR THE FIRST STAGE OF THE RAILWAY NETWORK OF THE SOUTHERN DOCK OF THE PORT OF CASTELLÓN. SPAIN Since 2008, Ineco has worked to recondition and modernise the facilities of the port of Castellón. In 2013, the works were focused on drafting the construction project for the first stage of the railway network of the Southern dock of the port which, in late 2013, added up to 14 million tons and 194,000 TEU of cargo. According to the construction project, the port of Castellón, which has almost 5 km of berthing line and a 16 m draft, will have a classification and composition station, as well as the railway branches necessary to connect to the future Southern access and the future connection to the railway network of the Northern dock. The construction project developed by Ineco also plans using mixed-gauge slab track, which will allow receiving and dispatching standard-gauge trains. 74 ACTIVITY · PORTS · PROJEC TS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT TO EXPAND THE INNER RAILWAY NETWORK OF THE PORT OF MARÍN, PONTEVEDRA. SPAIN For the purpose of improving the operations at the port of Marín in the province of Pontevedra (Spain), Ineco designed a construction project to enlarge and improve its inner railway infrastructures. To such end the Company drafted firstly a report of needs and, based on such report, it developed a functional proposal. To draft the project, Ineco also conducted a campaign and a geotechnical study of the relevant area, as well as topographic works and analysis of the services affected. In performing these actions, it made the most of the existing facilities and minimised the necessary investment. The project also considered supplementary actions, such as adapting the drainage network and reorganising the water supply, electric power and telecommunication services, among others. Thanks to this work, the port of Marín will increase its capacity for train handling, incorporating new tracks and increasing the length of the old ones, and enhancing their alignment. 75 activity INTERMODAL A N N U A L R E P O R T ACTIVITY · INTERMODAL C omprehensive SOLUTIONS When it comes to finding a solution which In 2013, Ineco operated in plenty of geographic combines work from different areas, as is the markets, most notably Spain, Brazil, Kuwait and case of intermodal transport, Ineco is a leader Ecuador. In Ecuador, Ineco continued advising in consulting and planning management. The the Ministry of Transport and Public Works to Company believes in providing leading and implement its National Plan for Mobility and diversified solutions to ensure sustainable growth Transport in 2013-2014. adapted to the needs of each place. Ineco also conducted other specialised planning To such end, it integrates its products and services studies, such as the one undertaken in Kuwait, in multi-modal plans and analysis of sectors and where the Company concluded its assessment technical and economic feasibility, as well as with in awarding the works related to the Shadadiya financial and market analysis and demand studies. industrial complex, which is to be built to the South of the country’s capital. Ineco’s solutions range from the first stages which involve planning and designing transport Among other works carried out in Spain, worthy infrastructure and services to detailed projects and of mention are the technical works for the Spanish the analysis of management and operation of the Logistics Strategy presented by the Ministry of different transport systems. Public Works in November 2013. Ineco believes transport to be an essential area which drives a strategic industry, especially in the current context of a globalised economy. In Spain, the goal must be creating a strong, open and competitive network useful for boosting economic activity and taking full advantage of its potential as an international logistics platform. To attain an efficient and competitive system, Ineco believes it necessary to create synergy between the different transport modes by driving the competitive advantages of each of them towards the global transport network. 77 A N N U A L R E P O R T INTERMODAL PROJECTS CONSULTING SERVICES REGARDING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL STRATEGIC MOBILITY AND TRANSPORT PLAN. ECUADOR Ecuador’s Ministry of Transport and Public Works has entrusted Ineco the design of a Strategic Mobility Plan (SMP) for the 2013-2037 period which involves a comprehensive approach to its entire transport network. In May 2013, once it developed the SMP, Ineco started providing consulting services regarding the implementation of the entire plan. The goal of the project is none other than modernising the country’s transport system. To such end, Ineco is providing permanent advice in all transport areas, contributing its knowledge and technical experience. The Company is also analysing relevant work proposals related to the SMP to ensure that they are duly applied. For instance, it became involved in the design of the most important highand mediumcapacity roads in the country. Moreover, it is actively working on planning and managing port authorities, fishing ports and river ports. It is also reviewing air transport management schemes to improve their efficiency. 78 ACTIVITY · INTERMODAL · PROJEC TS TECHNICAL SUPPORT IN PREPARING A LOGISTICS STRATEGY. SPAIN As part of the Infrastructures, Transport and Housing Plan, the Ministry of Public Works requested that Ineco prepare Spain’s Logistics Strategy. These works were initiated by analysing Spain’s current logistics situation in the European context, which was useful to make a diagnosis of the demand and the features of the offer. Based on this, goals and work proposals were outlined and, subsequently, 18 priority measures, which the Ministry of Public Works is beginning to implement, were selected. The Strategy aims at boosting Spain’s role as a point of entry and handling of goods and distribution to the rest of Europe, based on the understanding of logistics as an increasingly important factor in productive processes. 79 A N N U A L R E P O R T TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN MAINTAINING AND ENHANCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM OF THE OFFICE FOR HARMONIZATION IN THE INTERNAL MARKET (OHIM). EUROPEAN UNION The Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (Trade Marks and Designs) or OHIM, the European Union agency in charge of registering trademarks, designs and models made in the union, awarded the UTE Ineco-Ecodes (95%-5%) the project of technical assistance in maintaining and improving the environmental management system (EMS) needed to ensure the OHIM’s continuity in the European Union’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). This is a management tool that allows assessing and improving the environmental behaviour of organisations, ensuring sustainability and compliance with social responsibilities. The purpose of this agreement has been to provide the OHIM with technical support in maintaining its EMAS certification, calculating its carbon footprint and offsetting the carbon emissions derived from its activities as a result of its employees’ travels (air travel) and the operation of its buildings and facilities. 80 ACTIVITY · INTERMODAL · PROJEC TS ANALYSIS, DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SYSTEM OF INFORMATION TO REGULATE COSTS RELATED TO THE PRODUCTION OF ELECTRIC POWER IN A SPECIAL SYSTEM. SPAIN Ineco also developed two computer tools especially designed for the Electric Power Subdivision of the National Commission of Markets and Competition to gather information on the owners of electric power production facilities, so that such information may be analysed and changes in time may be observed. In 2013, Ineco established the technical features of power production technologies and prepared a cost information draft request, and developed the data entry interface for nonpeninsular systems. The scope of the agreement includes ongoing management of the information system and assistance in maintaining the platform. 81 A N N UA L R E P O R T corporate CULTURE Strategy ·· Soundness and stability to compete in a global market Ethical integrity ·· Responsible and committed Commitments ·· Committed to our clients ·· Committed to our team ·· Committed to society ·· Committed to the environment ·· Committed to our suppliers corporate CULTURE Strategy A NNUA L R E P OR T CORPORATE CULTURE · STRATEGY Soundness and stability TO COMPETE IN A GLOBAL MARKET In fiscal 2013, the company was able to consolidate its strategic line marked by a decisive bet on the globalisation and multimodality of its activities. If in 2012 Ineco started defining a sustainability and growth strategy by launching the Lince (launch of Ineco to foreign growth) plan, this year it has established and performed different actions contributing to consolidating this business transformation. It has thus implemented a matrix organisation with a new definition of positions and functions, and a deep review of the operating procedures, especially project management. These actions, together with an ambitious Efficiency Plan, have contributed to reducing costs and maximising the efficiency and service level offered to our clients. We should especially mention the implementation of a new business model and strategy offering a wider focus (FO.C.O.) on the presence in strategic markets and the provision of customised services based on a deep knowledge of our clients contributing to: • Maximising the added value provided to our clients. • And, at the same time, maintaining profitability/ return levels. In an environment of ever increasing competitiveness as the current one, the combination of both factors has proven essential to maintain Ineco positioned as a dynamic, global and leader in transport engineering and consulting firm which contributes to the sustainable development of infrastructures and the generation of value and wealth for the countries and projects in which it is involved. 85 AN N UA L R E P O R T Strategic axis Growth Quality Efficiency Profitability Mission Contributing to the sustainable development of transport infrastructures and to the generation of the value and wealth of the countries in which we operate with an offering of consulting and engineering solutions and services which is competitive, experienced, flexible and oriented to the results of both clients and shareholders. Vision Being the first firm specialised in transport engineering and consulting service in the world being recognised by our technological capacity and our productive excellence among the main global engineering companies. Values TEAM EXPERT DYNAMIC EFFICIENT GLOBAL PROFITABLE COMMITED INNOVATIVE SUSTAINABLE 86 CORPORATE CULTURE · STRATEGY 87 corporate CULTURE Ethical integrity A NNUA L R E P OR T CORPORATE CULTURE · ETHICAL INTEGRITY Responsible and COMMITTED In addition, in 2008 Ineco adhered to the ten Ineco has a Corporate Responsability principles of the United Nations Global Compact Policy in order to embed in its based on respecting and promoting human, labour and environmental rights, as well on fighting against corporate strategy its commitment corruption. to the sustainable development of These principles, as well as the Corporate Responsibility Policy, are part of Ineco’s corporate transport and its stakeholders. culture. To such end, the principles are applied to daily operations and are considered at the time of rendering any of the services offered by the company becoming more important if applicable as the company makes progress in its globalisation strategy. 89 AN N UA L R E P O R T Our regulatory framework that Ineco’s activities are consistent with its values and compatible with current regulations. The body in charge of enforcing the Standards is the Ethics Ineco is all for sustainability –based on its three Committee. fundamental pillars: the economy, society and respect Operating procedures defining the company’s for the environment as the key value of its operations. internal management have been established for their This commitment is translated not only into application: compliance with current regulations in each of the countries in which Ineco operates but also • Guide of environmental best practices. in a business management approach based on goals such as preventing, promoting, enabling, correcting and supervising that Ineco’s actions are • Zero tolerance to corruption procedure. consistent with the main international standards, the company’s values, the legal framework and the social • Basic project management procedure. requirement in all of the company’s areas. These policies are encompassed in the “Integrity, • Harassment protocol. Transparency and Commitment Standards”, which include Ineco’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy • Recruiting procedure. as well as the rest of the standards governing the organisation: • Professional conduct guarantee procedure. • Code of Conduct. • Works and services contracting and acquisition. • Environmental and Quality Policy. • Bid submission and contract review procedure. • Zero Tolerance to Corruption Policy. • Internal audit procedure. • Information Truthfulness and Transparency Policy. These policies, standards and procedures are known by the employees and management, and they are • Harassment Policy. available on the intranet. Moreover, the Welcoming Session held for new hires informs these aspects in • Comprehensive Safety Policy. depth. Likewise, these standards –which are periodically reviewed to secure that they are updated and adapted to reality– include the group of operating methods and procedures applicable to guarantee 90 CMYK / 100 43 41 13 CULTURA CORPORATIVA · RESPONSIBLE AND COMMIT TED 91 AN N UA L R E P O R T Corporate Responsibility Policy Clients: outstanding service Quality and service excellence. Ineco, as a global transport consulting and Commitment to long-term success. engineering benchmark company, contributes to the Ongoing dialogue and trust relationship. company’s development and improvement providing Confidentiality and objectivity. for social, labour and environmental concerns in its Clear bet on innovation. strategy. Shareholders: sustainable results To such end, it carries out its activities based on the principles of integrity, transparency and commitment Creation of sustained and sustainable value. translated into satisfying the needs of its different Efficient management. stakeholders, which were identified and selected Profitability and transparency considering the interrelations between them and Employees: attractive corporate project Ineco as well as the mutual implications. Increase in welfare and progress. Clear bet on innovation, research and dissemination of knowledge. Quality employment: • Merit and skill. • Professional development and training. • Equal opportunities, reconciliation. • Safety and health in all the positions. • Team work, communication and involvement. Suppliers: trust and transparency Advertising, concurrence, non-discrimination. Confidentiality. Mutual benefits and trust. Objectivity. Promotion of corporate responsibility principles. Society: cultural, social and economic development Inclusion of people with disabilities. Increase in welfare and progress. Cultural, social and economic development. Innovation, research and dissemination of knowledge. Cooperation with other sector companies. Relations with the third sector (non-profit organisations). Promotion of corporate responsibility among employees. Environment: preventive approach Priority given to environmental aspects upon drafting projects and rendering services. Responsible use of resources. Adequate management of our waste. Demanding practices for our employees and suppliers. 92 CORPORATE CULTURE · ETHICAL INTEGRITY Code of Conduct Loyalty to the organisation Reputation and loyalty to the company. As a specific chapter within its “Integrity, Respect to confidentiality. Transparency and Commitment Standards”, Ineco Efficient and responsible involvement. includes a group of behaviour standards defining the corporate culture. Understanding and applying Non-concurrence with other companies. them contributes to responsible and ethical Appropriate use of the company’s resources. management in developing the services and Compliance with environmental, health and safety products it offers, and the relations it establishes measures. with the different stakeholders. The Code of Conduct is based on observing Relationship of professionals with the the ten principles of the United Nations Global stakeholders Compact –aimed at respecting environmental, Relationship with clients: excellence, labour and human rights, as well as the fight against confidentiality, objectivity and trust. corruption– and it is incumbent upon all the professionals exercising their functions and duties Relationship with suppliers and collaborating companies: trust and mutual benefit, transparency in all the professional areas in which they represent and impartiality. the company. Relationship with the international environment: respect for legislation, culture and customs. Strict compliance with legality. Transparency and truthfulness of the information: clarity, accuracy and verifiability. Rejecting gifts, compensations or bribes. Relationship between professionals Respect for people. Non-discrimination. Cooperation and collaboration. Structure personnel, managers and The Code of Conduct expressly administrators establishes that “all the Knowledge and communication: responsible and ethical professional performance. professionals in the organization Respect for and promotion of the workers’ must honestly respect the fundamental rights. human rights and public liberties Professionalism and subordination of one’s own interest to the company’s interests. established in the Universal Truthfulness, accuracy and honesty in economic Declaration of Human Rights and and financial management. the legal systems of the countries Application of merit and skills principles in hiring in which they work in any and all new employees. Fostering the professional promotion and training the company areas.” of personnel objectively. Enablement and promotion of labour integration and reconciliation. 93 AN N UA L R E P O R T Zero tolerance to corruption has established certain standards and procedures based on the principles of advertising, concurrence, transparency, confidentiality, equality and nonIn order to ensure transparency and integrity in the discrimination. pursuit of its corporate goals, Ineco expresses that it rejects all forms of corruption –both direct and On the other hand, as to financial control, Ineco indirect– in its Zero Tolerance to Corruption Policy. applies documented, implemented and accessible policies to its personnel and collaborators. Thus policy is known by both the company’s management and all its employees, and it is available Corporate policies are approved by Ineco’s on the intranet for consult by the employees. Management Committee. Those related to the financial and accounting, and internal control Taking as basis the analysis of the activities most exposed to the risk of corruption and following the areas are also approved by the Audit and Control provisions in the Code of Conduct, Ineco assumes the Commission, which is formed by the chairman and following commitments: three members of the Board of Directors. • Company employees may not accept and/or offer Ineco’s internal control structure guarantees that: bribes of any kind. • The main risks associated to projects are managed • No illegal pressure –either direct or indirect– may effectively and reasonably. be exercised on politicians. • The figures in the financial statements are • Requesting and/or accepting presents, gifts and/ presented in conformity with the transparency or favours is prohibited. and integration criteria based on Spanish and international accepted accounting principles. Within the framework of its firm commitment with transparency, Ineco fights corruption using the • It meets all the applicable laws and regulations. tools necessary to mitigate risk. After analysing and evaluating all the company’s areas placing special attention on the ones operating abroad, we have no incident to report in this regard in 2013. Harassment policy Ineco established a Harassment Protocol agreed upon with the Works Council to promote preventive and Information truthfulness and corrective actions so that the people enjoy a healthy transparency work environment in which their dignity and integrity are respected. Ineco believes that providing truthful information to In addition, it has a Mediation Commission in charge its stakeholders in a transparent manner is paramount. of analysing any cases that may arise and participating To such end, it has contracting and internal control in drafting preventive and corrective measures. standards in place to ensure these aspects, apart from having an area which is expressly engaged in internal and external communication. Based on its legal configuration, Ineco is completely Comprehensive safety governed by private law, except in any matters related to budget, accounting, financial and Ineco addresses safety from a comprehensive contracting control that may be applicable. Thus, as standpoint allowing guaranteeing the security of the to contracting, apart from enforcing the requirements people, the security in information treatment and the under Public Sector Contracts Law provisions, Ineco continuity of the corporate activities. 94 AN N UA L R E P O R T Ineco has thus established an occupational hazard Also, Ineco is subject to Transparency, Access to Public prevention policy, which is supported by the Information and Good Governance Law 19/2013 of 9 principles of prevention, protection of the workers, December which requires, among other things, that information, training, and involvement of the workers budgets and annual financial statements, granted and assignment of the necessary resources. These contracts, agreements executed, etc. be published. principles are developed in greater detail than Ineco’s The shareholders may send their recommendations Prevention Plan, which is available for all the workers and indications to the main body through the Regular on the intranet. Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors or the Audit and Control Commission. In the realm of corporate security, Ineco designed a policy mainly seeking to protect assets and intellectual capital, as well as controlling and verifying the operation of safety measures by managing Regular Shareholders’ Meeting incidents and performing internal audits. It is the deliberative body of the company. Its As to the treatment of information, Ineco guarantees legitimately adopted agreements bind the company compliance with Personal Data Protection Law, and all its shareholders. apart from the confidentiality of its workers and the contribution of the necessary information to Ineco maintains an open communication channel its suppliers. It also has specific plans to replace the with its shareholders through the Regular services it renders to its clients if they are interrupted. Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors and the corporate web page. Governance model Board of Directors Ineco has the governing bodies necessary to secure It is the body in charge of taking decisions and that its management model and values reach all the reaching agreements on strategic issues, preparing areas and disciplines of the company. The governing the financial statements, approving budgets and model is established by the present strategy and other proposals submitted to the top management. In organisation based on the company’s needs. addition, it follows up on Ineco’s activity. The members of the Board of Directors are appointed The members of the top governing body are widely as provided for in Ineco’s bylaws and Spanish recognised prestigious professionals in the sector Corporations Law approved by Royal Legislative and they should act under the diligent management, Decree 1/2010 on 2 July. duty of fidelity, duty of loyalty, duty of secrecy and responsibility principles. Likewise, they should have It is formed by 16 people, out of which 12 are men and 4 are women with the following roles: 1 chairman, sufficient knowledge and experience to exercise their 14 members and one non-member secretary. functions. None of the members of the Board have an executive The chairman of Ineco is the chief officer in the Board position except for the chairman. All of them are part of Directors, the Management Committee and the of the Spanish administration. Ethics Committee. As president and member of The potential conflicts of interest among the the Board he has an executive position that entails members of the Board and the company would be company administration and management duties, resolved as provided for in Public Administrations and apart from representing it as an institution, being Common Administrative Procedures Legal System these powers granted by the Board of Directors. Law 30/1992 of 26 November. 96 CORPORATE CULTURE · ETHICAL INTEGRITY Distribution of shares Ineco is company integrated into the Ministry of Public Works Group as proprietary means and technical service of the State. Its shares are owned by the largest government agencies in the Spanish transportation sector. Disbursed No. of Shareholder Interest capital shares AENA 3,783,177.63 45.85 30,263 RENFE 1,054,334.34 12.78 8,434 Operadora ADIF 3,413,148.03 41.37 27,303 TOTAL 8,250,660.00 100 66,000 45.85% 41.37% 12.78% Audit and Control Commission It reports to the Board of Directors and is in charge of supervising the budget and the company’s annual financial statements, as well as monitoring the sustainability strategy. It meets every six months and is made up by a chairperson, three members of the Board of Directors and one secretary. 97 AN N UA L R E P O R T Management Committee It is the highest internal decision body and it is formed by the chairman of Ineco, the representatives of the three general management areas and the secretary general. Chairman: Pablo Vázquez As at December 2013 Strategy and Corporate Infrastructures and Engineering and Services Services Managing Transport Managing Managing Director: Director: Director: Ana Rojo Secretary General Berta Barrero José Manuel Tejera (and Secretary of the Management Committee): Hugo Cea This body is in charge of implementing and developing the strategic guidelines issued by the Ministry of Public Works and approved by the Board of Directors, of taking decisions for the company’s successful course of business, of the monthly follow-up of the management chart, of the approval of policies, plans, procedures, budgets and standards of general application, as well as of the evaluation and approval of any other issue of general interest. Ethics Committee Other bodies As to environmental and quality management, the The Ethics Committee is in charge of supervising governing model is established in the “Organisational the compliance with corporate integrity standards, Relation Manual” and it provides for the following the proposal of preventive or corrective actions in bodies. connection with their potential non-compliance, the instruction of the case when applicable, and the • Quality Committee: it aims at supervising and updating and internal publication of the Code of boosting the development of the environmental Conduct, as well as its interpretation in the event of and quality integrated management system of doubt. Ineco as well as to analyse the adjustment and effectiveness of the system ensuring ongoing It is formed by the chairman of Ineco, the Corporate improvement. Managing Director, another director appointed by the chairman (out of the 10 most senior directors in • Quality Coordination Committee: created Ineco) for a period of up to 2 years and the Secretary to enable a meeting space to promote the General. When the issues to be discussed require it, ongoing improvement of the management other members of the company’s management and/ system gathering the initiatives and needs in or professionals or experts deemed appropriate may environmental and quality management be requested to join the Committee. leveraging synergies and promoting the exchange of experiences among the engineering Any qualified body or employee of Ineco that believes and business areas. It is also a control and followthat the Code of Conduct or any of the Integrity, up mechanism of the management system. Transparency and Commitment Standards have been breached should advise it so to this Committee, which Ineco also has in place other management and will take care of the matter. communication bodies such as the Human Resources 98 CORPORATE CULTURE · ETHICAL INTEGRITY Committee, the Procurement Department, the variables which are most representative of the Global Opportunities Committee, the Commercial economic performance on an ongoing basis in Committee, the Business Opportunities Committee, order to identify and correct the potential risks and the Operations Committee, the Global Projects deviations regarding the goals set. To such end, it uses Follow-Up Committee, the Innovation and Product a series of control tools which are available not only in Committee, the Knowledge Committee, the Extended the economic and financial area but also for the group Management Committee, and the annual structure of management parameters of the company. personnel Convention. Ineco has documented financial control policies based on the principle of precaution; consequently, it prepares budgets, balance sheets and profit and loss Economic aspect statements in advance with a monthly follow-up and breakdown. Ineco incorporates socially responsible criteria to all its There is also an Internal Audit unit supervising its activities, policies and procedures evaluating the risks compliance. arising from them from the economic as well as the social and environmental standpoints. In late 2013, Ineco approved its business plan for the 2014-2015 two-year period as a key element to In addition, over the past few years, it has deploy the company’s business activity and in order been immersed in an ambitious Austerity Plan to increase contracting with improved financial implemented to reduce expenses and mitigate the profitability and efficiency in its performance. These implicit risks, which affects all the company areas thus strategic lines define the way in which the company reinforcing Ineco’s leadership as a profitable, solvent will achieve its economic, social and environmental and efficient entity. goals, which are the strategic pillars of Ineco’s policy, In this scenario, the company follows up on the through each of its actions and work processes. 99 AN N UA L R E P O R T Direct economic value generated (EVG): 188,313,215 Revenues (net sales, income from financial investment and revenue from the sale of assets) Economic value distributed (EVD) 180,277,251 Operating costs (payments to suppliers, lease of properties, payments to subcontracted 52,125,559 workers, employee training costs, etc.) Salaries and employee benefits (total payments made to employees and employment 125,666,727 benefits) Payments to fund holders (dividends credited to any type of shareholder, interest payments 1,517,146 to suppliers of loans and interest for any sort of debt or loan) Payments to the government (gross taxes and rates) 967,819 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED (EVR) 8,035,964 100 CORPORATE CULTURE · ETHICAL INTEGRITY Service charge income (euros) 2013 2012 2011 Services rendered to the public sector 134,351,824 174,945,990 215,650,930 Services rendered to the private sector 53,104,061 45,111,859 32,508,370 TOTAL 187,455,885 220,057,849 248,159,300 Cash Flow (euros) 2013 2012 2011 Cash flow from operating activities 6,589,129 29,335,974 17,333,470 Cash flow from investment activities -1,419,747 7,024,043* -10,070,143 Cash flow from finance activities -271,393 -10,534,349 -15,660,460 INCREASE/DECREASE IN CASH, NET 3,267,553 25,637,390* -8,047,648 101 corporate CULTURE Commitments A NNUA L R E P OR T CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR CLIENTS Committed to OUR CLIENTS Ineco’s strategy is characterized by the ongoing search for excellence in the quality and service offered to our clients, apart from the commitment to long-term success. In 2013, and in line with its expansion process in the foreign market, the company has undertaken a Innovation for the future profound review of its commercial strategy and its competitive positioning for the purpose of focusing Based on the line set over the past few years, Ineco continues to invest in innovation as the engine for its activity on the specific geographical markets creating new products and services adapted to the always maintaining special attention on its national needs of the company as well as to improve the clients. existing ones in an ongoing training process allowing To do so, it establishes an ongoing dialogue and them to be the benchmarks for the infrastructures relationship of trust with them based on complying engineering and consulting sector in the future. with the agreements adopted, confidentiality, Innovation in 2013 experienced an evolution to adjust objectivity, and a stronger bet on innovation allowing to the new needs and challenges faced by Ineco anticipating their needs and offering the best and arising from its globalisation process. In line with its most advanced solutions with high quality levels. market strategy, Ineco adopts a clear approach to the profitability of the innovative effort. Involvement in R&D&I 12 European and effort 2 Spanish 3.48 M€ consortiums (Arid Lap and Viadintegra) with 5 main ones in which 1.86% Ineco acts as consortium leader: of MinoxStreet, FilGapp, Accepta, sales Satisfied y Opta IN. 103 AN N UA L R E P O R T In 2013, Ineco developed 33 active projects (internal and in collaboration), 12 out of which have already • Promotion of the use and development of smart technologies. concluded (4 were lab-type projects). • Participation in the European programme LIFE • 36% relate to new products or services that need + as consortium leaders. to be developed to respond to new sector needs. • Strengthening of the activities and results of • In our struggle for ongoing improvement, to dissemination and communication thanks to increase the quality and services offered, 12% of the consolidation of the different communication the innovation projects portfolio was focused on channels. improving the existing products and services. In addition, we were granted the Be Inspired Awards • And supplementing our long-term bet on the 2013 in the category: Innovation in Rail and Transit. future, the projects portfolio includes 52% focused on training and learning on the most innovative and state-of-the-art technologies. Out of the 12 projects concluded, 90% had 80% or more of a technical success and, within this group, 60% exceeded 95% of success obtained. As a way of showing the support received from independent entities, Ineco obtained external financing for R&D&I amounting to 1.29 million €, 70% out of which arises from international sources, 3% out of national sources and 27% out of tax deduction This award recognises the most outstanding related to R&D&I. infrastructure projects around the world based on innovation and best practices in design, engineering, construction, operation and execution of projects. Main milestones • New innovation management model at Ineco to Participation in associations and adjust to the company’s new challenges. technological platforms • Improvement in achievement focus during the whole innovation process. In line with its commitment to innovation, Ineco • Alignment with knowledge management participates in several technological platforms inside searching for a coherent and multidisciplinary and outside Spain: EATRADA (European Aeronautical system ensuring synergies and feedback among Association); ERRAC WG (European Railways the different technical disciplines. Association); PETF (Spanish Rail Transport Platform); • Participation in major international forums of the PTC (Spanish Road Technology Platform); EURNEX (European Rail Research Network of Excellence). sector in recognition of the results of projects such as SPRING, DETEC and TICLOG. We also collaborate actively with benchmark transport • Development and presentation of an innovative research centres, such as the CRIDA (Reference patent related to the innovation project Centre for Research, Development and Innovation BACTERIO. in ATM) and the CTF (Centre for Testing High Railway Technology). 104 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR CLIENTS Joint collaboration for global innovation In order to obtain an efficient, environmentallyfriendly, sustainable, safe and accessible system, Ineco participates in different European collaborative projects paving the way for a learning environment seeking an outstanding design of infrastructures thanks to the joint efforts and convergence of interests of the different stakeholders. Thanks to the experience acquired through the technical contribution and leadership in European R&D&I projects (GIANT, GRAIL or TITAN, among others), Ineco continued to be successful in contributing to Spanish and international innovation and collaboration projects, being the assistance framework of research and development of the European Commission the most important. A clear example of this is the Shift2Rail initiative, a top-notch programme that will channel European rail innovation over the next few years. Ineco also participates in the SECURED and SAVASA projects to enhance the physical safety and surveillance of people and infrastructures; CAPACITY4RAIL, focused on maximising railway line capacity without disregarding comfort, efficiency and maintenance; or NGTC, seeking the most ambitious development and applications of the ERTMS and CTBC systems. Within the Spanish area, we should mention the AridLap project in which new technical problems are addressed in extreme environments. As to the aeronautical area, the company continues its work within SESAR, including the AIRE Programme of the SESAR Joint Undertaking focused on reducing the environmental impact of aviation leading the consortium in the projects Opta IN and Satisfied, and participating in SMART. Ineco also leads two projects in the Seventh Framework Programme related to air navigation systems, FILGAPP and ACCEPTA and as partner of INTERACTION seeking to improve the efficiency of land aeronautical operations and processes. Another major milestone is the inclusion for the first time of a project within the European programme LIFE+ 2012 – Air Axis. It is the project MINOx-STREET, in which Ineco leads the consortium formed by the City of Alcobendas, Madrid, CIEMAT and CEDEX. 105 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR CLIENTS Main innovation projects in 2013 APS Ie(CO)Trans2 A robot designed specifically for the validation Continuation of the Ietrans project incorporating tests process of equipment shipped in ERTMS-type new “green” impact to the assessment of the different Eurobalises based on the protocols defined by the measures and policies applied to the transport sector. ERA (European Railway Agency) increasing the This expansion includes considerations arising from performance of these services. the energy sector, the one related to climate change and the social and economic sector in a wider and more comprehensive eco-friendly view. CoverGNSS An engineering support tool for decision making to INDINOMA evaluate total air space navigation services integrating GNSS-type and land systems analysis. It enables Dynamic study of the behaviour of bridges using the a global analysis which integrates the economic, modal operational analysis through trials including safety and maintenance aspects of the land systems the time variable, which is the base for a new rationalization process to performance based predictive maintenance methodology. navigations (PBN). PINK CRONOS 3.0 Development of a software simulation tool of the Comprehensive proprietary software allowing for contact between the pantograph and the catenary. effective, speedy and full analysis and development It enables singular adaptations and developing the of the theoretical exploitation of a railway line. service according with the client’s needs maintaining It includes, among other functionalities, analysis the quality and precision criteria. based on legal standards, traffic simulation, fleet dimensioning for a determined level of passengers as well as the impact of safety systems and signals on SADA preestablished traffic. Proprietary automatic auscultation system to offer new high-precision, fast and cheap solutions of the characterisation of the conditions of railways Smart surveys including geometrical and rail wear parameters. SADA Analysis and training on the use of the new smart combines the new high-precision technology of the technologies related to mobile devices allowing measurement systems based on 3D laser cameras automating the obtainment of broken down user using image rank techniques. data on the basis of the significance in transport consulting studies. SPRING Simulation of the coverage, planning and validation HECCO 2.0 analysis of communications facilities inside tunnels Changes in the prototype “HECCO 1.0 – Quality of for GSM-R based on a radio transmitter designed land-air communications” through actual tests for by us, especially aimed at performing experimental proving, improving and validating thus generating a measurements. more consolidated product. 107 AN N UA L R E P O R T Quality as competitive strategy • Environmental health and safety management system under the standard OHSAS 18001:2007, certified as from 2012. Ineco has in place a management system considering quality as a key element in the search for excellence. It In the railway area, Ineco is certified by the ENAC is based on the following pillars: (National Certification Agency) as inspection entity of • Client satisfaction seeking ongoing improvement rolling stock (type C) and as independent assessment entity of railway applications safety (type C) under the at all times through cohesive teams, best work practices and system sustainability. provisions of standard UNE-EN ISO/IEC 17020:2004. • Quality as a management system axis so that the Ineco was the first and, presently, the only organisation holding these accreditations in Spain. whole organisation is involved. Ineco also holds other accreditations or certifications • Process focus, which is ensured by analysing and related to projects: developing synergies, identifying representative indicators, and measuring and analysing their changes. Software development * CMMI-Maturiry Level 2. Certifications * CMMI-Maturity Level 2. Within the realm of management systems, Ineco has Inspection – Industrial area the following certifications of AENOR which prove the efficiency of the organisation’s quality system, * Accreditation 76/EI058 Rolling Stock/Independent especially in all its internal processes. Safety Assessment Exhibit Accreditation 76/EI058. • Integrated quality and environmental management system, based on the international Air navigation services standards UNE-EN ISO 9001:2008 and UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004, certified as from 1996 and 2003, * Accreditation “Design of Flight Instrumental Procedures” (Public Authority for Civil Aviation. respectively. Sultanate of Oman). 108 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR CLIENTS Getting better every day • Improving the organisation’s approach to the external and internal client. The company pays special attention to creating value • Reinforcing ongoing improvement as a for its clients; to achieve this it gets management’s habitual practice at the organisation. Raising the encouragement and the employees’ involvement in workers’ awareness on quality, the importance the different actions aimed at improving performance. of using resources adequately and protecting the Thus, the Quality Improvement Goals Plan of 2013environment through campaigns on the intranet 2015 includes the following lines of work: especially emphasizing environmental awareness • Promoting the implementation of international (electric power consumption, water consumption, reduction and reuse of paper, etc.). best practices. Deepening the knowledge of new opportunities contributing to system • Guaranteeing the permeability of quality improvement and innovation. management in the organisation. The company training plan includes –as cross • Focusing on managing the organisation by training environmental and quality learning so process. Deepening the process map deployment, that training actions are launched based on the developing methodologies enabling coordination environmental and quality management system between the organisational areas and identifying for project personnel, technical assistance at follow-up indicators for these processes. works personnel, etc. • Searching for operational efficiency leveraging The management system adopted is based on a the company’s technical and organizational preventive approach both in connection with the synergies. Organising training sessions getting the organizational aspects and the production processes work groups from different areas involved to show and support services. The system operation is the best practices in specific issues related to their appropriately followed up and, in the event of a area of expertise. deviation, adequate actions are taken to minimize the potential consequences. • Developing work methodologies –both technical and management– to foster the collaboration of groups from different areas. • Implementing an integral and cross project management policy at the organisation. 109 AN N UA L R E P O R T Effective communication with concerned about the client’s opinion and the incidents that could have arisen during our clients the course of the projects, which it compiles as “lessons learned” to help improve its services on an ongoing basis. Ineco is all for a smooth On the other hand, all the personnel involved communication with clients, the pillars in the project –in the technical as well as the business areas– is in charge of maintaining of our business. permanent communication with the client during the course of the project. Ineco is firmly committed to the search for the creation of sustainable value for its shareholders • Ineco’s web has a mail box whereby our clients and clients, such as national and international may send all types of communications, administrations, by effectively and efficiently suggestions, complaints, inquiries or claims on managing resources pairing its business activity the organisation’s performance. with social responsibility. The relationship with the shareholders and clients is based on the principles of • Client satisfaction survey at the end of the projects. We thus compile information profitability and transparency. on the client’s opinion about the work performed As established in the Corporate Responsibility Policy (company image, product quality, and global and in order to render an ever improving service to assessment of the services rendered). our clients, Ineco establishes the communication channels necessary to ensure a smooth dialogue with In 2013, we obtained the results disclosed below. them. • Drafting and publication of the Annual Report, Our main means of communication with our clients the corporate magazine itransporte (and its three are: annual releases), and participation in industry • Project development: several qualitycongresses and exhibitions, with the intervention related meetings are held at the project launch of World ATM, Passenger Terminal, UITP, Rail and conclusion. In addition, Ineco is especially Solutions Asia or Kuwait Airport Development Forum, among others. 110 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR CLIENTS Satisfied clients our best reward In order to achieve excellence in the quality of its projects, Ineco seeks to increase the response rate to client surveys sent by the new direct communication channels 8.7 that it intends to launch in 2014. This will allow implementing new improvement measures. over 10 Overall assessment year 2013 0 to 10 Dedication and interest 8.9 Qualification and professionalism 8.8 Attention received 9 Communication level 8.7 Compliance with technical requirements 8.8 Documentation 8.6 Ineco’s capacity 8.7 Compliance with deadlines 8.8 Resolution of detected issues 8.7 Overall assessment 8.7 The response rate for 2013 was 42%. The results of the average evaluation stemming from the client satisfaction surveys are highly positive. The results obtained in 2012 are maintained and the aspects contemplated in connection with the assessments of the period 2008-2011 are improved in all areas. 111 A NNUA L R E P OR T CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR TEAM Committed to OUR TEAM The company is immersed in a global transformation process that will allow it to reinforce international activity and positioning as global transport engineering leader. In this review, Ineco’s main effort revolves around its most important value -its team. It is about designing and executing a strategy that will value the talent of its employees supporting their training and managing their professional development with a series of actions aimed at positioning the company competitively and efficiently in the global market. Expatriation policies, foreign personnel management, the implementation of tools fostering the employees’ culture of mobility, and training programs to strengthen their skills, both technical and languagerelated, are focused on facilitating and enabling performing the company’s activity in a multicultural environment that is highly demanding. 113 AN N UA L R E P O R T Talent management necessary for the company over the medium term, which is also aligned with the corporate culture and transformational change we have gone through. The differential value of Ineco is the knowledge In 2013 we have granted 26 scholarships aimed at stemming from its experience in the most important training higher education degree holders (18) and engineering projects. The company’s challenge lies technicians (8) mainly in roads, channels and ports, in obtaining the highest yield and this means having aeronautical, industrial and telecommunications not only the best professionals but also structures, engineering. management models and mechanisms supporting an adequate organization of tasks, maximum efficiency As from the beginning of the scholarship, all the and the leveraging of resources and development of scholarship holders are assigned a tutor and a competitive and committed talent. mentor to follow up their development. Also, the performance is evaluated at the time of conclusion or In this sense, in 2013, Ineco implemented and renewal. consolidated a matrix structure which has been the base for preparing the talent management model. The axes supporting the model are identification of potential, management by goal, and performance Turnover and recruiting evaluation. In a few words, developing talent and increasing commitment. Social networks and new technologies are fundamental recruiting tools for Ineco. As a source of future professionals who may develop their knowledge and skills, Ineco has in In addition, there is an open “channel of professional place collaboration agreements with the main and opportunities” in the company’s intranet to publish most prestigious colleges and universities both in the career needs of the employees within the Spain and abroad. The company tries to recruit the organization, thus favouring mobility across the best students with an advanced level of English, business areas. international interest and an inclination towards transport engineering in order to get the talent New hires broken down by gender, age and region Data as at 31 December 2013 MEN 23 < 30 years old 14 30 to 50 WOMEN 13 years old 22 > 50 years old 0 35Spain 1 Rest of the world 114 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR TEAM Number of terminations broken down by gender, age and region Data as at 31 December 2013 MEN 311 < 30 years old 65 30 to 50 WOMEN 230 years old 457 > 50 years old 19 541 0 Spain Rest of the world Average turnover rates SEX age < 30 years old 30 to 50 > 50 years old years old Average workforce 1,529.07 1,002.40 212.25 2,082.37 236.46 Voluntary turnover 3.8% 2.7% 11.8% 2.6% 2.1% Non-voluntary turnover 16.3% 20.2% 18.8% 19.3% 4.2% Turnover due to retirement 0.2% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 1.7% 115 AN N UA L R E P O R T Strategic performance to design development plans, professional careers, succession plans, etc. In 2014 we will define and apply management a development evaluation model for the whole staff. Ineco has in place a variable compensation system which is partly tied to the employees’ development. Our main asset is our human capital; therefore, Such system is aimed at meeting corporate goals managing talent is a key process on which our value and it revolves around key results for the company as a company should be supported. Identifying and in each position. For example, a portion of and enhancing our talent, sharing and developing the structure personnel compensation is tied to knowledge, and evaluating the resulting performance talent management and based on the evaluation considering the value of all that are key goals in the of the personal goals related to performance and whole transformation process of Ineco. development competencies. In 2013, Ineco started implementing a performance evaluation model aimed at effectively managing In 2013, we evaluated the performance of about 500 professional development for the purposes of people mainly from the administration, management detecting the skills and abilities of the employees and and technical structures so that the percentage of their development potential, as well as their interests, employees who received this type of compensation motivations and attitudes. related to their performance stood at 32.3%. The breakdown by gender is: 71% men and 29% women. In line with the above, in 2013 we made a significant effort in the talent identification phase through inThe final goal is improving the efficiency, profitability, house and external evaluation processes for all the growth and quality of the organisation through administration, management and technical structures. three fundamental variables: evaluation of results, The information gathered in this process was used performance and employee commitment. 116 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR TEAM Training: a boost for the • Specific training: including all the training actions seeking to provide specific (and usually technical) development of company and knowledge related to the employees’ professional career. Specific training courses in 2013 stood at professionals 286, i.e. 43.4% of the total. • Cross training: including all the training actions The 2013 Training Plan was prepared on the basis of the aimed at the whole organisation based on each demand of the training needs that arose throughout individual’s needs. This category includes training the year within the new strategic plan aimed abroad in languages, IT, quality, the environment and and adjusting to the company’s new organisation. occupational hazard prevention. A total of 373 Reinforcing the technical knowledge, improving foreign courses were taught in this area, representing language levels and disseminating the new corporate 56.6% of the total number of courses of 2013. culture are major cornerstones for our team to commit to the company’s transformation and globalisation. In addition, there are in-house technical training sessions taught to company personnel. The The training effort was focused on technical training employees who are taking official training courses sessions, disseminating processes and procedures and related to their work are also provided with financial languages, being the main indicators as follows: support for such undertakings. In 2013 we provided 64 hours of regular training • 43,608 training hours on the organization’s human rights policies and procedures. These sessions were attended by 28 • 835,255 € invested in training employees, who were trained on psychological • 659 training actions held harassment at the workplace, promotion of health at the workplace and/or a seminar on cultural • 1,720 people -68% of the staff attended adaptation to Ecuador. Likewise, this training seeks training events in 2013 to contribute to improving the work conditions and relations among the members of our labour group at the company. The training for 2013 is structured in the following categories: Finally, in 2013, we provided support on return to the workplace through an informative catalogue, which is free for our employees, with e-learning methodology. Training hours in 2013 broken down by employee/gender/level Total hours Total hours Average hours Average hours Average LEVEL Total hours (men) (women) (men) (women) hours TOP-MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE 6,743 1,425 8,168 49.95 40.71 48.05 MANAGERS AND HEADS 6,456 3,031 9,487 18.29 21.05 19.09 TECHNICAL PROFESSIONALS 13,198 7,798 20,996 18.10 15.69 17.13 SUPPORT 3,846 1,111 4,957 19.43 4.44 11.06 TOTAL 30,244 13,364 43,608 21.37 14.43 18.63 117 AN N UA L R E P O R T The value of our knowledge Committed to competitiveness The company is aware of the fact that identifying, and efficiency organising, gathering and sharing knowledge are essential to contributing to Ineco’s sustainability and Ineco’s main value is its team. Therefore, the enhancing its competitive advantages. In this line, company’s responsibility towards its professionals we continue to develop actions allowing effectively consists in achieving its involvement in and managing the knowledge acquired by Ineco’s commitment to the organization through professionals. The efforts in this area are focused an attractive corporate project, professional on know-how management identifying the most development, equal opportunities and the adequate processes for it and making it available to reconciliation of personal and professional lives. the whole team through different internal channels The profound transformation of the market and available on the corporate intranet: organisation over the past few years requires • Forums, blogs and practical communities implementing modern and efficient processes which, specialised in different technical issues. allowing developing the talent and work of our professionals, also ensure the quality, efficiency and • Work meetings and seminars and the related profitability of the company’s activity. conclusions available for consulting. Therefore, there are several initiatives launched to • Documentation centre gathering publications of achieve more competitiveness and efficiency not only interest for developing Ineco’s activity. in Spain but also in the global environment on which we are focused. • Definition of labour relations strategies. • Analysis of the legal regulations on labour contracts. • Application of flexibility measures to adapt the company to activity levels. • Consulting to hire personnel 118 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR TEAM Management and processes Quality, competitiveness and prestige TOTAL Efficiency plan In line with the prior years and with the strategic EUROPE 2,254 1,344 910 goals of the Ministry of Public Works, in 2013, we Belgium 1 0 1 launched initiatives to reduce the expense budget France 2 2 0 and favour the company’s competitiveness to adjust it to market needs, which has led to a profound Netherlands 1 1 0 review of management processes and procedures, Kosovo 1 1 0 as well as an organisational adjustment. Lithuania 1 1 0 As at 31 December 2013, Ineco’s headcount was 2,341, which entails a 17.3% year-to-year reduction. United Kingdom 7 5 2 Out of the total, 6.4% are men and the rest, 39.6%, Spain 2,241 1,334 907 are women. Consolidation of our AMERICA 39 31 8 international presence Mexico 10 6 4 Brazil 4 4 0 In accordance with the corporate strategy, Ineco continues with its international expansion policy. In Colombia 1 1 0 proportion, every year there is a larger percentage Ecuador 22 18 4 of people working outside Spain. Venezuela 2 2 0 Considering the positive social and economic impact in the places where Ineco’s projects are being developed, the company believes local hires –considering that local hires are the people hired in a foreign country subject to their own legislation– ASIA 47 39 8 as a part of their sustainability strategy. Singapore 1 1 0 This is the case of several projects developed by Nepal 2 1 1 Ineco outside the Spanish frontiers, such as Saudi Kuwait 19 13 6 Arabia, Ecuador, Mexico and Colombia. Saudi Arabia 22 22 0 In the case of local resident hires, Ineco acts under the legislation effective in each country observing Israel 2 1 1 the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Turkey 1 1 0 As to compensation in local hires, Ineco does not establish an initial standard salary but analyses the market values of the local community in question on a case-by-case basis and with the help of local firms or specialised consultants. In any case, the AFRICA 1 1 0 initial salary is always equal to or higher than the Cape Verde 1 1 0 minimum local salary. 119 AN N UA L R E P O R T Quality, competitiveness and luncheon tickets, day-care tickets, health insurance or a combination of them. prestige In addition, Ineco provides life insurance with physical or mental disability to its employees. At Ineco we have been granted different awards and prizes supporting our sustainable management as well as our commitment to our employees. Integra Plan For the fifth consecutive year we have been given the Top Employers 2012/2013 certification as a “great It is Ineco’s integration plan addressed to people with place to work.” disabilities or member of social exclusion risk groups The Top Employers certification is only granted to which contributes to improving their employability the companies that reach the highest standards and fostering social awareness in this regard. of excellence in the conditions offered to their It establishes specific employment access employees. measures through organisations for recruiting and improvements in employability, measures addressed to employees who are disabled or the victims of gender violence –financial assistance, adaptation of the position, care services, etc. It also includes measures aimed at employees with dependants, such as extension or paid parental leaves, unpaid parental leaves, flex vacation, etc. The company has also been recognised for the collaboration, hiring and commitment to the labour Equality Plan inclusion of youths with intellectual disabilities under the Promentor Programme (Fundación Prodis). Ineco launches initiatives aimed at promoting gender equality, the reconciliation of personal and professional lives, and sexual and gender harassment prevention. We create a quality labour With this aim in mind, it develops awareness and training programmes on the management of environment diversity, control mechanisms and tools to prevent discrimination, support groups and specific reconciliation policies. Apart from betting on quality employment, Ineco understands that the commitment with its team Moreover, the company has an acting protocol to should be reflected in the increase of its employees’ channel potential labour harassment cases through welfare and progress. In line with the corporate mediators who provide information and manage culture, we have implemented different programs such cases, if any, guaranteeing the necessary seeking to guarantee and favour social security confidentiality levels. benefits without any distinction based on the type of hire (permanent or temporary contract), and taking into account the integration of groups with a risk of exclusion and the awareness to diversity. Más Programme This programme offers employees the possibility of selecting the way of collecting social security benefits: 120 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR TEAM Breakdown of workers by type of contract and gender TOTAL Staff 2,341 1,415 926 Full-time workers 2,220 1,400 820 Part-time workers 121 15 106 Average age of the staff 38.5 39.2 37.6 Open-ended TOTAL Staff 1,775 1,080 695 Full-time workers 1,674 1,074 600 Part-time workers 101 6 95 Temporary TOTAL Staff 566 335 231 Full-time workers 546 326 220 Part-time workers 20 9 11 Employees by contract type TOTAL Nº % on total H Nº % on total H Staff 2,341 1,415 100% 926 100% Open-ended 1,775 1,080 76.3% 695 75.1% Per-project 446 261 18.4% 185 20.0% Part-time 0.0% 0.0% Partial retirement 9 9 0.6% 0.0% Trainee 23 15 1.1% 8 0.9% Task accumulation 84 50 3.5% 34 3.7% Temporary position 2 0.0% 2 0.2% 121 AN N UA L R E P O R T This commitment is shown in the number of active permits over the past two years with similar figures for both genders. The personnel on active leave is deemed to be that who during the periods indicated was on parental leave regardless of the related beginning and/or end date. Active leaves level broken down by gender TOTAL Active leaves 2012 219 104 115 Active leaves 2013 170 79 91 Return to work and retention after 12 months broken down by gender It relates to personnel that during 2012 returned to work after a parental leave of absence and who at the end of 2013 were still company employees. No. of people who returned to the No. of people who are still at the comNo. of people on active paternal leave company in 2012 after a parental leave pany as at 31 December 2013 of absence as at 31 December 2013 of absence TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 193 102 91 154 89 65 0 0 0 Finally, Ineco continues to work so as to ensure equal opportunities for all its employees preventing any potential discrimination risks. The breakdown of the staff and governing bodies remains at values similar to those for the prior years. Breakdown of governance bodies and staff by gender and age groups 2013 DATA AGE % GENDER % < 30 30 to 50 > 50 Positions No. years old years old years old Governing structure 16 75.0% 25.0% 0.0% 75.0% 25.0% Management structure 154 79.9% 20.1% 0.0% 76.6% 23.4% STRUCTURE PERSONNEL 170 79.4% 20.6% 0.0% 76.5% 23.5% Technical structure 497 71.0% 29.0% 0.0% 88.7% 11.3% Support structure 1,674 55.4% 44.6% 12.7% 79.7% 7.6% PERSONNEL UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2,171 59.0% 41.0% 9.8% 81.8% 8.4% AGREEMENTSCOLLECTIVE TOTAL HEADCOUNT 2,341 60.4% 39.6% 9.1% 81.4% 9.5% 122 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR TEAM Collective bargaining agreement In late 2012, Ineco agreed with worker representatives to extend the prior collective bargaining agreement which has been in effect in 2013 and covers 92.9% of the staff. Percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement 7.3% Collective bargaining agreement 92.7% Management personnel As to compensation, the basic salary at Ineco is the same for men and women and it is governed by the National Engineering and Technical Study Offices Bargaining Agreement. Ineco also has in place a variable compensation policy based on the degree of compliance with the company’s and the employee’s personal goals being the latter based on their performance in projects and the development of the competencies related to each position. Ineco signed formal agreements with workers’ representatives on the measures to guarantee healthcare and safety for all its staff. There are two safety and health committees: one of them represents 82.30% of the staff and covers the Madrid work centre and the other one, representing 4.02% of the staff, relates to the Barcelona work centre. 123 AN N UA L R E P O R T Effective communication with whether domestic or foreign, created precisely to assist him/her in his/her mobility needs. our employees We have also collected suggestions on savings and welfare improvements for employees, such as discounts in parking areas close to the work buildings, Ineco uses communication and the possibility of acquiring the company’s used transparency as a way to reach out to laptops, etc. its employees, the main ambassadors Moreover, for the purpose of favouring employee of the company. mobility and professional development as well as retaining talent, Ineco has a channel of professional In order to foster corporate culture among opportunities used to inform career choices within its employees, Ineco has different internal the company to its employees. communication channels for all its professionals. The Finally, the Works Council acts as communication most important of these channels is its corporate link between the employees and the company since intranet, inet, which forms segmented spaces for its professionals to access the information they need it is the representation body of the workers at the easily on a daily basis. In 2013 the company updated company. Some of the main concerns addressed in such platform to adjust it to its new processes. the meetings of 2013 include the maintenance of employment and the company’s feasibility plan. In addition, the employees have received on a monthly basis the internal online magazine Sobre la marcha with the main organisational news, interviews to different members of the organisation and the main milestones of the projects in which the Prevention and safety company is immersed. Also, the “breakfasts with the chairman”, during which the different teams of Ineco have been able to chat with the Chairman and the The occupational hazard prevention policy of Ineco Corporate Managing Director about different aspects evidences the company’s firm commitment with of the company, are still being held. the safety and health of its employees around the A Press Summary is sent to the whole organisation globe. The company’s growing globalization entails on a daily basis. Such summary allows employees the effort of transferring our demanding safety and keeping abreast of the news in the sector. On the prevention standards to any location in which we other hand, the Ineco channel enables them to are operating adjusting them to the corresponding receive the latest news about internal processes and national legislation. projects by e-mail. Apart from the new challenges, in 2013, we The two-way communication between the employees and the different platforms providing maintained certain actions and initiatives carried a voice for the organizational structure is another out in prior years, such as risk evaluation, preventive of the fundamental pillars of the Communications action planning, security inspections, signalling, Management and, therefore, certain tools were detection and extinction means, environmental enhanced, such as the “suggestions box” to receive condition studies, supply of first aid kits, workers proposals from all of Ineco’s team, as well as the blogs information and training, and coordination of and forums, which are major meeting points where corporate activities. employees may share knowledge and experiences. The hazard prevention service at Ineco meets the The main concerns gathered though the “suggestions box” relate to the conditions of the expatriates. In related legal requirements being approved at the response, Ineco created the Global Mobility Centre, annual audits –both regulatory and the OHSAS 18001 a service for the employee assigned to a project, certification. 124 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR TEAM Health control Ineco ensures its workers that it controls their health based on the risks inherent to their positions providing all its employees with the possibility of undergoing a medical check-up every year. 125 A NNUA L R E P OR T CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO SOCIETY Committed to SOCIETY Ineco is firmly committed to making a contribution to the cultural, social and economic development of the communities in which it operates, especially bearing in mind that it does business in the transport sector, which is a source of economic wealth and development for society as a whole. As a result of this commitment and in order to increase the value generated for society, the Company cooperates with NGOs related to its activity and bets on research and dissemination of knowledge through innovation projects. It also fosters dialogue with the communities in which it acts so that the projects may be performed according to the characteristics of each environment and region. Also, it uses the tools and establishes the procedures necessary to prevent and mitigate the environmental impact that its actions may have thus avoiding the actual potential negative impact for the communities. 127 AN N UA L R E P O R T Respect for human provided 64 hours of regular training on the organization’s policies and procedures in this regard. rights In its business management, Ineco is firmly From intention to action committed to the ongoing and constant respect for human rights. All of the company’s activities are Ineco fosters the people’s participation and governed by current legislation and the main national involvement in helping build a fairer and more and international human rights standards. This is egalitarian society. how the company promotes, enables, corrects and supervises its actions so that they are governed by such social requirements and standards. All its employees, regardless of their duties, should iSolidaria: our social work treat everyone with respect and favour a cordial platform working environment and relations preventing the occurrence of situations that could intimidate or To act on its commitment, Ineco has a space aimed at offend the rights of others. managing corporate volunteer work at the company Ineco has a Code of Conduct that is based on where the employees may find volunteer work respecting the ten principles of the United Nations actions, inquire about the company’s initiatives in this Global Compact. All the professionals in the area, share experiences or learn about current facts in organization must honestly respect the human rights this area. and public liberties established in the Universal In the area of social work, employees may send their Declaration of Human Rights and the legal systems suggestions through a box or through the Corporate of the countries in which they work in any and all the Responsibility mail. Such suggestions are followed up company areas. and incorporated in subsequent years in the actions approved for the social work plan. In order to make sure that the Code of Conduct is being met, Ineco has an Ethics Committee and a Mediation Committee which would act if any discrimination incident took place, something that Initiatives in 2013 has not happened in 2013. In addition, Ineco holds different human rights The Social Work Plan is defined every year. In it, training sessions for its employees. In 2013 we Ineco establishes the collaboration programmes and 128 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO SOCIETY initiatives with non-profit organisations focusing the the life conditions of the population through a rural company’s efforts on the activities in which Ineco may tourism promotion programme. contribute the greatest added value to society, such as the professional corporate volunteer programme, Ineco provided assistance in improving the railway where professional’s knowledge is leveraged. facilities and security of the line –managed by Empresa Pública de Ferrocarriles– thus encouraging During fiscal 2013, we renewed the collaboration tourism and, consequently, the revenues of the local agreement with the Lealtad foundation, which native communities. provides independent and consistent information on NGOs to set the goals of the decisions on the This collaboration was materialised through the NGOs with which the company works in the annual corporate volunteer programme financed by Ineco in programmes. which seven volunteers of the company participated. The Euro Solidario campaign was also earmarked for As habitual, the follow up of the volunteer actions this project. carried out was disseminated. The Social Work Plan is evaluated on a quarterly basis although the volunteer actions are evaluated and followed up after their Euro Solidario Campaign conclusion through satisfaction surveys. It is a consolidated campaign in which the employees are involved and it entails donating a portion of their En Ruta: Professional corporate volunteer monthly compensation to finance a project. The programme of Ineco in Ecuador company, in turn, commits to match the employees’ donations up to a determined cap. In 2013, Ineco launched a new support project focused on social work activities for a better use The campaign led by the Anar foundation related to of the professional capacities of the company’s the project “Trainings and protection of homeless employees while aligning the project to girls” in Barranquilla (Colombia) concluded in fiscal its globalization strategy project providing 2013. The employees donated 18,338 € which after collaboration in a country like Ecuador, where Ineco’s being matched by the company totalled 36,676 €. presence is important. The new annual campaign was launched in The project, launched in collaboration with the September 2013, which related to Ineco’s professional Codespa foundation was carried out within the corporate volunteer project in the province of framework of the Ibarra-Salinas railway line, a Imbabura (Ecuador) jointly with Codespa. During highly depressed area in the province of Imbabura the months it was in place, 7,338 € was collected (Ecuador) in which the Foundation works to improve including the company’s contribution. 129 AN N UA L R E P O R T Promentor Programme Training of young men and women at risk of social exclusion Ineco is involved in the Promentor programme of the Prodis foundation. This foundation created, jointly Since we are aware of the importance of improving with the Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, a specific the training and employability of young men training degree for mentally disabled individuals. and women with a risk of social exclusion, Ineco supports its educational project and contributes the In order to contribute to the labour integration of knowledge and skills of its employees to assist in their this group, Ineco has a close relationship with the vocational integration into the labour market. Prodis foundation to incorporate workers from the programme. Once again, we worked at the Norte Joven foundation in 2013. Our Recruiting personnel organised the Ineco´s volunteers in Imbabura (Ecuador), the project carried out in collaboration with Codespa Foundation. 130 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO SOCIETY training through group dynamics supplemented by Operación Kilo: “one kilo of food, one the simulated individual interviews to young men and million thank-yous” women carried out by Ineco volunteers to help them address successfully the first labour interview thus At the end of the year Ineco launched a new improving their employability. Operación Kilo for the Food Bank of Madrid. Basic financial notions useful for their professional Ineco’s employees participated in this initiative by career were taught by Economic and Financial donating about 400 kg of non-perishable food. Department personnel. Volunteer activities are evaluated Assistance in emergencies and donations by the collaborating NGO as well After the earthquake occurred in the Murcian region of Lorca, Spain, Ineco collaborated in the as by other volunteer employees reconstruction of the affected area during fiscal 2013. participating through the It also took the Red Cross’ call to collect funds for satisfaction survey following up the catastrophe occurred as a result of the typhoon in the Philippines while transferring such call to the on the results obtained on an employees as well. ongoing basis. Awareness platform The platform “Business and Development” was also launched in 2013 as a result of the collaboration agreement between Ineco and Ongawa, a development NGO engaged in using technology for human development and building a fairer and more supportive society. It is a training and dissemination instrument on the role of the business sector in social development aimed at raising awareness and promoting debate regarding the role of companies in the construction of fairer and more inclusive societies. Reyes Magos campaign Once again, the Three Wise Men visited Ineco’s offices to gather the letters written by the children and grandchildren of our employees and giving them a gift, in this case for the charity “Acción contra el Hambre” (Action against Hunger). The children, on the other hand, collaborated donating children’s books to be provided to several children’s hospitals in Madrid. 131 AN N UA L R E P O R T Sector collaboration • Club de la Innovación y el Conocimiento (innovation and knowledge club). Ineco, as a top-notch engineering • Asociación para el Progreso de la Dirección, APD (association for management progress). company in the transport sector, promotes the cooperation among • Fundación Lealtad (Lealtad foundation). the Spanish engineering companies • Euroamérica (foundation). with whom it participates in project • Asociación Latinoamericana de Metros y Subterráneos, ALAMYS (Latin American train and development, mainly on international underground association). markets, as in the case of the Hispanic• MAFEX (Spanish association of railway services, Saudi consortium Al Shoula Group, equipment and material exporters). which is presided over by Ineco. • Airports Council International (ACI). Ineco is a member of TECNIBERIA, a Spanish • International Association of Public Transport association of engineering, consulting and (UITP). technological services companies. It is a national nonprofit agency fostering the spirit and ties of support • Asociación Latinoamericana de Ferrocarriles, ALAF and collaboration among its member companies (Latin American railway association). and their professional, technical, administration and management skills. Likewise, this organisation • CANSO (Civil Air Navigation Services Organization). represents its members before agencies, institutions and centres –both public and private– in issues that they deem of their interest and when they require it. • Madrid Chamber of Commerce. Throughout 2013, Ineco participated in the following • Asociación Española de la Carretera (Spanish road Spanish and international organisations: association). • Fundación de los Ferrocarriles Españoles (Spanish • Asociación Técnica de Carreteras, ATC (technical railways foundation). road association). • TECNIBERIA ASINCE. • Asociación Española del Transporte (Spanish transport association). • Club Excelencia en Gestión vía Innovación (club • AUSIGETI (national association of auscultation and of management excellence via innovation). technical infrastructure management systems). • Asociación Centro de Dirección de Recursos • Asociación Española de Túneles y Obras, AETOS Humanos, AEDIPE (human resources (Spanish association of tunnels and works). management centre association). • Asociación de Usuarios de SAP, AUSAPE (SAP users • Asociación Científico-Química del Hormigón Estructural, ACHE (scientific and chemical association of Spain). structural concrete association). • European Rail Research Network of Excellence • GALILEO SERVICES. (EURNEX). • Plataforma Tecnológica Ferroviaria Española, PTFE • CETREN (railway action association). (Spanish technological railway platform). • EUROCAE. • European ATM Research and Development • Brazil-Spain Chamber of Commerce. Association (EATRADA). • United Nations Global Compact. 132 • Plataforma Tecnológica de la Carretera, PTC (Spanish technological road platform). A NNUA L R E P OR T CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO THE ENVIRONMENT Committed to the ENVIRONMENT Ineco contributes to sustainable development by behaving responsibly in connection with the environment, preventing and minimising the adverse environmental impact related to • System for controlling and following up on the facilities and activities. main environmental aspects: consumption of human resources, waste management, etc. This commitment translates into initiatives such as the implementation and certification as from 2003 of an • Establishment of goals aimed at guaranteeing the ongoing improvement in environmental environmental management system consistent with management, as well as follow-up of their the international standard UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004 compliance and degree of efficiency. and the adscription in 2008 to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact which promotes, • Promotion of environmental best practices among others, those related to respect for the among Ineco’s personnel. environment. • Periodic environmental awareness campaigns and The main goals of the environmental management training addressed to employees. system are: • Periodic follow-up of the performance indicators • Prevention of pollution. of environmental management processes • Compliance with environmental legal In its normal course of business, Ineco promotes requirements. dialogue with the communities in which it operates so that it can adjust itself to the environment and • Ongoing improvement of the company’s region as well as adopt the measures necessary to environmental behaviour. prevent and mitigate any potential adverse impact. Thus, Ineco manages its activities and facilities Therefore, Ineco instils in its employees a preventive committed to the environment. To such end, it has culture favouring the environment through its the following tools: strategy and policy as well as through training and awareness actions. • Environmental and quality policy. It also launches environmental innovation projects. • Annual identification and evaluation of the Ineco thus considers the indirect impact of its environmental aspects related to Ineco’s facilities activities on biodiversity and the environment. and activities. Ineco also shares its environmental commitment with • Identification and dissemination of the applicable its suppliers and contractors through selection and legal requirements as well as the annual homologation criteria, and by complying with the evaluation of compliance therewith. environmental clauses considered in the agreements. 135 AN N UA L R E P O R T Environmental management Environmental management system programme Ineco’s mission regarding the environment consists Ineco’s commitment to ongoing improvement in in planning from a strategic standpoint the actions environmental performance is translated into setting aimed at maintaining and improving process specific objectives and goals. The following objectives efficiency and the quality of the products and services and goals were established for the period 2013-2015: that it offers to its clients while ensuring respect for the environment and the adequate environmental behaviour of the organisation. This is why Ineco has in place a quality and environmental management system certified by AENOR and based on standards UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004 and UNE-EN ISO 9001:2008, respectively, Strengthening environmental the scopes of which cover almost all of the company’s management. activities. • Going deeper in identifying environmental aspects • Disseminating the measures to improve the use of resources • Reducing vehicle fuel consumption • Identifying the environmental aspects arising from international activity Minimising the consumption of vehicle fuel and gasoil used for the heating system at the head office and reducing the waste of toner containers in Madrid. Ineco’s environmental management system establishes the system for control, follow-up and measurement of its environmental behaviour. The company also has technical guides related to the environmental follow-up and surveillance of works. The objectives and goals are reviewed periodically in order to verify that they are implemented and effective, as well as to take any applicable measures in the event of deviations. Quality and environmental policy Responsible use of resources Ineco’s effective quality and environmental policy was issued in March 2013 and it covers the company’s One of Ineco’s main objectives is engaging in the commitment with prevention in the light of potential responsible and sustainable use of the resources damages to the environment, communication and taking measures to reduce the consumption of personnel motivation, compliance with the related energy, water, paper and other consumables requirements and ongoing improvement. This policy implementing improvement in waste management is available for consultation by all the employees and minimizing the emission of pollutants to the through the intranet. atmosphere and pouring of residual waters. The policy is reviewed on an annual basis at the The evolution of these parameters is analysed in Quality and Environmental Committee to ensure that order to keep them under control and establish it is still adequate for the organisation. optimisation measures. 136 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO THE ENVIRONMENT Water The water used at Ineco is provided by the public supply network and is used at the toilets and to clean the facilities. Water consumption (measured in cubic metres) at the head office over the past five years was as disclosed below. Even though the headcount at this building decreased from 436 people in December 2012 to 369 in 2013 consumption remained constant. YEAR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Water consumption (m ) 3 4,689 3,335 3,018 2,986 2,996 The aggregate area of all the permanent offices is 8,018 m3. Average water consumption per employee is as follows: AVERAGE WATER CONSUMPTION IN 2013 (m3/employee) 8 6 4 2 0 Pº Habana Egeo Bull Head offices in Madrid 137 AN N UA L R E P O R T Electric power Environmental campaigns were held at the Valencia and Seville offices to raise awareness on electric consumption which were translated into reductions of At its facilities, Ineco uses electric power from the 16% and 14%, respectively, as compared to the prior network for lighting, heating and air conditioning, year. power, etc. In addition, light sensors for conference rooms, LED In 2013, the total electric power consumption, lighting and solar panels to heat water for the toilets at including the offices at the work sites, was 11,301 GJ. the head office were installed. Even though Ineco’s facilities have increased electric Consumption at Ineco’s locations over the past four power consumption by 14.72% in 2013 as compared years was relatively stable even though in 2013 it to prior year, since during this year the panels have consumed 14.72% more electric power than in 2012 generated 128 GJ, total direct consumption at such owing to an increase in the consumption of the office facilities amounted to 10,441.GJ. buildings (Bull building). POWER CONSUMTPION AT INECO´S HEADQUARTERS (GJ) YEAR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Electric power 8,186.44 9,135.36 9,508.23 9,212.45 10,569.00 138 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO THE ENVIRONMENT Heating fuel In line with this action, signs were placed at the different buildings in Madrid indicating the legal temperature limits at the heated/air conditioned In 2013, Ineco consumed 6.44% more fuel than in areas. 2012. This increase was detected in the first quarter of the year. The following actions were thus planned: In addition, gasoil, power and water consumption counters were included at the Po de la Habana • Supervision of the use of building heating and air thermal installation so as to evaluate its energy conditioning in order to optimise it. efficiency. • Limitation of temperature to that established in the applicable regulations (not more than 21°C in winter when it is necessary to use heating). TOTAL CONSUMPTION OF HEATING FUEL AT THE HEAD OFFICE YEAR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Gasoil consumption for heating (in litres) 6,500 7,700 6,600 6,955 7,403 139 AN N UA L R E P O R T Vehicle fuel Ineco has its own fleet of diesel vehicles, mainly for tasks at the work sites, which entails the related consumption of fuel. 1,829 1,630 VEHICLES FUEL 1,432 CONSUMPTION 1,117 (in thousands of litres) 791 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In 2013, fuel consumption presented a year-to-year reduction of 29.22% because the vehicle fleet was reduced and due to its power classification: the vehicles with an E-F-G classification fell from 58 in 2012 to 19 in 2013 (representing 13% and 6.25% of the total, respectively). Based on this, Ineco considers the energy label of the vehicles upon renewing its fleet so that in 2013 the vehicles with the best classification (A-B-C) account for 68.09% of the total as compared to 64.61% in 2012. In addition, the average consumption per vehicle in 2013 increased by 6% as compared to 2012, which arises from the improved management of resources as a smaller number of vehicles is used more times. ENERGY CLASSIFICATION OF VEHICLES 2% (8 veh.) 0% (0 veh.) 2% (5 veh.) 0% (1 veh.) 4% (13 veh.) 11% (50 veh.) 26% (115 veh.) 32% (96 veh.) VEHICLES BASED 26% (78 veh.) VEHICLES BASED 22% (97 veh.) ON CONSUMPTION ON CONSUMPTION 2012 2013 22% (96 veh.) 10% (32 veh.) 17% (72 veh.) 26% (79 veh.) A B C D E F G 140 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO THE ENVIRONMENT Ineco has in place a vehicles policy which, among Consequently, in 2013 we engaged in the following other things: actions: • Encourages the use of public transport and the • Awareness campaigns on the use of public shared use of vehicles. transportation and efficient driving. • Establishes vehicle purchase criteria based on • Implementation of a car pooling programme for consumption and environmental impact, apart company personnel. from cost. • Use of vehicles consuming less fuel (all vehicles • Favours the progressive incorporation to the fleet should have a class A or B energy label, whenever of “green” vehicles. possible). • Fostering the use of the bicycle providing proper parking spaces. Indirect energy consumption Ineco also consumes energy indirectly as a result of the trips made by its personnel. The company analyses consumption in air as well as train travel. 2011 2012 2013 9,642 5,985 6,409 24,383,483 18,900,708 18,136,608 Total kilometres covered Total kilometres per person 6,352,688 4,260,659 3,149,540 2,012 1,506 1,245 Total kilometres covered Total kilometres per person The number of kilometres travelled by plane increased by 34.44% in 2013, while that travelled by train fell by 26.08%. This results from the globalisation of Ineco’s business, which is translated into an increase in long-distance travel (by plane) as compared to travel within Spain (mainly by train). Consequently the km/ person ratio for 2013 increased in the case of air travel and decreased in the case of train travel. 141 AN N UA L R E P O R T Consumables Paper In 2013, Ineco acquired 36.19 tons of white paper (A3 and A4) as compared to 41.23 tons of paper consumed in 2012, representing 13.93% savings. PAPER CONSUMPTION (t) 69.51 52.88 48.81 41.23 36.19 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Likewise, average paper consumption per employee slowly decreased over the past five years so that in 2013 it amounted to 14 kg, entailing a 3.91% decrease as compared to the prior year. This reduction is understood to result from the awareness campaigns launched over the past few years to foster paper recycling, a reduction in document printing and the delivery of documentation to the client in electronic format. AVERAGE CONSUMPTION PER PERSON (Kg) 22.24 19.76 15.46 14.57 14.00 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Toner In 2013, Ineco obtained 1,185 kg and 208 toner units and ink cartridges. If we analyse the data broken down by quarter, in 2013 the toner waste generation trend was decreasing as it fell from 750 kg during the first quarter of the year to 127 kg during the last quarter. 142 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO THE ENVIRONMENT Equivalent CO2 emissions The emissions of equivalent CO2 to the atmosphere result from Ineco’s activities, which generate direct and indirect emissions. The former stem from the combustion of the boiler at Ineco’s head office and the motors of the vehicles in its fleet while the latter arise from the trips made by its employees and the consumption of electric power since they produce emissions into the atmosphere. The emissions of equivalent CO2 in 2013 represented 7,747 tons, which entails a 6.91% increase as compared to 2012. The reason for this is the increase in indirect emissions (31.42% as a result of more air travel because of the expansion in the company’s international activities) which is not offset by a decrease in direct emissions (28.76%) as the former represent 72.85% of total emissions. On the other hand, direct emissions –which Ineco controls directly– were reduced thanks to the saving in the consumption of fuels by the vehicles. EQUIVALENT CO2 EMISSIONS (t) 8,293 7,747 7,247 5,644 4,514 4,295 3,779 2,952 2,103 Direct emissions Indirect emissions Total emissions In order to obtain equivalent CO2 data we used the conversion methodology indicated on the web site 2011 2012 2013 www.ceroCO2.org. 143 AN N UA L R E P O R T Waste management Ineco generates two types of waste during its course of business: Hazardous waste: Mainly formed by fluorescent tubes, batteries and waste from electric and electronic devices as well as containers used for hazardous waste which Ineco provides to an authorized manager under current regulations. In 2013, hazardous waste was 18.31% smaller than in 2012 mainly due to a reduction in the waste from electric and electronic devices managed in 2013 (23% smaller than in the prior year). These results stem from the waste management improvement action carried out in 2013, which consisted in establishing a reuse and recycling policy for electric and electronic devices, such as computers and mobile phones in order to minimise the generation of this type of waste. AMOUNT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGED (Kg) 3,121 3,228 2,637 2011 2012 2013 144 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO THE ENVIRONMENT Non-hazardous waste: The non-hazardous waste generated by Ineco in its activities is domestic waste or that similar to urban waste, containers and paper-cardboard. The former two classes are managed through the municipal services while paper-cardboard waste is The total amount provided to an authorised manager for recovery. generated in 2013 is 69.87 tons, AMOUNT (Kg) OF NON-HAZARDOUS 79.19% less than the WASTE amount for 2012. 287,040 287,040 Domestic Containers Paper and cardboard 43,152 36,900 28,976 25,250 15,576 10,483 7,720 2011 2012 2013 On the other hand, toners are also delivered to authorised managers. A total of 1.245 tons were generated in 2013. We promote environmental responsibility Ineco is all for environmental training and awareness among its employees. Training actions –both in-house and external– were carried out in the following areas in 2013: • Management systems and audit (environmental, energy and quality): 138 hours. • Technical training in different areas such as demolition and construction waste, environmental risk and environmental responsibility, energy efficiency, environmental assessment, GIS/GPS applications for flora and fauna lists, etc. 300 hours. In addition, during the present years, two classroom sessions were carried out for the employees on raising environmental awareness. Also several awareness campaigns were carried out with videos and brochures. 145 AN N UA L R E P O R T We get involved Such costs break down as follows: in respecting the Environmental expenses in 2013 (€) environment Ineco works to promote the integration of Maintenance of the ISO 14001 certification 5,431.59 environmental criteria in the different projects, it supports initiatives related to responsible Training in the environment 11,151.50 environmental management and it also bets on innovation in environmental projects positively Environmental legislation updating service 2,440 impacting on climatic change. Waste management 18,471.02 The company has a specialised team. In the technical area there is a productive unit aimed at rendering Rates 37,078.94 environmental consulting services: sustainability and environmental impact studies; environmental Related to water: integration exhibits; environmental management sewage and treatment 10,552.14 systems implementation, maintenance and audits; atmospheric contamination reduction and Waste management 26,526.80 acoustic insulation projects and plans; landscaping; geographic and environmental information systems; Installation of counter in thermal installation 948.46 environmental management and engineering, of P° Habana environmental surveillance and follow-up in works such as the environmental management of railway works. In 2012, environmental investments and expenses Ineco also has in place operational control procedures amounted to 15,957.99 €, 78,8 % less than in 2013. for projects and works defining the control system to comply with the implemented management systems Ineco works hard in its search for sustainable requirements appropriately. Also, the company has environmental solutions by developing R&D projects prepared the “Best Environmental Practices Guide” generating advantages for our clients. which is available for all the personnel on the intranet. During 2013 Ineco continued its work within the AIRE On the other hand, Ineco’s Insurance Programme Programme of the SESAR Joint Undertaking, a project includes coverage for environmental accidents focused on reducing the environmental impact of liability. aviation. It has also worked in the Ie(CO)Trans project –the continuation of the Ietrans project– developing Ineco established a procedure defining the preventive a methodological guide of a simulation tool that measures necessary to avoid accidental spills of makes up the main “Green” impacts on the evaluation polluting products or substances as well as the steps of the different measures and policies applied to the to be taken if such situations take place. transport sector. Likewise, the MINOx-STREET project –within the framework of the European programme LIFE+ As proof of Ineco’s commitment 2012 and coordinated by Ineco– has the goal of to the environment, we should assessing the efficiency of current photocatalytic technologies to reduce nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels state that in 2013 environmental in the atmosphere of urban areas and enhance their application by developing a predictive model and a investments and expenses guide for local authorities with use and maintenance amounted to 75,521.51 €. protocols for those materials. 146 A NNUA L R E P OR T CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR SUPPLIERS Committed to our SUPPLIERS Ineco is aware of the importance of suppliers and contractors for the good operation of the business owing to the significant impact of its activities on the quality of the products and services offered by the Company and its ability to contribute to improving process efficiency. In order to guarantee the expected satisfaction for its In addition, internal hiring standards cover the clients, Ineco builds smooth business relationships valuation criteria of suppliers for both selection and with its suppliers on the basis of trust and mutual periodic evaluation so that they consider financial and benefit, respect and transparency. technical soundness and environmental management and quality criteria aspects. Ineco’s web site includes the general contracting terms and the internal hiring standards. Ineco In order to maintain an outstanding relation with its also publishes on its web site information on the vendors, the Purchasing Unit of Ineco is in constant competitive biddings and awarded projects in contact through meetings and visits. About 600 progress. telematic communications and 3,000 telephone inquiries were carried out in 2013. Ineco’s contracting terms and conditions in effect set forth the supplier’s or contractor’s obligations so as In 2013 no major agreements with suppliers or to ensure that it observes the company’s policies and contractors were rejected and it was not necessary to standards, especially in connection with the use of impose any human rights performance condition. information. Thus, it is possible to guarantee that tasks are performed confidentially and impartially, the all the applicable legal requirements are met –including those related to occupational hazard prevention and personal data protection– and the observance of and care for the materials and facilities, whether owned by Ineco or its clients. Ineco also includes fraud and corruption liability and environmental clauses to make sure that its suppliers are aligned with its Corporate Responsibility policy and its Integrity, Transparency and Commitment Standards. 149 AN N UA L R E P O R T Communication, equality In addition, Ineco’s contracting processes are published in the Contracting Platform of the State and transparency (www.contrataciondelestado.es), regardless of other additional advertising media specified in the case of contracting arising from management requests. Ineco’s internal contracting standards are governed by a series of principles which compliance is indispensable. The Purchasing Unit is the one in charge of enforcing Principles of concurrence, it and making sure that the guidelines established by equality and non-discrimination the Procurement Department (the body in charge of taking decisions related to award proposals) are This principle entails the following requirements: being correctly applied. This body is formed by the chairman, three members and one secretary. One of them is a legal advisor, another one has functions • Free access to hiring by any company. related to financial and budget control and the third person is from the Purchasing Unit and exercises • Non-discriminatory description of the subject secretary functions. matter of the agreement. • Equal access for the economic players of all the European Union member states. Principle of advertising • Mutual recognition of degrees, certificates and other diplomas. In order to advertise the contracting processes, Ineco publishes the related competitive biddings on the • Barring of the discriminatory furnishing of web including all the information necessary to submit information which could give advantages to a bid for the supplies and services required. certain bidders over others. 150 CORPORATE CULTURE · COMMIT TED TO OUR SUPPLIERS Principle of transparency Principle of confidentiality The principle of transparency entails: The guarantee of compliance with the principle of confidentiality by the suppliers is materialized in the confidentiality clause that Ineco includes in its • That all the participants may be aware of contracting terms and conditions. the regulations applicable to the agreement to be awarded and that they are certain that these standards shall be equally enforced on all the companies. Contracting for works, supplies • Setting adequate terms. The terms provided and services in 2013 to submit the bids should be sufficient to allow companies performing an adequate assessment The total amount contracted in 2013 totals of the conditions and make their bid. 43,744,672.20 €, entailing a 7% increase as compared to 2012. • Accurate and advance setting of the objective criteria applicable to value the bids. On the other hand, Ineco makes a strong bet on contracting with local suppliers as a strategy • Clear and advance determination of the body of having a positive impact on the economy of which, as the case may be, is to prepare the the places in which it develops its projects. Thus, award proposal and that competent to award the within the international realm, the volume of agreement. subcontracting in 2013 in the most important • The agreement should be granted necessarily to foreign countries entailed 15.78% of the subcontracted total. the bid that is economically most advantageous based on the objective assessment criteria of the bids that may have been established in each case. 151 A N N U A L R E P O R T about this REPORT Scope Integrated indicators of the Global Compact and the GRI Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicator index Statement GRI application level check A N N U A L R E P O R T Scope This document is the third sustainability report prepare sustainability reports (version G3.1) and we prepared by Ineco on an annual basis (since 2011) have applied the following principles: under the principles and recommendations of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Also, this document • Materiality: the information included in this report covers and discusses, as the case discusses how we act in the light of the principles of may be, all the indicators in guide G3.1. Materiality the Global Compact, which Ineco observes. was determined on the basis of the analysis of the The report was prepared based on the Strategic company’s activity, its impact on stakeholders, Plan and the Corporate Responsibility Policy, the the interaction with the environment and pillars of the strategic positioning of the company analysis of risks and opportunities of the trends in the social, environmental and labour areas, and it affecting the organisation and which may have an discloses the main activities performed by Ineco in impact on sustainability. 2013 and the great challenges of the future such as the internationalisation of the business. • Thoroughness: the publication covers the material aspects and indicators required for the stakeholders The definition and prioritization of these contents to be able to evaluate Ineco’s performance in 2013. is the result of a reflection process that brings the stakeholders´concerns through the different channels • Comparability: the information published available. During the process, the company´s is presented, whenever possible, in a format that key aspects have been identified, prioritized and allows comparing it and analysing Ineco’s transferred to the annual report in order to guarantee changes over the past three years (2011, 2012 and transparency and to provide all our stakeholders with 2013). the most relevant information. • Coverage: the report does not cover any joint It also includes prior-year data for comparability ventures, affiliates, leased facilities, subcontracted purposes among different periods and to allow the activities or other entities which may affect their stakeholders analysing the changes in the company’s comparability. performance under the standpoint provided by the GRI indicators and the Global Compact principles. • Accuracy and clarity: the information detailed is accurate and detailed so that the stakeholders The information was obtained based on Ineco’s may get a clear idea of Ineco’s performance. activity as a company providing services in the aeronautical, railway, urban transport, road, ports • Frequency: this sustainability report has been and intermodal areas. We have also included Ineco’s published annually as from 2011 and is attached commitment with integrity and transparency, to Ineco’s Annual Report. through an effective and two-way communication process, regarding clients, suppliers, employees, the • Reliability: the information included in this report has not been independently verified. GRI environment and the company as a whole, as part of has classified this report with an A application level. its Corporate Responsibility Policy. Since there have been minor changes in certain data Annually, during the report´s working process and which were included in the 2012 report, as a result of with the objective of integrating all the stakeholders´ concerns, information is requested to the different changes in the calculation methodology and criteria, departments that maintain permanent contact we have included –at the end of the Global Reporting with them through meetings, surveys and other Initiative (GRI) indicators table– a note detailing such communication channels explained in the present changes. report. This information is then analysed (concerns, For further information or if you wish to make any needs, etc..) in specific and focused meetings and inquiry about this report, please contact the Underafterwards transferred to the different chapters Department for General Coordination and Institutional dedicated to each of the stakeholders. Relations (África Jiménez: africa.jimenez@ineco.com) In order to show Ineco’s performance in a reasonable or the Communications Department and balanced manner we have followed a guide to (Jara Valbuena: jara.valbuena@ineco.com). 154 ABOUT THIS REPORT · INTEGRATED INDICATORS INTEGRATED INDICATORS OF THE */2%$/&203$&7$1'7+(*5, GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES GRI INDICATORS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1.1, 1.2, LA3, LA4, LA6, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, human rights. HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8, HR9 PRINCIPLE 2 1.1, 1.2, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR8, HR9 PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of 1.1, LA3, LA4, LA5, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 1.1, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR7 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 1.1, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR6 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in the respect of 1.1, LA6, LA13, LA14, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4 employment and occupation. PRINCIPLE 7 1.1, 1.2, EN1, EN2, EN9, EN18, EN26 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 1.2, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN16, EN18, Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental EN19, EN20, EN21, EN22, EN24, EN25 responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly 1.2, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN8, EN9, EN18, EN26 technologies. PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and 1.1, 1.2, SO1, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5, SO6 bribery. 155 A N N U A L R E P O R T G3.1 CONTENT INDEX Standard disclosures part I. Profile disclosures IF APPLICABLE , REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER INDICATE THE PART EXPLANATION OMISSION NOT REPORTED 1. STRATE GY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior 4, 5 decision-maker of the organisation. 4, 5, 9, 10, 85, 89, 90, 92, 99, 103, 104, 105, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and 107, 108, 109, 110, 116, 118, 124, 128, opportunities. 129,135 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation. INECO . Ingeniería y Economía del Transporte, S.A. 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. 8, 10 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, 12, 13, 14, 96, 97, 98 subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Paseo de la Habana, 138, 28036 Madrid. 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with either 12, 13 major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. State-owned company. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of 8, 12, 13, 16, 17, 101, 119 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. 16......20, 101, 119 There have been no changes in the shareholding structure, business association type 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting or capital stock. period regarding size, structure or ownership. 4, 5, 119 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 120 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 154 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. The notes to the financial statements cover the year 2013, from 1 January to December 2013. 154 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Year 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc). 154 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding 154 the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. 4, 5, 85, 86, 92, 103, 113, 127, 135, 149, 154 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 154 joint ventures, suppliers). COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 156 ABOUT THIS REPORT · GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDICATOR INDEX G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part I. Profile disclosures IF APPLICABLE , REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER INDICATE THE PART EXPLANATION OMISSION NOT REPORTED 3.7 State any specific limitations on the There are no limitations on the scope or coverscope or boundary of the report. age of the notes to the financial statements. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can 154 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. When necessary, the data measurement 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the techniques and the bases of calculation are bases of calculations, including assumptions specified in the indicators throughout the and techniques underlying estimations applied notes to the financial statements. to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 154, 171 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 154, 171 (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). There have been no significant changes in connection with the scope, coverage or 3.11 Significant changes from previous methods of valuation applied to these notes reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or to the financial statements as compared to measurement methods applied in the report. the previous ones. 154, 171 3.12 Table identifying the location of the 156 Standard Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to 154 seeking external assurance for the report. 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific 96, 97, 98 tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the 14, 15, 96 organisation’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members 96 of the highest governance body who are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 90, 92, 96, 98, 124, 128 direction to the highest governance body. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 157 A N N U A L R E P O R T G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part I. Profile disclosures IF APPLICABLE , REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER INDICATE THE PART EXPLANATION OMISSION NOT REPORTED Board members are entailed to collect a per diem allowance based on their attendance to the Board of Directors’ meetings as well as to be paid the traveling expenses incurred 4.5 Linkage between compensation for to attend the meeting in compliance with members of the highest governance body, section 28 of Royal Decree 462/2002 of senior managers, and executives (including 24 May on compensation for services and departure arrangements), and the organisation’s section 9 of Law 5/2006 of 10 April governing performance (including the conflicts of interest of the Government social and environmental performance). members and high positions of the General Administration of the State. 116, 123 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest 96 are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its 96 committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 86, 90, 92, 93, 94 social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks 90, 93, 96, 97, 98 and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 96 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle 99, 124, 135, 136, 149, 150, 151 is addressed by the organisation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 128, 129, 130, 131 or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 132 international advocacy organisations which the organisation supports. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 158 ABOUT THIS REPORT · GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDICATOR INDEX G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part I. Profile disclosures IF APPLICABLE , REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER INDICATE THE PART EXPLANATION OMISSION NOT REPORTED 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 92 organisation. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection 92 of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 92, 96, 97, 98, 110, 124, 149, 150, 151, 154 type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those 110, 111, 124, 128, 131, 149, 150, 151 key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Standard disclosures part II. Disclosures on management approach (DMAS) IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER EXPLANATION REPORTED PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Economic performance. 18, 20, 99 Market presence. 4, 5, 12, 13, 16, 85 Indirect economic impacts. 99 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Materials. 142 Energy. 138, 139, 140, 141 Water. 137 COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 159 A N N U A L R E P O R T G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part II. Disclosures on management approach (DMAS) IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN Ineco does not operate in any area with high biodiversity Biodiversity. NAp and therefore has no management approach to said issue. Emissions, effluents and waste. 137, 143, 144 As a service company, Ineco does not quantify products Products and services. NAp sold that are recovered at the end of their service life. Ineco strictly complies with current environmental standards. To do so, it hired and external legislation updating service reporting any news in the area. In addition, Ineco takes the legal Compliance. compliance evaluation on an annual basis in order to ensure that it meets all applicable regulations. Ineco also keeps the commitment of taking action helping to minimise the impact of its activity on the environment. Ineco causes no significant environmental impacts on Transport. NAp the transport of products and other goods. Overall. 136, 145 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK. DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Employment. 119, 120 Labour/management relations. 113, 114, 116, 117, 120, 124 Occupational health and safety. 124, 125 COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 160 ABOUT THIS REPORT · GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDICATOR INDEX G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part II. Disclosures on management approach (DMAS) IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN Training and education. 113, 114, 117 Diversity and equal opportunity. 120 Equal remuneration for women and men. 120 HUMAN RIGHTS. DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Investment and procurement practices. 90, 93, 94 Non-discrimination. 118, 120 Freedom of association and collective 123 bargaining. Owing to Ineco’s activity, there is no risk of child exploitation or forced and compulsory Child labour. labour. 89, 93 The indigenous people’s rights were not violated. Prevention of forced and compulsory labour. 89, 93 Security practices. 124, 125 The indigenous people’s rights were not violated. Indigenous rights. 89, 93 Assessment. 89, 94, 98, 128 Remediation. 89, 94, 98, 128 SOCIETY. DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Local communities. 127 Corruption. 93, 94 Public policy. 92, 93, 94, 99 Anti-competitive behaviour. 92, 99 Ineco strictly meets current regulations and it takes a step further with its “Integrity, TransCompliance. parency and Commitment Standard”. 90 COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 161 A N N U A L R E P O R T G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part II. Disclosures on management approach (DMAS) IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN PRODUCT RESPONSABILITY. DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APROACHPR Customer health and safety. 108, 109 No labelling required. Products Product and service labelling. NAp and services comply with regulations. Marketing communications. 110 Customer privacy. 103 Owing to Ineco’s activity, no labelling is necessary. Current standards are strictly met. Compliance. 90 Standard disclosures part III. Performance indicators ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC-1. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 99, 100 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC-2. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Given Ineco’s activity, there are no risks or operating costs, employee compensation, opportunities related to climatic change. donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to 103, 104, 105, 107, 143, 146 capital providers and governments. Ineco does not include, within its EC-3. Coverage of the organisation’s NAp coverage, defined benefit plan obligations. retirement schemes or programmes. EC-4. Significant financial assistance 97, 104 received from government. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 162 ABOUT THIS REPORT · GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDICATOR INDEX G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part III. Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN Market presence EC-5. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum 119, 123 wage at significant locations of operation. EC-6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers 119, 149, 151 at significant locations of operation. In the case of local resident hires, Ineco acts under the legislation effective in each EC-7. Procedures for local hiring and proportion country observing the 10 principles of the of senior management hired from the local Global Compact. community at significant locations of operation. No top executive from the local community has been hired in 2013. Indirect economic impacts The company continued to support its main clients and shoulders (ADIF, AENA and RENEC-8. Development and impact of FE) as well as other Spanish and international infrastructure investments and services clients in launching their investment plans provided primarily for public benefit in transport infrastructures by rendering through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono specialised technical services although it has engagement. not done so through its own investment due to the nature of its activity. EC-9. Understanding and describing 127 significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL Materials 137, 142 EN-01. Materials used, by weight or volume. During 2013, Ineco has not acquired any EN-02. Percentage of materials used recovered materials such as recycled paper that are recycled input materials. or toner, as recommended by the printer manufacturers. Energy EN-03. Direct energy consumption by primary 138, 139, 140 energy source. EN-04. Indirect energy consumption by primary 141 source. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 163 A N N U A L R E P O R T G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part III. Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN EN-05. Energy saved due to conservation 138, 140, 107 and efficiency improvements. EN-06. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and 138, 140 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN-07. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 105, 107, 141 consumption and reductions achieved. Water EN-08. Total water withdrawal by source. 137 EN-09. Water sources significantly No superficial or underground water is used. affected by withdrawal of water. EN-10. Percentage and total volume Owing to the nature of Ineco’s activity, water of water recycled and reused. is neither reused nor recycled. Biodiversity EN-11. Location and size of land owned, None of Ineco’s present facilities –both leased, managed in, or adjacent to, owned or leased– are located in or adjacent protected areas and areas of high to any protected natural spaces or unprotectbiodiversity value outside protected areas. ed high biodiversity areas. EN-12. Description of significant Owing to the indications above, Ineco’s impacts of activities, products, and activities do not impact directly on services on biodiversity in protected biodiversity. areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 135 In 2013, Ineco’s activities did not affect any EN-13. Habitats protected or restored. protected or restored habitats. Due to Ineco’s type of activity, it is not necessary to implement a specific strategy to prevent, manage or restore any natural habEN-14. Strategies, current actions, and future itat damages but it is incorporated into the plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. environmental policy and the environmental management system implemented at the company. EN-15. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species Ineco’s activities do no impact on any habitat with habitats in areas affected by with species included in the IUCN Red List. operations, by level of extinction risk. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 164 ABOUT THIS REPORT · GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDICATOR INDEX G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part III. Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN Emissions, effluents, and waste EN-16. Total direct and indirect 143 greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN-17. Other relevant indirect 143 greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN-18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse 140, 141, 143 gas emissions and reductions achieved. Ineco does not have this type of substance in EN-19. Emissions of ozone-depleting its heating and air conditioning or in its fire substances by weight. extinguishing installations. Ineco is an engineering services company; EN-20. NO, SO, and other significant consequently it does not issue significant air emissions by type and weight. amounts of this type of pollutant in its operations. Given Ineco’s nature, no residual water is EN-21. Total water discharge by quality and poured except for the sanitary water from the destination. offices which are drained into the municipal sewage system. EN-22. Total weight of waste by type and 144 disposal method. EN-23. Total number and volume of significant 146 spills. EN-24. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex 144 I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. All of the company’s water is poured into EN-25. Identity, size, protected status, and the sewage network. No water poured that biodiversity value of water bodies and related could significantly affect the hydric resources habitats significantly affected by the reporting or related environments was identified apart organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. from the above. Products and services EN-26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of 135, 136, 146 impact mitigation. As a service provider company, the quantification EN-27. Percentage of products sold and their of sold packaging materials that are reclaimed by NAv products category. retrieved at the end of their useful life is not applicable. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 165 A N N U A L R E P O R T G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part III. Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN Compliance EN-28. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Ineco has not been penalised or fined for noncompliance with environmental laws and failing to meet environmental regulations. regulations. Transport 140, 141, 143 EN-29. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Ineco is not responsible for any significant materials used for the organisation’s operations, environmental impact as a result of the and transporting members of the workforce. transport of products or other goods. Overall EN-30. Total environmental protection 146 expenditures and investments by type. SOCIAL: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment LA-1. Total workforce by employment 119, 120, 121 type, employment contract, and region. LA-2. Total number and rate of employee 114, 115, 119 turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA-3. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 120 part-time employees, by major operations. LA-15. Return to work and retention rates after 120, 122 parental leave by gender. Labour/management relations LA-4. Percentage of employees covered by 123 collective bargaining agreements. As provided for in the Workers’ Statute: 30 LA-5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding days in the event of group dismissal and operational changes, including whether it is transfer and 15 in the event of a substantial specified in collective agreements. modification of the working conditions. Occupational health and safety LA-6. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees that 123 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 166 ABOUT THIS REPORT · GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDICATOR INDEX G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part III. Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN The prevention service takes care of following up on long-term leaves, high absenteeism rates, accident rates, etc. In 2013 the occupational disease and accidents rate was 1.0%, 0.9% for men and 0.1% for women. There have been no accidents resulting in death. LA-7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, In 2013 the lost time injury frequency rate in lost days, and absenteeism, and number Spain was 27.2 days, out of which 25.0 relate of work-related fatalities by region. to men and 2.2 relate to women. The data in other regions is immaterial. The absenteeism rate in Spain in 2013 was 2,696.3, out of which 1,218.7 related to men and 1,477.6 related to women. Outside Spain the data was immaterial. See Clarifying Notes. LA-8. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place 117 to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA-9. Health and safety topics covered in 123, 124, 125 formal agreements with trade unions. Training and education LA-10. Average hours of training per year per 117 employee by employee category. LA-11. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 117 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA-12. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 116 reviews by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity 14, 15, 120, 122 LA-13. Composition of governance bodies In 2013, out of Ineco’s total headcount, 0.4% and breakdown of employees per category was disabled workers. according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. In 2013, Ineco’s foreign employees accounted for 1.1% out of the total headcount. Equal remuneration for women and men LA-14. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration women to men by employee category, by 123 2013 significant locations of operation. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 167 A N N U A L R E P O R T G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part III. Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN Investment and procurement practices HR-1. Percentage and total number of significant Owing to Ineco’s activity, the entity does not investment agreements and contracts that make any significant investments. include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone 93, 128 human rights screening. HR-2. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that 149, 150, 151 have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR-3. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects 117, 128 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination In 2013 no incidents have taken place in this HR-4. Total number of incidents of discrimination area at INECO. and corrective actions taken. 128 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Owing to Ineco’s activity there are no operHR-5. Operations and significant suppliers ations that put at risk the right to freedom identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association or the right to adhere to of association and collective bargaining may be collective bargaining agreements. violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 123 Child labour Owing to Ineco’s activity, there is no risk of HR-6. Operations and significant suppliers child exploitation or forced and compulsory identified as having significant risk for incidents labour. of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. 93 Forced and compulsory labour HR-7. Operations and significant suppliers Owing to Ineco’s activity, there is no risk of identified as having significant risk for child exploitation or forced and compulsory incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and labour. measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. 93 Security practices HR-8. Percentage of security personnel Ineco hires security services at its P° de la trained in the organisation’s policies or Habana offices. The companies hired need procedures concerning aspects of human to have personnel trained in the respect and rights that are relevant to operations. defence of human rights. Indigenous rights HR-9. Total number of incidents of violations No incident has taken place in connection involving rights of indigenous people and with the violation of the rights of indigenous actions taken. people. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 168 ABOUT THIS REPORT · GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDICATOR INDEX G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part III. Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN Assessment Ineco has not performed a formal or docuHR-10. Percentage and total number of mented evaluation of the impacts related to operations that have been subject to human human rights since it does not consider it a rights reviews and/or impact assessments. risk given its activity Remediation HR-11. Number of grievances related to Given the nature of Ineco’s activity, human human rights filed, addressed, and resolved rights violations are not deemed to be a risk. through formal grievance mechanisms. SOCIETY Local communities SO-1. Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programmes to assess and manage the 90, 127, 128 impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating and existing. SO-9. Operations with significant potential or 127, 129, 131 actual negative impacts on local communities. SO-10. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant 119, 127, 129, 135 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO-2. Percentage and total number of business 94 units analysed for risks related to corruption. SO-3. Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and 90, 94 procedures. SO-4. Actions taken in response to incidents of 90, 94, 98 corruption. Public policy Ineco does not engage in lobbying activities SO-5. Public policy positions and participation either in Spain or abroad. in public policy development and lobbying. 110, 132 SO-6. Total value of financial and in-kind No contribution in cash or kind has been contributions to political parties, politicians, made to any political parties or related and related institutions by country. entities in any country. Anti-competitive behaviour SO-7. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and No action of this type has taken place. monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO-8. Monetary value of significant fines and No penalties or fines have been imposed on total number of non-monetary sanctions for Ineco in connection with this type of practice noncompliance with laws and regulations. in 2013. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 169 A N N U A L R E P O R T G3.1 CONTENT INDEX | Standard disclosures part III. Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE , TO BE INDICATE THE REASON FOR DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER PART EXPLANATION REPORTED OMISSION NOT REPORTED IN PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety PR-1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of 109, 146 significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR-2. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and There has been no incident of this kind in voluntary codes concerning health and safety 2013. impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR-3. Type of product and service information Ineco is a services company; the products required by procedures, and percentage of it generates and delivers to its clients are significant products and services subject to technical documents. such information requirements. PR-4. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and No non-compliance has been reported. service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR-5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 110, 111 measuring customer satisfaction. Comunicaciones de marketing PR-6. Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related 90 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR-7. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, No incident has been reported. including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR-8. Total number of substantiated There has been no claim regarding client complaints regarding breaches of customer personal data leaks or privacy. privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR-9. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations There has been no penalisation in this regard concerning the provision and use of products in 2013. and services. COMPLETE NOT REPORTED NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material 170 ABOUT THIS REPORT · GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDICATOR INDEX CLARIFYING notes CHANGES REGARDING THE INFORMATION IN in kilos instead of in units, which allows comparing data to THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 2012 those for the prior year. In the Waste management section included in the chapter The information on cash flows reported in the chapter Committed to the environment, the difference between Ethical integrity, section Economic Aspect, has been the amount of non-hazardous waste generated in 2013 amended. is not representative as compared to those generated The figure related to the cash flows from investment in 2012 since the data for 2013 are not comparable with activities for 2012 has been retroactively changed as a result those for prior years. This arises from the fact that in 2011 of the reclassification of amounts required by the financial and 2012 an estimation was prepared of the amount of auditors who performed the 2013 audit. paper-cardboard based on the number of containers while in 2013 Ineco has the actual figure (provided by the waste The net increase in cash for 2012 was also modified as a manager picking it up). result of this change. In the Waste management section included in the chapter A new item was included in the balance sheet reported in Committed to the environment it has not been possible the chapter Ineco at a glance: “Short-term investments to compare the toner waste generation data for 2013 with readily convertible into cash”, which was not reported in prior that from prior years as the supplier was changed and the years. In addition, the figure in “debt securities” for 2012 was prior data was stated in units while that for 2013 is stated changed retroactively regarding the one provided in the based on weight. annual report for that year owing to the above-mentioned reclassification of amounts (required by the financial In We get involved in respecting the environment in the auditors). Therefore, the figures of “total current assets” and chapter Committed to the environment the difference “total assets” reported in 2012 do not match those included between the environmental investments and expenses in this report. of 2013 and 2012 results from the fact that in 2012 it was not possible to account for some items which were Finally, two new items were included in the profit and loss actually considered in 2013 as in the case of the updating account reported in the chapter Ineco at a Glance for the of environmental legislation, waste management and first time this year: “Losses and impairment of fixed assets” expenses related to the water, which amount to 54,807.32 €. and “Changes in the fair value of financial instruments.” Clarifying note to LA-7. The value of the electric consumption (GJ) reported in 2012 was modified in the section Responsible use of resources, The following item data was used in the calculations: Electric power included in the chapter Committed to the environment. This is owing to the fact that, after the date Hours = accumulated Total hours of the 2012 Annual Report drafting, an invoice from the average payroll worked in 4,433,185.41 corrected in 2013* provider company related to the Bull building was received 2013 and this entailed a small increase in the consumption time bank (1,772.8) booked until that time. Hours = accumulated The value of the heating gasoil (litres) reported in 2012 was Total days average payroll modified in the section Responsible use of resources, Heating worked in 547,646.441 corrected in 2013* 2013 consumption included in the chapter Committed to the working days (2013) environment. Final consumption totalled 6,955 litres instead of 5,800 litres. Factor = 50 weeks* Factor 200,000 40 working hours + CLARIFYING NOTES TO THE 2013 REPORT 100 employees In the Responsible use of resources, Toner the amount of Upon calculating all the lost days we considered the toner consumed is estimated based on the data of the used working days from the beginning to the end of the leave. up toner generated and only for the Madrid facilities. Also, since in February 2013 Ineco changed its suppliers collecting The regulation system applied in the accidents record and and managing toners, the information obtained was booked communication is the Delt@ system. 171 A N N U A L R E P O R T 172 CMYK / 100 43 41 13 www.ineco.com
