 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Contents  Managing Director’s Statement WHO WE ARE (The Group) 5 | The Company 7 | Worldwide 9 | Our People WHAT WE DO (Headquarters) 13 | Human Rights 15 | Labour Rights 17 | Environment 19 | Anti-corruption Managing Director’s Statement Intracom Telecom is fully aligned with the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to conducting our business in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner, safeguarding pollution prevention, providing excellent workplace conditions for our employees and serving the communities in which we operate. Our company is strongly committed to the CSR development in Greece by being a member of Global Compact Network Hellas and CSR Hellas. Sustainable development and technological advancement with societal impact constitute our corporate goals which are embraced by all levels of management within our company and are reflected to our policies. In the current Corporate Social Responsibility report, we present the corporate headquarters’ policies against the ten principles. One of our major objectives for 2016 is to disseminate the ten principles of the Global Compact in our biggest subsidiary company, Intrarom, and continue acting as a responsible corporate citizen. Mohamed Ahmed Managing Director Intracom Telecom  WHO WE ARE THE COMPANY  The Company Intracom Telecom is a global telecommunication systems and solutions vendor operating for over 35 years in the market. The company was derived from Intracom, a company that began operating in 1977 in Athens, Greece, manufacturing and assembling telecommunication equipment to address domestic needs. In 2005, Intracom was transformed into a holding company and the telecommunications business unit became a company under the name Intracom Telecom. During its nearly four decades of history, the company has successfully participated in major ICT projects worldwide and has received awards and distinctions for its technologies and work environment. Today, the Intracom Telecom Group employs approx 1,900 highly-skilled professionals and operates own R&D and production facilities. Its subsidiaries span across Europe, Russia & the CIS, the Middle East & Africa, Asia and North America. Intracom Telecom has extensive know-how and a proven track record in the telecommunications market, serving more than 100 renowned customers in over 70 countries. The company develops and provides products, solutions and professional services primarily for fixed and mobile telecom operators, public authorities and large public and private enterprises. The company’s core business offerings include: • Wireless Access & Transmission • Telco Software Solutions • ICT Services & Solutions • Renewable & Energy Management Solutions • eHealth Services Intracom Telecom is strongly committed to the values of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and contributes to CSR principles through its policies. The company is a member of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility, actively supporting the growth and advancement of CSR in Greece. It is also a member of the Global Compact Network Hellas, a United Nations strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption.  Subsidiaries / Offices R&D Facilities Production Facilities WHO WE ARE WORLDWIDE  Worldwide Intracom Telecom delivers successful telecommunication solutions to partners and clients worldwide. The company’s portfolio reaches over 70 countries throughout the world, with a focus on Southeast Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Internationally, Intracom Telecom operates and maintains subsidiaries and offices in Albania, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), India, Moldova, Morocco, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, South Africa, Syria, the United Arab Emirates, and the USA. 19 countries 65% international activities 30% of personnel abroad WHO WE ARE OUR PEOPLE  Our People Intracom Telecom recognizes that human capital is the key to success in today’s business environment. The Group’s highly specialized and experienced employees are pivotal to achieving demanding objectives and advancing the capabilities of the Group to better serve its customers. Intracom Telecom offers a fast-paced, success-oriented and rewarding working environment fuelled by the talent and skills of its people who are among the best in the industry. Employee distribution by Education  Postgraduate Studies 25% 47%  (PhD, MSc)  University / Technological  Educational Institute  High school / Technical  school / College 28% Function Supply Chain 3.5% Commercial 7.5% Administration 10% Production 10.5% R&D 18% Implementation 50.5% Gender 25% 75% 10 WHAT WE DO (HEADQUARTERS) HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION 11 12 Intracom Telecom fully considers and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the relevant national and European legislation. €190,000+ 270+ in charities(1) PCs donated(1) WHAT WE DO HUMAN RIGHTS 13 Human Rights Health & Safety (OHSAS 18001:2007) standard Support to children and people in need Intracom Telecom implements its Occupational Health and Safety Since 2005, Intracom Telecom has focused its financial support Management System according to the OHSAS 18001:2007 on non-profit organizations which provide protection and care to standard. This standard ensures that all Health & Safety social groups in need, especially children. Until today, the company regulations are strictly followed in the workplace, enables the has spent more than 190,000€ in total on charities. In 2015, the company to identify and control Occupational Health and Safety company, in collaboration with the Association of Paraplegic and risks, to prepare Emergency Response plans, and to improve Handicapped of Pellas Prefecture, participates in the initiative of overall performance. exchanging used plastic seals with wheel chairs. Social Accountability (SA 8000:2008) standard Voluntary blood donation Intracom Telecom is also certified with the SA 8000:2008 Twice a year, the company organises a voluntary blood donation (Social Accountability) standard. This standard ensures the day at the doctor’s office operating at the corporate premises, existence of an excellent and safe working environment. For giving employees the opportunity to offer blood and save other both standards, the company undergoes an audit twice a year people’s lives. In 2015, 122 blood units were collected. by external auditors (Bureau Veritas SA) and is recertified every three years. Participation in young generation’s education Intracom Telecom plays a dynamic role in educating young Corporate procedures scientists by offering university graduates the opportunity to Written corporate procedures, system manuals and directives participate in research projects as part of their thesis and fulfill are compliant with UNGC principals and requirements of OHSAS their industrial placement in the company’s departments, sharing 18001 and SA 8000 standards. The respective documents the latest developments in cutting-edge technology. In 2015, are published in the corporate portal and are available to all more than 40 students completed their industrial placement at employees and interested parties on line. Also, new employees the company’s premises. are informed about human rights corporate procedures and policies through induction seminars during their first working Participation in scientific research days. The company is involved in national and European research projects whose main aim is the technological advancement along Open-door policy with the creation of high quality and high level value-added jobs An open-door policy has been established where employees in Europe in new business areas. The latest award Intracom can report grievances to upper management and to the Human Telecom’s research engineers received, was in October 2015, at Resources Director. No grievance has been filed for this year. the 40 th Anniversary of the IEEE Conference on Local Computer Networks (LCN 2015). SmartenIT, an FP7 research project which Suppliers’ audits Intracom Telecom participated, had been awarded the Best Intracom Telecom performs semi-annual audits to suppliers Demo Award for the demonstration entitled “WiFi Offloading and regarding, among other issues, human rights and labour rights. Socially Aware Prefetching on Augmented Home Routers”. This Furthermore, in its General Purchasing Conditions, the company research prototype allows for the WiFi roaming of end users requests from its suppliers to uphold a code of conduct aligned and the prefetching of audiovisual content for better end-user with the principles of UN Global Compact on human rights, experience based purely on information shared through social labour, environment and anti-corruption principles. networks, enabling the users to stay “always connected”. Access to knowledge The company enables schools and non-profit organizations to have access to knowledge and educational resources by offering personal computers. Until today, more than 270 PCs have been donated to schools and non-profit organizations in Greece. (1) Since 2005. 14 Intracom Telecom abides by local legislation as well as endorses the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 6,856 291 training hours employees WHAT WE DO LABOUR RIGHTS 15 Labour Rights Social Accountability (SA 8000:2008) standard Employee benefits The company has been one of the first Greek companies to The company supports the well-being of its employees by be certified by SA 8000 standard. This standard ensures the providing the following fringe benefits: existence of an excellent and safe working environment in which • Free medical insurance plan non-discriminatory policies are applied, equal opportunities are • Free transportation on corporate buses through central offered to all employees irrespective of gender, age, nationality routes and religion, employee trade union rights are respected, and • One-month paid vacation for parents health and safety procedures are faithfully adhered to. • Free parking on company premises Human Resources Management System Freedom of Association The company has also established an Integrated Human The company practices freedom of association and recognizes Resources Management System which includes the following the right to collective bargaining. The Employees’ Union was sub-systems: recruitment & succession planning, career established in 1984 and has been active ever since with around development, performance appraisal, rewards management 70% of employees being members. and training and development. The Integrated Human Resources Management System aligns with the corporate principles of Open-door policy equal opportunities and meritocracy by which employees The “open-door” policy, according to which employees can are paid equally for the same job, irrespectively of sex, race, raise issues to upper management any time, facilitates physical ability etc. The employees are rewarded according to transparency and direct communication among all the hierarchy their performance and their contribution to the achievement of levels. Employees are appreciative of the harmonious working company’s goals. Employees’ promotions are done once a year environment, a proof of which is the fact that no serious as part of the annual performance appraisal procedure. Hiring employees’ grievances have been filed with the HR Director is based on meritocracy and criteria like academic qualifications during the last year. and skills and it is done through written exams by an assessment center, organized regularly. Corporate portal Employees are continuously updated through the corporate Lifelong learning portal, bulletin boards, e-mail, staff meetings and publications. Intracom Telecom’s philosophy focuses on the lifelong learning of its employees and the attraction of highly qualified employees in Greece and abroad. Within this framework, the company provides its employees with continuous training (in-house and external), determined by the challenges they have to face regarding their job. In 2015, 6,856 training hours were invested on 291 employees. 16 Intracom Telecom supports the UNGC principles on environment and has been monitoring the environmental impact of its activities since its establishment. 4,998 tn 90% CO2 emissions of waste are non-hazardous WHAT WE DO ENVIRONMENT 17 Environment Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004) Restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in Intracom Telecom is committed to conducting its business in electrical and electronic equipment an environmentally sound and sustainable manner and takes Intracom Telecom has taken all necessary steps to ensure that precautionary measures to protect the environment and its products comply with the EU directive on the restriction minimize any negative environmental impacts that may result of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and from its daily operations. The company defines and documents electronic equipment (recast RoHS directive 2011/65/EU). identification and evaluation methods of all environmental aspects of its operations and their associated impacts. Evaluation Greenhouse gas emissions is performed against predefined criteria including legislative and Intracom Telecom calculates and monitors greenhouse gas other regulatory requirements. Emergency Response Plans are emissions produced from the company’s activities, using designed to secure prevention and mitigation of the associated internationally approved calculation standards for greenhouse environmental impacts. gas emissions such as “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol” etc. In The company has established an Environmental Management 2015, the CO2 emissions were 4,998 tones(2)(3). For the fifth System (EMS) which is certified in accordance with the consecutive year Intracom Telecom, participated to the Carbon international standard ΙSΟ 14001:2004 and is integrated with Disclosure Project (CDP) initiative and reported on its carbon the ISO 9001:2008 (Quality), OHSAS 18001:2007 (Health footprint. and Safety) and SA 8000:2008 (Social Accountability) based Management Systems. The company is subject to assessments Energy saving by an independent certification body for its compliance with Intracom Telecom has undertaken a line of action that the abovementioned standards. The company seeks continual contributes to energy saving and the minimization of climate improvement by setting specific environmental objectives based change impacts. Indicatively, the company performs preventive on identified environmental impacts and by monitoring and maintenance on equipment and electrical networks, regulates documenting the achievement of these objectives. electrical parameters, operates building service equipment (e.g. air-conditioning units, lifts etc.) in an environment friendly Intracom Telecom recognizes that environmental responsibility manner, uses video-conference equipment, which reduces the is crucial to its long-term success. Developing, manufacturing number of business trips required, uses integrated information and marketing products that are not energy demanding and that systems aiming to restrict the consumption of paper, hires can be reused, recycled or disposed of safely along with using coaches for the transportation of personnel from central points environment-friendly manufacturing methods and enhancing in the city to Intracom Telecom’s premises, etc. employee awareness and training, contribute to its aim towards sustainable development. Ecological design of products Intracom Telecom is paying close attention to the latest trend Participation to Collective Alternative Management Systems developments in the ICT field, and keeps its personnel informed Procedures for recycling and reusing materials are applied at all and aware on the fundamentals and practices of ecological facilities. The company participates in the nationwide Collective design. Indicatively, design fundamentals concern: Alternative Management System“RECYCLING” (organized by • the reduction of the use of material that is harmful to the “HE.R.R.CO”) for the collection, sorting and recycling of used environment and the promotion of the use of recycled packaging materials and in the Collective System for the materials where technically and economically feasible; operation of Alternative Management of WEEE in Greece • the capability of repairing and upgrading of products in order “APPLIANCES RECYCLING S.A.”, fully adhering to the EU directive to extend their lifespan; on waste electrical and electronic equipment (recast WEEE • the capability of products to be fully or partially disassembled directive 2012/19/EU). and reused aiming to facilitate the recycling process and reduce the volume of waste; Waste management • the provision of instructions for the end-user regarding the Intracom Telecom’s waste is collected by authorized companies. management of equipment at the end of its lifecycle, etc. Indicatively, waste includes used electrical and electronic equipment (e.g. PCs of no further use, rejected finished or Personnel environmental awareness semi-finished products, etc.), building installation lighting, nonIntracom Telecom aims to increase its personnel environmental usable cables, metals (e.g. iron, aluminum, etc.), timber (e.g. awareness through induction activities, reviews and audits. pallets, wooden reels, etc.), packaging waste, (e.g. cardboard, Employees are informed about the company’s environmental plastic bags, etc.), printed material, lead batteries (e.g. from policy, and relevant activities and initiatives, such as the waste uninterruptible power supply units-UPS), small batteries, etc. management processes implemented, during the induction Depending on their physical and chemical properties, waste seminar at the beginning of their employment. Notifications and produced is collected by authorized companies and delivered to reminders to the personnel are circulated and published in the authorized facilities for provisional storage, sorting, recycling, company’s intranet. treatment, recovery or disposal. In 2015, the tonnage of nonhazardous waste was 69 tn while the tonnage of hazardous waste was 8 tn(2). (2) Data available as of November 30, 2015. (3) From purchased diesel oil for heating combustion and purchased electricity. 18 Intracom Telecom recognizes and values integrity, excellence, innovation and customer satisfaction, and is committed to the highest standard of ethical behaviour in all its actions and decisions. Employee 0 Handbook disciplinary actions for corruption cases WHAT WE DO ANTI-CORRUPTION 19 Anti-Corruption Employee Handbook Complaint process The Employee Handbook (properly verified by the Greek Public Also, a complaint process, which is described in the company’s authorities) illustrates the policies and employees’ obligations. Employee Handbook, is in place. One of these obligations is that employees are not allowed to accept payments, gifts, bribes offered for their employment Internal audit services or obtain privileges or other benefits for themselves, or Auditing mechanisms, audit committees (permanent and ad on their relatives’ account. Employee Handbook is available to hoc) as well as internal control procedures are in place in order all employees through the corporate portal. Induction seminars to assure that risks are minimized and all activities are carried regarding company anti-corruption procedures and employee out in accordance with corporate policies handbook are organised for new employees at the beginning of their employment. Disciplinary actions Disciplinary actions are enforced when an employee violates provisions of Employee Handbook including, acceptance of payments, gifts, bribes. These actions are described in detail in the Company’s Employee Handbook. The disciplinary actions on employees are imposed by the Management of the Company. In 2015, no disciplinary actions were imposed on employees for corruption cases. 20 Intracom Telecom 19.7 km Markopoulou Ave., Peania, Athens, GR 19002 All information contained in this document is subject to change without prior notice. © 2015 Intracom S.A. Telecom Solutions t: +30 2106671000 | f: +30 2106671001 www.intracom-telecom.com
