REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Since Grupo Lamosa believes that it is very importDuring the fourth quarter of the year, Grupo Lamoant to report on the company’s social and environsa formally committed to the United Nations Global mental activities, as well as on financial aspects, for Compact, one of the world’s most important and the second consecutive year it is presenting a report effective sustainability initiatives that boasts more on sustainability. than 8,000 member companies from 135 nations. This entirely voluntary commitment implies an In 2014, in accordance with GRI (Global Reporting ongoing pledge to work to promote human rights, Initiative) guidelines, specific objectives were set for labor rights and environmental protection and to all economic, social and environmental indicators combat corruption. contained in Grupo Lamosa’s Sustainability Model. These objectives were disseminated across all levels Grupo Lamosa’s track record in the construction of the organization, enabling their appropriate impleindustry for more than a century would not have mentation and periodic monitoring. been impossible if, from the very beginning, the company had not placed sustainability as a focus of Important actions were implemented during the year its actions. This focus, incorporated into the comin this area, underscoring the company’s commitpany’s vision and strategy, has positioned it to meet ment to sustainable development and promoting a the demands of investors who expect an increasing culture of transparency and accountability toward amount of information on the social and environthe different stakeholders. mental effects of the company’s activities. 1 LAMOSA SUSTAINABILIT Y MODEL ACTION AREAS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Soc • Innovation in business model, products and processes Val elop ial Creue • • Creation of economic value Development of local suppliers Dev Investments in the community men atio n • t Quality ility of Life SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT tainab micnt • Quality of life for associates and their families • Respect for human rights and diversity S u s n o • Anti-corruption initiatives co me E elop ev Environmental • Social investment D Development Sta ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT iron • Innovation keh Env ental ction • Energy old m rote • Water • Reduction of emissions, spills and waste ers P • Product recovery STAKEHOLDERS Employees Stockholders/Investors Customers Suppliers and workers • Stockholders’ meetings • Focus groups • Evaluation of the work • Transparency line • Area of investor relations • Transparency line environment • Signing of agreements • Transparency line • Visits by commercial • Transparency line and clauses in favor advisors • Career development of human rights and • Meetings with analysts plans sustainability • Reports on results • Website • Development of local suppliers and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Communication Community Government Academia media • Transparency line • Participation in • Agreements related to • Press conferences • Donations program meetings and research projects • Participation in consultation forums on • Plant visits interviews and • Dialogs with neighbors sustainability reporting • Volunteer projects • Support for students • Relations with through work government agencies experience programs 2 SOURCING During 2014, Grupo Lamosa’s nationwide network of production facilities allowed it to continue to drive the development of new alternatives for the sourcing of goods and services in the regions where it operates. New suppliers of raw materials, such as clay, pallets and cardboard boxes, were incorporated during the year and the company made agreements with new suppliers of spare parts and services to satisfy the needs of its plants. • More than 90% of Grupo Lamosa’s suppliers are domestic. Grupo Lamosa, through institutions such as the Mexican Chamber of Industry (CAINTRA) and the Mexican Center for Competitiveness (CCMX), continued to actively participate in the promotion of programs for the development and professionalization of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs). In partnership with CCMX in Tlaxcala, Querétaro, Tizayuca and Monterrey, the company was involved in different kinds of advisory services and training events, with the participation of suppliers to the Wall and Floor Tiles and Adhesives Businesses. Participation of Grupo Lamosa suppliers in diploma courses and professionalization programs: 2013 2014 Main Topics Diploma Organizational culture, strategy, 10 6 Courses planning and innovation Administration, markets, finance, Advisory 21 27 business operating processes and Services human resources 3 Health Day at the Perdura AdBrigades and simulations at the Training in WSA techniques and machinery hesives Plant in Guadalajara Italgres II Tile Plant in Guanajuato risks at the Porcel Tile Plant in Tlaxcala HEALTH AND SAFETY • Brigades and Simulations. The company set During the year, all Grupo Lamosa’s production up safety brigades and held simulations to train facilities, across its different business units, presentemployees and workers in how to behave in ed clear objectives and goals for activities related to times of crisis, covering such topics as what to health and safety. do in a fire, first aid, evacuations, search and rescue, and the use and handling of extinguishThe main initiatives carried out in 2014 include: ers. In some cases, municipal and state author• Safety Week. Topics related to health and ities took part in the simulations, such as at best safety practices were promoted during the Benito Juárez Tile Plant where the initiative this event, which included campaigns for the involved the participation of Civil Protection and early detection of health problems, such as high the Health Ministry of the state of Nuevo León. blood pressure, cholesterol, color-blindness and diabetes. Some facilities, such as the Perdura • Sports Events. Sports events were held for Adhesives Plant in Guadalajara, received supoperating and administrative personnel, with port from government institutions, including the the promotion of family togetherness through Jalisco Health Ministry, the State Council against Family Day, Children’s Day, the Safety Week Addition and the State Council against Accidents Marathon, summer courses and family visits to and Disasters, for this initiative. work centers. • Safety Training. Grupo Lamosa personnel were trained in Work Safety Analysis (WSA) during 2014, helping them to identify potential workplace risks and develop solutions to eliminate or control these risks. Best practices were promoted in such areas as how to lift heavy objects and the use of masks and safety glasses. Sports events at the Kerámika Tile Plant in the state of Tlaxcala 4 2014 Loyalty Recognition Event Grupo Lamosa retirees visit the Benito Juárez Tile Plant DIVERSITY The company’s workforce includes handicapped The implementation of personnel recruiting and employees and workers. selection practices based solely on the requirements of the different jobs in question has given the comNo. of Kind of handicap Area people pany’s workforce diversity and the flexibility to adapt Enameling, effectively to the changing environment. Physical, motor, 7 furnaces and visual or auditory warehouse Grupo Lamosa Personnel During 2014, Grupo Lamosa held a ceremony to 2014 2013 recognize workers and employees with 10 or more Employees Union Workers Total Total years of service, thanking them for their efforts Total 2,220 3,380 5,600 5,521 and dedication and promoting employee and personnel worker loyalty. Men 1,716 3,052 4,768 4,762 Women 504 328 832 759 In addition, different events were held to recognize By age range Less than 1 45 46 44 the participation of women in the company’s opera20 years old tions and the contribution of retired workers to the 20-29 years 428 1,185 1,613 1,518 growth of the organization. 30-39 years 958 1,341 2,299 2,106 40-49 years 536 685 1,221 1,364 50-59 years 272 115 387 461 More than 25 9 34 28 60 years old Nationality Mexican 2,208 3,380 5,588 5,517 Other 12 0 12 4 The Mexican Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare • Implementation of actions and initiatives to recognized the Pavilion Tile Plant in Tlaxcala as an promote a culture of inclusion. “Inclusive Company.” 5 Code of Ethics We are all Lamosa Training on carrying heavy loads at the Italgres II Tile Plant in Guanajuato CORRUPTION TRAINING In order to promote the values and principles included To guarantee equal opportunities and in accordance in the Grupo Lamosa Code of Ethics, during the year with Grupo Lamosa’s employee and worker developdiverse activities were held to strengthen institutional ment plans, during 2014 personnel from the differpractices in relation to conflicts of interest and coment business units participated in training programs plaints mechanisms. on topics related to their work area and focused on the competencies they require to carry out their • Lamosa personnel reiterated their written different function. commitment to abide by the guidelines of the Code of Ethics. 2013 2014 • People who were new to the company were given Hours of training 115,726 133,451 instruction on the standards of conduct that they Amount invested (millions of Ps $ 9.4 Ps $ 4.9 Mexican pesos) must observe while working at Grupo Lamosa. • Electronic complaints mechanisms related to HUMAN RIGHTS the Transparency Line were improved during Grupo Lamosa is committed to voluntarily aligning the year. its strategies and operations to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Being a member of Complaints handled Complaints related through the to acts of corruption the Global Compact means the company endorsTransparency Line handled during the es the principles of the agreement and promotes year a culture of transparency and accountability in 2013 101 34 human rights, labor rights, corruption and environ2014 97 27 mental protection. Adhesion to the United Nations Global Compact in 2014 6 Personnel from the Crest Santa Clara Plant enjoying time with Personnel from the Perdura Plant in Guadalajara visiting and children at the Center for Children’s Adaptation and Attention helping to repair the facilities of the Escalar Children’s Home (CAYAM) SOCIAL INVESTMENT Grupo Lamosa’s sustainability objectives for 2014 defined a wide range of volunteer and social investment projects focused on helping the company’s neighboring communities. These initiatives were implemented with the active participation of personnel from the different plants and company support. Personnel from the Porcel Tile Plant helping to repair a nursery school in San Marcos Contla, Tlaxcala Business Plant Project Location Activities Support for the Center Administrative and operating personnel took Santa Catarina Nuevo Adhesives for Children’s Adaptation part in Children’s Day activities and helped Crest Plant León and Attention (CAYAM) distribute toys to more than 50 children. Employees and workers collected food, Tizayuca Support for the Rosas Adhesives Hidalgo clothes and toys for 70 mistreated, abandoned Crest Plant Rojas Children’s Home or orphaned children. Plant personnel took part in walland fenceGuadalajara Support for the Escalar painting activities at the Escalar Children’s Adhesives Jalisco Perdura Plant Children’s Home Home (dedicated to the rehabilitation of at-risk children). Chihuahua Renovation of a local Plant personnel donated materials Adhesives Chihuahua Niasa Plant primary school and labor for school repair. Navojoa Support for the San Juan Plant personnel visited senior Adhesives Sonora Niasa Plant de Dios Home citizens with motor difficulties. Tlaxcala Renovation of a local Plant personnel helped to repair Tiles Tlaxcala Porcel Plant pre-school a pre-school in San Marcos Contla. In coordination with the San Luis Teolocholco Tlaxcala Pavillion Participation in a food municipal authorities, plant personnel took Tiles Tlaxcala Tile Plant bank program part in a program for donating food to people in a vulnerable position. Plant personnel visited an Old People’s Tlaxcala Visit to the Edad de Oro Tiles Tlaxcala Home in San Judas Tadeo, with a population Kerámika Plant Old People’s Home of 80 people. Participation in Plant personnel took part in activities of San Luis Potosí San Luis Tiles activities of the Rino-Q the Rino-Q Foundation to help children with Tile Plant Potosí Foundation burn injuries. 7 ENERGY, WATER AND CO2 EMISSIONS Grupo Lamosa continues to take part voluntarily in In 2014, Grupo Lamosa carried out and evaluated the Mexican National Environmental Audit Program. activities and projects to enhance its energy efficienIn 2014, the Kerámica Tile Plant in the state of Tlaxcala cy, including: was certified as a Clean Industry. • Cogeneration systems. During the year, the company implemented initiatives • The use of electricity from renewable sources. across its different businesses to identify areas of oppor• The implementation of recommendations in tunity for reducing the consumption of wooden pallets. energy diagnostics. • The installation of LED lighting. • In conjunction with a client from the Home Centers channel, the Tlaxcala tile business During the year, a battery collection and recycling introduced a program for recycling pallets. campaign (Ponte las Pilas Lamosa – 2014) was insti• The Niasa Adhesives Plant in Navojoa tuted at the company’s plants and offices in Nuevo introduced a pallet reuse program, reducing León, with the active participation of employees consumption by 10%. and workers. PRODUCT RECOVERY Total number of Environmental impact All Grupo Lamosa plants operate with programs for batteries collected recovering materials in accordance with internally es817 million liters of water * 4,892 tablished procedures. At its corporate headquarters, in (that were not contaminated) * Estimation based on one alkaline battery contaminating 2014 the company continued the program for recycling 167 liters of water. paper, cardboard, aluminum and PET in conjunction with Copamex Reciclados. Grupo Lamosa continued its reforestation activities in 2014, with personnel from the Crest Plant in Gua2013 2014 dalajara, together with their families, planting trees Wood 1,104,626 898,790 in the Centinela Forest in Jalisco in partnership with Cardboard / paper 932,750 832,961 the Mexican National Forestry Commission and the Metal 540,895 424,451 Zapopan municipal authorities. Plastics 242,400 225,623 Other 55,668 30,213 Total material • 450 trees planted. 2,876,339 2,412,038 recovered (Kg) 8
