2014 LSIS Sustainability Report LS Tower, 127, LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-Do, 431-848, Korea www.lsis.com About This Report Contents About This Report 02 2014 Sustainability Management Highlights 04 LSIS aims to use this report as a guide for sustainable growth. Therefore, we have worked to provide balanced information on our economic, social, and CEO’s Message 06 environmental performances and tried to introduce our various sustainability COO’s Message 08 activities for the past year in response to stakeholder requirements. We plan to continue sharing our growth through our annual sustainability report. Overview Corporate Profile 12 Reporting Period Global Business 16 This report covers our sustainability activities and performances from January 1 through December 31, 2014 and in some cases, historical data in 2012, 2013 and Business Portfolio 18 current data in the first half of 2015 have been included. Green Business Scope and Boundary Smart Grid 22 We aimed to report major status and performances in the aspects of economy (based Energy Efficiency Enhancement 24 on K-IFRS), society and environment of the domestic business sites in principle, but included overseas business sites when necessary. Integrated sustainability management Reporting and Assurance Standards Sustainability Management System 28 This report was prepared in accordance with categories outlined in the GRI G4 Guidelines. To ensure reliability and enhance quality, the report has undergone Materiality Test 30 executive team review and received independent 3rd party assurance. The details of Customer Satisfaction 34 the Independent Assurance Report can be found in the Appendix. Win-win Growth 40 Employee Satisfaction 46 Inquiries on this Report Environmental and Safety Management 54 Please send questions or comments on the LSIS Sustainability Report through the Social Contribution 60 information below: Shareholders/Investors Satisfaction 66 LSIS Corporate Planning Department Management Innovation 69 10F, LS Tower, 127, LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-Do, 431-848, Korea Technology Management/Intellectual Property 71 Website www.lsis.com Ethical Management 74 Telephone +82-2-2034-4432 Integrated Risk Management 77 Fax +82-2-2034-4949 E-mail csr@lsis.com APPENDIX Sustainability Management Data 79 Financial 79 Environmental 80 Social and Other 81 GRI G4 (Core) Index 84 UN Global Compact COP 87 Independent Assurance Report 88 Credits 90 02 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Management Highlights Donation of service vehicles to the disabled CEO Ja-Kyun Koo received Gold Tower Order at 49th Annual Ranked top in PLC/Drive sector of KS-QEI for 2 years in a row LS Vietnam won the CSR Award Invention Day January May June September November December Donation of service vehicles to the disabled CEO Ja-Kyun Koo received Gold Tower Order at 49th Named Korea’s Best Corporation for 7 years in a row Ranked top in PLC/Drive sector of KS-QEI for Named global top 100 innovative enterprises for 4 LSIS Vietnam won the CSR Award LSIS, together with LS Group, held the ‘Service Vehicle Annual Invention Day In recognition of contributions to securing future 2 years in a row years in a row LSIS Vietnam subsidiary received the Minister Prize of Delivery to People in Need’ ceremony on January 27 LSIS CEO Ja-Kyun Koo received the Gold Tower Order of growth engines for the nation with its strong investLSIS was honored with the number one ranking for LSIS was selected as one of the top 100 innovative the Ministry of Planning and Investment in Vietnam at in collaboration with the Community Chest of Korea, Industrial Service Merit in recognition of his concerted ment in R&D and global strategy for electric/automa2 years in a row in the programmable logic controller enterprises for 4 years in a row by Thomson Reuters, a the ‘2014 CSR Awards for Korean Enterprises in Vietnam’, where the company provided vehicles to 7 social welefforts to invest in R&D on industrial power and autotion and green business, LSIS was honored with the title (PLC) and drive sector, the representative automation leading global consulting group and communication jointly hosted by the Korean Ministry of Trade, Investfare facilities, in an effort to improve mobility for the mation, and to boost the company’s intellectual propof Korea’s Best Corporation in the electrics/conductor product category, of the KS-QEI (Korean Standard–Qualservice provider. The award ceremony was held at the ment and Energy and Vietnamese Ministry of Planning disabled. erty (IP) competitiveness, thereby helping secure future sector at the 2014 Korea Best Corporations Awards held ity Excellence Index). LS Tower in Anyang on November 26, 2014. and Investment. The contribution and value LSIS providgrowth engines for the country. The Gold Tower Order, by the Korea CEO Association at the Renaissance Hotel ed as a foreign investor were recognized in categories the most prestigious order of the government, had been (Seoul) on June 24. LSIS has been awarded this honor Unveiled high-voltage circuit breakers such as social contribution activities, participation in March conferred on CEO Koo at the 49th Annual Invention Day for 7 years in a row. local communities, HR, finance, and environment after ceremony hosted by the Korean Intellectual Property OfLSIS unveiled its new large-capacity high-voltage circuit a two-phased quantitative and qualitative evaluation. fice at the aT Center in Yangjae-dong, Seoul. breakers including the Susol VCB (vacuum circuit breaker) with 7.2kV 50kA 5000A, and the Susol ACB (air circuit Selected as the great workplace for 3 years in a row Won the world’s largest smart grid project in Iraq breaker) with 150kA 6300A, which were designed to At the ‘2014 Great Workplace Awards’ ceremony held at LSIS operations in Iraq, launched in 2011, are coming to ensure the safe operation of power supply lines on Septhe Grand Hilton Hotel in Seoul on March 20, LSIS was fruition. In May 2014, LSIS signed a USD 52.24 million tember 23 at the Seoul International Electric Fair (SIEF), awarded the grand prize for 3 years in a row. This award, contract (worth KRW 53.6 billion) to construct advanced held at Exhibition Center 1 of KINTEX (Ilsan, Korea). hosted by Hankyung Magazine, recognizes companies metering infrastructure (AMI) and provide 110,000 for outstanding accomplishments in creating great worksmart meters to 19 areas including Baghdad. This project place based on excellent corporate culture. marked the world’s largest single international project for AMI. Named Korea’s Best Corporation for 7 years in a row Selected as great workplace for 3 years in a row Won the world’s largest smart grid project in Iraq Unveiled high-voltage circuit breakers Named global top 100 innovative enterprises for 4 years in a row 04 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 05 CEO’s Message I deeply appreciate our stakeholders’ great interest and support for LSIS. Since the foundation in 1974, we have grown into a leading company in electricity and energy businesses, contributing to the development of national economy for the past 40 years. Our core business portfolio comprising of electricity and automation solutions has been a vital part of the nation’s economic infrastructure. We have also created opportunities for growth by quickly and proactively adapting to changes in society and business environment. In particular, our core mindset of ‘Always with our Customers’ and the management philosophy of ‘LSpartnership’ have allowed us to gain recognition as a company that contributes to national economy and society and become a motto for pursuing sustainable growth together with all stakeholders. Moreover, the capabilities and ceaseless efforts of our employees have played a crucial role in our growth. We will continue to strive to create a corporate culture that enables all our employees to fulfill their roles honestly, fairly, and faithfully through sustainability management. By doing so, we will be able to gain even more trust from our stakeholders as well as secure sustainable competitiveness. With the establishment of a new mission of ‘Futuring Smart Energy’ to prepare for the next 40 years, we are committed to helping all stakeholders enjoy safe and convenient life through efficient and eco-friendly smart energy. In addition, we set a new vision of ‘G365’ which implies clear targets to achieve KRW 6 trillion in sales and KRW 500 billion in operating income by 2020 through focusing on 3 key words of ‘Global,’‘Green,’ and ‘Great.’ To realize the vision, we have set the 4 core values of collaboration, execution, creativity and integrity which will be standards for all business processes and basic guidance for implementing sustainability management. Our sustainability management activities based on core values will not only contribute to creating an active communication culture inside and outside the company but allow us to highly satisfy needs and requirements of all stakeholders. We aim to grow into a total solution provider in the smart energy business and at the same time, become a company ‘We will create a sustainable that pursues win-win growth with diverse stakeholders. To this end, we reestablished the strategic direction for our future by evolving into businesses and products. a global leader in the First, we are determined to shift our business focus to solutions from devices in order to strengthen our position as a solution provider. Second, we will preoccupy smart grid and automation solution markets in advance through smart energy business.’ technological convergence. Finally, we will conduct specific strategies by region to expand global markets. I ask for your continuous support and interest in our steps to take toward change and innovation. Chairman & CEO Ja-Kyun Koo 06 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 07 COO’s Message LSIS introduced sustainability management in 2014. Can you share your plans to improve sustainability and accompanying expected effect? Our fundamental goal for sustainability management is to become the most admired company based on stakeholder trust. To this end, we are focusing on strengthening communication with our six core stakeholder groups comprised of customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders and investors, and local communities, through which we pursue winwin growth with them. In addition, we will continue to create environmental value by providing products and services with high efficiency and low environmental impact. Because this is a basic corporate responsibility and the key to future market competitiveness. Finally, it is very crucial to comprehensively forecast and manage business risk as well as social and environmental risks in order to continuously develop businesses and pursue win-win growth with stakeholders in a time of high uncertainty. Forecasts indicate that both the domestic and global market environment will be unfavorable in 2015. Therefore, it is more important than ever that we strengthen our basic activities such as R&D and quality control in addition to raising our corporate value through sustainability business practices such as pursuing management innovation, organization culture improvement, compliance and management ethics, and environmental management. This will enable us to lead the global standard and prevent various risks in order to create the opportunity to make a leap to the next level. These efforts will, in the end, play a central role in making LSIS a sound and strong company. The growth of LSIS leads to happiness of stakeholders. What is the message you would like to share with stakeholders through the first sustainability report? The most important purpose of the sustainability report is to fulfill our stakeholders’ right to know by sharing not only our operating results but sustainability performances in an objective and transparent manner and to establish a two-way communication channel. Moreover, this report will be used as a guide for sustainability management implementation and published annually to introduce our businesses and corporate value. I hope many stakeholders will gain a better understanding of LSIS and feel engaged in our business and management directions through this report. In particular, I should be grateful to stakeholders if they might actively share their ideas and suggestions so that we can become a more transparent and ethical company that exercises strong social stewardship and creates environmental value. ‘Sustainability management Most companies are today facing challenges in business due to tough global economic conditions and tightening is the basic principle for all employees’ ethical, social, and environmental issues. It is more crucial to understand and communicate with stakeholders in order to lead the future and successfully respond to these challenges, through which we will not only forecast and manage risks decision-making and work in advance but expand stakeholder participation and cooperation to build a better society. execution at LSIS.’ All of us at LSIS will work together to sincerely implement sustainability management to strengthen internal stability and we will present the best practice of sustainable business innovation model in the global smart energy industry to grow into a respected and trusted company. President & COO Jai-Hoon Han 08 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 09 Corporate Profile 12 Global Business 16 Business Portfolio 18 Overview LSIS, Korea’s leading company in the fields of electrical power and automation solutions, announced ‘Futuring Smart Energy’ as a new mission at the ceremony to declare the value-focused management principle in 2015. We will continue to lead the future of smart energy together with our stakeholders by being committed to fulfilling environmental and social responsibility as well as generating economic value in spite of rapidly changing business environment. 10 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 11 Corporate Introduction Economic Value Flow Profile Since its founding in 1974, LSIS has become Korea’s leading company in the fields of electrical power and automation solutions. LSIS was separated from LG Group in 2003 to pursue a second leap and new beginning under Business Analysis the current corporate name. In 2015, LSIS declared the value-focused management principle and launched a new Business environment in 2014 has been very tough internally and externally due to delayed global economic mission of ‘Futuring Smart Energy’ and ‘Vision 2020.’ We are working tirelessly to grow into a global company recovery, fluctuation in foreign exchange, drop in copper prices, and geographical risks in the Middle East. that can create economic value, protect the environment with an eco-friendly business portfolio including smart Under these challenges, LSIS achieved KRW 2.3 trillion in sales on the consolidated basis, a slight decrease energy, and contribute to humankind. from the previous year. However, non-consolidated sales recorded KRW 1.8 trillion, a stable growth compared with the previous year, backed by invigorating electric power and solar power businesses. In 2015, we expect robust growth in our flagship electric power and automation solutions and remarkable sales increase in new Profile businesses. In addition, we will concentrate our efforts to achieve the Vision 2020 and become a leader of green business in the domestic and global markets by pursing the following 4 strategic directions:‘enhance the position as an electric power solution provider,’ ‘dominate new markets in advance through converCompany Founded gence,’‘expand global markets,’ and ‘secure operational excellence.’ Name LSIS Co., Ltd July 24, 1974 Economic Value Creation (Unit: KRW in millions) CEO/ Headquarters Sales Operating Income Total Assets Total Liabilities Total Equity COO Ja-Kyun Koo/ LS Tower, 127, LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Jai-Hoon Han Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-Do Consolidated 2,293,984 Consolidated 157,570 Consolidated 2,294,355 Consolidated 1,300,895 Consolidated 993,461 Employees Credit Rating 3,655 persons AA(including temporary staff) (Korea Investors Service, Korea Ratings) Non-consolidated 1,827,657 Non-consolidated 155,115 Non-consolidated 2,151,083 Non-consolidated 1,195,183 Non-consolidated 955,901 Economic Value Distribution (Unit: KRW in millions) Organization Chart (Non-consolidated basis) Business Power Distribution Business Group 278,819 1,324,425 Power Grid Business Group Wages, welfare benefits, and Procurement retirement benefits CEO COO A&D (Automation & Drive) Business Group Convergence Business Group China Business Group Employees Suppliers R&D R&D Group (CTO) 18,758 1,204 Tax and dues Social contribution Government Economic Value Local expenses including Distribution Community donations Support Plant Support Group Corporate Planning Group (CSO) Shareholders and Finance Group (CFO) Environment Creditors Human Resource Management Group (CHO) 64,551 4,671 Dividends and interest Environment and safety related expenses expenses 12 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 13 Corporate Vision and Strategy LSIS has grown together with the Korean economy for the past 40 years. Our new mission requires us to consistently innovate and evolve into a leader that contributes to the developProfile ment of the world and mankind beyond the domestic market. We will lead the world into the future of smart energy and continue to strive to become a global top-tier company. Value-foBoosting Our Market Position as a Power Solutions Provider cused management, reestablished value system, will be the key to achieve these goals. Leading New Markets through Convergence and Integration Expansion of Global Markets Securing Operational Excellence Vision Core Management Mission Strategy 2020 Value Philosophy Greater value together! Opening the Future of Smart Energy KRW 500 KRW 6 billion in Collaboration Execution Creativity Integrity trillion in operating sales income Corporate History 1999~2007 2008~2010 2011~ Another Transition Towards Success The Fruits of Pursuing Growth and Innovation Leapfrog into a Global Leader 1974~1995 1999. 04 Merged with LG Metal Co., Ltd. 2008. 04 Moved headquarters (LS Tower, Anyang, Korea) 2011. 10 Completed Busan HVDC factory 2000. 09 Completed Power Testing & Technology Institute 2008. 10 Opened Shanghai R&D Center in China 2012. 05 Completed Cheongju EV Relay factory 2001. 06 Completed a factory in Dalian, China 2009. 03 Announced green business 2014. 05 40th anniversary A Passionate Beginning 2003. 11 Separated from LG Group 2010. 03 Established LS Sauter 2014. 05 Received Gold Tower Order 1974. 07 Established Lucky Packing Co., Ltd. 2005. 03 Changed the name to LSIS Co., Ltd. 2010. 04 Completed Busan plant 2015. 01 Declared value-focused management principle 1987. 03 Changed ‌ the name to Goldstar Industrial ‌ 2005. 09 Completed a factory to produce electric power & 2015. 03 Completed Anyang R&D Campus Systems Co., Ltd. automation equipment in Wuxi, China 1995. 02 Changed the name to LG Industrial Systems 2007. 02 Established LSIS (ME) FZE in Dubai, UAE 1995. 09 Merged ‌ with Goldstar Instrument & Electric Co., Ltd. and Goldstar Electric Machinery Co., Ltd. 14 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 15 Global Business Under the strategic direction to be a global power solution provider, LSIS is concentrating on local investments and marketing activities in the US, Europe, China, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia in order to boost global operations. Global Business Strategy Global Network Asia Headquarters Anyang China We will solidify our leadership in the power distribution and automation market by expanding authorized agents and utilizing local sales channels. D ‌ omestic Anyang, Cheongju, Cheonan, Busan Operations Overseas ‌ Shanghai, Wuxi, Dalian, Hubei (China), Hanoi (Vietnam), Amsterdam China Subsidiaries (Netherlands), Dubai (UAE), Tokyo (Japan), Chicago (U.S.A.) Asia With the idea that China is our 2nd domestic market, we will expand market share by Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou, Qingdao, Chengdu, Shenyang, Jinan (China), improving our brand power. ‌Overseas Branches Ho Chi Minh (Vietnam), Tokyo (Japan), Detroit (U.S.A.), Moscow (Russia) Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou, Qingdao, Chengdu, Wuxi, Changzhou, ‌Global Service Xiangtan, Nanjing, Jinan, Chongqing, Foshan, Fujian, Wuhan, Shenyang, Centers Dalian, Yichang (China) ‌Global R&D Shanghai (China) Centers Middle East/Africa Europe/ We consider the Middle East and Africa as core markets for power grid EPC business. CIS We will enhance marketing activities for this business and dominate our presence as a global player. Headquarters Middle East/ Europe/CIS Africa We will lay the foundation for stable growth and a new leap forward through expanding organization of local subsidiaries. America America We will make significant progress towards making the Americas our core strategic market by building partnerships with local players. Anyang(Headquarters) Cheonan Global Sales Composition (Consolidated) (Unit: KRW in millions) Overseas export Domestic consumption China Asia Cheongju North America Europe etc. % of overseas export 45.5% 40.8% Domestic 45.4% 40.9% 11.0% 16.8% operations Busan 1,069,767 935,815 37.4% 10.3% 847,573 1,013,088 686,462 5.3% Overseas sales breakdown in 2014 1,358,169 1,223,356 1,219,342 1,282,110 1,148,368 56.6% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 16 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 17 Business Portfolio Power Grid Business Power Distribution Business Major performances in 2014 Major performances in 2014 • ‌Supplied GIS to Samcheok thermal and Andong combined cycle power plants • ‌Launched new UL MCCB • ‌Won a major project to supply substation equipment from Iraq’s Ministry of • ‌PNL solution obtained approval from Electricity Boards Energy (MOE) (Taiwan, the Philippines, Pakistan, etc.) • ‌Diversified export markets by winning turnkey projects to supply substation <Major Projects> equipment to Haiti and Sri Lanka Soekarno Hatta Airport Terminal #3 project in Indonesia • ‌Won a contract to supply HVDC converter station equipment to the North Electrical facility project of London Underground Limited in the UK (SSR3B) Dangjin-Godeok project Water treatment project in Iraqi Kurdistan Won an Bidding for supplying E-type smart meters to KEPCO Plans for 2015 Plans for 2015 • ‌Approach turnkey projects, and overseas markets by • ‌Strengthen overseas business and project sales activities by establishing new setting target-tailored strategies local branches • ‌Enhance HVDC manufacturing and R&D capability • ‌Provide tailored solutions by securing LV/MV PNL solutions and • ‌Improve customer loyalty through providing tailored solutions developing new products • ‌Expand extra-high voltage and large capacity product lineups • ‌Target specific markets related to renewable energy (solar and wind power and energy storage equipment) and applications • ‌Reinforce competitiveness in the global market by developing market-tailored products • ‌Research future technologies and next-generation products in advance • ‌Operate Separate organizations responsible for renovation and enhance pre-inspection activities Sales (Unit: KRW in billions) About the Business Group Sales (Unit: KRW in billions) About the Business Group 378.3 The Power Grid Business Group promotes convergence solution that combines extra-high 730.0 The Power Distribution Business Group provides solutions necessary for supplying power to 359.7 voltage electric power facilities and systems with IT technology. Major products include gas 728.7 industrial, commercial, and residential facilities, helping people to use electricity safely and 725.1 insulated switchgear (GIS), power transformer and switchgear to transmit, transform and conveniently. These solutions have allowed us to maintain the largest market share in the 327.8 distribute electricity generated from power plants. We also focus on monitoring & diagnosis domestic power equipment market and to evlove into the leading company in the power in 2014 in 2014 business. Main products are vacuum circuit breakers (VCB) air circuit breakers (ACB), and system for electrical equipment and high voltage direct current (HVDC) system. By providKRW 378.3 billion ing total solutions for extra-high AC and DC voltage power and conducting EPC turnkey business encompassing all processes from design to construction, we are proactively enterKRW 730.0 billion Molded Case Circuit Breakers (MCCB) which protect electric power system ranging from low to medium voltage. We also focus on developing next-generation products including ing global markets including North America, the Middle East, Latin America and Asia. smart meter and IED (Intelligent Electronic Device) through consistent investment in R&D, 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 and expanding our business territory to Asia, Middle-East, Europe, North America and so on. High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) System Air Circuit Breaker (ACB) Transmit electricity by converting alternating Protect lives and devices by breaking the circuit when abnormal Consumers current into direct current current takes place in low voltage distribution lines Elevators, etc. Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) Power Plant Protect power plants and substations from accidents stemming from overload, grounding, Power Transformer (TR) Switchgear Vacuum Circuit Breaker (VCB) Distribution Transformer (TR) Magnetic Switch (MS) and short circuit of electrical wire Molded Case Circuit Breakers (MCCB) Transform voltage and Monitor electric power systems Protect lives and devices by Transform voltage and current Prevent load by current stably through step-up and manage safety control by breaking the circuit in a vacuum by using electromagnetic Break the current in controlling motors and step-down of voltage insulating circuit breakers and when abnormal current takes place in induction devices case of abnormal situations such as supervisory control devices medium voltage distribution lines overload and short-circuit manual or remote control 18 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 19 Business Portfolio Automation & Drive Business Convergence Business Major performances in 2014 Major performances in 2014 • Signed a big B/L contract from India • Smart Grid: EES References to electric utility and private company • Secured domestic FA system references • ‌EV Solution: Selected as a provider for mild hybrid system (48V) of a global top • Won a major contract for combined heat and power plants class automaker • ‌Expand product lineup through launching new products • ‌Photovoltaic System Solution: Advancement of business structure through S100/H100 series (LVD), M1000/1000A (MVD), XGB-U series (PLC) total package projects • ‌Expand the market by preparing tailored responses to customer and • ‌Public infrastructure: Obtained Korea’s first SIL 4 certification for market needs CBTC on-board and wayside systems Plans for 2015 Plans for 2015 • Expand business basis and sales channels of local subsidiaries • Smart Grid: Diversify overseas power IT markets for sustainable growth • Establish the global SVC infrastructure • ‌EV Solution: Develop new overseas markets including Japan to evolve into • ‌Promote a pilot project for the domestic FA system under the a global player Manufacturing Industry 3.0 strategy • ‌Photovoltaic System Solution: Provide total package solutions that meet • Boost the Servo and Motion businesses customer needs • Expand new markets by winning contracts for heating facilities • ‌Public infrastructure: Establish the foundation for overseas business • Research advanced technologies for next-generation products expansion by improving a short-term winning contract • Raise brand awareness through proactive PR activities Sales (Unit: KRW in billions) About the Business Group Sales (Unit: KRW in billions) About the Business Group 304.5 394.0 279.9 279.2 The A&D Business Group provides a wide range of solutions for factory automation. Major 357.3 The Convergence Business Group was newly organized in 2014 in order to manage new busiproducts include PLC (Programmable Logic Controller), AC Drive (LVD-Low Voltage Drive/ nesses of the company. It has four business divisions: Smart Grid Business Division, EV Solution 239.4 Division, Photovoltaic System Solution Division, and Public Business Division. Major products MVD-Medium Voltage Drive), HMI (Human Machine Interface), and Servo. We are also engaging in automation system and E/S (Energy Saving) businesses. Each of our products is include various solutions for Smart Grid, powertrain solutions for EVs, Photovoltaic System in 2014 in 2014 dominant in the domestic market and we are accelerating penetration into overseas markets Solution ranging from modules to operation and maintenance services, and cutting-edge railKRW 279.2 billion by continuously pioneering new markets and securing infrastructure. We aim to become the best solution provider in the automatic control market by securing global competitiveness in KRW 394.0 billion way signaling system essential for safe and efficient railway operations. By capitalizing on our capabilities, we will expand our business portfolio to power generation and O&M (operation 2012 2013 2014 the equipment business and strengthening the FA (Factory Automation) field. 2012 2013 2014 and maintenance) to solidify the leadership in the energy and railway solution business. Global business will be also accelerated through developing new markets. HMI PLC Allow users to easily check the status of Servo AC Drive various production equipment through A universal controller that is programmed to operate A device to help users precisely conA control device that saves energy the touch screen and to take necessary trol when manipulating equipment machinery in a set sequence and conditions which Smart Grid EV Solutions Photovoltaic System Solution Railway System Solutions consumption by controlling motor through measures immediately location required by the system and has a wide range of applications from large-scale automation equipment at factories and plants to power supply frequency variation operating specific speed and torque car-wash machines, golf ranges and general usages (Servo Motor/Servo Drive) 20 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 21 Green Gridsol EnGather Business • EES integrated management system • Linked to external systems Smart Grid PMS Smart Smart The government has announced main imRenewable Transportation EES brand born under the know-how and plementation policies and technical areas technology of LSIS. A solution that allows effito promote the deployment of Smart Grids. cient energy management by storing electric LSIS launched the ‘Gridsol’, a total solution Smart power in battery and accessing such power Switch Electricity Service PCS gear brand for energy optimization. when in need. • Safe ‌ and efficient • Korea’ ‌ s leading switchgear Smart Smart power transformation design technology Power Grid Consumer/Place • Multiple functionality • Supply ‌ of qualified switchgear Major Performances in Smart Grid Areas Key products Smart Power Grid Smart Transportation PMS Commercial/Industrial EES PCS 1MW EES 40ft Container LSIS has been leading the smart power grid business by installing As Korea’s leading railway system solutions provider, Key Solutions • Integrated EES monitoring and control system • High efficiency (98%) and fast response • ‌Optimized placement of PCS based on heat flow analysis EMS in Korea’s 3 national control centers (Seoul, Cheonan, and LSIS participated in the Osong-Gwangju Honam high-speed line • Railway Signalling System • ‌Power control/electronic • Operation mode • Easy O&M based drive design (up to 4 units) Naju) and many other projects through advanced technologies. section. We also provide green car solutions such as relay system • Railway Power T&D System parts for EV Demand load based peak shaving • ‌Verified through largest contracts to electric utility and ‌ • Install disaster prevention facilities • ‌Recharging system for EV for EV, power converter, and charger. Scheduled load leveling global firms (KEPCO 16MW, Samsung SDI 4.5MW) (heat/smoke detection center) Key Solutions Independent ‌ operation to replace emergency • ‌EMS (Energy Management System) power generators • ‌SCADA/DMS (Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition/ Distribution Management System) Won a KRW 12.5 billion order for BDU from SAIC (2015) • ‌SAS (Substation Automation System) • Microgrid Won a KRW 7.5 billion order for EV relay from Renault (2014) • ‌Frequency Regulation EES Key Products Expected Impact KPX EMS in Naju DCC SCADA/DMS in Iraq Honam High Speed Railway Honam Train Control System BDU EV Relay OBC/LDC Reduce excessive investments in genEnsure quality and reliability of Allow stable response to emergency (2014) (2012~2015) (2015) eration facilities and save electricity the grid with rapid response and situations by providing power even costs of consumers by supplying powstabilize output when renewable during sudden outages er needed for peak hours through EES energies (photovoltaic, wind) are Smart Renewable Smart Consumer connected to the grid We have built Japan’s largest solar power system (Mito). We hold We provide households, buildings, and factories with optimized Key Solutions Main Achievements total solar power solutions including module, PCU, EES, and solutions for using electricity, heat, and gas energy. These solutions • ‌HEMS/BEMS/FEMS (Energy management system for households, Commercial/Industrial Frequency Regulation Others monitoring system, and our portfolio expands to floating and are used in LSIS facilities as well. Also we provide EES solutions buildings, and factories) rooftop solar systems. helping efficient energy use through charging and discharging • ‌AMI (Advanced Metering Infrastructure) ➊ ➋ Major • Residential EES test project for SCE (Southern electricity. We also demonstrate the largest supply performances in • ‌Smart Meter contracts California Edison) in North America, 4kW/10kWh Key Solutions the domestic market including 16MW EES in Seoansung. • EES (Electrical Energy Storage) class EES (UL certified) • ‌Module (production), PCU (transformation), EES (storage), ‌Mid-/large capacity: Integration of Renewable Energy/ • Smart Grid projects in 2013, supply of EES system monitoring system (power generation & consumption), and Customer (total 1.03MWh) power generation system Small capacity: Residential ➌ ➍ KEPCO’s 16MW EES project for F/R in Seoansung (2014) Busan Dongrae Market: 100kW/224kWh Busan Industrial Supplies Market 500kW/806kWh Renewable Energy National • Smart renewable project (Dec. 2009~May 2013) projects • EES operation system for electric frequency regulation and electricity market system development project (Jun. 2013~May 2016) ❶ EnGather EES Station, LSIS R&D Campus (Anyang) (2015) ❷ GridSol FEMS Station, LSIS Cheongju Plant (2015) 40MW class for Mito New Town 500kW class Floating Solar BEMS at Anyang R&D Campus FEMS at Cheongju Plant 1MW PCS 3kW EES ❸ Samsung SDI, Cheonan Plant, 2.5MW PCS (2014) Megasolar Park (2015) Power Plant in Hapcheon (2011) (2015) (2015) (6.3kWh/9.45kWh/12.6kWh) ❹ Samsung SDI, Ulsan Plant, 2MW PCS (2014) 500kW/250lWh EES connected with wind power grid in Bigeumdo (2014) 22 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 23 Green HVDC AC Drive Business High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) system transforms AC power generated from power plants into DC power AC Drive enables to reduce energy consumption by controlling motor speed through power frequency reconand transmits it to the necessary point at which the power is transformed into AC power again and transmitted figuration. As a leader who had first introduced universal AC Drive to the domestic market, LSIS has obtained to consumers. LSIS completed the construction of HVDC-specific factory in Hwajeon Industrial Complex, Buthe largest number of certifications on high-efficiency AC Drive and demonstrates the No. 1 position in the san-Jinhae Free Economic Zone in 2011, laying the foundation for conducting all processes ranging from parts domestic market. Energy Efficiency Enhancement warehousing to performance inspection, assembly, test, and commissioning. Features and Benefits Features and Benefits Advantage for long distance transmission AC power facilities require additional equipment to provide reactive power in spite of relatively low initial investment, leading to an increase in cost proportionate to distance. DC power, on the other hand, has higher initial costs as additional Product quality enProductivity Protection of Energy saving Easy operation substations are needed but cost less in relation to distance transmitted, making it better for long distance transmission. In hancement improvement external facilities addition, DC power can be transmitted more than double AC power because AC power only flows on the surface of wires Enables to control the Save energy by Build optimal production Allow users to manage Minimize external impacts but DC power utilizes the entire wire for transmission. Therefore, DC power is optimal for long distance transmission exceedmotor at constant speed controlling motor speed lines in accordance the product easily by gradually increasing ing 450km, underwater or underground transmission exceeding 40km and allows for transmission from mainland to island. even with unstable through frequency with work processes to power (Possible damages power supply reconfiguration improve productivity to external power sources Economic investment and equipment when a sudden increase in power DC voltage is only 70% of the max value of AC voltage, which ensures relatively easy insulation and low transmission line use for starting construction costs. As such, HVDC requires a quarter of the transmission towers compared to the same volume of AC power, high-capacity motors) making it more cost efficient. Enabling transmission of grid connected with renewable energy HVDC makes it easier for new and renewable energy systems that generate DC power such as photovoltaic and hydrogen Without AC Drive, energy saving is marginal because fans and pumps adjust valves and dampers in response to fuel cells, along with wind energy, which generates AC power but must be transformed into DC due to frequency variability changing loads depending on seasons, time, and production volume. resulting from fluctuating winds, to connect to the electricity grid. With AC Drive, users are able to save much energy as rpm of electric motor is appropriately controlled in accordance with changes in load. DC vs AC Transmission Cost (Unit: Million USD) Comparison of Transmission Towers Required 3000 Key products 2000 1000 765kV AC 500kV DC 800kV DC 0 756㎸ AC 500㎸ DC 800㎸ DC * ‌HVDC uses ¼ the transmission towers to transmit the same voltage of AC power Conversion loss cost Transmission line cost Jeju Pilot HVDC SMART CENTER Substation cost CO2 reduction and energy saving from The HVDC Test-bed to connect our self-developed equipment AC Drive installation in compliance with * Transmitting 6,400MW of electricity over 2,000KM (Thyristor valve, converter transformers, C&P) to the grid. the ‘High Efficiency Drive Support Program’ How many pine trees should we plant to R&D Achievements and Performances Key products equal the CO2 reductions for the past 5 years? • ‌Started joint R&D to localize HVDC technology with Thyristor Valve Converter Transformer C&P (Control & Protection) KEPCO, LS Cable & System, Taihan Electric Wire (2009) • ‌Established HVDC Smart Center in Jeju and designed/ manufactured core equipment (2012) • ‌Won the Technology Award from the Korea Institute 790,906 trees LSIS’s Response to the Changing National Energy Efficiency Policies In 2015, the ‘High Efficiency Drive Support Program’ managed by KEPCO was changed to ‘Energy Efficient Market Business’The main difference is the transition to a performance based system that adds measurement and verificaof Electrical Engineers (localization of core HVDC tion process from the previous blanket subsidy system. Prior to the official announcement in January of 2015, LSIS How many homes can we power with the components) (2012) took preliminary measures to prepare for the changes by consulting the implementing agency, KEMCO, on technienergy saved for the past 5 years? • ‌Won the Power Electronics Product Prize of the Year, cal aspects, measurement and verification methodologies, and market conditions. We will continue to actively take Technology Prize, and Plaque of Appreciation the lead in national energy efficiency initiatives by expanding deployment of high efficiency drives. (HVDC Thyristor valve technology) (2012) • ‌Test operation of the HVDC Smart Center, testing and installation of self-developed products (2013) • ‌Test operation of self-developed products at the HVDC Smart Center (2014) Core equipment of HVDC system that transforms AC to DC, then back to AC • ‌Role for supplying transformed AC voltage to the Thyristor valve • ‌Control and protect the overall transformation systems (converter transformers, Thyristor valve) through the HMI (Human 45,880 homes * ‌What is the Energy Efficient Market Business? It is a government-led project that promotes replacing old and inefficient equipment with high efficient equipment such as LED lights and drives. Rewards are given based on the amount of energy consumption reduced (KW). Machine Interface) • ‌Won an order to supply HVDC transformation equipment to North Dangjin-Godeok project (May 2014) 24 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 25 Integrated Sustainability Management System 28 Social Contribution 60 Materiality Test 30 Shareholders/Investors Satisfaction 66 Customer Satisfaction 34 Management Innovation 69 Sustainability Win-win Growth 40 Technology Management/Intellectual Property 71 Employee Satisfaction 46 Ethical Management 74 Environmental and Safety Management 54 Integrated Risk Management 77 Management Stakeholders of LSIS LSIS has selected effective communication channels based on stakeholder surveys. We will continue to manage and improve communication channels and strive to build trust with all stakeholders through active and effective communication. Core Stakeholders Main Communication Channel Customers Visits to customers Satisfaction survey Customer meeting Product exhibitions Training about products Customer service center Quality innovation Suppliers Benefit sharing meetings Supplier exchange meetings Portal site for suppliers meeting for Win-win Growth Visits to suppliers LSIS Sketch Dialogue with the Employees LinkerS* Communicator (company magazine) management Corporate culture survey Labor-Management Council Direct communication with Environment-related Environment Environmental campaigns Homepage person in charge meetings Local Direct communication with Community meetings Regional volunteer services Homepage person in charge communities Surveys Shareholders/ NDR (Non-deal roadshow) Visits to the company IR conference Business reports investors Homepage * LinkerS: LSIS’s representative body for office staff Back to Contents Sustainability Fundamental Directions of Sustainability Management Management Board of Directors Sustainability The primary goal of our sustainability management is to grow into a respected company based on stakeholder CEO management System Management trust. To achieve this, we set up 3 strategic directions, through which we are striving to satisfy stakeholders. In Committee COO • Decision-making addition, the company is committed to listening to the voices of stakeholders through active communication and • Budgeting reflecting them to management activities. By doing so, we will grow into a trusted corporate citizen and a global Sustainability Management Council leader in pursuit of sustainable growth. Control of integrated sustainability management (Corporate Planning Dept.) Goal of Sustainability Sustainability Management Council Customers <Business Group Marketing Team/ Local communities Management Grow into a respected company Quality Management Team> <Public Relations Team> Management Planning Office based on stakeholder trust 1) Agenda identification 2) Planning Shareholders/investors <Treasury Team/ Suppliers <Win-win Growth Team> 3) Run and record meetings 4) Coordination Corporate Planning Dept.> 3 Strategic Directions Stakeholder Engagement Green Company Image Integrated Risk Management Employees <HR Team/HR & Relations Ethical management Participating departments Management Team/Innovation & Culture Part> <Audit Department> 1) Develop and share plans 2) Build a structure of cooperation EHS <Environment & Safety Team/ Integrated risk management 3) Performance sharing 4) Capacity building Communication Technology Strategy Dept.> <ERM Team> Core Stakeholders Shareholders & Local Customers Suppliers Environment Employees investors communities Action Plans Create customer Increase shareholder Sustainability Management Implementation System by Each Stakeholder Promote environCo-exist with value through Pursue Win-win Cultivate global value through mental management local communities product responsibility Growth based on talents and improve management LSIS has established a system that allows stakeholder input on sustainability issues to be delivered to top manmeeting global by voluntary social and proactive a culture of fair trade quality of life integrity and standards contribution agement and effectively applied to decision-making. The Sustainability Management Council is comprised of communication transparent disclosure leaders and staff members of core teams in each category. The council gathers stakeholder opinions, develops strategic plans, and conducts detailed practices. The agenda formed by the council is passed on to the ManageRoadmap for Sustainability Management ment Committee, comprised of executives, to discuss performance and budgeting. The results of the discussion and core issues are then passed on to the highest decision-making body, the Board of Directors, so that they may LSIS established a roadmap to achieve the mid to long-term goal for the expansion of sustainability management ascertain and manage LSIS sustainability performances. to overseas operations. We also set up core annual tasks on the basis of our integrated sustainability management principle and 3 strategic directions of ‘stakeholder engagement,’ ‘green company image,’ and ‘integrated Sustainability Management Council risk management.’ These tasks will be systematically managed in accordance with the roadmap. The Sustainability Management Council is a company-wide consultative group that presents agendas related to the overall sustainability issues LSIS faces. The meetings are scheduled to be held every other month, headed by ‘Enhance ‘Spread the CSO. The Management Planning Office is responsible for identifying meeting agendas, and logistical aspects ‘Consensus power of sustainability of managing and operating the council. Participating departments jointly develop sustainability management building on execution of management sustainability plans, share performances, and form collaboration systems in accordance with the company’s sustainability mansustainability to global management’ management’ operations’ (2015) agement implementation direction. In 2014, we created a task force comprised of the departments participating (2016) (2017) in the council in order to help the Sustainability Management Council take root. We also conducted 3 workshops, resulting in better understanding of sustainability management along with the identification of improvement Integrated sustainability • ‌Internal training on sustainability • ‌Evaluate sustainability performance • ‌Solidify sustainability infrastructure for tasks for 2015. management management • ‌Strengthen function-specific execution overseas operations • ‌Operate Sustainability Management strategies • ‌Expand global initiative activities Council Major Sustainability Management Activities in 2014 Stakeholder Report to the Management Report to Management • ‌Select responsible and related depart• ‌Develop a process for incorporating • ‌Expand the scope of stakeholders engagement Committee Committee ments for each stakeholder group and stakeholder feedbacks globally and strengthen roles and set roles and responsibilities responsibilities of each department Developed Established Built sustainability Green company • ‌Strengthen disclosure of • ‌Systemize environmental monitoring • ‌Reinforce global environmental Conducted mid-term operation directions for management impleimage environmental data across the value chain marketing materiality test roadmap and sustainability mentation system (Jul.~Aug.) improvement tasks management (assigned R&R) for each department (Sep.) (Oct.) (Nov.~Dec.) Integrated • ‌Enhance integrated risk • ‌Establish a monitoring process for • ‌Build a system to check and manage risk management management system preventing key risks risks of overseas sites Sustainability management Sustainability management Sustainability management TFT workshop TFT workshop TFT workshop 28 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 29 Materiality Overview of Materiality Test Test We strive to identify and improve our weaknesses, and actively gather and incorporate stakeholder opinions in our strategic direction for sustainable growth. The first step in this process is the materiality test we run in order to We held a forum with experts in each sector to obtain specialized information on sustainability issues and future trends. The An external expert institute was employed to assess our current status of sustainability and improve insufficiencies. We analyzed the level of sustainability management of global leading companies in the industry and competitors to identify identify and manage issues related to sustainability management. Our materiality test is comprised of the identiforum dealt with improvement directions of each sustainabilAssessment items were based on international standards, reland manage issues which are relatively weak. In addition, best fication of sustainability issues, prioritization of issues, and development of operational directions. Sustainability ity issue in accordance with social expectations. In addition, evant laws, and the SRI Investment Guide and all fields related practices identified during the analysis were chosen as benchideas on publishing sustainability report were gathered and to sustainability management were evaluated to accurately marks and shared with relevant business units. issues were identified through the 6-step process and identified issues were prioritized according to stakeholder reflected in this report. identify strengths and weaknesses. Issues identified as weakconcerns and business impacts. And then, we suggested strategic directions of sustainability management based nesses were treated as potential risks and chosen as priority on the prioritization and determined operational directions for 2014 to 2015. areas for improvement. Period: June-August 2014 Period: June-July 2014 Period: August 2014 Method: Assessment by an external institute Method: Research and benchmarking Materiality Test Process Method: Advisory Dialogue Subject: ‌Heads and working-level staff of Subject: ‌6 domestic and foreign advanced companies and Subject: 6 experts in sustainability management departments related to sustainability management competitors Prioritization of Step4 Step5 Step6 Identification of Development of issues sustainability issues operational directions (Sustainability (6-step process) (Steering wheel) CSR Advisory Global level CSR Analysis on issues of management matrix) Dialogue diagnosis and advanced companies assessment and competitors CSR Advisory Dialogue Identification of Key Sustainability Management Issues Participants (from left to right) ➊ Tae-Jung Shin (Director, Corporation For All) ➋ Sang-Kyu Hwang (CEO, SR Korea) ➌ Han-Kyun Rho (Associate Professor, Kookmin University) Step1 Step2 Step3 ➍ Min-Goo Choi (CSO, LSIS) ➎ Eun-Kyung Lee (Team leader, Global Compact Network Korea) ➏ Choon-Seung Yang (Director, Korea Sustainability Investing Forum) Stakeholder Interview with Media and ➐ Sang-Young Jeon (Senior manager, Samsung Electro-mechanics) survey the management internet research ➑ Hwan Jeong (Head of Corporate Planning Dept., LSIS) ➊ ➋ ➌ ➍ ➎ ➏ ➐ ➑ Experts’ comments on publishing sustainability report and our responses ▶ Comment ▶ Response We conducted stakeholder survey on our sustainability manIn order to identify key issues taking into consideration susWe analyzed the media exposure for each sustainability isagement. The survey was to ascertain interest in our sustaintainability management directions and business, we conductsue along with critical articles covering LSIS. The past 2 years ➊ ‘Both negative and positive aspects of business should be reported in ➊ Negative issues were disclosed along with our efforts and plans a balanced manner.’ for improvement. ability issues, communication channels regarded as useful, and ed in-depth interviews with the management. The interview of sustainability coverage in major broadcasting companies, activities that stakeholder groups thought needed improvefocused on material issues that needed to be prioritized, ponewspapers, and economy newspapers was analyzed to deci➋ ‘Annual sustainability data should be supplied in order to track changes and ➋ Three or more years of managed economic, social and environmental progress.’ data were reported. ment. A total of 924 employees and 146 external stakeholders tential non-financial risks, sustainable business trends, methpher changes in stakeholder interests. Negative articles were took part in the survey. ods to form internal consensus, and other business related classified as risks and translated into improvement tasks. ➌ ‘Long-term sustainability goals should be set and continuous ➌ We established sustainability management execution system and presented basic progress displayed.’ and strategic sustainability management directions. topics. ➍ ‘The sustainability report should address customer and investor needs for ➍ International sustainability standards, SRI investment guides, and client requests Period: June-July 2014 non-financial information.’ were transformed into data for management and disclosed in this report. Method: On/offline questionnaire Period: July 2014 Period: August 2014 ➎ ‘Approaches in solving social issues through product sales should ➎ We reported our green business to solve social issues on the Participants: 6‌ 4 customers, 28 suppliers, 924 employees, 16 Method: One-on-one in-depth interview Method: Media research be presented.’ special feature section. local communities, 35 persons in charge of Participants: ‌10 Management Committee members including Subjects: ‌Broadcasting companies, major daily newspapers ➏ ‘You need to have systematic response and reporting processes meeting require ➏ Our sustainability performances were reported in 6 categories in accordance with environment, and 3 shareholders & investors heads of business groups and economy newspapers ments of each stakeholder group.’ classified stakeholder groups. 30 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 31 Materiality Prioritization of Key Sustainability Issues Sustainability Management Operational Trajectory Test 2014 LSIS Sustainability Management Steering Wheel Customers Environment Business Impact 05 01 ‌Strengthen customer-tailored services 17 ‌Reduce energy use and 02 Enhance ‌ complaints handling GHG emissions 11 processes 18 ‌ Manage hazardous materials and 03 16 03  Establish a fair trade culture pollutants ment Custom (customers) 19 Advance environmental management nage er sa 09 31 ty ma il 1. Upgrad tisfa 04‌Activate communications with abili t Counc e of p ctio 21 20 Secure health and safety tain emen rodu nm customers us Manag ct qu ana 10 ‌Manage environmental products s i ty t ulture enc 2. Establis ality gem ted abil hmen 21 agem t of a and 05 U ‌ pgrade product quality and gra ust ain man fair en 14 29 te e S ability 3. Expan trad res po t responsibility In n rt 15 Local communities f th stai y repo ilit sion o e cu nsi bil no f su inab f cus ltur ity tio no usta 4. Enhancem tom e (c 26 30 Suppliers 22 Participate ‌ in volunteer services and pera natio n of s ent of er c om ust om O mi tio com m local communities 1. sse lica plai nts un ers 06 Expand ACE CLUB activities Di ub 5. Reinforce ica ) 23 Promote ‌ social contribution activities 2. 3. P ment of cu han dlin tio n 27 07 Vitalize communication channels stom gp 19 at overseas sites er-t roc 08 Manage overseas supply chain ailo es 20 red se ‌Build a system for social contribus th w 24 ser pliers) re (sup 09 ‌Disseminate sustainability managevic tion activities es ro w cultu ng ment to suppliers rade ppliers wi 28 25 ‌Strengthen communication with local air t ent to s u 24 10 I‌ mprove effectiveness of win-win ana in faf nage m communities 1. Inte gem W ent o ty ma grams growth programs grate shm inab ili wth pro n gro 18 25 01 26 Develop ‌ flagship social contribution d ris ent Integrated bli usta n-wi 11 ‌Establish a fair trade culture (suppliers) k sta of s e wi 02 programs 2. Ethics man sustainability Customers 1. E tion ctiv es Gene and c age ina effe ctiviti 17 04 omp management em t of UB a ith s Employees Shareholders/investors ral m me iss en E CL nels lianc nt C n chan u ppl em A em 2. D nc p and icatio 06 13 12 Expand employee communication 27 Advance corporate governance ha x un 12 ana En . E m ent iers s 4 m 22 Evaluate and compensate fairly gem 3. e co anagem ‌ Increase corporate value through ain m 13 vat 07 28 en cti ly ch Attract and nurture talents sustainability management 5. A upp 14 08 23 t as s 15 ‌Strengthen company-wide human 29‌Strengthen corporate information General rse Suppliers ve rights and labor policies disclosure management Collaboration Execution 6. O Stakeholder interests 16 Pursue work-life balance General management Core Value 30 Comply with ethics and regulations 5. F air 31 Integrated risk management 3. E 4. E eva ity xp lua LSIS response to key issues bil nh ans tion na an and tai cem ion comp sus Creativity Integrity o olde ent f em ensation gh Shareholder/ e rou of c Employees ploy Shareh c e th an investor om ee co valu ern e 2. R pan mmun Customers 35page Suppliers 41page Employees 47page Environment 22, 55page orate gov sur ecr y-w ication e sa of corp rate o ide h scl uitm tisfa 3. Increase orp o di uman ction Upgrade product quality and responsibility Establish a fair trade culture Pursue work-life balance Manage environmental products tion f c ent rights a LSIS believes that quality is the key to lead us to Fair trade with suppliers is the first step toward At LSIS, we are creating an enjoyable corporate LSIS contributes to improving our environent o rma n and nd labor polici ncem nfo tio culti es 2. Adva fac 1. W i Local a global company. We will strive to improve the win-win growth at LSIS. We sign subcontractculture by pursuing work-life balance. We hold ment through environmental products and ate Environ,ent vatio atis ork rpor n of ta communities of co or s quality of our corporate management as well ing and win-win growth agreements annually events for employees’ families and operate green business. We will solidify our image as Em life b lents ement vest 5. S nt plo alan 1. Enhanc me as product quality and accountability. with suppliers and frequently check the status ‘Family Day,’ and concentrated vacation proa eco-friendly company by continuously upr & in 4.V oc ial ge ye ce of fair trade for better practices. gram called ‘Rest(休) Weeks’ to ensure work-life grading our environmental product managea olu con an nte trib sm balance. ment system. 3. E e r se utio lu tant ion nh rvic n ac pol uct an cem e s an tivit ies at ia ls and s red mat e r n ent d pa oversea 5. Hazardous ssio o rtici patio s sites emi t 2. E f co n in lo d GHG ites en sta mm cal comm ving a n at s em Shareholders/ General blis unic unities 4. Energy sa fety nag Local communities xxpage 61 investors 67page management 77page Co 1. F hm ent of s ation with local c 3. Hea lth a nd sa ent al m a en t t l o om onm em ntr agsh cial cont munities env ir nag en Develop flagship social contribution Improve corporate disclosure Integrated risk management ibu ip s ocia ributi e nt of t m a g em tio on syst ce m u c na programs We are meeting requirements of all stakeholdLSIS has been improving company-wide risk n to l con e m 2. Advan prod ma loca tribu ntal fety tion p onme & sa In collaboration with our holding company, ers including shareholders and investors by management system to efficiently respond l com rogram 1. Envir m s ntal uniti nme es Enviro LSIS is implementing flagship social contributransparently disclosing corporate governance to unforeseen risk factors. We will continue to tion programs at home and abroad. We are and economic, social and environmental data. systematically manage risks related to external planning to create an even greater synergy environment, operations, finance, regulations, by developing unique programs linked to our strategies, reputation and so on. business expertise. 32 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 33 01 Customer Upgrade Product Quality and Responsibility be equipped with 2,000 MVA capacity short circuit, high voltage, and reliability test equipment and is focused on Satisfaction developing technology to improve product performance Quality Management System and strengthen reliability. By operating PT&T, we were Our Quality Management System (QMS) has been estabable to reduce testing time by 30% and save approxilished on the basis of requirements of ISO9001 (1993~), mately KRW 4.5 billion. Creating customer value through product responsibility and ISO14001 (1996~), K-OHSMS (2008~), TS16949 (2010~), proactive communication regulations, customers, and markets as well as process improvements identified from management activities. It also encompasses all processes ranging from planning and de2014 Materiality Test Results velopment of products and service to relevant infrastructure such as IT system, business operation, and support Management Issues 2014 Material Issues activities. By harnessing the Quality Management System, Activate communications with Establish a fair trade culture Upgrade product quality and responsibility we are committed to creating the best value. customers (customers) Power Testing & Technology Center Establish a fair trade culture Upgrade product quality and Enhance complaints handling Management System Process Map responsibility process Activate communications with customers Management Process Strengthen customer-tailored services Business Management Managerial Improvement 2015 2016 2017 Roadmap for mid-term tasks (2015~2017) Core Process With the establishment of an integrated customer satisfaction management system, we will strengthen activities to prevent complaints and act rapidly to resolve issues. More‘Establish an Marketing Sales Design/ Procurement ManufacturInstallation & ‘Establish a real‘Operate Development ing & Delivery Service integrated over, we will further customer satisfaction activities by building a real-time customer time customer a customer-tailored customer satisfaction system that will allow client feedback to be incorporated into management satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction management management and provide customized service. management Finance/Accounting IT HR/Labor General & Legal Affairs Environment & Safety Quality Assurance Calibration/Test system’ system’ system’ Support Process Internal Quality Management Assessment Korean Standard-Quality Excellence Index Internal Quality Management Evaluation Score annually in testing costs. Above all, PT&T allows us to conLSIS has been operating the Quality Management AssessQuality Management (Unit: points) ment System to upgrade the quality of management actrol testing schedules, making it possible to run prevenEvaluation Score tivities as part of process quality improvement since 2010. tive tests which have resulted in early-on improvements 2014 2014 72 807.4 72 70 Our Quality Management Assessment System was develin quality and reliability . 65 2013 2013 oped based on the Malcolm Baldrige model, a renowned Product Safety Standard Certification 773.9 points points 70 points points in 2014 61 global management system. It has been contributing to upgrading the level of our management process and LSIS has developed a manufacturing process with stringent reliability and safety standards in order to ensure 72 quality. (LSIS Drive) points safety during product utilization. In addition to the doCustomer-oriented Quality Innovation Activities mestic KS standard, we have obtained various domestic 2011 2012 2013 2014 Securing high quality on the basis of reliability is very imand international standards certification including IEC, Management Issue Performances in 2014 Plans for 2015 Department portant in our businesses. As our business area is expandANSI/IEEE, NEMA, ES, CE, and UL in order to provide cusUpgrade product • Strengthened operation of internal quality evaluation system • ‌Strengthen talent development system for quality management QM Team quality and responsibility • Conducted activities to secure quality in advance • Expand evaluation on environmental and safety impact of products ing to smart grid and photovoltaic power solution sectors, tomers with reliable products. Establish a fair • Conducted trainings on fair trade for all employees (online training, unit-specific training) • Expand fair trade training and monitoring Legal Affairs Dept. the importance of product and service quality is growing trade culture • Self-evaluation on fair trade and self-correction for sales, planning, and marketing staff • Diversify reporting channels for fair trade issues bigger. In particular, ensuring product quality before the Cultivating Quality Management Talent • Improved customer data protection system and increased regular inspections • Implement education on personal data protection (twice in a year) IT Innovation Team In order to secure the infrastructure for quality managedelivery is critical to our sustainable growth. Therefore, we Activate communications • Carried out customer satisfaction survey for all business divisions • Expand survey on satisfaction (overseas customers) Marketing Team ment, we are working to cultivate quality management with customers are working to ensure quality in advance throughout the • PR activities (exhibitions, roadshows, etc.) • Expand PR activity channels value chain of R&D, procurement, manufacturing, markettalent. At LSIS, we are developing quality specialists based • Responded to customer requirements • Respond to customer requirements on non-financial data Corporate ing, sales, installation, and after-sales service. on the Quality Management Talent Development Road• Distribute sustainability report to major customers Planning Dept. Enhance complaints • Strengthened preventative measures • Prevention: Standardize Q-Post tour improvement activities QS Team map and these specialists are spearheading efforts to imhandling processes • Improved execution rate for Voice of Customers (VOC) • Post-counteraction: Standardize claim response process Activities to Ensure Quality in Advance prove quality at our business sites. Strengthen customer• Held regional training on product in Korea • Enhance training on products for overseas customers Marketing Team The LSIS PT&T (Power Testing & Technology) Center, estailored services tablished in 2000, was the first private institute in Korea to 34 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 35 Customer Establish a Fair Trade Culture sales, planning, and marketing departments to prevent Activate Communications with to business division, type, processing status, and input Satisfaction Customers unfair trade, providing them with opportunities to assess channel on a monthly basis. Results are sent to related Prevent Unfair Trade and correct their actions. When questions arise, they can departments for prompt actions. The opinions gathered LSIS has proclaimed compliance and is implementing consult the firm’s fair trade specialists. This process is in Customer Satisfaction Survey by the customer service center and business divisions are diverse fair trade practices based on top management’s itself a form of fair trade training and helps promote comThe company conducts regular annual customer satisshared through company and division-wide meetings for KS-QEI LSIS’ Drive (Unit: points) strong dedication towards fair trade. mitment to fair trade. The self-assessment and correction faction surveys. On and offline surveys are conducted on a structured response. In order to establish a fair trade culture, we have been activities have proved effective in spreading a culture of major customers and the A&D Business Group works with continuously implementing company-wide training for compliance and preventing violations. a specialized third-party to increase reliability of survey Customers all employees and conducting regular inspections on in 2013 in 2014 results. We ranked top in the PLC/Drive sector in KS-QEI Voice of Customers (VOC) Protect Customer Information 807.4 relative departments. The online fair trade compliance for 2 consecutive years in recognition of diverse activities training mandatory for all employees builds the founLSIS strictly upholds laws pertaining to the protection 773.9 to upgrade product and service quality. In 2015, we will dation for fair trade culture and specialized trainings for of personal information and thoroughly safeguards expand the survey to overseas customers in order to actiChannel each department helps to strengthen our commitment to the customer information we collect. In response to the vate communication and further satisfy customers. Online Offline fair trade. In 2014, we experienced the significant negabroader application of personal information protection, Phone/Fax Visits tive impact caused by collusion and became aware of the we are managing and protecting all personal informaStrengthen PR Activities Web Surveys/Interviews magnitude of damage resulting from having unfair trade tion on customers, recruitment, employees, and suppliers LSIS is promoting its products and technologies through practices brought to light. This acted as an important in accordance with our personal information protection diverse PR activities. In 2014, we participated in the largE-mail Trainings/Seminars turning point and catalyst to eliminate unfair trade pracbylaws. We conduct annual inspection on personal inforest electrics and automation exhibitions inside and outtices and promote fair trade throughout the company. mation in the fields of governance, life cycle and IT and side Korea such as Automation World (Seoul), Hannover Response Structure LSIS has distributed a self-evaluation checklist to staff in identify improvement tasks for upgrading processes and Messe (Germany), IEEE (U.S.), CIGRE (France), SIEF (Korea), systems. Other activities establishing internal manageCustomer Service Center Meeting Bodies SPS/IPC/Drives (Germany), PV EXPO (Japan), and CEPSI Corrective Measures for Unfair Trade Practices ment processes, gaining consents when collecting per(Korea) to showcase our products which reflect global sonal information, disposing personal information, and trends. Moreover, we held roadshows in Southeast Asian Category 2012 2013 2014 managing system passwords. In particular, we adopted countries like Vietnam and Indonesia to accelerate our ion A Abuse of market No. of corrections Colle DB encryption and DB access control solutions in the first ct lysis position Penalties (KRW in billions) overseas expansion through communications with cusna VOC Unfair No. of corrections 2 half of 2014 to proactively prevent information leakage. tomers. We will continue to create value for our customers Business Product collusive practice Penalties (KRW in billions) 4.12 We plan to expand the scope of regular inspections to through exhibitions, roadshows, web-letters and adverDivisions Sha Development ring Unfair trade No. of corrections personal information stored in our DB system and inditisement. practice Penalties (KRW in billions) vidual PCs. Sales Marketing Production Design Service R&D Information Protection Management Process Information Protection Management System • Manage all personal information protection operations • Evaluation of personal information Information Protection • Approve personal information protection regulations Secure Potential Customers protection activities • ‌Approve personal information protection plans and support executions Officer Evaluate • Evaluation of activity performance • Designate information protection managers and staff In order to secure potential customers, LSIS conducts one• Evaluation of measures to protect Information • Assume the responsibility for information security on-one export consultations, business meetings, seminars personal information Protection • Set up and execute personal information protection plans Manager • Manage personal information protection through roadshows, and conventions and is managing re• ‌Direction on allocation of • Monitoring of performances resources, roles, responsibilities Direct Monitor • Monitoring of operations and Information • Operate personal information works lated information in customer database. The database of and authority maintenance Protection • Implement personal information protection measures Security existing and potential customers is shared with sales-re• ‌Direction on operations • Internal controls and Staff • ‌Manage and supervise the compliance of staff with relevant regulations and controls assessment self-evaluation lated departments to boost sales and marketing activiOperation • Operate personal information works results Employees’ personal • ‌Implement of personal information protection measures ties. In addition, as part of our strategic social contribution • ‌Manage and supervise the compliance of staff with information relevant regulations activities, we are sponsoring educational institutions and Collection Storage/Use Provision Disposal • ‌Manage personal information of applicants/recruits/ technical competitions with our core products, which • ‌Collect minimum • ‌Use only for original • ‌Notify and obtain consent if • ‌Dispose personal information Departments Employees’ resigned people information for only purpose at time of information is passed on to when storage period has Utilizing personal • ‌Manage and supervise companies that we trusted helps potential customers further become familiar with information Hannover Messe 2014 business purpose collection a third party been exceeded, purpose has Personal employee information our company and products. Information • ‌Notify and gain consent • ‌Adopt technological • ‌Prohibit provision that goes been met or has become • Manage personal information of membership Customers’ when collecting personal safeguards when using beyond the scope of consent unnecessary personal • ‌Control personal information related to after service Respond to Customer Requirements information or storing personal information and technological enquiries LSIS is listening to customers’ voices through various • ‌Prohibit use beyond original • ‌Ensure that information • ‌Additionally notify and gain information purpose of provision cannot be restored or consent when collecting Suppliers’ personal • ‌Manage personal information of customers and vendors channels. We adopt both current demands and potenretrieved information • Handle personal information of trustee companies identifiable and sensitive tial complaints to our product development process. The information IT Security • ‌Apply technical protection measures to personal information processing Staff system and control changes voices of customers are analyzed and treated according 36 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 37 Customer Enhance Complaints Handling Processes Design Management Activities tifying R&D capability. Moreover, we strive for sustainable Satisfaction With the declaration of design management for the first design management to harness customer sensitivity and Preventative Activities time in the industry, LSIS established the Design Center user experience. Going beyond product development, the We have implemented the Q-Post Tour program to rein 2005. The pursuit of customer-centric design was an inDesign Center is helping LSIS become more creative and VOC Improvement Rate (Unit: %) spond to customers’ potential complaints since 2012. This novative approach in the industrial equipment business safe by designing the R&D Campus, which will be built in program allows us to ascertain their quality expectations with traditional producer-centric nature. The Design Cen2015, into a truly smart green building that integrates our 86.2 ter is being operated as a specialized organization under products, solutions, and services. We will continue to proand potential complaints in advance and improve the 86.0 quality of major products and sales activities. Customer the CTO to rapidly respond to customer needs for specialvide customers with differentiated value through quality needs identified through the Q-Post Tour program are 71.9 ization and sophistication. The Design Center enhances that touches them and eco-friendly design development. applied to new product design and quality improvement our design competitiveness and corporate image by inin 2014 of existing products, and the results are delivered to custroducing customer-focused designs that can highlight tomers. We are striving to improve the continuity and efficiency of this program by building an integrated process 86.2 % our technical expertise, upgrading design quality, and forthrough collaboration across sales and service depart2012 2013 2014 ments and factories. LSIS Switchgear and H100 Drive were selected as ‘2014 Good Design’ products. The Good Design evaluation held 2014 GOOD DESIGN Product annually by the Ministry of Trade Industry and Energy demonstrates the highest authority in Korea, and this year’s Strengthen Customer-tailored Services Certification Planning Customer Contact Q-Post Tour evaluations were conducted with stringent site visits by judges. Our Switchgear and H100 Drive were highly recognized for collaborative efforts between business, development and design divisions to improve design quality in the Tailored Product Training and Seminars Feedback B2B market, global competitiveness by a design that separates it from competitors, and the establishment of unique LSIS provides systematic trainings to both domestic and product identity. Execution of Identification of overseas customers. We conduct production facility tours Follow-up Countermeasures Improvements for existing and potential domestic and overseas customers and hold seminars to offer information on our prodSwitchgear Manage Customer Complaints ucts. Moreover, we are increasing customer convenience LSIS records and manages customer complaints systemby visiting them located in remote areas who may have atically based on our Complaint Response Protocol and difficulties in visiting our business sites and training venprocesses. Claims regarding quality are treated according ues. In the future, we plan to expand the number of trainto severity through the Quality Information System (QIS) ings and seminars to provide tailored training services and claims collected by the customer service center and meeting customer needs. local offices are managed with a target processing time of 2 days (48 hours). Major claims are recorded in the ERP through Client Claim Reports and the Quality Management Department submits and shares the Improvement Report containing causes, improvement plans, and management solutions to the Quality Committee every month. Claims are distributed to responsible departments It was customary for switchgears to have un-uniform shapes and colors and customer needs for this product were also and results of implementation are managed as ‘VOC Imdiverse and complicated, leading to a wide range of designs. In order to address these issues, we established a design provement Rate.’ The VOC Improvement Rate was 86.2% PI, providing a design standard to revolutionize design quality and improve competitiveness. Product and Solutions Seminar, Indonesia in 2014 and has shown continuous annual improvement. Claims received from overseas customers are dealt with H100 Drive Series equally to domestic claims based on the Overseas Service Protocol and customer complaints response process. We The H100 Series (5.5~90kW) adopts an easy to use HVAC-specific keypad, offerwill continue our efforts to minimize complaints by acing a standardized user interface (UX) to all users. In addition, we have obtained tively managing customer claims and providing guidance various certifications (UL, CE, UL Plenum) to secure global competitiveness and to production lines and suppliers. enhanced user-friendliness by adopting Smart Copier technology. Product and Solutions Seminar, K-Water 38 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 39 02 Win-win Growth Establish a Culture of Fair Trade Policies and Activities to Comply with ation and their opinions and recommendations are used for vital data in developing our directions for ethical management. Suppliers’ satisfaction level on our ethical manSubcontracting Law agement (out of a possible 5 points) has been showing The Legal Affairs Department supports the ethical operconsistent improvement every year. ations of departments directly related to subcontracting Win-win Growth Through a Culture of Fair Trade and carries out various activities to ensure that compliant Ethical Management Satisfaction Index (Suppliers) practices are in place throughout the company. First, the Department swiftly informs relevant departments of gov4.19 4.19 ernment policy announcements so that they may execute 2014 Materiality Test Results compliance. It also analyzes new laws and amendments Management Issues 2014 Material Issues in consultation with procurement departments to reflect 4.13 these in business processes. Second, the Department Establish a fair trade culture (suppliers) Vitalize communication channels Establish a fair trade culture (suppliers) helps procurement staff to embed compliance in their in 2014 behaviors and promoting compliance through regular 4.19 Disseminate sustainability management to suppliers Improve effectiveness of Expand ACE CLUB activities win-win growth programs trainings. It also encourages the staff to conduct inspecImprove effectiveness of win-win growth programs Disseminate sustainability tion and correction by themselves through checklists Manage overseas supply chain management to suppliers 2012 2013 2014 with respect to subcontracting regulations, preventing law violation risks. Finally, the Legal Affairs Department 2015 2016 2017 Roadmap for mid-term tasks (2015~2017) provides procurement staff with professional consultation on issues related to subcontracting laws and their Disseminate Sustainability We will uphold our global corporate stewardship by pursuing win-win growth with all suppliers both in and out of Korea based on fair trade and communication. In addition, applications, preventing exposure to non-compliance risk. Management to Suppliers ‘Establish a ‘Strengthen ‘Develop global we plan to share our culture of sustainability management in order to strengthen the culture of supplier win-win growth sustainability of our partners. win-win growth’ sustainability’ programs’ Systematic Subcontracting Law Compliance Practice of Action Plans LSIS has undertaken various activities to build a systematWith the belief that stable and balanced growth of supic approach to fair trade and subcontracting compliance. pliers will help us reduce risks and raise product competAs part of these efforts, we updated our ‘Subcontracting itiveness, we are encouraging them to adopt sustainabilBasic Agreement’ in accordance with the Fair Trade Comity management system. As part of this, we implement Number of ACE CLUB Members Productivity Support Funding mission guidelines in 2014 to build a fair and transparent environmental safety assessment of new suppliers and business relationship with suppliers. In addition, we are partially reflect their sustainability management activiannually renew the ‘Pledge to Ethical Management Practies in our supplier evaluation. In addition, a roadmap for 2014 2014 spreading sustainability management to suppliers was 29 17.3 tice’ with all suppliers when signing the basic agreement. In 2014, we signed subcontracting and ethical manageestablished to enhance their capabilities and responsibil2013 2013 ment agreements with 416 suppliers to ensure mutual ities. Based on the roadmap, we plan to provide suppliers 20 KRW 14.8 billion KRW billion fair trade. Moreover, we have adopted the Fair Trade Comwith special lectures and regular trainings on sustainabilmission’s 4 key guidelines to company regulations in ority management to form a consensus in the short term, der to systematically manage subcontracting regulation while developing indices to diagnose their sustainability compliance. The Internal Subcontracting Inspection Comand applying them to the selection and evaluation of supmittee headed by the CPO checks violations of relevant pliers in the mid to long term. By doing so, we will conManagement Issue Performances in 2014 Plans for 2015 Department Establish a culture of fair trade • Implemented surveys on ethical management • Continue to implement surveys on ethical management (on going) Audit Department laws and fair trade practices from supplier selection to tinue to help suppliers reduce both current and potential • Conducted employee trainings on subcontracting • Launch courses to train fair trade and ethical management /Legal Affairs Department transaction termination through monthly meetings. risks and consequently build the foundation for win-win Disseminate sustainability • Developed strategy to disseminate sustainability management • ‌Implement special training on sustainability management Corporate Planning growth with them. management to suppliers for suppliers Department/ Supplier Survey Results Win-win Growth Team We conduct an annual survey of suppliers and other Improve effectiveness of • Strengthened infrastructure for win-win growth • ‌Expand infrastructure for win-win growth to 2nd-tier suppliers Win-win Growth Team win-win growth programs • Increased issue amount for Mutual Growth Payment System • Increase use of Mutual Growth Payment System partner firms with continuous business transactions to • Provided financial and training support for suppliers • Expand trainings and financial supports for 2nd-tier suppliers assess their satisfaction level in terms of our ethical man• Implemented Technology Sharing Program • ‌Activate Technology Sharing Program: supports for improving R&D agement activities. The survey covers the entire processes capacity based on transferred technology ranging from supplier selection and contracting to operExpand ACE CLUB activities • Expanded ACE CLUB • Strengthen ACE CLUB support programs Vitalize communication channels • Implemented Benefit Sharing with 1st-tier suppliers • Implement Benefit Sharing with 1st and 2nd-tier suppliers 40 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 41 Win-win Improve Effectiveness of Win-win Agreement on Win-win Growth between 1st-tier and Improve Productivity Strengthen Technology Development Capacity Growth Growth Programs 2nd-tier Suppliers To establish a culture of voluntary fair trade and win-win Financial Assistance Technology Sharing Program Financial Assistance for Expand Win-win Growth Foundation growth between 1st-tier and 2nd-tier suppliers, LSIS signs the Suppliers LSIS has provided suppliers with financial assistance at In collaboration with the Korea Institute for the Advanceagreements on win-win growth among the three parties. low interest rate for their stable production. In 2014, we ment of Technology (KIAT), LSIS provided 290 unutilized Direct Combination Special Build the Mutual Growth Payment System The agreements emphasizes compliance with the Fair raised a total of KRW 20.2 billion KRW 2.8 billion for direct technologies to SMEs through the Technology Sharing Trade Commission’s 4 key guidelines for subcontractFund Size (Unit: KRW in billions) support, KRW 14.2 billion for combined support, and KRW Program. LSIS became the third company to participate in LSIS first started the Mutual Growth Payment System ing and commitment of 1st-tier suppliers to spreading 3.2 billion for special support. And a total of KRW 17.3 bilthis program after SK Hynix and LG Display. A total of 222 which provides financial aids to not only 1st-tier but 20.2 our win-win growth policy to 2nd-tier suppliers. In 2014, lion was supported to 70 suppliers for working capital and domestic and 68 foreign technologies with regard to pat2nd-tier and 3rd-tier suppliers in the industry. This system 3.2 25 1st-tier and 19 2nd-tier suppliers signed a total of 75 15.8 ented and utility model in the heavy electrical equipment allows 2nd-tier and 3rd-tier suppliers to issue ‘Win-win investments directly and indirectly. We plan to expand the 13.5 14.2 industry. Under this program, we donated 40 domestic agreements. We plan to expand the number of agree13.2 scope of financial assistance to 2nd-tier suppliers in 2015. Sales Bond’ by utilizing trade receivables from LSIS as col12.5 and foreign patents to 9 SMEs in 2014. We will continue lateral and to liquidate the bond at the same low interest ments between 1st-tier and 2nd-tier suppliers in 2015 to to provide supports in collaboration with the government rate granted to large enterprises, which ensures better make this a meaningful activity towards win-win growth. Training Support so that our suppliers can improve R&D capability and sucliquidity. In 2014, a total of 51 suppliers issued 272 bond We develop and offer various training programs meeting ceed in commercializing transferred technologies. issues worth KRW 45 billion, a sharp increase from the CEO Visits to 1st-tier and 2nd-tier Suppliers suppliers’ needs with the purpose of securing world-class 1.0 2.6 2.8 previous year, through the system. We plan to make this As part of our effort for win-win growth with suppliers, our quality. In collaboration with universities and specialized 2012 2013 2014 New Product Development with Conditional CEO has visited 2nd-tier suppliers’ onsite and had time to education institutions, we operated 5 courses, including system more active in 2015 by expanding the pool of parPurchase Option communicate with them. In 2014, he visited 3 suppliers injection molding expert and FTA origin specialist training ticipating banks. Through this, we hope to help suppliers Performance (Unit: KRW in billions) LSIS is participating in the government-led ‘New Product and held onsite forums with 11 companies to discuss LSIS courses, free of charge. In addition, we opened 9 courses reduce difficulties in collecting payments and concerns Development with Conditional Purchase Option’ program business strategies and operational directions along with 17.3 on quality and production management for employees of about dishonor. Consequently, this system is expected with suppliers to both enhance technology development ways to enhance cooperation and improvement. We plan 14.8 2.1 suppliers based on job function and rank. In particular, we to substantially contribute to boosting win-win growth capacity but also increase sales. Through this program, 13.2 12.6 dispatched our design and quality specialists to perform with our suppliers and improving the national competito dispatch quality management specialists, improve paywe conducted 3 projects including the ‘Localization of 9.7 specialized on-site training for more meaningful support tiveness. ment conditions, and provide financial assistance in order HVDC Power Supply’ with Ejins in 2014. We will continue 8.7 to suppliers, which was especially well-received. These to help both 1st-tier and 2nd-tier suppliers gain tangible to jointly participate in this program, which helps secure efforts have led to training of 1,005 persons on various benefits through the win-win growth activities. sales channels from the stage of product development, to Utilization of the Mutual Growth (Unit: KRW in billions, firms) 2.7 topics including quality, production, finance, FTA, and inPayment System 1.0 1.6 stimulate suppliers’ R&D mindset and promote the localjection molding in 2014 alone, contributing to enhancing 2012 2013 2014 ization of equipment. 1st credits issued 2nd credits issued the quality competitiveness of suppliers. No. of issues 272 cases No. of Suppliers (Unit: firms) Commissioned Development Projects Supported Guidance for Process Quality Management In order to improve R&D capability of suppliers and tight66 70 In order to secure quality competitiveness from the stage 39.30 en relationships with them, we carry out national and pri11 of purchasing raw materials, LSIS dispatches internal 41 cases 53 vate research projects. We commissioned a total KRW 2.9 43 specialists to guide the management and improvement 5.73 billion worth of 54 research projects in 2014 and plan to 43 of process quality. Our specialists visited 42 suppliers 91 8.56 (32) (19) 38 continue to expand the number of projects. times and completed 737 improvement support tasks 0.48 (13) in 2014. This has helped suppliers become aware of the (2) importance of quality and process management so that 16 13 5 they may independently and competitively manage their 2013.8~12 (5 months) 2014.1~12 (12 months) Joint Execution of Commissioned (Unit: KRW in billions) processes. In 2015, we plan to extend this support to Development Projects 2012 2013 2014 2nd-tier suppliers as well. 54 cases Guidance for Process Quality 2.9 40 cases Management 32 cases Category 2013 2014 2.1 Suppliers visited 34 42 1.9 in 2014 No. of visits 45 91 Launching ceremony of the Mutual Growth Payment System CEO’s visit to the 1st and 2nd-tier suppliers and forum with them No. of supports 275 737 KRW 2.9 billion 2012 2013 2014 42 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 43 Win-win ACE CLUB Special Task Force on Innovation of 610 employees from 585 suppliers participated in this Growth LSIS provides ACE CLUB members with the ‘Special Task meeting, through which they shared various performances About ACE CLUB Force on Innovation,’ a talent cultivation program, in orwith respect to product quality, delivery, procurement poliACE (Active, Challenge, Excellent) CLUB is LSIS’ unique der to help them grow into strong companies with global cy, excellent win-win growth practices, and special lectures. program to certify excellent suppliers, which aims to encompetitiveness. This program aims to reinforce suppliers’ The Performance Sharing Meeting has helped us form a courage them to build a culture of innovation and secure corporate competitiveness by upgrading productivity consensus on win-win growth with suppliers and we plan world-class competitiveness. ACE CLUB members are based on quality innovation, in which employees of ACE to expand the scope of this meeting to 2nd-tier suppliers selected annually based on a comprehensive evaluation CLUB members participate. In 2014, this program conin the future. Visit to Japanese TPS site for benchmarking on innovation including quality, price, delivery, process management, tinued for 10 months with the contents of consulting Completion of the Innovation and commitment to win-win growth. ACE CLUB members services by external specialized institutes and collective Partner Exchange Meeting Task Force Program trainings to raise the awareness of quality, enhance data In 2014, we conducted 4 exchange meetings with the are given preferential payment conditions, training and Suppliers (Unit: firms) education opportunities, and R&D support, which helps control, and innovate product quality. Participants who CEOs of suppliers in different business sectors, where our 29 enhance QCD competiveness. As a result, the number complete this program play a role as innovation leaders executives visited suppliers for in-depth communication. of suppliers with over KRW 10 billion procurement has and candidates for the next-generation management in Through the meetings, we carefully listened to their voic20 increased to 10 in 2014 from 2 in 2008. ACE CLUB will their companies. The number of participants was 40 from es and debated ways to cooperate with each other and 14 become a catalyst for promoting sustainability manage14 suppliers in 2012 and 143 from 29 suppliers in 2014. enhance business competitiveness. We also took advanment activities of suppliers in the future. tage of the meetings to identify and rectify inefficient in 2014 Visit to LSIS China subsidiary for benchmarking business practices that had become customary in order 29 firms Management Seminars We hold a seminar for the CEOs of ACE CLUB members Domestic and International Benchmarking to achieve win-win growth. 2012 2013 2014 once a year to share knowhow with respect to manageWe operate a benchmarking program that provides ACE Talk Concert with the CPO ment strategy, finance, marketing, leadership, and the CLUB members with chances to visit advanced companies The CPO of our company visited suppliers once a quarParticipants (Unit: persons) economy. A total of 163 CEOs of suppliers have particiinside and outside Korea and to better understand rapidly ter in order to expand communication opportunities 143 pated in this seminar since 2008. In particular, experts in changing competition environment. Performances include with them and listen to their difficulties and suggestions, each field give special lectures and our executives offer a visiting 17 advanced companies in 5 countries and 3 dothrough which we were able to understand how they rec74 mestic excellent companies and participating 3 overseas ognized and felt our win-win growth policies. And, at the forum to discuss major issues in the industry and how we Innovation Task Force education to improve process and exhibitions from 2008 to 2014. A total of 210 employees same time, we discussed ways to improve delivery proin 2014 40 should work together. Moreover, ACE CLUB members can quality management of suppliers attended this program, experiencing changes 143 share successful innovation strategies and cases through cess and operate efficient quality management policies this seminar, offering a chance for well-intentioned comin global market environment and best practices. We will through the talk concert. persons continue to operate this program for nurturing excellent petition. This seminar will continue to help suppliers not 2012 2013 2014 only have a chance to learn management knowhow but suppliers. Manage Overseas Supply Chain communicate their difficulties with our executive and deliberate on future directions. Communication and Information Regional Procurement Sharing with Suppliers As the nation’s leading heavy electrical equipment company that produces core equipment ranging from electric Performance Sharing devices to industrial automation systems, LSIS purchases ACE CLUB Status The company holds the Performance Sharing Meeting evraw materials worth of about KRW 1.32 trillion from supTotal No. of ACE CLUB members No. of ACE CLUB members with over KRW 10 billion in purchasing Purchasing amount (KRW in billions) ery quarter not only to share our business vision and perpliers of 31 countries annually. Regional breakdown of Purchasing amount per member (KRW in billions) formances with suppliers but also create shared value and procurement is as follows: Korea (82%), China (10%), Eu251.0 229.4 247.4 207.8 214.7 expand communication and cooperation. In 2014, a total rope (3%), Japan (2%), and other parts of Asia (2%). 142.0 97.7 13.2 11.5 10.7 ACE CLUB Management Seminar workshop 8.5 5.5 7.4 4.7 28 29 26 21 20 20 19 12 11 9 10 7 4 2 ACE CLUB Management Seminar special lecture Performance sharing special lecture on humanities Performance sharing agreement on win-win growth Exchange meeting with partner firms 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 44 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 45 03 Employee Pursue Work-Life Balance Satisfaction Events for Employee Families Various family events are held to offer opportunities for open communication among employees and to inspire their families with pride in the company. In particular, for Cultivating global talents and improving the employees who were promoted to managerial level, employees’ quality of life the company hosts an event where the families of the emChildren’s Day event ployees and company executives are invited. Starting in 2011, the event serves the purpose of assuring the imporWorkplace Nurseries 2014 Materiality Test Results tance of the manager role as well as thanking the families’ LSIS is operating nurseries in the workplace, supporting support. We also hold events to invite the parents of new Management Issues 2014 Material Issues employees to balance their work and life. Our Cheongju recruits. The parents of new recruits visit the company and plant had opened a nursery in the Cheongju Industrial Pursue work-life balance Attract and nurture talents Pursue work-life balance experience the working environment of their sons and Complex in March 2014, and the headquarters and the Strengthen company-wide human Attract and nurture talents daughters, while sharing the company’s corporate vision. rights and labor policies Expand employee communication R&D Campus in Anyang started the operation of a nursery Strengthen company-wide human rights and labor policies in March 2015. The nurseries are commissioned to agenEvaluate and compensate fairly cies specialized in child care, ensuring that the children of LSIS employees will be nurtured in a safe environment, Roadmap for mid-term tasks (2015~2017) 2015 2016 2017 provided with excellent care. We will secure global business capability by becoming united under the same agenda through an open communication culture. Furthermore, we aim to enhance the quality of life for all employees by establishing policies to support them at all operation sites and ‘Build open ‘Secure global ‘Establish building systematic monitoring process. communication business global human culture’ capability’ rights policies’ Family event for employees promoted to manager level Family-friendly Programs Under the motto,“as a happy home makes a happy workEducation expenditure per person Welfare expenditure per person place,” LSIS runs various programs serving the needs of LSIS Daycare Center the employee’s family. Designating the second Friday of each month as ‘Family Day,’ we encourage employees 2014 2014 Concentrated Vacation System 1.3 13.2 to leave work on time for better relationships with their We run a system which allows all employees to go on families. Since 2011, we have been rewarding employees 2013 2013 a concentrated vacation within the limits of their paid with the ‘Filial Behavior Award,’ a program in which indiKRW 1.1 million KRW million KRW 12.7 million KRW million vidual employees are evaluated and selected for cases of leaves and personal vacations, which are fixed by related laws and collective agreements. It is a system that helps filial behavior. Other programs include Summer/Winter employees balance work with home. It is implemented English Camps for employees’ children, Children’s Day after long term projects or personal events, allowing emevent, trips, operation of recreation centers in summer, ployees to regain strength and return, thus enhancing Management Issue Performances in 2014 Plans for 2015 Department film screening event, and others. As such, LSIS provides business efficiency. Apart from summer vacation, all LSIS Pursue • Implemented Rest (休) Weeks (concentrated vacations) • Promote the use of Rest (休) Weeks system HR Team employees with opportunities to set aside work to create employees are given concentrated breaks at the first half work-life balance • Acquired certification as a family-friendly company • Strengthen family-friendly management precious memories with their families. and latter half of the year (3~5 days), which provides em• Opened workplace nursery (Cheongju) • Open workplace nursery (Anyang) ployees with an opportunity to rest and return. • Hosted employee family events • Expand employee family events to more business sites Attract and • Operated ‌ various channels for talent recruitment • Establish aggressive recruitment and promotion strategy nurture talents (Corporate funded scholarships, lab tour, internships) • Secure communication channels of potential recruits • Increased employee education costs and time • Expand operation of global capacity building program Strengthen company-wide • Conducted self-evaluation of human rights and labor standards • Establish human rights policies HR & Relations human rights and • Activate labor and human rights related processes Management Team labor policies • Provide training on labor and human rights policies and related issues Expand employee • Reinforced existing communications channels • ‌Activate communication through the affiliation of Innovation & communication communication channels Culture Part Cultural outing for employees’ children 46 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 47 Employee Attract and nurture talents inforce human resources’ competitive edge in the global college seniors in their spring semester allows them to exTraining Costs (Unit: KRW in thousands/person) Satisfaction market. Also, it has been gradually expanding global reperience LSIS’s vision and corporate culture beforehand cruiting at North America, China and Europe, attracting through undertaking jobs and tasks beforehand. Other 1,337 Ideal Employee and Recruitment Philosophy LSIS seeks after individuals that can, on the basis of global talent. programs include plant tours for university students, 1,088 1,055 LSpartnership, share the Core Values of Collaboration, participation in the Human Resources Program in Energy Execution, Creativity, and Integrity. An ideal employee Attract Global Talents Technology, and so on, which provide them with opportuin 2014 1,337 will also be Positive, Creative, and Professional. With this LSIS has been strategically introducing human resources nities to have a positive impression toward LSIS. KRW thousand in mind, LSIS strives to recruit talents that show competo core business projects by public recruiting new and tence, while avoiding homogenous recruitment. Through experienced workers. Furthermore, by enforcing global Direction of Cultivating Talents 2012 2013 2014 recruiting talents with global competitiveness and posirecruiting policies which target students staying abroad In the past when the half-life of knowledge was extendtive mindset as well as a spirit full of challenge, LSIS purin universities at North America, China, or foreign intelleced, experiences could become skill. However, in the vastly Education Hours (Unit: PD/person) sues becoming a ‘Great Company’ loved by customers. tuals in the R&D field, LSIS is reinforcing its competitive changing modern society characteristic of globalization, 11 LSIS also aims to become a company that immerses itself edge in the global market. Particularly, regarding R&D advancement of technology, and changes in law, having 10 10 in achieving individual and corporate goals as passionate human resources for the company’s new core businesses only experience one will fall behind. In order to secure and talented workers with enough experience, LSIS is also and exhibit professionalism in the global market, LSIS is in 2014 professionals join forces. To this end, LSIS is operating a fair and transparent system which does not discriminate based on individual characteristics such as education, age, operating a year-round recruitment program. We also utilize various contact channels such as on-campus recruitsupporting systematic training and education programs that will nurture talents. 11 PD ment, employee recommendation, and search firms to at2012 2013 2014 gender and race. tract talents meeting our businesses in early stage. Under Human Resources Development Status of Global Talents the situation where corporations struggle to preoccupy For efficient human resources development, LSIS provides Education and Training in 2014 With the strategic direction of evolving into a leading talented workers, LSIS is also endeavoring to attract ex(Unit: PD*; persons per day) systematic and well-organized education and training Caring for New and Experienced Employees global heavy electrical equipment company, each busicellent and professional human resources. By providing programs with regard to class, globalism, organizational LSIS operates retention events and systematic talent Class Organizational Development ness site in the world is striving to recruit and cultivate constant support through corporate funded scholarships Professionalism Globalism development, and professionalism. In addition, the CDP development programs to effectively care new and exglobal talents. As of the end of 2014, around 1,400 workto Masters and Doctorate candidates, LSIS gives them the (Career Development Program) is running for helping all perienced employees. We provide new graduate recruits ers are employed at either both production and sales opportunity to study their specialties and join the comemployees manage their entire job careers from joining with a message from the CEO and flower basket and take pany afterwards. Also, we conduct the Lab Tour program 6,703 453 to leaving the company. them on tours of the Jeju Pilot HVDC SMART CENTER, alcorporations including China, Vietnam, and Japan or ten overseas branches including the United States, Europe, Into visit outstanding electricity and electronic engineering lowing them to be proud of joining the company. Other dia and Vietnam. In order to advance into global markets labs at universities in order to continue exchange with Class Educate knowledge, skills and attitudes required by programs include entry-level education to introduce the and boost sales, LSIS has been continuously striving to reschools and students. Our internship program targeting one’s position, rank and duty group and the company, mentoring program, on-the-job Globalism Educate languages and culture related to training, basic job training course by each value chain, and a global environment The LSIS Ideal LS Future Camp which aims to assist employees who have Organizational Internalize management philosophy, main values, 2,114 6,996 finished their first year to set visions. Moreover, we help development and organization culture Greater value together! Professionalism Educate knowledge with the aim of nurturing new employees adjust to the organization and fulfill their * 1PD = Off the job training 8h, Cyber 1M professionals by each value chain potential with the On-boarding Package. We also strive for continuous communication through the frequent VOE (Voice of Employee), which caters to employees who have Positive Creative Professional newly joined the organization. Energetic, positive-minded, Change, innovation, Professionalism, self-development, ethics performance-driven global mindset People who are energetic and positive-mindPeople who lead in developing the comPeople who incessantly strive to become ed, who work well with fellow coworkers, and pany into a global enterprise by pursuing the best in their jobs, have keen underwho adhere to ethical procedures at work. changes and innovation and creating value standing of ever-changing global business on the basis of creative ideas. environment and the competency and passion to compete globally. Collaboration Execution Creativity Integrity Welcoming event for new recruits New recruits training in Jeju LS Future Camp 48 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 49 Employee Strengthen Human Rights and ployees such as LinkerS, Smart Board, and Ace Board as Expand Employee Communication Communication Enhancement Programs Satisfaction Labor Policies well as regular forums for different classes and departLSIS seeks to vitalize internal communication and to crements, contributing to improving employees’ working Philosophy and Strategy for Communication ate a cooperative environment by building a corporate Respect for Human Rights environment and treatment. Upon the inauguration in 2008, the CEO Ja-Kyun Koo culture to inspire voluntary participations, open commuLSIS has put in place an institutional strategy to prevent emphasized transforming the corporate culture with the nication, and social contribution activities. discrimination with regard to gender, race, religion or restatement that it is essential for us to grow into a global gion of origin in recruitment, promotion, salary, and welcompany. Since then, we have made continuous efforts fare benefits. We also fundamentally prohibit any form to build a culture of communication. We are now deterof child labor or forced labor and strictly comply with mined to open the era of value-focused management, 1. Open Office related domestic and international laws. As a result, there where qualitative and quantitative growth is balanced. Facilitate open and equal communications between leadhas been no single infringement in terms of these since With a new clear value system, the management, the ers and members by always opening the door of the leadthe foundation, which was attributable to our efforts to company, and the employees are striving to harness caer’s office room continuously improve our policies in respect of human pabilities toward one direction. Leader groups are helping 2. Harmony Day rights. In 2014, as part of our sustainability management Labor-Management Council members to improve themselves and focus on their work, Make opportunities to communicate and cooperate among assessment, we have evaluated our human rights and laand members are making concerted efforts to become relevant departments to eliminate misunderstandings and bor policies. Based on the results, the company improved professionals in their respective fields and to foster global Labor-Management Relations strengthen focus on work relevant policies and process to deal with human rights. competitiveness. Like this, we at LSIS are endeavoring to LSIS pursues labor-management relations based on create better corporate value. 3. Changing Positions Ensuring Basic Labor Rights equality and rational cooperation that allows both labors A work function exchange that allows employees to exWith the recognition that labor union is a partner for our and management to fulfill their duties and work towards Employee Communication Channels and System perience operations in different units in order to raise unbusinesses, we held negotiations on wages and collective shared benefit creation. In compliance with the articles of derstanding of other units and to promote cooperation agreement. We specified a phrase ‘The Company enters the Collective Agreement and Labor Union Charter, a toLinkerS LinkerS is a representative body to support two-way communication between the management and staff and to build an open corporate into collective discussions on equal terms as the labor tal of 1,047 employees (30.6%) are members of the labor 4. Standing Meeting culture, in which one representative from each division serves a two union’ on the statement to respect the right of collective union as of the end of 2014. The labor and management year term. It delivers employee opinions gathered through regular Take time to share the direction of team tasks, status of inagreement. In cases of critical changes in business enviof LSIS has built an amicable relationship on trust and as meetings and VOE to the management. dividual work progress, and thinking about recent issues ronment, we inform the facts to the labor union in a set a result, we were able to come to conclusions without among team members every morning disputes on wage and collective discussions since 2003. Each team chooses one person as the communicator. He plays a role period. In addition, activities of the labor union and its Communicator for leading the team culture, sharing and monitoring core values, and 5. A Million Roses members are guaranteed without any disadvantage. In addition, with the declaration of constructive compromoting free communication between team members and the The company’s unique communication program to communications and unlimited cooperation, the labor and leader. plement and encourage each other. If there is a person Labor-Management Partnership for management of LSIS have built a stable and cooperative who would like to praise or encourage, he or she delivers Win-win Growth labor-management relationship. Labor-Management Council contributes to the establishment of Labor-Management a rose voucher with a compliment message. The recipient Council healthy relationships between labor and the management based LSIS operates the Labor-Management Working Taskforce on understanding and cooperation. It also pursues increasing can exchange the voucher for food and beverage at the Team (TFT) in order to improve mutual understanding Labor Union Membership mutual benefits that can help the company grow sustainably and to improve the social and economic status of employees. company store or café. Vouchers can also be passed on and reduce the distance between labor and manage2012 2013 2014 other persons for a compliment relay. ment by sharing information necessary to address issues No. of union Male 861 865 873 Our grievance resolution system helps activate communications Grievance Resolution promptly and proactively. The quarterly company-wide members Female 171 167 165 System within our organization and to solve problems and grievances of 6. How-to Session Labor-Management Council and Labor-Management (persons) employees in terms of their company lives, which contributes to Total 1,032 1,032 1,038 A workshop program to encourage every members to boosting confidence and building a positive corporate culture. Council by each business site also discuss working conRate of union membership 32.3% 31.1% 30.5% freely and honestly develop solutions beyond just tradiditions and welfare and benefits along with personnel tional meetings between leaders and members. Under Happiness & Improvement Card is a communication board that deployment and shifts, company growth strategies, and Hi-Card allows employees to express grievances and personal requests in an the theme that the answer to our question is at the site, management issues with the labor union to reflect their informal manner to either the CHO or HR representative and receive members are able to jointly solve any problem through feedback. voice for mutual growth. In particular, regular labor-mana workshop for two to three hours with their leaders and agement forums and table-top discussions are operated other members. Employee groups based on function and position are able to gain in order to emphasize open communications. Moreover, Meeting with Management opportunities to directly communicate with the CEO, COO, head of the management visits not only domestic business sites divisions and departments through the Management Forum, and to explain the company’s quarterly performance to labor their opinions are reflected in our business operations. union officials, but also overseas subsidiaries together with labor union officials in order to directly experience global business environment and form a consensus. Meanwhile, we operate several groups representing em50 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 51 Employee Evaluate and Compensate Fairly and ways to improve. We secure fairness by requiring Compensation Program innovation items that contribute to the company, they Satisfaction meetings between evaluators and evaluees at every step LSIS operates various award programs to compensate are also recognized with the ‘Patent of the Year Award.’ For Performance Management System of the process and improve transparency by providing employee performances. For the most outstanding emindividual contributions to the company, we provide the Our employee evaluation is conducted with respect to feedback which is reflected in future goal setting and inployee of the year, the ‘Green Innovator Award’ is given, ‘Achievement Award’ and the ‘Service Excellence Award’ their performances and capabilities. As for performance dividual development plans. Business unit performances the researcher who promoted active R&D the most is to a service staff who have performed well, and the ‘Sales evaluation, targets are set in the business group, division, are linked to individual evaluation grades and are used in given the ‘Best R&D Award,’ there are also group awards. Award’ is given to the highest performing sales team in team, and individual levels, respectively, through negoticalculating bonuses, salary adjustments, promotions and In addition, we hold the Innovation Contest to award order to encourage employees. ations at the beginning of the year. The progress of each career development. compensations to the most innovative employees and target is checked through daily and mid-term evaluations and various measures are taken to assist in reaching those targets. If those are not achieved, we identify the causes Process Target Target fulfillment/ negotiation Evaluation mid-term evaluation Request target Meeting and Supervisor Target setting Evaluation of progress Addition and adjustment of target Self-evaluation Evaluation meeting negotiation agreement evaluation Evaluator Business unit (team) target Frequent monitoring and evaluation Supervisor evaluation Meeting Negotiation Inspection and support Consensus on results/feedback Evaluee Setting individual target Self-inspection Self-evaluation Target cascading Process Company-wide target setting Business group target setting Team target setting Team member’s target setting COO Confirm company-wide management principles and strategic target Share company-wide target Group Confirm performance and strategic target of Head business group Share Division Target * ‌Present Group target and principle Team Confirm team performance and Leader strategic target Share team target * ‌Present team target and action plan Team Confirm team member’s performance and Member strategic target 52 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 53 04 Environmental and Environmental Product Manage Environmental Products In accordance with the green business policy of the impacts and risks resulting from production, products, and services, and undertake improvement tasks. Internal Safety Management Management and Image as an government, LSIS has redefined its capabilities to cover and external verifications are also implemented regularly Environmental Company to monitor and supplement imperfections. production, delivery, and utilization in the green energy 2015 industry, and focused on developing and managing enPlant Green Company ISO14001 OHSMS18001 vironmental products such as photovoltaic power drive, Promote environmental management in accordance with 2015년product standard Redefine environmental photovoltaic power generation system, smart grid, EES, Cheongju 1991 1996.11 2008.06 global standards EV parts, and AC Drive. We have also invested in replacing Cheonan 1998.02 1996.11 2008.06 Busan 2015.02 2010.06 2010.06 Establish environmental product hazardous substances, reducing pollutants, and saving 2015년 development process energy consumption to respond to globally environ2014 Materiality Test Results mental regulations. We will continue to make concerted Green Purchasing efforts to develop environmental products and increase Green purchasing aims to minimize environmental imManagement Issues 2014 Material Issues 2016 pact by prioritizing purchase of materials with low haztheir sales to lead the industry. Manage environmental products Secure health and safety Manage environmental products ardous substances, high energy efficiency, and recyclabilDevelop plans for environmental product Advance environmental Manage hazardous materials and Advance environmental management manufacturing 2015년 and market creation Advance Environmental Management ity. LSIS has been conducting green purchasing since management pollutants the establishment of guidelines in 2009. The company Secure health and safety Reduce energy use and GHG emissions Environmental Guidelines purchased materials and office supplies that obtained We have established and proactively complied with the the Green Mark worth KRW 200 million in 2014. We will 2017 Roadmap for mid-term tasks (2015~2017) 2015 2016 2017 environmental management guidelines to pursue suscontinue to raise the awareness of employees on green Establish in-house environmental product tainable growth and preserve global environment. In purchasing and add to the catalogue of items eligible for To realize our midto long-term goal of ‘zero environmental and safety risk,’ we will con2015년 certification system tinue to advance company-wide environmental and safety management system in the 2014, we assessed the current status of our environmengreen purchasing in the future. ‘Advance short term. We also plan to upgrade the safety level of products and business sites in the level of tal management and established directions for improve‘Zero order to grow into a global eco-friendly company. company-wide ‘Solidify ESH* Environmental Investment environment – ment. Based on the results, we will not only expand the environmental culture’ safety risk’ management coverage of our environmental management throughout In order to minimize on-site environmental pollution, LSIS system’ the company but also enhance our systems to to respond is proactively working on the development of green techto relevant regulations from 2015. nologies and process improvement that can fundamen* ESH: Environment, Safety, Health tally remove the source of pollution as well as investing in pollution treatment and prevention facilities. In addition, Greenhouse Gas Emissions Occupational Accident Rate we strictly conduct evaluations on environment, safety, <Environmental Management Guidelines> and health when investing in new facilities, moving exist2014 2014 1. M‌ inimize environmental impacts throughout the product ing facilities, and changing raw materials in order to pre0.24 0% life cycle and fundamentally prevent pollution vent relevant risks. 2013 2013 2. M‌ inimize resource and energy use by applying clean 0.29 0% 3. C manufacturing technologies ‌ omply with international and domestic environmental laws Environmental investment (Unit: KRW in millions) Ton/million KRW Ton/million KRW expenditure and internal standards (GHG intensity) (Cheongju, Cheonan, and Busan Plants) Category 2014 4. A‌ nalyze environmental performance through regular environmental evaluations and continuously improve the Development of environmental products 4,025.1 environmental management system Process improvements 180.3 5. P‌ rovide educational opportunities to raise environmental Investment in environmental and safety facilities 351.3 Management Issue Performances in 2014 Plans for 2015 Department awareness amongst employees and promote active Maintenance and repairs for environmental 114.5 Manage environmental products • ‌Developed improvement plans for environmental • Redefine eco-friendly product standards Technology Strategy participation in environmental preservation activities and safety facilities product management • Establish eco-friendly product development process Department 6. M‌ ake environmental data, including environmental Total 4,671.1 Advance environmental management • ‌Implemented self-assessment of environmental ‌ • Improve environmental management organizational structure Environment & guidelines, available for client and stakeholder use management level • Proactively ‌ respond to regulations with pre-checks for environment and safety Safety Team • Disclose environmental data faithfully • ‌Conducted green purchasing • Raise ‌ awareness on green purchasing amongst employees (office supplies and materials) • Expand ‌ the scope of green purchasing Environment, Health and Safety • ‌Implemented environmental investment • Enforce ‌ the environment, safety, and health inspection system (in case of investments in new Management System facilities, facility relocation, and change of materials) Secure health and safety • ‌Inspected and diagnosed the status of safety and health • Identify ‌ and respond to company-wide health and safety risk Environment & LSIS has been operating the ESH (Environment, Safety, • Executed emergency response activities • Develop ‌ response manuals for individual environment and safety risks Safety Team and Health) management system based on its environ• ‌Implemented quarterly health and safety training • ‌‌Evaluate safety and health training programs and develop contents mental management guidelines. For better operation of Reduce energy use and GHG emissions • Reduced ‌ GHG intensity • Respond ‌ to GHG and Energy Target Management System this system, we identify and evaluate all environmental Manage hazardous materials and • Increased ‌ process water and wastewater recycling rate • Change outdated equipment and enhance efficiency pollutants • Reduced ‌ air pollutants (dust) 54 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 55 Environmental Secure Health and Safety to raise the awareness of health and safety. As most of our of upgrading emergency response capacity through inopened a non-smoking clinic and run non-smoking camand Safety products are heavy equipment installed in construction house trainings. In addition, it invested KRW 300 million in paigns to help prevent various disease caused by smoking. Organization Structure for Health and Safety sites, there is an inherent safety risk involved in installation. an automated fire detection system which will be in operFor voluntary participants trying to quit smoking, we offer Management In recognition of several large-scale national disasters in The construction industry is prone to falling, slipping and ation from 2015. frequent carbon monoxide measurements, smoking ces2014, we have been raising awareness on safety and exother conventional accidents. Therefore, we conduct regusation information, consultation with external experts, and ecution capacity with the motto of ‘sticking to the basics.’ lar safety guidance, inspections and trainings to enhance Improvement of Working Environment a smoking cessation fund. To build an accident-free working environment, we built the safety capacity of site managers and suppliers as part LSIS is making various efforts to provide employees with a the Health & Safety Team comprised of experts in health of our safety management procedures aimed at preventpleasant working environment. With the goal of enhancEducation on Environment, Health, and Safety and safety under the CLO (Chief Labor Officer) to identiing accidents. ing our human resource competitiveness and providing a All employees of LSIS are required to complete educafy health and safety issues and potential major risks and healthy workplace, we regularly measure exposure levels tions on health and safety which cover basic response to continuously make improvements. The team, as a unified Support for Subsidiaries’ and Suppliers’ of physical and chemical contaminants and metals and potential works and safety operations when joining the organization to oversee all business sites, contributes to Health and Safety Activities dust particulates. To improve the office environment, we company. For employees handling hazardous materials enhancing the level and efficiency of health and safety LSIS provides supports for inspection and diagnosis of monitor indoor air quality and also operate programs to such as chemicals, the ‘Special Health and Safety’ course management in the company level. health and safety to its subsidiaries and suppliers with lack prevent muscular skeletal disease and hearing loss. is required. These courses help them embed the mindset of experts in this field, helping establish the health and of environment, health, and safety. Educations tailored to Occupational Health and Safety Committee safety system. By transferring health and safety manageeach business unit’s operations are conducted regularly as Occupational Accident Rate (Unit: %) The Occupational Health and Safety Committee aims to ment technologies and evaluating the risk, we contribute well. Moreover, supervising staff undergo remote training improve health and safety by holding joint labor-manageour subsidiaries and suppliers to raise the awareness of Cheongju Plant from external specialists (16 hours per year) and, receive ment discussions on site safety issues and methods for imtheir employees on health and safety and prevent indusquarterly collective training from the LSIS Environment & in 2014 provement. LSIS is also operating the committee regularly trial incidents. Safety Team, primary unit responsible for health and safety. in which equal numbers of the labor and management participate, contributing to preventing company assets Emergency Response Activities 0 % 0.06 0 0 and secure employee health. Through the committee, the We are striving to prevent potential risks and enhance cri2012 2013 2014 Training Hours Completed (Unit: hours) labor and management work together to share informasis management capability to secure optimal emergency Cheonan Plant tion on the current status of health and safety operations response capacity. Though prevention is the utmost prior73,520 in 2014 and related workplace issues for a progressive approach. ity, rapid response to accidents is also an important factor Health and Safety Inspections and Diagnostics to manage. As such, based on the results of our risk assessment, we have built an Emergency Response System 0 % 0.33 0 0 63,624 64,655 Each business site of LSIS autonomously inspects and dithat corresponds to the different categories of key safety 2012 2013 2014 in 2014 agnoses the status of dangerous equipment and machinrisks, enabling employees to respond rapidly. In addition, Busan Plant ery, heavy equipment, facilities with fire risk, treatment of we run regular emergency response drills and have built in 2014 73,520 hours hazardous substances so that safety incidents and potena support network with neighboring companies and comtial risks can be removed. In addition, we commissioned external experts to conduct evaluation of health and safemunities to provide mutual support during emergencies. Our research center in Anyang invited the Anyang Fire De0 % 1.03 0 0 2012 2013 2014 ty at each site and enhance independent management partment to conduct training on how to respond to fires 2012 2013 2014 Trained Personnel (Unit: persons) capabilities. Imperfections drawn by the evaluation are and other disasters. Our Cheongju plant received the 2014 being improved through scheduled plans. Our employees Corporate Excellence in Fire Department Support Award Health Enhancement Activities 30,783 from the governor of Chungcheongbuk-do in recognition 30,453 are also encouraged to attend voluntary safety inspections LSIS supports our employees’ health by providing regular 29,260 health examinations in connection with local hospitals. We also operate on-site health care centers that offer education, medical consultation, physical therapy, and other serin 2014 vices to prevent and treat diseases, at which employees are able to get counselling on their health management from 30,783 persons professional nurses and experts. As our society’s interest 2012 2013 2014 in individual health increases, we are operating health enhancement programs focused on the 5 major diseases of high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol, liver/ intestine conditions, and obesity in collaboration with local offices of the Korea Association of Health Promotion and the National Health Insurance Service. In addition, we Joint fire drill in Cheongju plant 56 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 57 Environmental Reduce Energy Use and GHG Emissions Respond to Climate Change Wastewater Management and Safety [Investment in Insulation Materials Recovery Devices] Risks and Opportunities from We signed an agreement on voluntary emissions reducLSIS is enhancing production processes in an eco-friendly Energy Consumption SF6 gas used as an insulant in production of ultra-high Climate Change tion with the government and our Cheongju Plant bemanner to reduce wastewater generation. Wastewater is Management LSIS has been consistently investing in efficiently manvoltage equipment is one of the 6 main greenhouse gascame subject to the GHG and Energy Target Management entirely treated by specialized companies and regular waCategory Risk Factors aging energy consumption based on mid to long term es and has a higher global warming potential than carbon System in 2014. According to this, we plan to conduct a ter quality analysis is performed in order to obtain objecLegal • ‌Energy Target Management reduction plans. Our main indirect energy consumption dioxide (CO2). LSIS tests completed products before instalfactors Scheme third party verification on our GHG inventory and build tive wastewater composition data so that we may comply lation by inserting SF6 and recovering the gas used in the Costs ‌ arise if government quota comes from electricity used for product manufacturing a database to manage energy savings, efficiency, target fully with changes in related regulations. Our Cheonan is exceeded and LNG gas used for heating and cooling, of which electest. In this process, SF6 is emitted. We have invested in a achievement, and investments in facilities which we will plant invested in a wastewater recycling system to reuse Energy Consumption (Unit: TOE) Physical • ‌Temperature increase due to tricity and LNG gas accounted for 85% with 12,045.1 TOE high-efficiency SF6 recovery system to increase the recovfactors global warming report annually. In addition, since 2011, we have been process water and was able to reduce wastewater genElectricity Gas (LNG) and 15% with 2,168.4 TOE, respectively, in 2014. ery rate. We plan to increase efforts to develop ultra-high Increase ‌ in electricity costs due participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) eration by 80%, significantly reducing the impact on the 11,930.1 12,099.1 12,045.1 voltage equipment that uses environment-friendly insuto cooling needs which evaluates corporate carbon management, includenvironment. lants instead of SF6. Other • Corporate reputation GHG Inventory factors Failure ‌ to establish ing emissions strategy and statistics. Through the CDP, we As regulations on carbon emissions are becoming more environmental corporate image have disclosed our commitment to carbon management, Air Quality Management stringent globally due to climate change, LSIS is taking [Adoption of Automated Heating and may lead to loss of business reduction targets and performance, and risks and opporLSIS is working to improve air quality for our employees’ an active stance to this trend with the establishment of Cooling Control System] tunities. health and local communities by improving processes 2,224.8 2,142.3 2,168.4 a task force team. We enacted internal GHG regulations We are operating an automated heating and cooling Category Risk Factors and replacing raw and source materials. Air pollutants and standardized calculation manuals in order to systemsystem that uses a web based software to control indiLegal • ‌Tightening of product energy Manage Hazardous Materials and are stringently managed by setting internal criteria under atically manage emissions. Our main emissions were SF6 vidual heating and cooling. When the target temperature factors efficiency related laws 2012 2013 2014 ‌Sales increase from Green Pollutants 50% of the legal limit, and pollutant prevention facilities and CO2, of which SF6 emitted from insulation materials is reached, the system computes energy consumption Business are operated optimally through continuous inspection. accounts for about 88% of total emissions and indirect based on each facility’s individual energy savings poliPhysical • ‌Increase in use of natural energy Management of Hazardous Materials We will also replace out-of-date equipment progressively emissions represent about 9%. In 2013, we compiled a cy to reduce the electricity load of heating and cooling factors sources LSIS stringently manages hazardous chemicals from based on mid to long term plans. GHG inventory and received a third party verification for equipment, minimizing energy loss and maintaining a Increase ‌ in sales of switch/ circuit breakers and power warehousing to use and disposal. We are replacing highly reliability and another verification is scheduled in 2015. pleasant working environment. We expect that adjusting generation systems hazardous materials for eco-friendly materials through Waste Management Through these processes, LSIS identifies GHG related risks, the indoor temperature 1℃ using this system will result in Other • Corporate reputation ceaseless process improvements and each business site LSIS is striving to reduce material input and enhance develops environmental products, and reduces energy 7% reduction in energy consumption. factors Preoccupancy ‌ of global conducts regular trainings on handling hazardous materiproductivity throughout the product lifecycle in order to consumption. markets by enhancing our environmental corporate image als and emergency response steps based on Globally Harminimize waste. Employees are encouraged to routinize [Adoption of High Efficiency Utility Facilities] and providing efficient and safe monized System-Material Safety Data Sheet (GHS-MSDS). waste sorting in their works and take appropriate meaBy replacing the fluorescent and metal halogen lighting green solutions GHG Emissions In addition, we post safety signs, safety gear and prevensures to minimize pollution for items that cannot be re(Unit: ton) in our offices and plants to efficient LED lighting, we saved 291,037.2 roughly 665MWh in energy and reduced 300 tons of GHG tive chemicals at the main handling points and conduct cycled. In addition, we conduct inspections of our waste 24,747.6 emissions. In addition, the replacement of out-of-date regular safety drills in order to raise employees’ capacity management contractors prior to contracting in order to 226,731.0 transformers to high efficiency models increased energy to respond to accidental exposure. ensure compliance with disposal practices. As a result of 198,745.6 25,110.7 efficiency by 35%. these efforts, our recycling rate increased to 78.5% of total 24,443.5 266,289.6 Water Consumption waste in 2014. 201,620.3 [Introduction of FEMS] Our Cheongju plant and Cheonan plant receive water 174,302.1 In 2015, we introduced our own Factory Energy Manfrom Daecheong Dam and Busan plant receives water Scope 1 Waste Recycling Rate (Unit: %) agement System (FEMS) which is an integrated solution from Nakdong River. In 2014, a total of 230 km3 water Scope 2 that maximizes energy efficiency at our Cheongju plant. was supplied to these plants. As our process water is not 2012 2013 2014 Furthermore, we plan to install a 2,000kW roof-top photosourced from wetlands, there is no major environmental 78.5 voltaic power plant that can generate approximately 2.5 impact. However, as the UN has reported that Korea is in 76.0 Energy and Emissions Reduction Performance million kWh a year, which is expected to have the effect of water shortage, we are taking various measures to reduce 75.2 LSIS is making tireless efforts to reduce energy use and planting 243,000 pine trees. A 1,000kW EES system, which our water consumption such as adjusting the pressure of GHG emissions in order to contribute to combatting cliis getting the limelight, will also be installed to respond water supply, maintaining and repairing utility facilities, in 2014 mate change and be a leading Green Company. As such, to peak load and reduce electricity consumption. Othand operating a wastewater recycling system. We will conwe have established emissions reduction targets by foreer plans for reducing electricity consumption and GHG emissions include replacing out-of-date boilers, chillers tinue to improve our equipment and undertake various 78.5 % casting and analyzing energy use for each facility. In addiactivities to reduce our water usage. and heaters, variable air volume HVAC with high efficien2012 2013 2014 tion, we have adopted renewable energy, built automated control systems, and are continuously replacing old cy equipment, and installing drives and lighting control equipment with high-efficiency equipment. systems. 58 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 59 05 Social Develop Flagship Social Contribution Programs and 2nd Dream Schools in 2013, we completed Trung An ‘A’ Primary School in Vinh Long Province near Ho Chi Minh Contribution and Thai Hoa Primary School, with 6 to 10 classrooms, in Hai Duong near Hanoi in 2014 as the 3rd and 4th LS LS Dream Village Dream Schools. LS Dream Village is LS Group’s representative social contribution program launched in 2007, in which a total of 450 Coexist with local communities based on university students from 14 sessions have participated as LS Dream Science Class voluntary social contribution of August 2014. They have improved educational enviLSIS operates the LS Dream Science Class jointly with ronment provided education for cultural and emotional LS Holdings, Child Fund, and the National Academy Engrowth to students in developing countries including gineering of Korea to provide primary school students 2014 Materiality Test Results Vietnam, India, and Cambodia through this program. The neighboring our plants with science practices and culturManagement Issues 2014 Material Issues LS college student volunteer corps is operated in collaboal experiences. LS Dream Science Class is run by LS emration with Copion and the Korea-Vietnam Culture Center ployees and college students who act as science mentors Develop flagship social contribution Build a system for social Develop flagship social contribution programs programs contribution activities and has been building primary schools called LS Dream in order to help students develop an interest in science. Strengthen communication with Participate in volunteer services and Build a system for social contribution activities Schools near LS affiliates’ Vietnam branches. The operaIn 2014, LSIS held a total of 11 Dream Sciences Classes to local communities local communities support the dream of our future generations through sciStrengthen communication with local communities tional rights of completed LS Dream Schools are transPromote social contribution activities ferred to the local People’s Committee. Following the 1st ence educations. at overseas sites 2015 2016 2017 LS Dream Village Activities Roadmap for mid-term tasks (2015~2017) Category Place/Time Summary By establishing a company-wide implementation system for social contribution, we plan to conduct activities that embody our social contribution philosophy of solidarity, ‘Systematize ‘Improve social 1st half Dispatch Volunteers Vietnam/Jan. 2014 Overseas volunteer services for 12 days by LSIS employees ‘Establish spontaneity, and sustainability. We will develop and operate our flagship social contricompanycontribution 2nd half Vietnam/Aug. 2014 Overseas volunteer services for 12 days by LSIS employees social contribution wide social implementation bution activities based on dialogue with local communities and active employee particbrand’ contribution’ capacity’ ipation. In the long term, we will build a unique culture of social contribution and make it a brand. ❶ ❷ Number of participants in social contribution Donations 2014 2014 2013 1,296 persons 3,484 persons KRW 2013 114 million KRW1,146 million ▶ ❶❷ LS Dream Village Activity ▼ ❸❹ LS Dream Science Class Activity ❸ ❹ Management Issue Performances in 2014 Plans for 2015 Department Develop flagship social • Implemented ‌ social contribution programs in connection with LS • ‌Participate in collaborative social contribution Public Relations Team contribution programs (LS Dream Village, LS Dream Science Class) programs with LS • Executed programs linked to LSIS businesses • ‌Develop and implement LSIS’s flagship programs in social contribution Build a system for social • Organized social contribution implementation system • Document social contribution policies contribution activities • Establish mid to long term social contribution strategy • Disclose social contribution activity data Strengthen communication • Conducted survey to collect opinions from communities • Establish a permanent communication channel with local communities with local communities • Identify local community issues and needs Participate in volunteer • ‌Offered volunteer services centered on each business site • ‌Implement social contribution activities connected to local services and local communities’ issues communities 60 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 61 Social Flagship Social Contribution Activities adopted the social contribution philosophy of being a Donations (Unit: KRW in thousands) ‘trustworthy partner supporting the underprivileged and Contribution Linked to LSIS Businesses In September 2014, our A&D Business Group donated hopeful future generation.’ Based on this, we are pursuing Category Amount Main Activities KRW 17 million worth of drives, PLC and other automation domestic and overseas social contribution activities that Development of 310,029 • ‌1 Company 1 Barracks sponsorship local communities • ‌Special donations for win-win growth, etc. equipment for practical and research purposes to engifocus on creating greater value with a sharing and colSocial welfare 660,400 • ‌Donations for the underprivileged neering specialty high schools in Anyang area such as Anylaborative relationship between recipients and volunteer • ‌Donations for the Sewol-ho accident ang Technical High School and Pyongchon Technical High workers. Culture and arts 119,500 • Sponsorship of national underwater photography contest School so that students at technical engineering schools • ‌Donations to the Center for Cultural Unification Studies • Sponsorship of local sports teams, etc. could better understand mechanisms and gain hands-on Social Contribution Implementation Structure • ‌Sponsorship of Special Olympics Korea trainings with actual equipment. The donation helped fosLSIS aims to move beyond simply taking part in the acEducation and research 56,000 • ‌Sponsorship of CEPSI (Conference of Electric Power Supply Industry) ter a practical and systematic educational environment. • ‌Monetary support for Hanyang University overseas internship program tivities led by our holding company, and finally operate a Total 1,145,929 new stand-alone social contribution program in the long Build a system for Social Contribution run that can create larger synergy. Currently, the compaActivities ny-wide social contribution activities are led by the Public Relations Team and the Support Innovation Team and Donations (Unit: KRW in millions) Social Contribution (Unit: KRW in millions) LSIS Social Contribution Philosophy Activity Expenditure LinkerS (representative body for support staff) from each 1,146 47.4 We pursue social contribution activities in line with those plant implement activities tailored to each region. of other affiliates within the LS Group in order to achieve 45.2 unity and synergy. Based on the LS Group’s management Strengthen Communication with philosophy, LSpartnership (LS is a faithful and reliable Local Communities 144 41.2 business partner creating greater value together), it has in 2014 in 2014 114 Social Contribution Philosophy of LS Group Communication with local communities are currently carried out through irregular meetings, surveys, volunteer KRW 1,146 million KRW 47.4 million Trustworthy partner supporting the underprivileged and services, and interviews. For a more strategic approach to 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 our hopeful future generation social contribution, we will reorganize communication Social Contribution Philosophy of LSIS channels that reflect the characteristics of the local comParticipants (Unit: persons) Activities Held (Unit: case) Provide sustainable support towards solving social conflict and munities and conduct regular programs to accurately helping the minorities based on a commitment to partnership identify their actual issues and needs. By doing so, more 3,484 practical supports will be provided to them. We will also 163 share their needs with our volunteer groups at each busi141 ness site to implement social contribution activities that 1,296 Partnership Initiative Sustainable are meaningful to our local communities. 102 in 2014 in 2014 Take interest and Conduct sincere and Continuously Volunteer Services and Participation in Local Communities 3,484 persons 163 cases participate in issues voluntary activities participate in social related to social from the bottom of contribution activities 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 conflict and minorities the heart beyond just one-time event * Tabulation of participants in social contribution activities began in 2013. In 2014, our donations increased significantly due to contributions to the Sewol Ferry accident victims and special Social Contribution Execution System of LSIS contributions for win-win growth. We plan to continue [Responsible parties for each plant] making contributions to issues that concern our nation Main: Head of each plant and national development. Sub: H ‌ R Support (Support Innovation) Team Leader/ Social contribution staff Cheongju Plant Public Cheonan Plant CEO Relations Team Busan Plant LinkerS* * ‌LSIS’s representative body for support staff, comprised of 17 members, to establish an open corporate culture and lead social contribution activities Donation of service vehicles Volunteer service for senior welfare center 62 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 63 Participate in volunteer services and local communities Regional Activities Anyang Cheonan Cheongju Busan Anyang (Unit: KRW in millions, persons) Cheongju (Unit: KRW in millions, persons) Category Department in charge Summary Cost Frequency Participants Remarks Category Department in charge Summary Cost Frequency Participants Remarks Dream Science Class Operated Science & Vision Camp event Once 1 Run by LS Group 1 Company 1 Mountain campaign Clean-up of Bumo Mountain 6 times 19 Public Relations Team Blood Donation for Love LS blood donation relay for love Once 38 1 Company 1 Village sisterhood Sales of agricultural products, promotion of local B&Bs, event support 5.9 5 times 109 Individual donations Employee item collection drive for Beautiful Store Once 50 Green & Clean Day Support Innovation On/off site cleaning activities 9 times 167 LinkerS Beautiful Day LinkerS Selling and donating items for Beautiful Store 1.5 Once 3 Employee goods donations Dream Science Class Team Teacher for a day 2 times 2 Run by LS Group LinkerS regular sponsorship Scholarship for 6 child household heads 7.2 12 times 204 True Love 999 Dream Science Class Support site visits to Cheongju plant 2 times 3 Informal volunteer work Goods support for 70, 80th birthdays 1.8 3 times 62 Informal event funds Blood Donation for Love Blood donation 4 times 149 Woori Love Corps Informal regular sponsorship Contribution to child welfare funds 2.7 9 times 513 Informal event funds Informal Child sponsorships 11 times 528 Individual donations Informal regular sponsorship Volunteer Day activities Volunteer work at Love House/senior citizens welfare centers 0.8 6 times 44 True Love 999 Boramhoe (club) Support for the Choongbuk Rehabilitation Center/Oh-Am Welfare Center 12 times 660 Utilized donations for the Volunteer Day activities Volunteer work at the Gomduri Sports center 0.2 7 times 71 Event budget Donation of service vehicles 2 times 9 Innovation underprivileged Volunteer Day activities Volunteer work to protect ivy plants 0.4 2 times 38 True Love 999 Public Relations Team Implementation Team Contribution to local Provision of winter apparel to senior citizens welfare center Once 4 Volunteer Day activities Volunteer work at Yeshim House 0.9 6 times 88 True Love 999 communities Free meal delivery on Korean Thanksgiving Day Once 3 Support for local cultural Promotion and Support Innovation Viewing and support for concerts, recitals and plays 7.3 10 times 162 Support for sporting events at senior citizens welfare centers Once 2 activities advertisement budget Team A&D Business Group Donation of automation training equipment 17.0 Once Division budget Korean Cultural Artifact Protector Clean-up activities at Sangdangsanseong (mountain fortress) 7 times 72 Total 31.0 40 times 933 Total 14.7 83 times 2,068 Cheonan (Unit: KRW in millions, persons) Busan (Unit: persons) Category Department in charge Summary Cost Frequency Participants Remarks Category Department in charge Summary Cost Frequency Participants Remarks Green & Clean Day Environment & Safety Team On/off site cleaning activities 9 times 138 Green & Clean Day On/off site cleaning activities 6 times 75 Blood Donation for Love Blood donation for love 4 times 121 Support for site visits to the Busan Plant 2 times 5 Run by LS Group Volunteer Day activities Volunteer day for free meals 1,7 11 times 96 True Love 999 Dream Science Class HR Support Team Teacher for a day 2 times 2 Support Innovation Team Contribution to local Support for educational tours of the Cheonan plant for Support for end of session event Once 1 4 times 16 communities professors and college students Blood Donation for Love Blood donation Once 29 Total 1.7 28 times 371 Total 12 times회 112 64 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 65 06 Shareholders/ Strengthen Corporate Information Disclosure Treasury Stock Foreign Investors Domestic Institutions LS Holdings Individuals Investors Satisfaction Composition and Operation of the BOD LSIS Board of Directors (BOD) is the supreme decision making body comprised of 5 directors (2 standing di2% 16% Increase shareholder and investor value with management rectors and 3 non-standing directors) that also balances 14% integrity and transparent disclosure the actions of the CEO and executives. Outside directors 46% are nominated by the `Outside Director Candidate Rec22% ommendation Committee’ and confirmed at the general 2014 Materiality Test Results shareholders meeting, which ensures fair and transparent Management Issues 2014 Material Issues selection of outside directors. Strengthen corporate information Strengthen corporate information disclosure Enhance risk management Classification Name Position Experience Start of Term Category Ownership (common shares) disclosure Advance corporate governance Standing Ja-Kyun Chairman of 2014.3.21 Shares Ratio Accelerate performance of new Director Koo the BOD Advance corporate governance businesses (2 Persons) Chairman & CEO LS Holdings 13,800,000 46.00% Increase corporate value through sustainability management Increase corporate value through Accelerate performance of Jai-Hoon President & COO • Former CEO of LS Metal 2015.3.20 Treasury Stock 674,971 2.25% sustainability management overseas businesses Han InstitutionNational Pension 3,540,917 11.80% 2015 2016 2017 NonHyun-Gyo Outside Director • ‌Professor, Electrical & 2014.3.21 al Investors Service (NPS) standing Chung (Audit Committee) Computer Engineering, Roadmap for mid-term tasks (2015~2017) Director Seoul National University KB Asset 2,867,676 9.56% (3 Persons) Management & Sang-Woo Outside Director • ‌Outside Director at Korea 2013.3.22 In 2015, we plan to diversify communication channels with our shareholders and (Audit Committee) Development Financing Others Han investors in addition to continuous expansion of sustainability data disclosure. We will ‘Expand ‘Establish Corporation Foreign Investors 4,907,092 16.36% shareholder/ response system ‘Enter the Global work to increase shareholder and investor trust by establishing a system to respond to investor to Global SRI* SRI indices’ ByungOutside Director • ‌CEO, e-Chon Tax 2014.3.21 Individuals 4,209,394 14.03% international socially responsible investment (SRI) evaluations in 2016. Based on this, we communication’ evaluations’ Kook Lee (Audit Committee) Accounting Corp Total 30,000,000 100.00% will improve our stability with the goal of entering the global SRI indices. * Socially Responsible Investment Ownership Structure Shareholder Returns As of December 31, 2014, the number of floating shares LSIS provides shareholders with above market average of LSIS is 29,325,029, 98% of total issued shares excluding dividends. Dividends are an indicator of a company’s fiDividend ratio Credit rating about 2% treasury shares. The largest shareholder is LS nancial health and the ability to continuously generate Holdings with 46% ownership, followed by the National profits. LSIS has maintained a dividend payout ratio of AAPension Service with 11.80%. Institutional investors in30% and increased the figure up to 40% in 2014 for more 2014 cluding the National Pension Service hold 21.36% ownershareholder returns. Dividend per share and dividend 40.60% 2013 ship, the largest portion excluding LS Holdings, followed yield have also increased backed by continued growth 29.12% by foreign investors with 16.36% and minority shareholdof net profit. Like this, we are committed to becoming a ers with 14.03%. Foreign investors have paid attention to company that grows with our shareholders by providing (Korea Investors Service, Korea Ratings s as of October 2014) our stable business portfolio and future growth potential, dividends that are above market average. leading to a rise in their ownership. Management Issue Performances in 2014 Plans for 2015 Department Strengthen corporate • Disclosed and updated corporate governance data • Activate performance disclosure for shareholders and investors Treasury Team Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 information disclosure LSIS KRX average LSIS KRX average LSIS KRX average LSIS KRX average Advance corporate • Shareholder-investor communication activities • Expand communications with shareholders and investors Total dividends 17,595 29,325 32,257 38,123 governance Quarterly performance presentations Surveys (KRW in millions) Participation in the Company Day events held by major securities firms Collect feedbacks related to sustainability management Dividends per share 600 1,000 1,100 1,300 Meeting with the management for sharing information on new businesses (KRW) Overseas IR Dividend payout ratio 29.91% 24.56% 29.07% 17.15% 29.12% 21.09% 40.60% • Established the Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee • ‌Regularly monitoring corporate governance standards and Dividend yield 0.90% 1.54% 1.49% 1.33% 1.67% 1.14% 2.17% implement improvements * ‌Dividend payout ratio: Dividend/net profit during the term. Dividends include mid-term and stock dividends. Calculated based on listed companies with • Strengthened the operation of internal audit system • Expand activities to reflect stakeholder feedbacks in management year end accounting that pay dividends. (468 companies out of 669 in 2011, 448 out of 691 in 2012, 440 out of 691 in 2013) Increase corporate value • Built a system for disclosing sustainability data • Monitor SRI institutions’ demands/standards and respond rapidly Corporate * Dividend Yield: Dividend/closing stock price at the end of year through sustainability Planning Dept. management 66 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 67 Shareholders/ Advance Corporate Governance Audit Department under the CEO frequently monitors viManagement Management Innovation Activities Implementation Structure for Investors Innovation Management Innovation olations of regulations, accounting errors and omissions. Shareholder and Investor Communication Furthermore, we select an independent auditor to review Our innovation framework is comprised of innovation Satisfaction Providing timely and transparent disclosure and commuour quarterly balance sheets in compliance with the Act activities to achieve our vision and mid to long term Our company-wide management innovation activities nicating with investors and shareholders are essential for on External Audit of Stock Companies. The independent strategy, and the mindset to transform our people and are spearheaded by the Management Support Departbuilding solid trust in the aspect of sustainability. LSIS is auditor performs annual and mid-term audits to evaluate organization. The ‘3P Evolution’ management innovation ment under the COO. The implementation at each plant always proactive in communicating with them. risks surrounding the reliability of internal controls and activities we have been pursuing since 2012 is linked to is managed by the Innovation Promotion Team under the balance sheets. The independent auditor is appointed by our company-wide mid to long term strategy. It requires Plant Support Group, which helps conduct innovation the Audit Committee and we ensure independence and clarifying the direction of innovation activities by each management systematically and consistently. 1. ‌We hold regular quarterly meetings to share our performances with shareholders and investors. transparency with regard to the selection and activities of function and role, as well as enhancing the mindset of all 2. ‌We actively participate in securities firms’ Company Day the independent auditor. members toward innovation. events to interact with an even wider range of investors. 3. ‌Through our management meetings to present new businesses, we communicate not only our new business ventures but Increase Corporate Value through our growth potential to strengthen trust and attract potential Sustainability Management Innovation Framewok DNA for Growth investors. ‘3P Evolution’ 4. ‌We are strengthening interactions with foreign investors and shareholders through conducting overseas IR activities. Administration and Responsibilities for Sustainability Management R&D Innovation l Secure the next generation growth engine in the early stage and upgrade LSIS is continuously expanding communication channels technology to maximize R&D performances and Activity Summary with our stakeholders in order to better incorporate Completing LSIS evolution by gaining the DNA for growth through product competitiveness Participate in the domestic IR Participate in major securities firms’ Corporate innovation in 3Ps: Product, Process, People Sales Innovation l Solidify the status of flagship conference Day events feedback into our management decisions. By doing so, businesses and to pursue sustainable growth of Promote overseas investor Conduct about 60 meetings a year locally in we will actively communicate with them on our financial new businesses and overseas markets meetings Europe, Asia, etc. performances, new business plans, new products, global Quality Innovation l Promote flawless quality One-on-one meetings Host about 100 visits to the company a year innovation to secure stable business growth and expansion as well as activities and data related to our 3P world class product quality Management meetings Hold meetings with analysts and institutional Product Process People investors once or twice a year sustainability management. In addition, we will continue Procurement Innovation l Promote cost Earnings release 4 times a year (2 days in every quarter) to expand the scope of our disclosure and rapidly respond LSIS Spirit competitiveness innovation to strengthen Opportunity Efficiency profitability (Mind Set) to their information inquires. As part of this, we will publish Production ‌ Innovation l Upgrade QCD and sustainability report every year to systematically manage DNA for Growth R&D Sales Quality Procurement Production Management production system to maximize profitability of Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Innovation Innovation Innovation Innovation Innovation Innovation Support Innovation existing businesses and to accelerate profitability of Committee our economic, social and environmental performance. new businesses Selecting outside directors is transparent and fair through Goal Global Management Innovation l Ensure high New Value SMART PI 3X Business Attacker Q015 Smart Work, World Class People the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation ComRespond to Socially Responsible Investment Creation 3x2 CSR 30 Achievement Enabler operational efficiency and advance work processes Following the adoption of the Bill for Partial Amendment Support Innovation l Secure core competencies mittee under the BOD. Our outside directors with plentiful within the organization and instill a mindset of Enabler Big Y/ BPM/Factory Optimization/ Suggestion Activities/ Skill/ Six Sigma/ Innovation Fair expertise and experience not only supervise and monitor of the National Pension Act that requires the Pension innovation in all employees the management but also support rational and fair decito consider social responsibility of its investments and Basics Corporate Culture/ Top Commitment sion making by providing professional insight on our busidisclose related information, we can expect investors ness and management. and investment institutions to demand non-financial data and implementation of sustainability management practices. In addition to disclosing financial data, LSIS Management Innovation System Future Plans Operation of the Audit System Internal audits at LSIS are performed by the Audit Comalso participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) In 2015, LSIS will align our employees’ thoughts and enmittee. The Audit Committee is made up of 3 outside diin order to meet requests for social and environmental Plant CEO COO Support ergies through value-focused management. LSIS will also rectors, ensuring fairness and independence. The Audit data disclosure. In the future, we will actively respond to Group reorganize the innovation system more clearly. As the Committee examines financial statements at least once stakeholders’ requests for non-financial data disclosure 2020 vision target has become more clear, we plan to a quarter and has the authority to investigate overall acthrough diverse channels including the sustainability enhance execution capacity of innovation activities and counting operations and status of assets when necessary. report. Management Support Innovation Execution improve the quality of existing activities such as Big Y and In addition, we have the Internal Verification Part to operDivision Team Suggestion Activities. For the Big Y program, we will clarify ate internal accounting system, through which the Audit Innovation the selection guide for projects and strengthen the operCulture Part Committee receives reports and evaluates the internal ation manual. We will also support KPI-focused activities auditing to ensure reliable recording and disclosure of by upgrading the innovation implementation system. our financial statements. Apart from these measures, the Cheongju 1 Part Cheongju 2 Part Cheonan Part 68 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 69 Management Major Activities and Performances Technology R&D Direction Strengthening R&D Capacity Innovation Big Y Activities Management/ As a total solution provider in power and automation LSIS conducts open recruitment in order to attract and We select strategic tasks, named Big Y to link our business strategy, and those tasks are undertaken by nominated Intellectual industry, our R&D Group focuses on activating existing businesses, securing growth engines for the green develop outstanding R&D talent in a timely manner, and Lab Tours of major universities in the power and electricity excellent employees every year, contributing to increasing operating performances. For better engagement in Property and next-generation businesses, and maximizing R&D performance and efficiency. In particular, we are working field for early recruitment of talent. For recruited talent, we provide R&D mentoring and on the job training to help the Big Y tasks, a task force team is being operated in to secure core competencies to gain 1st mover advantage new hires adjust and gain a sense of membership early on Efficiency improvement activities at sites Quick Innovation & Creation (QIC) Room. In addition, we in the smart grid market and focusing R&D capacity to and help them grow into key talent through systematic systematically manage the tasks with our unique project build a foundation for next generation businesses such as training. In order to build a performance-based culture tracking system, i-Space. Furthermore, the Innovation Suggestion Activities HVDC and parts for future automobiles. We operate R&D and motivate R&D staff, we reward researchers with Specialist Committee works to improve the quality of task The Suggestion Activities was prepared to share ideas centers in 3 domestic locations and overseas (Shanghai). excellent accomplishments in fields such as research outcomes. and knowledge among employees and eliminate waste The Power Testing & Technology Institute is engaged in papers, patents, open culture, Partnership & Presentation, and inefficiencies in their routine works. This program has improving technological competitiveness. product development and technology research. *B‌ ig Y: Strategic tasks aiming at securing core competencies and strengthening competitiveness to be promoted in the short to mid-term to been conducting in the company level, in connection with evolve into the world best company the CoPQ activities since 2008. Outstanding Suggestion are rewarded through deliberations. ❶ ❷ ❸ Factory Optimization Activities (Unit: items, KRW in millions) To ensure quality and cost competitiveness, LSIS has Category 2012 2013* 2014 commissioned external experts to improve site efficiency. No. of Suggestion 11,257 9,999 9,554 We have been implementing site-centric efficiency Participation rate 53% 64% 80% measures in phases focused on mindset revolution, Performances 41 604 372 visual site management, efficiency per unit, and overall Rewards 45 56 57 efficiency in accordance with a fixed process map. ❹ ❺ * ‌Performances in 2013 sharply increased due to the change of These activities were undertaken at both our domestic calculation method. factories and overseas subsidiaries, and a total of 96 sites received consultations in 2014. In addition, overseas Innovative Performance Sharing Meeting subsidiaries pursue maximizing synergy by sharing best The Innovative Performance Sharing Meeting is held to practices with our domestic plants, as well as focusing commend contributions to innovation activities and to on independent site efficiency activities. Domestic plants share the contents and results. Innovation activities of that have completed the six phases of the process map will each business group and division are led by their heads. ❶ R&D Campus in Anyang maintain and develop site efficiency through operating Meanwhile, company-wide innovation activities are con❷ Electric Technology R&D Center in Cheongju independent meetings from 2015, while overseas ducted by outstanding Big Y tasks selected through the ❸ Power Testing & Technology Institute R&D Investment Opening of the Anyang R&D Campus subsidiaries that are on the 4th phases will continue to evaluation of the Innovation Specialist Committee, and ❹ Automation R&D Center in Cheonan ❺ R&D Center in Shanghai receive consultation to upgrade the efficiency level up to the performances are shared through company-wide In order to maintain our competitive advantage and LSIS opened a new R&D center in Anyang in January 2015 domestic factories. Innovative Performance Sharing Meeting hosted by the prepare for the future, LSIS has been expanding R&D to secure state-of-the-art infrastructure for R&D capacity CEO at the end of each year. investment every year. We invest around 6% of sales to enhancement. The R&D center was designed with the R&D and focus on developing next-generation products, concept of communication, fun, and creativity, in which products and technologies for new businesses and core our capabilities in smart grid were fully introduced. This Category 2012 2013 2014 Outstanding projects (case) 5 5 4 technologies to lead us into the future. cutting-edge building provides a creative environment Rewards (KRW in millions) 11 11 13 for LSIS researchers to pursue R&D. (Unit: KRW in millions) Category 2012 2013 2014 Total R&D expenditure 100,546 102,276 109,755 R&D expenditure/sales 6.1% 5.8% 6.0% Efficiency Improvement Status Board 70 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 71 Technology Open Innovation the establishment of control tower to foster the leadercantly increasing our overseas IP portfolio in connection Rights Ownership (Unit: case) Management/ ship in telecommunication, software, and model-driven with our global business strategy. Moreover, through colCategory Granted Pending Total LSIS leads open innovation through open R&D with design, we have promoted a PDCA approach to enhance laborative analysis of IPs between our R&D and IP units, Domestic Patent 1,950 1,350 3,300 Intellectual domestic and foreign research centers. We operate a our capabilities. We also secured quality and cost competwe not only build an effective R&D strategy but also seDesign 220 11 231 joint research center with the Korea Electro-technology itiveness by reinforcing research on materials and formed cure differentiated technology and prevent IP disputes. Total 2,170 1,361 3,531 Property Research Institute to secure world-class technology and work cooperatively with leading overseas institutes in the Functional Safety Group and EMC (Electro Magnetic Compatibility) Group to increase product reliability. In addition, we continuously seek ways to exercise our IP rights by evaluating IPs and obtaining infringement inforOverseas Patent Design 1,252 238 1,746 14 2,998 252 mation. For win-win growth, we transfer, free of charge, IPs Total 1,490 1,760 3,250 India and Israel to obtain technology necessary for R&D efforts. In addition, we established the SVO (Silicon Valley R&D for Early Adoption of New Growth Engines to SMEs as a part of the diverse methods of IP utilization. * As of December 2014 Office) to monitor global technology and market trends We are working to expand the EMS (Energy Management Various education programs are offered to develop IP exin energy, electrical equipment, and materials, as well as System) technology to the power distribution field for perts and the LS-IP Forum which brings together the IP Patent Application (Unit: case) actively collaborate with local universities and venture developing and exporting DMS (Distribution Managedepartments from the different LS affiliates is running to companies through the SVO. ment System) technology. In the field of EV solution, we enhance the competitiveness in IP. Domestic 479 are focusing energy on developing a 48V system which is 459 Key R&D Accomplishments key to micro/mild HEV (Hybrid Electric Vehicle) and have IP Portfolio 451 won large-scale contracts. We have also supplied a large Completed the K-EMS Project scale EES to Samsung SDI, which is in operation, and won As LSIS’s technology reaches global standards and our 404 The Korean Energy Management System (EMS) that LSIS a contract to provide frequency regulation equipment to products gain market recognition, we have been encounin 2014 451 has been working to develop in conjunction with various KEPCO. tering more cases of IP disputes and product counterfeitresearch institutes over the past decade was completed ing. As such, we are focusing our capacities on strategic cases and began successful operation at the Naju Korea Power Intellectual Property (IP) Strategy IP activities to protect our world-class products and tech2011 2012 2013 2014 Exchange in December 2014. This means that Korea’s nanologies as well as new products that will act as our future tional grid, which was dependent on foreign technology, LSIS is creating visible and invisible profits from IPs growth engines. To this end, we have been striving to seOverseas can be operated and managed through a consolidated by building a strong IP portfolio, preventing disputes cure IP rights for technologies ranging from basic to apthrough preceding patent search/analysis, and proacplied levels, and create a competitive IP portfolio encom584 Korean system and we have the capacity to export this technology. tively utilizing the rights. We are strategically building passing products and technologies. This strategy enabled 568 our IP portfolio through identifying IPs that have major us to prevent an IP dispute with a global competitor by Built a Company-wide Technological Infrastructure business impacts based on equal or superior technology signing a cross-license and contributed to our becoming 431 We built a company-wide infrastructure to strengthen compared to our competitors, securing patents in counone of top 100 global innovators which were named on 411 technological and business competitiveness and an R&D tries we export to, developing standard-essential patents the basis of IP index by Thomson Reuters for 4 consecuand monitoring infringements. In particular, we are signifitive years. As of December 2014, we hold 3,531 and 3,250 in 2014 system to enhance product reliability. In addition, with IPs (patents/designs) in Korea and foreign countries, respectively. Recently, our overseas patents have been in584 cases • Developing patents • Monitoring patent infringement creasing steadily as we strengthen our R&D-related and 2011 2012 2013 2014 • Building patent portfolio • Enforcing patents foreign-market-oriented patent activities. Securing valid Utilizing patents patents Protecting Enhancing technology/ technology/ Creating Named Thomson Reuters’ Top 100 Global Innovators for profit 4 Consecutive Years product market competitiveness LSIS has been recognized for its IP capacity and corporate innovation efforts by a renowned international data provider, Thomson Reuters, in its annual Top 100 Global Innovators list for 4 consecutive years. The Top 100 Global Innovators are selected Preventing patent disputes based on an index comprised of patent registration success rate over the past 5 years, influence of inventions, global accessibility, and number of IP applications. LSIS displayed excellence in this index compared to global leading enterprises. We will continue to hold Supporting • Searching/analyzing patented technology IP as a main indicator of technological competitiveness and innovation and grow our IP R&D/Business • Patent litigation/claim/licensing portfolio across all business groups. 72 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 73 Ethical Goal and Strategy for Ethical and affiliates. For overseas affiliates, these standards are 01 The identity of the whistle-blower and the content of the report is treated as confidential and the reporting system is Audit Report Follow-up System Management applied in consideration of local laws. In 2015, we plan to Management To monitor the implementation of internal audit results operated under a safe security system begin regular inspections on the implementation of the by each unit and department, we have been operating We aim to grow into a leading global company that fulfills Code of Ethics and Conduct. the Follow-up System since June 2014, which helps en02 Even if a person report corruption or unlawful acts he or our responsibility for customers, suppliers, shareholders, she is involved in, the extenuating circumstances will be hance employees’ implementation capacity and prevent taken into consideration for rational resolution of the issue. and the society by conducting transparent management Code of Ethics reoccurrence of violations. on the basis of the principles of fairness, honesty, and General Principles Summary 03 The identity of the whistle-blower and stakeholders are faithfulness. Chapter 1. Responsibilities and Faithful information disclosure/response to Duties toward Customers customers/protect customer’ rights strictly protected and the content of the report will be fairly Strengthen Implementation investigated for rational resolution. Chapter 2. Fair Competition Fair competition/respect for related laws and Capacity for Ethical Management Ethical Management System business customs If damages arise to thewhistle-blower as a result of The Ethics Committee comprised of the HR Committee Chapter 3. Fair Transactions Fair selection of suppliers/fair trade and evaluation/ 04 a clean trade culture/support for suppliers information leaks, reparations or corresponding rewards will Pledge of Ethical Management members is the supreme decision-making body for our Chapter 4. Basic Ethics of Maintain employees’ dignity/honest and fair be taken. Employee at LSIS pledges the practice of ethical manageOfficers and Employees reporting/protect company assets/avoid conflict ethical management. We are operating the Ethics Comof interest with the company/prevent sexual ment every other year in order to maintain a mindset for mittee Secretariat to undertake regular ethical manageharassment in the workplace ethical management and renew written promises due ment practices and the Audit Department serves as the Chapter 5. Responsibility Cultivation of talents/fair treatment/health and Operation of Ethical Management Hotlines to new hires and personnel changes. Since 2013, all emtoward Officers and Employees safety/respect individuals’ ideas secretariat. LSIS operates various communication channels all the Chapter 6. Responsibility Rational business operations/benefits of Reports and Resolutions (Unit: case) ployees, including subsidiaries, have been subject to the toward the Nation and Society shareholders/environmental protection/contribution by Channel time of the year to receive and process reports on emto national and social development pledge. We have achieved 100% participation excluding Business Group ployee corruption and unfair business practices leading [ Role of the Ethics Committee long-term overseas dispatch and employees on longSecretariat ] Cyber reporting (Shinmungo) Phone to damage to the suppliers, employees, and customers. term leave. • ‌Develop and disseminate programs and CEO COO R&D Group Operation Programs and Policies Mail Other Reports can be submitted via phone, mail, e-mail or the training needed for voluntary compliance Support Group 19 cyber reporting system so that we may eradicate inwith ethics standards Whistle-blower Protection Policy 18 Ethical Management Satisfaction Survey Ethics Committee fringements. Reports related to product quality, services • ‌Institutionalize and operate regulations and LSIS does not disclose the personal information of whisLSIS conducts a survey on the satisfaction level of partners Audit Department (Ethics 13 or product enquires are handled by a separate Customer processes necessary to report unethical Committee Secretariat ) tle-blowers or report content without prior consent in any (suppliers and distributors) and employees. The survey is cases or potential risks Service Center. manner. If the whistle-blower receives any disadvantage 4 4 administered annually to the partners and biannually to • ‌Provide authoritative interpretation 3 due to a miscarriage of this policy, the company takes all 2 2 2 2 our employees. We use the results to monitor changes for employees implementing ethical Code of Ethics and Conduct Self-reporting Program responsibility to repair or compensate for damages. in satisfaction and the ethics index and also collect feedmanagement in everyday work practices LSIS has developed the Code of Ethics and Conduct to To eliminate unethical behaviors between employees or and raise important issues to the Ethics back to develop directions for our ethical management provide standards for employees’ ethical behavior and 2012 2013 2014 stakeholders (customers, suppliers, shareholders, etc.) and Committee activities and identify action items. The satisfaction level decision-making and has applied this to all companies build a transparent and sound corporate culture, LSIS is of suppliers (out of a possible 5 points) was 4.19 in 2014, running a system for employees to voluntarily report their Reports and Resolutions (Unit: case) showing a steady increase since 2012, while that of disby Type unethical practices such as bribery and entertainment. In Excellence LSIS tributors have shown similar levels during the survey peaddition, we hold special sessions to promote self-reportUnfair trade Job improvement/suggestion riod from 2012 through 2014. Biennial evaluation index Customers Shareholders ing by guaranteeing anonymity and providing immunity Corrupt/unlawful acts Unfair operations by employees in 2014 achieved a slight increase since the for past infringements. Such sessions were held in 2007, Claim Other first survey in 2012. Ethical 2010 and 2014. Management • Confidence in company and products • Enhance company value and image 25 27 • Secure a stable foundation for growth • Secure stable investment foundation Response Procedure to Infringement 3 5 17 Ethical Management Satisfaction Survey (Unit: points) 7 Based on Code of Ethics and Conduct, LSIS carries out 2 9 Suppliers distributors Employees Fair Faithful 3 thorough investigations on unethical behaviors and takes 4 5 Suppliers Honest Society 3 disciplinary measures through the Disciplinary Commit7 5 2 tee. The degree of punishment is decided through delib4.19 4.19 4 4.13 2 3 eration and resolution of the Committee. 2 1 2 Clean and transparent management/Fair competition/Social stewardship 3.85 3.83 3.84 3.80 2012 2013 2014 3.70 Operation System * ‌Report types are selected by the reporters and Ethical Management Strategy may differ from investigation results. Cyber-reporting (Shinmungo) Strategy Strategic Action Items Since April 2005, LSIS has been operating the Cyber ShinEstablish and • Code of Ethics and Conduct • Operation program and policies • Operation system operate ethical Whistle-blower protection Cyber reporting (Shinmungo) mungo, an online reporting system that allows reports of 2012 2013 2014 management Operation of hotlines Audit Report Follow-up System employees’ corruption or unfair actions towards stakeinfrastructure Self-reporting system ‌Response procedure to infringement of holders to be made at any time. There is no restriction on ethical management who can access the system and the identity of the reportStrengthen • Pledge to practice ethical management • ‌Education on ethical management • Delivery ‌ of official letters for cooperation er is strictly protected according to our whistle-blower implementation • Survey on ethical management practice for employees to suppliers and distributors capacity for ethical • ‌Education on ethical management for protection policy. management suppliers 74 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 75 Ethical Official Letters for Cooperation to the responsibility, we held a ceremony to practice compliance Integrated Risk Management System the Emergency Response Committee is organized for Suppliers and distributors management at our yearly kick-off meeting in 2014. company-wide response and monitoring. In 2015, we will Management During the Korean Thanksgiving and New Year holidays, Risk Our investments and projects are becoming larger improve our risk management process to achieve flawless an official letter from the CEO is sent to suppliers and disAppointment of the Compliance Officer risk management. Management backed by the expansion of our business domain and tartributors to gain cooperation in forbidding our employIn accordance with the amended commercial law, the LSIS get markets. To meet this change and proactively respond ees from receiving gifts, entertainment, goods and other Board of Directors (BOD) approved the compliance control to risk factors, we introduced the company-wide integratitems. Our employees are notified of this and encouraged standards in December 2012 and appointed the compliIdentification Assessment Response Monitoring Follow-up ed management system in 2012. During normal operato report infringements to help eradicate unethical conance officer. The Compliance Officer reports directly to the tions when company-wide risks are within the risk limit, ducts and take part in the LS Group Management PhilosBOD and is an adjunct position held by the head of the Lerisk management departments hold the working-level ophy ‘LSpartnership.’ gal Affairs Department. The Compliance Officer organizes meetings and departments responsible for risks conduct Internal Controls of Financial Reporting the unit responsible for compliance and reports compliance examinations and develops response to individual risks. Training on Ethical Management Practice activities to the BOD annually. The main compliance supDuring emergency operations when company-wide risk To efficiently control all processes related to the calculation Our employee training on ethical management and comport actions consist of categorizing potential legal risks that exceeds the given limit, the CFO, as the head of the Emerof our financial statements, we built an internal control sysCompletion of Ethical and Compliance Management Trainings pliance is centered on new and experienced hire entry may arise during business operations, creating a checklist to gency Response Committee, organizes units to respond tem based on the COSO* Framework in 2005 and began (Unit: persons) training and since 2013, it has been carried out at the LS help prevent and manage risks and providing support for to core risks and a company-wide response plan is deteroperation in 2006. The internal accounting manager reLS Group collective training Group level to enhance ethics and compliance. In particuon-the-ground self-assessments using the checklist. mined by the Management Committee. And the results of ports the operation status to the BOD and the Audit ComLSIS collective training lar, in 2014, the GVT (Greater Value Together) program was the responses are reported to the management. mittee, and the Audit Committee reports the evaluation Online training results to the BOD. 76 implemented at the LS Group level to accelerate comSelf-inspection Activities pliance and changes in organizational culture. As part of The compliance unit provides a checklist that helps emNormal Operations Emergency Operations this, online training on compliance for all employees was ployees conduct assessments of their legal risk control. In Statement of work conducted. In 2015, we plan to introduce training specific 2013, the checklist was developed based on categorization Internal Company-wide level 2012 to each rank that will help enhance employee awareness of legal risks and in 2014, it was amended to reflect changes COO COO accounting Statement of of the ethical management and compliance and build our in commercial law. We are promoting improvement activisystem Work level control capacity to respond to ethical dilemmas. ties based on the results of self-assessments. Account balance test Steering Committee, Emergency Management Capital SRM controls Internal verification Ethical Management Training for the Suppliers Legal Risk Assessment Management Response ComCommittee system Risk Control Council mittee, Committee Ad hoc disclosure controls Committee 42 In early 2014, we implemented training on ethical manChairman, Secretary, Finance Office/ CFO, COO agement for the suppliers that provided an introduction • ‌Check the possible illegal acts in consideration of the impact and Legal Affairs Dept. * ‌COSO: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway frequency of legal risks Commission to the concept of ethical management, definitions of in⇢Evaluations based on categorization of risks fringements and methods to handle misconduct. We will Core Risk #1 Core Risk #2 Core Risk #3 2013 make these regular training sessions in 2015 in order to spread ethical practices among our partners, share the Legal Risk Management Planning ProcureFinance Legal Main: Relevant Division Head Main: Relevant Group Head Main: Relevant Group Head Risk Management Categories ment Sub: Relevant Sub: Relevant Sub: Relevant LSpartnership philosophy, and build consensus on the Department Head Division Head Division Head 135 • ‌Voluntary management by employees LSIS defines external environment, strategic, operationtopic. • ‌Management by the Compliance Officer and support for employees’ voluntary management al, financial, legal and reputational risks that may impact 897 Compliance Risk Management Process management goal achievement, and continuously im2,363 proves these definitions in order to implement systematic Constant Compliance Risks identified through the risk management process and preventative risk management. Declaration on Compliance Management are quantified and managed within the limit through the Ethics and compliance are both core principles for all LSIS risk evaluation process. When the risks exceed the limit, 2014 practices. Following the LS Group’s declaration to achieve Compliance Training the management philosophy of LSpartnership by addressLS Group conducts group-wide compliance education Risk Type Risk Management Summary ing unfair and unlawful practices strictly in order to bethrough both on and offline training. Our compliance unit External Minimize impacts on business performance and sustainability caused by changes in the external environment come a company trusted by the nation and fulfill our social Environment Risk • Currency crisis, financial crisis, fiscal crisis, natural disasters, country risk, etc. not only participates in developing content for the Group’s Strategic Risk Minimize risk caused by troubles in carrying out strategies training program but also independently conducts train• Development and investment in new businesses, M&A, business portfolio, business plans, etc. ings on fair trade and subcontracting led by the Legal AfOperational Risk Minimize troubles in achieving business goals and operational efficiency caused by products, operational processes and systems, fairs Department for sales, procurement, research and other employees, etc. • ‌Product development, purchasing and procurement, bidding risk, quality, IT, environment and safety, subsidiary management, business units. It also provides monitoring and support for personnel, information security, etc. trainings conducted by each business division to maximize Financial Risk Minimize asset loss or impacts on profitability caused by changes in external factors effectiveness. • Raw materials, credit risk, foreign exchange risk, liquidity risk, damage to assets, accounting corruption, tax risk, etc. Legal Risk Minimize direct and indirect losses caused by non-compliance with domestic and foreign laws and regulations • Contract/litigation/trade risk, fair trade, sub-contracting, IP rights, unlawful acts, etc. Reputational Risk Minimize direct and indirect losses caused by damage on the corporate image from negative media exposure, rumors, etc. • Damage on brand image, external IR, communication, etc. 76 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 77 Sustainability Management Data_Financial Operating Performances Summarized Financial Position (Unit: KRW in millions) Item 41st Session (as of 2014.12.31) 40th Session (as of 2013.12.31) 39th Session (as of 2012.12.31) Assets Current Assets 1,402,955 1,237,406 1,156,968 Non-current Assets 891,400 863,875 863,356 APPENDIX Total Assets 2,294,355 2,101,280 2,020,324 Liabilities Current Liabilities 737,437 521,551 604,173 Non-Current Liabilities 563,458 652,775 578,611 Total Liabilities 1,300,895 1,174,326 1,182,785 Capital Shareholder’s Equity 992,937 926,212 834,303 Issued Capital 150,000 150,000 150,000 Capital Surplus 935 935 935 Sustainability Management Data 79 Other Capital Items ▲25,542 ▲25,542 ▲25,542 Financial 79 Other Comprehensive Income/Loss Accumulated Amount 22 ▲1,164 ▲1,786 Retained Earnings 867,521 801,982 710,697 Environmental 80 Non-controlling interest 524 743 3,236 Social and Other 81 Total Capital 993,461 926,954 837,539 GRI G4 (Core) Index 84 Total Liabilities and Capital 2,294,355 2,101,280 2,020,324 UN Global Compact COP 87 Independent Assurance Report 88 Summarized Income Statement Credits 90 (Unit: KRW in millions) Item 41st Session (as of 2014.12.31) 40th Session (as of 2013.12.31) 39th Session (as of 2012.12.31) Sales 2,293,984 2,351,887 2,232,430 Gross Margin 421,713 432,090 405,926 Operation Income 157,570 174,925 154,164 Net Income Before Taxes 129,099 145,987 134,235 Net Income 105,146 113,991 97,263 * ‌Subsidiaries subject to consolidated reporting (reports produced only when the stock-listed company issues annual, quarterly, semi-annual reports) * ‌LSIS (Wuxi) Co., Ltd., LSIS (Dalian) Co., Ltd., LSIS(ME) FZE, LS Mecapion Co., Ltd., LS Mecapion Automation Technology (Wuxi) Co., Ltd., LSIS Europe B.V., LS Sauter Co., Ltd., Metal Co., Ltd., LS Hukai Electric (Hubei) Co., Ltd., LSIS Japan Co., Ltd., LSIS USA Inc. Government Subsidies for LSIS Co., Ltd (Non-consolidated) (Unit: KRW in millions) Category 2014 2013 2012 Tangible Assets Machinery equipment 239 341 443 Tool equipment 61 183 Office equipment 34 138 229 Intangible Assets Development fees 2,584 2,777 3,357 78 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 79 Sustainability Management Data_Environmental Sustainability Management Data_Social and Other Environmental and Safety Employees Category Total Cheongju Plant Cheonan Plant Busan Plant Indicator Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Remarks Item Unit 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Total Employees Executives 21 21 20 Environmental and Permanent staff 3,192 3,313 3,395 Safety Investment persons Contracted staff 286 255 240 Eco-friendly product 5,066.0 6,231.7 4,025.10 1,099.0 4,871.7 2,237.1 1,350.0 1,360.0 1,788.0 2,617.0 (Full-time) development Total 3,499 3,589 3,655 Process improvement 66.8 1,974.1 180.3 45.4 63.0 101.9 6.2 9.1 21.4 15.2 1,902.0 57 Personnel by region Anyang 1,075 1,129 1,163 Environmental KRW in 658.9 448.5 351.3 587 276 189.8 61.9 12.5 91.5 10 160 70 Cheongju 1,549 1,571 1,624 and safety facilities millions Cheonan 564 596 567 investment persons Busan 162 173 187 Environmental 126 96.4 114.5 96.7 66.1 84.1 23.7 10.4 15.4 5.5 20 15 Other 149 120 114 Regional and overseas offices and safety facilities investment Total 3,499 3,589 3,655 Personnel by age 20’s 444 474 478 Green Procurement (excluding executives and contracted staff ) 30’s 1,223 1,240 1,220 Purchase of eco-friendly KRW in 162 216.3 206.2 97 100.5 113.8 33 25.2 23.5 32.1 90.5 69 items millions 40’s persons 1,093 1,107 1,143 Over 50’s 432 492 554 Environment Total 3,192 3,313 3,395 Dust emissions kg 1,402.8 1,147.3 1,060.6 889 755.4 785.5 186.8 66.9 35.1 327 325 240 New hires (permanent staff ) persons 257 268 254 Water consumption k㎥ 199 209 230 100 95 100 82 80 83 17 34 47 Retirement rate (permanent staff ) % 3.0 3.0 3.4 Wastewater discharge ㎥ 1,192 949 875 18 14 18 1,174 935 857 Female employee total persons 467 455 457 Including contracted staffs Waste1) General 4,300.6 4,237.7 4,278.30 3,322.5 3,174.1 3,375.4 528.1 619.6 548.9 450 444 354 ton Female employee ratio % 13.3 12.7 12.5 discharge Designated 76 90.3 80.8 42.1 38 31.9 2.9 3.3 4.2 31 49 44.7 Female managers 24 26 29 Above supervisor persons Waste discharge % 76 75.2 78.5 82.1 80.9 81.6 68.5 67 65.1 77.4 77.6 88.8 Employees with disabilities 45 46 44 GHG Scope 1 174,302.1 266,289.6 201,620.3 172,688.7 264,591.9 199,912.1 898.2 975.9 937.2 715.2 721.8 771 Ratio of employees with disabilities % 1.4 1.4 1.3 emissions Scope 2 ton 24,443.5 24,747.6 25,110.7 14,522.7 14,685.3 15,172.7 7,613.3 7,774.3 7,594.9 2,307.5 2,288.0 2,343.1 Foreign employees persons 27 28 20 (by Subtotal 198,745.6 291,037.2 226,731.0 187,211.4 279,277.2 215,084.8 8,511.5 8,750.2 8,532.1 3,022.7 3,009.8 3,114.1 Education and training expenditure per person KRW in 1,055 1,088 1,337 source) thousands GHG intensity2) ton/million Education and training time per person PD 10 10 11 1PD = Off the job training 8h, Cyber 1M KRW 0.22 0.29 0.24 0.17 0.24 0.18 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.03 0.03 0.04 Welfare expenditure per person KRW in millions 12.0 12.7 13.2 Energy Employees utilizing childbirth leave 24 13 16 Electricity MWh 51,870.0 52,604.8 52,370.0 31,148.0 31,496.6 31,522.0 16,261.0 16,674.4 16,228.0 4,461.0 4,433.8 4,620.0 persons Employees utilizing parenting leave 11 21 14 Staff returning from parenting leave consumption toe 11,930.1 12,099.1 12,045.1 7,164.0 7,244.2 7,250.1 3,740.0 3,835.1 3,732.4 1,026.0 1,019.8 1,062.6 Rate of return (after parenting leave) % 82 95 100 Electricity k㎥ 2,133.1 2,054.0 2,079.0 1,428.5 1,329.9 1,343.0 398.4 411.7 402 306.2 312.4 334 consumption * ‌We operate a retirement pension program to ensure stable disbursement of retirement funds. As of 2014, 3,601 employees are enrolled in the Defined Benefit scheme and 80 are enrolled in the Defined toe 2,224.8 2,142.3 2,168.4 1,489.9 1,387.1 1,400.7 415.5 429.4 419.3 319.3 325.8 348.4 Contribution retirement pension scheme. Safety * All employees are compensated in accordance with national minimum wage laws and there is no differentiation in entry salaries for male and female employees. Industrial accident 0.06 0 0 0.33 0 0 1.03 0 0 % rate3) Industrial accident rate h 63,624 64,655 73,520 41,924 41,206 43,084 17,934 18,609 24,876 3,766 4,840 5,560 Cumulative training persons 29,260 30,453 30,783 19,291 19,329 20,166 8,264 8,496 7,991 1,705 2,628 2,626 participants Raw Materials Steel 20,456,233 20,407,957 18,934,796 16,167,762 16,086,518 15,323,048 4,288,471 4,321,439 3,611,748 Nonferrous metals kg 14,585,733 12,296,147 6,376,415 13,458,951 11,037,263 5,317,721 276,956 316,868 386,975 849,826 942,016 671,719 Resins 1,490,079 4,846,096 6,884,440 1,485,822 3,945,724 4,047,340 4,257 900,372 2,837,100 * As domestic operations in LSIS consist of treatment and assembly, there are no NOx or SOx emissions. 1) Includes metals and waste paper 2) Intensity : Emissions/Production Value 3) Unable to calculate 80 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 81 Sustainability Management Data_Social and Other Social Contribution Activities Memberships Social Contribution Activities Domestic Overseas Indicators Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Federation of Korean Industries, KERI, Korea Fire Safety Association, Korea Chamber of Commerce, DLMS UA(Device Language Message Specification), IEEE PES(Institute of Donations KRW in 144 114 1,146 Korea Customs Association, KIPA, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, Electrical and Electronics Engineers), CIRED, LONMARK International, Social contribution expenditures millions 41.2 45.2 47.4 Korea Atomic Industrial Forum, Korea Electric Engineers Association, ODVA, UN Global Compact Korea PROFIBUS Association, Korea Association of ESCO, Korea Information and Social contribution activity Tabulation of participants Not calculated 1,296 3,484 persons Communication Contractors Association, KRSEA participants Social contribution activity hours Participants x Average activity hours (5 hrs.) hours Not calculated 6,480 17,420 Violations Win-win Growth Status Category 2012 2013 2014 Remarks Win-win Growth Status Environmental violations Indicators Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Remarks Legal action due to unfair competition and anti-trust violations (collusion, etc.) 2 Unlawful group action (collusion, etc.) LSIS Ethical Management Satisfaction Index points 4.13 4.19 4.19 Survey of partner companies Violations regarding customer health and safety risks of products Win-win Growth Agreement signing Agreements signed cases 214 185 416 Violations regarding information and labeling of products and services Funding support for the suppliers Funds raised KRW in 13.5 15.8 20.2 Funds disbursed billions 9.7 14.8 17.3 Products that have been banned or caused disputes Suppliers supported firms 43 66 70 Marketing and communication violations Training support for the suppliers persons 317 668 1,005 Violations of client information protection and client data Quality management support for the suppliers cases 257 737 Violations regarding the supply of products and services Technology support for the suppliers firms 9 Right to use patents, free of charge Employee discrimination violations Commissioning of development projects Suppliers supported cases 32 40 54 Violations of local residents’ rights amount KRW in billions 1.9 2.1 2.9 * LSIS domestic production plants are located in industrial complexes and as of 2014, there were no claims regarding local communities or the environment. Partner company ACE CLUB 19 20 29 firms ACE CLUB Innovation capacity support Suppliers supported 14 20 29 Special Task Force on Innovation Supported personnel persons 40 74 143 Awards Communication with the suppliers Benefit sharing meetings firms 421 433 584 Companies in attendance LSIS Partner Exchange 4 4 4 Meetings held Category Date Award Host/awarder Area Recognized Meetings Meetings Company 2014.3. Grand Prize, 2014 Great Workplace Awards (3 years running) Hankyung Magazine Corporate culture (LSIS) CPO Talk Concert 4 4 Meetings held 2014.6. 2014 Korea’s Top 100 Happy Enterprises Grand Prize Donga Daily Great Workplace category (LSIS) 2014.6. Korea’s Best Enterprise (Power and electrics segment) Korea CEO Association Management Excellence (LSIS) 2014.6. Korea Trust Awards Grand Prize KORAS Manufacturing segment (LSIS) 2014.11. Top 100 Global Innovators Thomson Reuters Excellence in innovation (LSIS) Individual 2014.3. 2014 Korea Global Leader Maekyung Global future technology category (Vice president Ja-gyun Koo) 2014.3. 2014 Creative Management for National Prestige JoongAng Media Network Management Excellence (Vice president Ja-gyun Koo) 2014.5. Award of Merit, Invention day Korea Invention Promotion Association/Ministry of Trade, Industry Gold Tower (Vice president Ja-gyun Koo) Industry, and Energy (MOTIE, Korea Intellectual Property Office) 2014.6. Chungbuk Quality Competitive Exhibition Korea Standards Association/MOTIE Minister’s Award (Manager Hae-moon Chung) 2014.8. Award of Merit for Advancing Electrical Industry Culture Korea Electrical Manufacturers Association/MOTIE President’s Award (Executive director Yong-sang Park) 2014.10. Award of Merit for Contribution to the Smart Grid Industry Korea Smart Grid Institution/MOTIE Minister’s Award (Director Sangho Ahn) 2014.11. National Quality Awards Korea Standards Association/MOTIE President’s Award (Team Leader Kyung-hee Koo) 82 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report 83 GRI G4 (Core) Index ● Reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable ● Reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicator Description Status Page Assurance Remark Aspect Indicator Description Status Page Assurance Remark Strategy G4-1 CEO Message ● 6~9 88~89 Disclosures on G4-DMA Report why the Aspect is material Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts ● 34, 40, 46, 88~89 and Analysis Management Approach Report the evaluation of the management approach 54, 60, 66 Organizational G4-3 Name of the organization ● 12 88~89 Economic Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services ● 18-23 88~89 ● Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 13, 79 88~89 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters ● 12, 16 88~89 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to Climate Change ● 58~59 88~89 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant ● 16~17 88~89 G4-EC3 Coverage of the Organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ● 13, 81 88~89 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report ● G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government ● 79 88~89 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 67 88~89 G4-8 Target markets (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) ● 16~17 88~89 Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation ● 50, 81 88~89 G4-9 Scale of the organization ● 12~13 88~89 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation ● 88~89 All senior ● management G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, region, and gender 81 88~89 (Directors) at G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 50 88~89 domestic plants G4-12 Organization’s supply chain ● 40~45, 82 88~89 Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ● 13, 65, 82 88~89 Impacts G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, ● 15~17, 88~89 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● 13, 17, 22~25, 88~89 or its supply chain 42~45, 67 42~45, 60~65, ● 81~82 G4-14 Organization’s precautionary approach or principle 28~33, 77 88~89 Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ● 13, 43, 45 88~89 G4-15 External principles or initiatives that the company complies with ● 87 88~89 ● Environmental G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations 83 88~89 ● Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 80 88~89 Identified Material G4-17 Organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 16, 79 88~89 Aspects and Boundaries G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ● 88~89 Recycled raw G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries ● 30~33 88~89 materials not used G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content ● 32~33 88~89 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 58, 80 88~89 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization ● 32~33 88~89 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization ○ 88~89 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization ● 32~33 88~89 G4-EN5 Energy intensity ● 80 88~89 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements N/A 88~89 First report G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 58, 80 88~89 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries N/A 88~89 First report G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ● 22~25 88~89 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 30~33 88~89 ● Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 80 88~89 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 30~33 88~89 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 30~33 88~89 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● 59, 80 88~89 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the ● 30~33 88~89 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ◐ 59 88~89 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside N/A 88~89 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period ● 2 88~89 protected areas G4-29 Date of most recent previous report N/A 88~89 First report G4-EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value N/A 88~89 outside protected areas Located in G4-30 Reporting cycle ● 2 88~89 industrial parks ● G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A 88~89 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 88~89 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen ● 84~89 88~89 G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas N/A 88~89 afected by operaions, by level of extinction risk G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● 88~89 88~89 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) ● 58, 80 88~89 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 2) ● 58, 80 88~89 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body ● 29, 67 88~89 ● G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope) ○ 88~89 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 74 88~89 conduct and codes of ethics ● G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 80 88~89 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ● 58, 80 88~89 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ● 58 88~89 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions ● 59, 80 88~89 Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 59, 80 88~89 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 59, 80 88~89 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 59, 83 88~89 G4-EN25 Weight of trnsported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous N/A 88~89 Waste materials are not exported G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s N/A 88~89 All wastewater discharge of water and runoff is treated by a specialized entity 84 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 85 GRI G4 (Core) Index ● Reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable ● Reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Aspect Indicator Description Status Page Assurance Remark Aspect Indicator Description Status Page Assurance Remark Products and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services ● 22~25 88~89 Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified ◐ 75 88~89 Services ○ G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 88~89 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 75 88~89 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental ● 83 88~89 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ● 75, 83 88~89 laws and regulations ○ Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary ● 88~89 None Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods 88~89 and materials of the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes ● 36, 83 88~89 Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 55 88~89 Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and ● 83 88~89 Supplier Environmental G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ● 41 88~89 regulations Assessment ◐ G4-EN33 significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 41, 55 88~89 Supplier Assessment for G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society ◐ 41 88~89 Environmental Grievance G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ● 83 88~89 Impacts on Society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken ◐ 41 88~89 Mechanisms Grievance Mechanisms for G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ● 83 88~89 Social Impacts on Society Labor Practices and Decent Work Product Responsibility Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region ● 81 88~89 Customer Health and G4-PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health ● 35, 55~56 88~89 Safety considerations G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations ● 47~49 88~89 Safety and safety impacts are assessed for improvement are incorporated into all or operation product development G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 81 88~89 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the ● 83 88~89 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Labor/Management G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements ● 50 88~89 Relations Product and Service G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product ● 83 88~89 Product information Labeling and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant products and disclosure and labeling is Occupational Health and G4-LA5 Safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs ● 56 88~89 available for all products services subject to such information requirements Safety ● (in compliance with G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, 57, 80 88~89 related laws) by region and by gender G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service ● 83 88~89 G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ● 56, 57 88~89 information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 56, 57 88~89 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 37 88~89 Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category ● 49, 81 88~89 Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products ● 88~89 None G4-LA10 Programs for skill management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees ● 49, 81 88~89 Communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, ● 83 88~89 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ● 49, 81 88~89 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees ● 81 88~89 Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ● 83 88~89 Opportunity Equal Remuneration for G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation ● 50, 81 88~89 Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of ● 83 88~89 Women and Men products and services Supplier Assessment for G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria ◐ 41 88~89 Labor Practices ◐ G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 41 88~89 Labor Practices Grievance G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ◐ 50 88~89 Mechanisms Human Rights UN Global Compact COP Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that ◐ 41 88~89 underwent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are ● 50, 76 88~89 relevant to operations Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● 50, 75, 83 88~89 UN Global Compact 10 Principles Page reported LSIS Policy Freedom of Association G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be ● 41, 50 88~89 Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. •‌‌Employee Satisfaction • LSIS Code of Ethics and Collective Bargaining violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Management (p.50) • Code of Conduct for Employees Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor ● 41, 50 88~89 Principle 2. Businesses should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Forced or Compulsory G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ● 41, 50 88~89 Labor Labor Principle 3. B‌ usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to •‌‌Employee Satisfaction • LSIS Code of Ethics Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to N/A 88~89 operations collective bargaining. Management (p.50) • Code of Conduct for Employees Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken ● 83 88~89 Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments ◐ 50 88~89 Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Supplier Human Rights G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria ◐ 41 88~89 Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment ◐ G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 41 88~89 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. •‌‌Environmental and Safety • LSIS Environmental policies Human Rights Grievance G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ◐ 51, 75 88~89 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Management (pp.54~59) Mechanisms Society Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs ● 60~65 88~89 Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. •‌‌Ethical Management (pp.74~76) • LSIS Code of Ethics • ‌Code of Conduct for Employees G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities N/A 88~89 Located in industrial parks 86 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 87 Independent Assurance Report The Business Institute for Sustainable Development (BISD), led by the Korea Chamber of Commerce & IndusThe opinions of BISD produced as a result of its assurance engagement and in consideration of the AA1000APS accountability try, was requested to serve as an independent ‘third-party assurance institute’ for the ‘2014 LSIS Sustainability standards are explained below. Management Report’ (hereinafter ‘Report’), and submits the assurance statement as follows. • I‌ nclusivity: ‌Does LSIS adhere to the principle of stakeholder engagement in order to ensure a responsible and strategic response in advancing sustainability management? • ‌LSIS is gathering major concerns and opinions from core stakeholders, including its customers, employees, partners, local communities, shareholders Purpose and investors through stakeholder communication channels. • ‌BISD is not aware of any significant stakeholder groups that were omitted from the process of gathering sustainability management issues through The purpose of this assurance report is to identify any major errors or biases in the report, to conduct independent assurance procedures to determine LSIS’s stakeholder communication channels. whether the sustainability management issues of LSIS were appropriately reported, and to accordingly present an assurance opinion. • Materiality: Does LSIS include material issues that affect stakeholders in the entire spectrum of sustainability management in this Report? • ‌LSIS used the materiality test process to deduct major sustainability management issues and identified major issues through a separate process of compiling opinions on expectations by stakeholder groups as part of the materiality test process. Responsibilities and Independence • ‌BISD is not aware of any significant issues that were omitted from the materiality test process. This report contains matters on LSIS’s sustainability management efforts, achievements and future plans in 2014. All responsibility regarding the drafting • Responsiveness: Does LSIS respond appropriately to stakeholder issues? of the report lies with LSIS. • ‌LSIS has acknowledged the impact of its business decisions on stakeholders and responded properly with coherent actions. The Report presents In conducting assurance procedures on the report and providing assurance opinions to the board of directors, BISD has no management-related related performances during the reporting period. interests in profits with LSIS, aside from carrying out third-party assurance, in order to maintain independence and autonomy. • ‌BISD is not aware of any violations of the principle of responsiveness in LSIS’s response to major sustainability management issues or performances that are described in this Report from the perspective of materiality. Assurance Standards and Restrictions BISD performed the assurance engagement in consideration of the three accountability principles (inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness) of Recommendations AA1000AS (2008) and the principles for defining reporting quality laid out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. BISD makes the following recommendations within a scope that does not affect the assurance results: Physical inspections were conducted at the Headquarters located in Anyang. The scope of the assurance was limited to only those performances stated • ‌LSIS classified 6 core stakeholders and introduced concepts for practice and typical communication channels for each stakeholder, demonstrating in this Report and excludes data from previous years and data reported online. Furthermore, GHG data that has already been verified from another LSIS’s efforts to communicate with the stakeholders. BISD recommends that LSIS build diverse communication channels for each stakeholder and third-party organization was not subjected to the assurance engagement. report their contents and frequency concretely. Also, BISD suggests releasing all activities and performances related to sustainable management on the company’s webpage in order to expand information accessibility for stakeholders. • ‌It is remarkable that LSIS made an effort to select core issues systematically in publishing the 1st report. In addition, accumulating the opinions of Major Assurance Procedures stakeholders through CSR expert dialogue is impressive. It is expected that LSIS improve transparency by clearly defining each stage of selecting For the assurance process, LSIS’s employees have engaged in interviews. Results from the interview and other relevant documents provided by LSIS core issues and reporting the results from now on. Also, BISD recommends continuing the process of gathering stakeholder opinions through expert were considered for the assurance process. Major assurance procedures undertaken are as follows: dialogues or stakeholder dialogues and applying them in management activities. • Review of application of company’s internal sustainability report standards • ‌LSIS established the foundation of management activities, which balances economic, environmental and social factors in equal harmony by building • Review of report information and information collection process a sustainable management roadmap and introducing a sustainable management committee. BISD recommends that LSIS continuously set up • Review of materiality test, report contents related to the core issues and company policies specific targets and plans for sustainable management and report its practices and performances. • Conducting physical inspection and interviews with employees. • ‌LSIS mentioned plans to improve their sustainable management index that is used to select cooperative firms. It is expected that LSIS expand sustainable management activities according to its scope of influence by establishing practicable indices and goals for important elements in sustainable management, such as human rights, labor and environment, and making persistent efforts at all levels of the company. Opinions BISD performed the assurance engagement in accordance with the procedures identified above, and modified the report if and when deemed March 2015 necessary. Based on the assurance engagement, BISD is not aware of any significant errors in the report and confirmed that the report was written in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines (core option). President Tae-Jin Park 88 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents 89 Credits General publication management Corporate Profile Customer Satisfaction Win-win Growth Chief Strategy Officer Min-Goo Choi Power Distribution Business Quality Management Team Kyeong-Hoi Koo Win Win Growth Team Ki-Bok Kim Jong-Sop Choi group) Planning Team Corporate Planning Quality Management Team Sik-Il An Win Win Growth Team Se-Min Song Hwan Jeong Dept. Power Distribution Business Jin-Hong Song group) Planning Team Power Distribution Business Sang-Won Hwang Corporate Planning Group) Marketing Team Yu-Seok Hong Dept. Power Grid Business Sang-Tae Park Group) Planning team Power Distribution Business Si-Yeong Yang Corporate Planning Group) Marketing Team Young-Myoung Son Employee Satisfaction Dept. Power Grid Business So-Hyun Yoon Group) Marketing team Power Grid Business Hyung-Taek Myung Group) Marketing team Human Resources Team Yun-Wook Cheon A&D Business Young-Lae Suk Group) Planning Team Power Grid Business Hyun-Sik Park Human Resources Team Kyung-Hoon Won Group) Marketing team A&D Business Jin-Bok Noh Human Resource & Relations Hyo-Seob Lim Group) Planning Team A&D Business Kee-Cheol Hong Management Team Group) Marketing Team Convergence Business Kyoo-Kun Sun Human Resource & Relations Bo-Pil Jeong Group) Planning Team A&D Business Dong-Rin Han Management Team Group) Marketing Team Convergence Business Ji-Hoon Seo Human Resource & Relations Jae-Woo Kim Group) Planning Team Convergence Business Ki-Soo Yang Management Team Group) Marketing Team Convergence Business Yi-Young Kim Innovation & Ha-Na Yu Group) Marketing Team Convergence Business Eu-Gene Sull Culture Part Group) Marketing Team Convergence Business Na-Yeon Chung Group) Marketing Team Design Center Hae-Sook Kim Corporate Strategy Dept. Moon-Sig Jung IT Innovation Team Dong-Ho Song Corporate Strategy Dept. Hyeong-Cheol Gil IT Innovation Team In-Kyoung Kim Ethical Management/Integrated Risk Environment and Safety Management Shareholders · Investors Satisfaction Technology Management/IP Management Environment & Safety Team Sun-Kyu Park Treasury Team Byoung-Heon Choi Technology Strategy Dept. Jang-Cheol Seo Audit Dept. Joon-Gil Kim Environment & Safety Team Gi-Hyun Ryu Treasury Team Kyung-Su Kim Technology Strategy Dept. Ju-Hyeong Lee Audit Dept. Bo-Young Myung Treasury Team Sung-Joon Song Legal Affairs Dept. Tae-Yoon Sohn Legal Affairs Dept. Ju-Hye Kim ERM Team Ki-Soon Park ERM Team Joon-Sik Kim Social Contribution Management Innovation ERM Team Young-Jun Kim Public Relations Team Young-Dal Oh Management Support Div. You-Jong Kim Public Relations Team Myoung-Geun Choi Innovation & Culture Part Jeong-Mi Lee Public Relations Team Jae-Myung Kim This report was printed on environment-friendly paper using soy ink. Date of Publication: March, 2014 l Publisher: Ja-Kyun Koo Publishing Company: LSIS Co., Ltd l Design: IR Plus 90 2014 LSIS Sustainability Report Back to Contents
