Our customers should feel secure in a sustainable world Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2014 This is Folksam Every time we meet a customer, we meet an owner. And we have many owners. We insure nearly one out of two people in Sweden and take care of the pension for more than two million people. This means that Folksam with its subsidiaries are currently one of Sweden’s 30 largest companies. With us, you can insure yourself, your loved ones and your property and save for your pension. Our job is provide you and your family security in every phase of life. The fact that we are owned by our customers provides credibility, long-range thinking and customer benefit, and entails responsibility. Four brands, two Groups and 11 insurance companies Folksam comprises the two parent companies Folksam ömsesidig sakförsäkring (Folksam Non-life) and Folksam ömsesidig livförsäkring (Folksam Life) with subsidiaries. Two of the insurance business’ subsidiaries in Folksam Life are part-owned. They are Folksam LO Pension, of which we own 51 per cent, and KPA Pension, of which Folksam owns 60 per cent. In Folksam Non-life, the subsidiary Folksam Skadeförsäkring is part-owned at 75 per cent. The subsidiary Förenade Liv is wholly owned. Our vision Our customers should feel secure in a sustainable world. Our business concept We are the customers’ company that offers popular insurance policies and pension investments that provide security. Our overriding objective We should have the most satisfied customers in the insurance and savings industry. Two business goals: • Satisfied customers: Measured through the Folksam Customer Index (FCI). • Number of combination customers: Measured by the number of households that have the combination of car insurance, household or home owner insurance and pension savings. Target Result Result Result 2014 2014 2013 2012 FCI 78 79 78 77 Number of 115,000 113,919 111,486 112,088 combination customers The past year The customers are more satisfied than ever: Our Raised bonus interest: Folksam Life raised the bonus measurements show that our customers are more interest rate on traditional insurance twice in 2014. satisfied than ever before. At year-end, it was 7.0 per cent before tax and fees. At the same time, we introduced limits on deposits to Sweden’s largest insurance company: With a strengthen the long-term perspective in the traditional premium volume of SEK 47.5 billion, Folksam with its life insurance and protect the already insured customers. subsidiaries is Sweden’s largest insurance and pension savings player. The Swedish Insurance Federation’s New offering: In light of the government’s proposal to industry statistics showed that we are currently the reduce the deduction right for private pension savings largest player on the market for life insurance and the and on the long term entirely repeal it Folksam Life third largest player in non-life insurance. stopped the new sale of private pension insurance with running premiums. Instead, we launched a new Home insurance received highest marks: Our large offer to the customers in December. home insurance received the highest rating for the second consecutive year in a comparison conducted Bonuses: For the 2014 financial year, a total of 2.4 by the Konsumenternas Försäkringsbyrå (Consumers’ million customers in Folksam Non-life and Folksam Insurance Bureau). Folksam insures 450,000 singleLife share SEK 546 million (480) in bonus. family homes, terraced houses and linked houses. Prizes and awards The Unit-linked Insurance Company of the Year in In 2014, we were listed on the Sustainable Brand Söderberg & Partners annual Traffic Light Report. Index, both Folksam (insurance) and KPA Pension (pension companies). KPA Pension was named the Life Insurance Company A green rating in Söderberg & Partners’ report on of the Year at the Insurance Awards 2014. Sustainable Ownership in Pension Companies. An organisation with the customer in focus Folksam is organised into three business areas: Private, Partner and Collectively Agreed Business. The business areas are comprised of eleven insurance companies that are active under four brands. Collectively Private business Partner business Agreed Business Parties Partner and to collective Private organisational bargaining individuals customers agreements The Private business area The Partner business area is The Collectively Agreed is responsible for the private responsible for the business Business area is responsible for market for individual insurance related to partnerships. In the business related to insurance and pension savings. This collaboration with partners and and pension savings targeted responsibility relates to both life brokers, the offers are developed at the parties to collective and non-life insurance under the that we provide under the bargaining agreements in Folksam brand and all activity Folksam brand, co-branded with the Swedish labour market. related to sales and customer the partner or under so-called service for private individuals. “white brands”. The business relates to non-life insurance and personal risk insurance. Three reasons to choose Folksam We are there for our customers 1 Folksam is a mutual – or a customer-owned – company. For us, the customer and owner are always one and the same. Therefore, we get involved in what is important for our customers. Instead of distributing the profit as dividends to shareholders, it goes back to the customers. This takes place in the form of a bonus, premium reductions or even better service, services and offers. We take responsibility 2 Our operations, being a mutual company and our size entail a responsibility. As a major player and investor, we have the opportunity to exert influence, have a long-term approach and contribute to sustainable development. We therefore do business that increases security for our customers at the same time that we safeguard people and the environment. We are financially strong 3 Our financial strength gives us good conditions to develop attractive products for our customers. Among other things, this has contributed to a good long-term return, among the highest in the industry, in our customers’ pension savings. Both Folksam Life and the subsidiary KPA Pension have significantly more assets than are needed to pay out the guaranteed pensions. Contents Page 6 CEO’s statement Page 48 Our contact with the customer Page 8 A changing world Page 54 Our own operations Page 14 The market is developing in Page 62 Our role in society Folksam’s direction Page 68 Every Swedish Crown of profit Page 18 We get involved in what our benefits the customers customers care about Page 70 Four brands in two corporate groups Page 20 Vision and strategy Page 72 You are involved and have influence Page 26 Customer value in every stage Page 84 Group management Page 30  Our offering and asset management 5 5 More liked than ever We want our customers to feel secure in a sustainable world. In many ways, 2014 was a good year for Folksam and its subsidiaries. We are growing strongly on the market and our customers are more satisfied than ever. Today, Folksam is one of Sweden’s 30 largest companies. There is considerable interest in our traditional life We are also currently the largest player on the market insurance with equalized bonuses, a guarantee on for life insurance and the third largest player in non-life invested capital, low fees and a stable growth over time. insurance. In 2014, our customer paid in nearly SEK 48 This interest is large enough that we had to limit the billion in premiums in pension savings, personal risk and investment possibilities at the end of the year to safeguard non-life insurance. In total, we manage more than SEK the product’s long-term perspective. We also focused on 350 billion, which makes us one of Sweden’s largest pension savings prior to the reduction of the deduction institutional investors. Our customers are benefited by our right beginning in 2015. We launched a new savings large size, because the more people who join together to alternative in our largest customer campaign to-date. distribute risks or income over time, the more competitive offerings we can develop. All of these activities are about taking responsibility for our customers. Almost one out of two Swedish citizens has 2014 was an eventful year. There is a lot that affects us a Folksam insurance policy, and a great many Swedish and the customers. Low market interest rates, extreme pensions depend on what we do, or do not do. Considering weather and extensive rule changes are three examples. our kind of business, acting in a sustainable manner involves We are faced with new requirements in the form of having sound governance, clear strategies and targets, digitisation of the economy, increasingly healthy people and proper organisation. It also involves being a socially who live longer and of course issues of sustainability. dedicated company and supporting principles such as the UN Global Compact and the Principles of Responsible To be able to continue to take advantage of this world Investment (PRI). We also believe that our values make us view, we established a new strategy during the year for increasingly successful at attracting the right employees. Folksam with its subsidiaries. Or more accurately, we refined our earlier strategy. What we have done for more I am proud of everything we have achieved. It is pleasing than a century – combining heart and mind to create to see how we succeed in taking advantage of the events security for our many customers – is what we will continue in the surrounding world and increase both market share doing. It is as modern and successful now as it was then. and the proportion of satisfied customers. In line with the strategic update, we increased our already But we have a lot left to do. Even though almost one out of high pace of change during the year. We currently conduct two Swedes is our customer, the vast majority only purchase large and small projects which all involve smart, innovative one insurance policy. In other words, there is huge potential. solutions and fulfilling regulations set up by legislators. In 2015, we will therefore continue our goal-oriented work Our largest challenges are on the IT side. During the year, to achieve the industry’s most satisfied customers. we tuned up the organisation in a few places to modernise, improve efficiency and consolidate. Each effort will Stockholm, March 2015 contribute to reducing the number of mistakes, improving the efficiency of the operations and increasing customer benefit. The work of focusing on existing customers is bearing fruit. We are growing in virtually every product area, at the same time that we continue to develop our relationships with our partners. We have also continued to develop our Jens Henriksson contacts with the customers, especially on the Internet. President and CEO of Folksam with its subsidiaries. 6 “ We want our customers to feel secure in a sustainable ” world 7 A changing world By identifying what surrounding trends affecting our business that we must relate to, we can generate opportunities for longterm, sustainable growth. 1 Digitisation of society We live in a new technological era that demands a digital presence and new ways of selling and distributing services. 2 Population and lifestyle changes More of us are living longer. Lifestyle changes and social reforms change the needs of people and their expectations on players in insurance and pension savings. 3 Environmental and climate threats on the agenda We live in a global economy where climate changes affect everyone. If we do not act now, few will be able to afford insurance in the future. 4 New rules and regulations Companies in the insurance and pension savings industry are affected by new laws, rules and voluntary regulatory initiatives, both in Sweden and the EU. This demands rapid adaptation and keeping good order. 5 Macroeconomic and geopolitical unrest Sweden is a part of the global economy and when other countries are afflicted by economic problems or unrest, it has an impact on us. 8 1 Digitisation of society More and more needs – both at work and in free time – can be met using “Nine out of ten Swedes computers, smartphones and tablets. New technology creates new expectations between the ages of 6 and 65 and companies encounter a growing demand for digital services. Anyone who wants to buy, often looks for and compares goods and services online. And the use the Internet” customer wants to take care of his or her matters and get answers to his or her The Swedes and questions, regardless of time or place. The digitisation places growing demands the Internet 2014, .SE on companies. Both in terms of a digital presence and the ability to predict customer behaviour. “Almost one out of two More and more of our customers contact us over the Web and on social media. Swedes use social media When we ask them how they want to have contact with us, the answer is clear: Over the phone and online. It is therefore self-evident to us to continue investing everyday” on increasing our digital presence and fulfilling the customer’s expectations of The Swedes and availability and service in digital channels. the Internet 2014, .SE 9 2 Population and lifestyle changes We are growing in number, living longer and living in cities to a greater extent. “Average life expectancy This entails changes in both lifestyle and living standards. Lifestyle changes and in Sweden has increased social reforms, like when the national health insurance system was changed in 2008, are accompanied by new needs for security. At the same time, an increased almost continuously since average life expectancy means that we are healthy and active further at higher the 1860s. In 50 years, it may ages, but also that we work an ever shorter part of our lives. This places higher have increased by five years demands on the individual saving for his or her pension on his or her own at the same time that insurance companies must ensure that the pension money for women and seven years last longer. Our cities are developing in pace with the growth of the population for men” and this in turn places growing demands on urban planning. Not least in terms Statistics Sweden 2012 of traffic. “One out of five Swedes To meet our customer’s needs for security both today and in the future, we must commutes by bicycle to adapt and develop products to an even higher degree that offer the insurance protection that the customer needs. It is a matter of working with everything work or school/university from injury prevention road safety research to life-long pension disbursements. every day” The Bicycle Trend Report 2014, Svensk Cykling 10 3 Environmental and climate threats on the agenda The on-going climate change affects everyone. Natural disasters have become “If nothing is done to reduce increasingly common in the world and also tangibly affected us in Sweden last climate emissions, the year. For insurance companies, the effects are immediate. A warmer and wetter Earth’s average temperature climate can, among other effects, make mould damages to our homes worse and a higher sea level threatens homes near the coast and waterfront. If the emissions will increase by 3.7-4.8 of greenhouse gases continue at the current rate, it will entail major challenges degrees by 2100” for the insurance industry since few will be able to afford insurance in the future. Climate Change 2014, The reinsurance company Munich Re has estimated that climate related claim the UN climate panel expenses for the entire industry worldwide now exceed SEK 1,000 billion annually. We want to contribute to a more secure world through investments in the environ“We already have three times ment, traffic and responsible investments. We must also act responsibly and long as many weather disasters term in everything we do. A reduced climate impact is an important part and is as in the 1980s” also one of the requirements in our Good Environmental Choice labelled insurance products. P.Höppe 2011, Munich Re 11 4 New rules and regulations Insurance and pension savings companies are affected by changes to laws and “The Occupational Pension regulations as well as voluntary regulations of various types. And new initiatives Directive is a part of the are continuously arising – both in Sweden and the EU. It is important to quickly be able to adapt to new conditions on the market. Moreover, proper order is EU work to create a wellnecessary to maintain the confidence that authorities and other stakeholders functioning internal market have in us, regardless of whether it involves the right of transfer, a ban on for financial services” commissions or new rules for a uniform European insurance market. Swedish Financial It is of the utmost importance for us as a customer-owned company to monitor Supervisory Authority and pursue issues that affect our customers. In order to exert an influence on such changes, we involve ourselves in a number of key issues such as Solvency II “Among other things, and the Occupational Pension Directive. This involves various measures like Solvency II should provide training in risk management, a revised business planning process and the better consumer protection establishment of guidelines and requirements in the company. We have also chosen to join voluntary initiatives, such as the UN Global Compact, Principles and create a common for Responsible Investment (PRI) and Good Environmental Choice. European financial market” Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority 12 5 Macroeconomic and geopolitical unrest The global economic situation in 2014 was characterised by greater pessimism, “The emerging markets are with growing concern for the development in both Europe and China. Falling estimated to account for energy and commodity prices, a continued high supply of labour from Asia and substantially low inflationary pressure are some factors that contribute to the more than 70% of the global uncertain development. Geopolitical areas of unrest mainly in the Middle East, economy’s expansion in Hong Kong, North Korea, the Ukraine and Russia also contribute to uncertainty. the next three years” The U.S. economy is again developing positively, but cannot hold up the entire EKN 2014 global economy. The problems in the European economic development have consequences for the financial markets and for Sweden, with lower productivity and competitiveness and rising unemployment as a result. The anticipated GNP “A record number of people growth for Europe in the next few years is modest. The expectations are somewhat were fleeing from war in better for Sweden. Today, we are in an historic low interest environment where 2014. In total, there were the Swedish Central Bank has lowered the key interest rate to a negative rate. far more than 50 million For Folksam, the euro crisis and the non-existent interest rate affect the returns refugees in the world” in our savings products and make it more difficult to maintain guaranteed beneUNHCR 2014 fits. We must therefore continue our goal-oriented work to go from good to better. 13 The market is developing in Folksam’s direction A lot happened on the market for insurance and pension savings in 2014. Digitisation, new technology and regulatory changes continue to change the playing field at the same time that the political and economic situation is causing uncertainty. 2014 was also the year that the weather and forces of nature significantly affected the customers and the market players. For Folksam, the year meant that we are currently the largest player in life insurance and the third largest player in non-life insurance. Changed rules and new players are two factors that In the autumn, it was proposed that a new company form, affected the markets for life and non-life insurance in 2014. an occupational pension institute, should be established The year was also characterised by extreme precipitation, in Sweden alongside of insurance companies. These new thunder storms and forest fires in Västmanland, which companies should offer pension benefits and other related sharply increased claims payments for the industry players. benefits that are linked to employment. The companies According to the Swedish Insurance Federation, nearly should be subject to the EU occupational pension directive 31,000 claims related to natural causes were reported to (IORP) and not the Solvency II directive. These regulatory the insurance companies in Sweden in 2014 and the costs changes are expected to begin to apply as of 2018. are expected to amount to around SEK 1.6 billion. At the same time, the macroeconomic situation, and the low interest rates in particular, as well as political uncertainty Competition from a new direction in Sweden have affected the conditions for life and nonTraditional insurance companies, especially in the nonlife insurance. life insurance industry, are facing growing competition from players in other industries that offer customised possibilities with, for example, mobile apps and continuous A focus on regulations online support. Retailing players like Ica and Ikea, which In light of the reduction of the deduction right for private have far more customer contacts than traditional insurance pension savings beginning in 2015 and its full repeal in companies, are competing with their own insurance 2016, many players (including Folksam) halted new sales solutions for their customers. of private pension insurance with continuous deposits in the first half of 2014. Towards the end of the year, we instead On the life insurance side, traditional life insurance launched a new flexible endowment insurance that does continues to be an attractive solution for pension savings. not have deductible savings, but is free from income tax This led SEB, for example, to announce at the end of the when it is paid out. year that it will begin offering new savings in traditional insurance in 2015. At the same time, both Folksam and Free right of transfer, which means that earned pension Skandia introduced limits on deposits in traditional life capital can be transferred from one insurance company insurance to promote its long-term perspective and prevent to another, was another change that began to apply in it from being used for short-term capital investments. September for a number of municipal occupational pension agreements. The previous government published a memo during the year regarding stronger consumer protection for the brokering of insurance and in it proposed a ban on commissions if they affect the customer’s interests negatively. 14 A growth market Household financial savings by form of savings, In 2014, total premiums written in life and non-life 2010-2014 insurance amounted to SEK 302 billion compared with (mkr) SEK million around SEK 260 billion in 2013. 90 000 80 000 Today, there are around 400 insurance companies in Sweden, but the market is dominated by a few large 70 000 companies and corporate groups. In non-life insurance, 60 000 the four largest players have 81 per cent of the market 50 000 and in life insurance, the four largest have 50 per cent of the market. In Sweden, where there is a large occupational 40 000 pension market, nearly one third of the total life insurance 30 000 premiums is sold via middlemen, such as brokers and 20 000 agents. On the European market, this proportion is substantially lower according to figures from the Swedish 10 000 Insurance Federation. 0 Within savings, insurance is the most common form 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 of savings for Swedish households. Of the households’ assets of SEK 10,487 billion at the end of 2014, insurance Bank deposits Bonds savings accounted for 41 per cent. Figures from Statistics Equities Sweden (SCB) show that the total savings in occupational Fund units pensions amounted to SEK 2,273 billion at the end of Private insurance savings last year, of which traditional insurance accounted for Occupational pensions Premium pensions 73 per cent and unit-linked insurance accounted for Prepaid premiums and claims 27 per cent. Total savings in private insurance savings in Source: Statistics Sweden turn amounted to SEK 983 billion, of which the majority (74 per cent) was in traditional Swedish insurance. Other forms of saving are bank, equity and unit-linked savings. 15 Folksam largest in life insurance Pension savings According to Swedish Insurance Federation figures for Folksam’s premium volumes in traditional insurance 2014, Folksam reinforced its position as a market leader continued to grow strongly in 2014. Our strong key in life insurance and climbed from fourth place to third figures, not least a bonus interest rate of 7.0 per cent since place in non-life insurance. 1 September (8.0 per cent since 1 February 2015), and the broad sales through our own sales force and broker Folksam’s market share in 2014 measured in paid-in cooperation contributed to the increase. To prevent the premiums (new and old) for life insurance amounted to traditional life insurance from being used for short-term 17.4 per cent. This corresponds to SEK 31 billion of SEK capital investment, we introduced a deposit ceiling of SEK 181 billion (163) in total. Folksam is thereby the largest 25 million per insured at the end of the year. Just before life insurance company. year-end, we also limited annual deposits to SEK 500,000 per insured and year and set a ceiling at SEK 10 million On the non-life insurance side, the total premium volume per insurance contract. increased by 5 per cent. At year-end, Folksam had 16.4 per cent of the total market of SEK 70 billion (67). We are Premium payments from savers in unit-linked insurance thereby the market’s third largest player. have also increased in the past five years as a result of the efforts we have made on the broker market and collective At the same time, this makes us one of Sweden’s ten larg­ agreement occupational pension. An improved fund offering est institutional investors. At the end of 2014, we managed to the customers is another important success factor for the assets of SEK 350 billion. This can be compared with the continued growth. The total unit-linked insurance assets in insurance companies’ total managed investments of SEK the four companies amounted to SEK 100 billion at year-end. 3,879 billion (3,427) in 2014. Collectively agreed pension from the employer accounts for a significant part of Folksam’s total premium volume, primarily through KPA Pension. Since 2013, KPA Pension, Folksam or Folksam LO Pension can be selected as the manager of the contractual pension in all agreement areas. Within Folksam, there is also a continued development of the offering for the individual occupational pension market, meaning occupational pensions from employers who do not have collective agreements. Market share total life market, per cent Market share non-life insurance, per cent Folksam 17.4 Länsförsäkringar 30.3 Skandia 15.5 If 18.4 AMF 9.4 Folksam 16.4 Nordea Liv 7.9 Trygg-Hansa 15.7 SEB Trygg Liv 7.7 Moderna 3.1 Swedbank 7.3 Dina federationen 2.6 Alecta 7.1 Captivebolag 2.4 Avanza 6.1 Other 11.1 Länsförsäkringar 5.8 Other 16.9 16 Non-life and personal insurance Premiums earned increased in both household and home owner insurance as well as auto insurance. Sales and the number of insurance policies rose among in part as a result of more customer loyalty and continued focus on combination discounts. At year-end, 506,500 customers had insured both their home and their car with Folksam. The take-over of SalusAnsvar’s customer portfolio has been successful and was almost completed at year-end 2014. Within personal risk, the premium volume was stable during the year. Thanks to a good return on assets, the premiums have been able to be reduced in KPA Pension. Sales of medical care insurance, where Förenade Liv is the insurer, increased strongly in 2014. “ In 2014, Folksam was the largest life ” insurance company More about: Insurance and pension savings Insurance can, at a low cost, provide individuals and The vast majority of employees have occupational companies financial protection if anything happens. pension insurance. The pension savings and insurance industry is therefore • The number of people with private or employer-paid an important part of the economy. A few brief facts about medical care insurance increased by around 50,000 insurance and pension savings in 2014: in 2014. At year-end, the total number of medical care • 95 per cent of Swedish households have home insurance. insurance policies was 622,000, corresponding to Nearly 4.8 million (4.7) household and home owner premiums written of just over SEK 2.5 billion. Growth in insurance policies were taken out. this insurance line is 54 per cent in the past five years. • There were 275,000 boat insurance policies and • In 2015, the deduction right for private pension savings 580,000 holiday home insurance policies. There were was lowered from SEK 12,000 to SEK 1,800 per year. 790,000 claims in household and home owner, holiday home and boat insurance. Source: Swedish Insurance Federation 17 We get involved in what our customers care about In Folksam, the customers are also our owners. This means that we are there for our customers’ sake and have their best interest in mind in everything we do. Nearly one out of two Swedes is a Folksam customer today. Our work with road safety research provides, for example, This corresponds to just over four million customers. us and our customers continuous new knowledge that Folksam is the only company in Sweden that has a strong contributes to reducing the risk of or completely preventing position in both life and non-life insurance. road damage and injuries and their consequences. One example where this work also provides concrete Our foremost responsibility is to provide security to our advantages for the customers is the extra benefit we entice customers with good solutions for non-life and personal new car buyers with to make a safe and sustainable choice. insurance as well as pension savings. Three examples They receive a 10 per cent discount on the insurance of this are our child insurance that includes all children, premium if they choose a car that meets our requirements. group insurance that does not risk select and life-long We also offer discounts for cars and motorcycles with pension disbursements. The fact that we are customerautomatic brakes and ABS brakes. owned also contributes to a long-term perspective in our operations. We constantly adapt and develop our offers In terms of our investments, we have investment guidelines in accordance with the driving forces and the changes that prevent us from investing in certain industries (read affecting our surroundings, market and our customers. more on page 41) and we influence the companies we have As Sweden’s largest company in insurance and pension shareholdings in towards a more sustainable direction. savings, we have good possibilities of influencing and contributing to sustainable development. This way, we Our environmental work pertains to everything from “Good approach our vision that our customers should feel secure Environmental Choice” certified insurance products and in a sustainable world. high environmental standards on replacement vehicles to environmental responsibility in daily work, such as business Being able to handle our surroundings as well as travel. A measurement of customer calls in 2013 shows requests and requirements from our customers and that we increase sales by 7 per cent when we tell about our other stakeholders is crucial for our long-term success. responsibility for the environment. A stakeholder survey from 2013 indicates that the most important issue for our stakeholders is that we are financially Our three responsibility issues are also something that our strong and have the right premiums. As a customer-owned other stakeholder groups employees, the financial market, company, we are at the same time expected to act based opinion leaders, decision makers and partners are aware on a long-term perspective and to take social responsibility. of and want us to work with. We therefore focus on three areas that our customers have pointed out as important for our core business: We continuously conduct surveys and dialogue with our five primary stakeholder groups where, among other things, 1) Damage and injury prevention we ask what they think of Folksam’s sustainability work. 2) Responsible ownership 3) Environment. 18 Customers/Owners Employees Partners Our customers should feel secure in a sustainable world Opinion leaders and decision Financial market makers Employees When we ask our employees about distinguishing act long term. These stakeholder groups also give us a characteristics for Folksam, “Financial strength”, “Good special position in terms of road safety, environmental ethics and high morals”, “Success on its market” and issues and corporate governance and owner issues. “High degree of social responsibility” are ranked highest. Many also perceive that it is becoming increasingly important for the customers that Folksam takes greater 96 per cent say that they like that Folksam works with consideration to sustainability, ethics and owner responsible investments. Of the employees who use governance issues. responsible investments as an argument in contacts with customers, the vast majority (89 per cent) say that it interests the customers. Partners Our partners appreciate the open and transparent Opinion leaders, decision makers collaborative climate and the long-term perspective that characterises our relationships. Over time, we have and the financial market developed well-functioning ways of working where Among opinion leaders and the financial market, Folksam we continuously adapt to changes and needs through is perceived as a player that accepts social responsibility dialogue, even if we can always do more to create the at the same time that the fact that we are customer owned right expectations and increase the professionalism provides credibility and means that we are perceived to in every relationship. More about: Our sustainability efforts In 2014, we worked to adopt a sustainability policy for • Our customers and surroundings Folksam with subsidiaries based on the areas where our • Products and asset management activities have the greatest impact. It establishes our • Own operations view of sustainability and identifies three main areas for our sustainability commitment: 19 Vision and strategy We work so that our customers will feel secure in a sustainable world and be the most satisfied customers in the industry. Folksam shall become a more modern financial company in insurance and pension savings that conducts business with both heart and mind. Our vision Our values Our customers should feel secure in a sustainable world. Folksam’s values are that we shall be personal, committed and responsible. Our values guide us in our work to achieve Our job is to provide security to our customers in every our goals. We are: phase of life. With us, the customers can insure themselves, • Personal by showing consideration, conducting their loved ones and their property and save for their a dialogue and working based on the customer. pension. This way, we create security in society in general. • Committed by being active and taking the initiative for We get involved in what our customers care about and the customer and by seeing opportunities and being therefore also promote sustainable development, mainly solution oriented. within the scope of responsible investments, traffic and • Responsible by being reliable, knowledgeable and long the environment. term. Our business concept Our overriding objective To be the customers’ company that offers popular insurance To have the most satisfied customers in the insurance policies and pension investments that provide security. and pension savings industry. This is a given objective for us since it is our customers who own Folksam and we can therefore focus solely on generating the greatest possible value for them. 20 “ Our customers should feel secure in ” a sustainable world Our goal structure We measure our overriding objective by combining two The overall objective and both of the business goals are business targets: “Satisfied customers” (Folksam Customer broken down into five different target areas: Index, FCI) and “Number of full combination customers” • Volume comprises targets on premium volumes in relation (number of customers who have the combination of car to the market and cash flow. insurance, household or home owner insurance and pension • Customer benefit comprises targets on our customer savings with us). and claims management. • Competitiveness addresses targets that measure Our recurring customer survey FCI provides our customers our ability to achieve relative advantages over our considerable influence. The measurements give us customer competitors. insights, identify our strengths and weaknesses and show • Attractive workplace comprises targets among existing how we fulfil our customer targets. We have working groups and potential employees. that quarterly interpret and analyse how it is going and identify areas for improvement for our business plans. • Financial stability addresses measurements on risk in a long-term perspective and supervisory requirements on Our goal of increasing the number of full combination capital strength. At the same time, the financial targets customers entails both advantages and possibilities for us. indicate restrictions and form a framework within which Of our more than four million customers, it is still just a the overall objectives can be achieved. small portion that we class as full combination customers, which are those who have home and car insurance and Based on these, the respective business area/unit sets up pension savings with us. With so many customer goals that are broken down all the way to targets for each relationships, we can concentrate on developing them individual employee. instead of seeking new customers. The better relationship we have with each customer, the longer they stay with us (see figure page 49). Target Result Result Result 2014 2014 2013 2012 FCI 78 79 78 77 Number of 115,000 113,919 111,486 112,088 combination customers 21 Our aim and level of ambition Our main strategic areas With just over four million customers, almost one out of Folksam shall be a modern financial company with sound two Swede is one of our customers. Many of them come values. We shall provide security and safeguard our cus­ to use through cooperation with union organisations and tomer capital so that both economic stability and customer other partners. It is based on this asset that our strategic confidence remain high. To be able to approach our vision work shall be viewed. This also means that our focus is and achieve our goals, in the next three years, we will focus to develop the relationships with our existing customers on the following areas: ahead of seeking new customers. 1. Proper order We have concretised the strategic aim and level of 2. Infrastructure ambition of the business in the following manner. 3. Professionalism 1. Proper order We want: Our business and organisation shall at every individual • to be the insurance company of the whole of occasion be characterised by proper order. We shall have Sweden clear, effective and risk based governance and we shall • to have many customers have good internal control. Proper order is required to • to reach large customer groups through parties safeguard our customers’ and owners’ security, maintain to collective agreement and partners confidence among authorities and other stakeholders, • to cultivate the customer relationships so that and to be able to increase focus on business benefit. the customers become combination customers, have strong relationships with us, stay longer 2. Infrastructure and like Folksam Our operations shall be modern, efficient and consolidated • to always strive to make every customer satisfied. in terms of infrastructure, processes, expertise and information support. The operations Folksam conducts are based on access to various kinds of information. To enhance the efficiency of the handling of the information, it needs to be digital. The customers expect increasingly more from the digital presence of a modern company and have growing demands on simple digital self service. This requires us to have information support and competencies that support this. 3. Professionalism As a modern financial company, Folksam shall be operated professionally. Our operations shall always think and act based on the customer’s needs. Our offerings shall satisfy needs that are shared by many and the customer shall feel that it is easy to work with us. 22 Below, we describe the most important strategic activities that extend over all of Folksam with subsidiaries. We also work with a number of strategic projects that do not comprise the entire Group. Main strategic areas Description Implementation 2014 Work 2015 Proper order Solvency II Creation of a uniform European • Structure of processes and IT • Participation in the insurance market with better support. preparatory reporting protection for the policyholders. • Roll-out of new internal to the Swedish Financial regulations in parent Supervisory Authority. companies and subsidiaries. • Continued development • Adjustment of the own of processes and systems. organisation. • Remaining internal regulations and organisational changes. Infrastructure Digital transactions A more customer-friendly and • Have developed concepts • Prepare an initial delivery efficient digital presence. Make for folksam.se and all of its of the new folksam.se. it easier for the customers to functions. • Start new projects, including review their insurance needs, • Procured new platforms. for content, customer offers buy and manage insurance • Began three projects in the and improved claims service. policies and contact us. scope of the programme, including proactive customer communication. Improved claims handling Greater customer benefit Delivery of solutions for Deliveries such as a new through effective IT support document management, payment solution, automation for the business. The objective statistical tools and automation. of car glass claims, the report is optimised claims handling, of bicycle thefts, baggage delay more direct adjustment and and stolen mobile phones. automation. Attractive workplace An attractive workplace with • Updated competency strategy. • Prepare systems strategy. well-known and competitive • Supported the introduction • Support the introduction offerings for present and of activity-based ways of of activity-based ways of future employees. working. working. • Supported competency • Support competency relocation within prioritised relocation within prioritised operations. operations. Organisational consolidation Secure an effective and • Concluded integration of Continued review and customer-adapted organisation. Salus-Ansvar and SPP’s implementation of decisions portfolio. on organisational changes. • Modernised claims organisation. • Review of Folksam Fastigheter’s organisation due to the new investment strategy. Professionalism Customer development Increase the commitment of • Continued implementation • Easier online purchases of current customers and increase of our needs-adapted sales life insurance and savings the number of full combination and service process in all products. customers with both life and channels. • Raise and broaden CRM non-life insurance. • Continued implementation of expertise on the customer the multichannel strategy development strategy. to meet the customers in the channels they want and when they want. • Began the effort on the life insurance market to increase the number of full combination customers. 23 Strategic area Description Implementation 2014 Work 2015 Professionalism Develop the offering in Grow in individual occupational • Increased the intensity of • Increase the activities individual occupational pensions both through our our cultivation of the market towards brokered channels. pensions. own distribution and external for individual occupational • Continue further development distribution channels. pensions. of the occupational pension • Developed a more plan offering, both in terms competitive market offering. of scope and quality. • Develop our own B2B expertise. Insurance documents Develop Folksam’s insurance • Developed new documents • Launch new documents for documents for end for testing. selected products for end customers, both as regards • Built up processes and customers. communications and systems. IT support to handle the • Further develop systems. new requirements on the insurance documents. 24 25 Customer value in every stage 1. Product development 2. Sales and marketing 3. Service and advice and offerings 4. Asset management 1. Product development and 3. Service and advice offerings It should be easy to get in touch with us. This means that we have to be present in the channels the customers We shall offer products that provide protection for want to meet us in and that they get answers within a various events and contribute to our customer’s security reasonable amount of time. Folksam’s customers mainly through the various phases of life. The customers should want to take care of their matters over the phone and perceive our products as both easy to relate to and as online. important. They should also be distinct and easy to understand. We provide advice on what one can do to avoid damage and injury, among other things in connection with fires We change and develop our offering in pace with how and burglary, and in pension savings. the surroundings – and thereby customer needs – change. We also want our products to be among the For customers who do not have Swedish as their mother three best in neutral and credible product comparisons. tongue, we offer customer service in 19 different This way, our customers get proof that we have a good languages including sign language. and competitive insurance. 2. Sales and marketing 4. Asset management We are one of Sweden’s largest investors and managed We know that our customer contacts affect customer assets of SEK 350 billion at the end of 2014. Focus in satisfaction. In sales contexts, we should work based our investments is long-term security for our customers on each customer’s individual needs when we offer based on returns and sustainable development. In order insurance, always inform about conceivable alternatives to achieve good risk diversification, we distributed and never convince a customer to take out insurance or our investments over various kinds of assets and purchase any other service the customer does not need. markets. We invest the customers’ money in interestFolksam’s ethical rules guide us in our daily work. In the bearing securities, equities, properties and alternative encounter with us, we want the customers to feel that investments (unlisted assets). We also have investment we do what we say – according to generally accepted guidelines and work with owner governance in the scope practice and good judgement. of our investments. 26 “ We should have the most satisfied customers in the insurance and pension ” savings industry 5. Claims adjustment In 2014, we repaired damaged cars and houses for an amount of SEK 2.7 5. Claims adjustment billion. This gives us major opportunities to exert an influence. When we compensate damaged houses and cars, we place requirements on our suppliers: We renovate houses with good and sustainable materials, we buy and recycle spare parts on damaged vehicles and when the customer gets a rental car, we require it to have a high safety and environmental standard. Re-using and repairing instead of buying new does not just represent a gain for the environment, but is also a good deal for Folksam and our customers. 6. Pension disbursements 6. Pension disbursements Pension savings are far in the future for many people, which presupposes a long-term perspective. To be able to keep our promises, and in order for customers who save for their pension to feel satisfied when the pension begins to be paid out, we must have proper order in our operations. During the entire saving period, we shall generate as good and secure a return as possible for the customers who save for their pensions. Our surveys show that the customers who have contacted us are more satisfied than those who have not. This applies to both customer service and claims adjustment as well as on the Internet and in our bonus statements. Therefore, we work Customer to increase the frequency of the customer contacts, not least insights over the Internet, and us the information provided by every customer encounter to continuously develop our offerings in accordance with the customers’ changing needs. 27 28 On the following pages, we concretise our strategies and our value-generating work. We describe Folksam and our subsidiaries’ operations and influence and present what we have achieved in 2014. Our offering and asset management Our contact with the customer Our own operations Our role in society 29 Our offering and asset management We offer life and non-life insurance and pension savings under four brands and 11 companies with a focus on the Swedish market. The offering can be divided into pension savings, personal risk, and non-life insurance. It should meet the needs shared by many people and is characterised by high quality. 30 We provide security for our customers Our products should both provide security to our customers and make them feel secure. These two needs Pension savings often coincide, but not always. Liability insurance is one Folksam Life and KPA Pension offer traditional life example of something that few customers request when insurance that is a form of savings where we invest and they buy insurance. But we know there is a large need manage the assets. This means that the saver does not when the unlikely damage nonetheless occurs. It may need to choose the level of risk. We distribute the capital then involve damage claims for millions of SEK that the between equities, interest-bearing securities and other individual must pay. What customers often request is for assets and follow the investment criteria that take into the insurance to compensate concrete, often minor, costs consideration ethical and sustainable investments. such as doctor’s appointments or stolen property. Our job This form of savings also has a guarantee on premiums is to cover both of these needs. paid in and an agreed guarantee interest. When there is a surplus from asset management, it is distributed to the We also want our insurance policies to be among the pension savers using bonus interest. Find out more about three best in the industry in independent and credible bonus interest on page 69. product comparisons. To ensure that our offerings meet customer needs over time, we continuously develop Unit-linked insurance means that the customer him or them, mainly through dialogue and market intelligence. herself chooses the level of risk for his or her savings by Today, digitisation in particular requires us to adapt our choosing which funds the capital is invested in. We offer offering to how the customers want to buy insurance and savings in unit-linked insurance in Folksam Life, Folksam what service they want. We also need to have insurance Fondförsäkring, KPA Pensionsförsäkring and Folksam products that are easy to understand. In 2014, we devoted LO Pension. a great deal of effort to this adaptation, especially through the “Digital transactions” programme. In Folksam Fondförsäkring and Folksam Life, we offer a quality assured, guided range of around 80 funds. Important “sources of information” for our product We guide based on the parameters of return, low fees and development: ethical investment. Since we are not dependent on our • Our employees who meet our customers daily. own fund management company, we can always choose • Our individual customers who provide feedback in among the market’s best funds in every area. customer surveys and focus groups. • Dialogue with our partner customers, such as trade Otherwise, a tailor-made range of funds is offered in the unions and car companies. respective agreement area. For KPA Pension, the range • Trade and consumer associations, such as of funds consists of SRI-screened funds. Folksam LO Konsumenternas Försäkringsbyrå (Consumers’ Insurance Fondförsäkring has a carefully selected range of external Bureau) and the Swedish Consumer Agency. funds that meet the requirements in the agreement area. • The Internet and social media. • Competitor monitoring. Folksam Folksam Non-life Folksam Life KPA Pension Förenade Liv LO Pension Conventional life insurance Unit-linked insurance Personal risk insurance Non-life insurance 31 Personal risk insurance In Folksam, there are four companies that offer personal risk insurance: Folksam Life, Folksam Non-life, Förenade Liv and KPA Livförsäkring. Our group insurance comprises group life and occupational group life insurance and health and accident insurance. Health insurance reimburses loss of income or provides a lump sum. Accident insurance reimburses costs that can arise in connection with an accident, and offers compensation in cases of invalidity. If the insured dies, the group life and occupational group life insurance policies pay out a lump sum to the beneficiary. We have group life, health and accident insurance that is adapted to labour unions, companies, organisations and individuals. Non-life insurance Folksam offers non-life insurance in three companies: Folksam Non-life, Folksam Skadeförsäkring and Tre Kronor. The latter is a “white brand”, meaning that it is a brand that provides insurance, which is then sold under another brand name. Home insurance is the core in our non-life insurance offering. To make it easier for the customer to choose the right insurance, we have packaged the home insurance products in Base, Medium and Plus. We also offer auto and pet insurance. All of our home, holiday home and car insurance products are ecolabelled with the Good Environmental Choice label, which makes us unique in the industry. The Good Environmental Choice certification also means that Folksam Non-life does not invest in coal, nuclear power or uranium. Criteria for Good Environmental Choice labelled insurance • Re-use and environmentally friendly repairs • Sustainable and safe replacement vehicles • Responsible investments • Environmentally friendly purchases • Ecolabelled electricity • Training in economical driving 32 Responsibility in claims operations In 2014, we repaired damaged cars and houses for Contract loyalty shows how much of the total cost is used an amount of SEK 2.7 billion. This gives us major to buy services at suppliers with whom we have agreements. opportunities to exert an influence in the construction The reason that the construction side has less contract and automotive industries by placing requirements on loyalty than automotive is that it is often more about urgent and training our suppliers. For example, we renovate damages, such as water damage or broken heat pumps, and houses with sustainable materials, buy and recycle spare then one calls the supplier who can offer help the fastest. parts for cars and place requirements on the customer’s replacement vehicle being environmentally adapted. Contract loyalty Automotive 91% Re-using and repairing instead of buying new is a gain for the environment and also a good deal for us and our Construction 79% customers. This way of working contributed to us being able to avoid a mountain of waste of 1,443 tonnes and save We have highly set environmental requirements on our SEK 148 million in connection with the repair of damaged suppliers. Since 2014, we have made the requirements cars in 2014. In total, this has meant a saving of just over more stringent. Now, suppliers on the non-life insurance SEK 1.1 billion in the past 14 years. side must undergo training in economical driving, for instance. Moreover, everyone who has customer contact at More stringent requirements our suppliers must undergo training in Good Environmental Choice. on suppliers To continue our influence work, during the year, we asked Folksam has agreements with around 2,800 suppliers and our suppliers how they could work more environmentally some 2,000 of them are in the construction and automotive friendly. We received many answers that we will now sectors. We purchase SEK 800 million in building contract evaluate to further refine our requirements. services and SEK 1.8 billion in car repairs every year. Requirement fulfilment Claims expense ratio Premiums earned compared with claims expenses Automotive 66% Construction 41% Premiums earned Claim expenses 82% “ We need to be continuously reminded of the importance of responsible environmental work and understanding that every action is significant. We also have major opportunities to influence our environment both in our professional role ” and privately. Participants in environmental training 33 34 Many benefits from damage and injury prevention We can do a great deal to prevent damage and injury and help our customers to make the right choices, to think ahead and to prevent accidents from happening. This also contributes to lower claims expenses. We work with damage and injury prevention in three areas: 1. Road safety research a cornerstone of the offering With our road safety research, we want to promote road safety and save lives in traffic. Lower claims expenses also benefit our customers in the form of lower insurance premiums. 2. Injury prevention sports research We insure nine out of ten athletes in Sweden and want to contribute to fewer sports injuries by cooperating with the sports movement and supporting injury prevention research. 3. Information and advice With regular damage and injury prevention advice, we want to create security for our customers. We also conduct surveys and tests to help our customers make safe and sustainable choices. “ With damage and injury prevention efforts, we want to make it safer for ” our customers 35 1. Road safety research a Infrastructure The majority of the single bicycle accidents are due to cornerstone of the offering infrastructure and that there are leaves, ice or gravel on the bicycle path. During the year, Folksam had the Folksam’s road safety research contributes to saving National Society for Road Safety (NTF) investigate how lives in traffic. Fewer road traffic claims also mean lower the municipalities managed to remove leaves, clear claims expenses and lower premiums in our car and home snow, prevent skids and sweep gravel away from the insurance products. Everything will benefit our customers. most important bicycle paths in eight municipalities in Stockholm County. The results showed that there is a Every year, we handle more than 50,000 road traffic large difference between the municipalities in how the claims. This gives us access to a large collective knowledge bicycle paths are looked after. To be able to bicycle safely about how damage and injuries arise, how they can be year-round, they must be taken care of in the same way avoided or limited. The choice of car is, for example, as roads. In 2015, we will conduct the same study in of crucial significance for the consequences an accident has. Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. We have our own road safety research department with four employees who hold doctorates in medical science Personal protection and one doctoral student. They have ties with Chalmers We have also taken the initiative for research on how University of Technology, Umeå University and Karolinska shoulder injuries among bicyclists can be prevented Institutet. since the shoulders and arms, which account for half of the severe bicycle injuries, are still unprotected. In 2014, The road safety research costs SEK 7-8 per automotive the project resulted in prototypes for various kinds of insurance policy and year. We use our research findings shoulder protection: Reflective vests with built-in shoulder to contribute to making traffic safer. With our ties to protection, loose padding that attaches to a backpack and universities, we are involved and exert influence in loose shoulder padding that attaches directly to the body. national and international networks. Consumer tests The project also includes developing a test method and information are also important tools since there together with the SP Technical Research Institute of is a demand for knowledge from independent parties Sweden so that future manufacturers can have their regarding, for example, safe cars, child car seats and protection tested and approved. helmets in connection with purchases. Helmet tests Bicycle injuries increasingly common • Bicycle helmets. Our studies show that bicycle helmets Today, more people choose to bicycle instead of taking prevent 60 per cent of all bicycle-related head injuries their car. This provides large social benefits in terms of that lead to chronic difficulties. health, the environment, air pollution and congestion. • Ski helmets. One out of ten people who are injured on But at the same time, the number of bicycle accidents has Swedish ski slopes have a head injury, which is the increased and now outnumber car accidents. Therefore, most dangerous injury a skier can have. Half of all our road safety research increasingly also covers head injuries could be avoided if the skier wore a helmet. bicycle injuries. It includes studies and influence work in During the year, we tested 13 of the most common ski insurance cover, infrastructure and personal protection. helmets for adolescents and adults on the Swedish market. The difference between the helmets is so large Bicyclists are less insured than car drivers that the choice of helmet can be crucial to whether one Of the severe cyclist injuries, 85 per cent arise in connection is injured or not. with single-bicycle accidents and in collisions with cyclists • Riding helmets. Horse riding is the second largest sport or pedestrians when road insurance does not apply. The among adolescents in Sweden and the most important cyclists thereby have worse cover than those injured in protective equipment for the rider is of course the riding collisions with motor vehicles. Making it safer for bicyclists helmet. During the year, we tested 10 of the most common is an issue for both traffic legislation and the insurance riding helmets for adolescents and adults on the Swedish companies. We have therefore begun work where we market. Among our customers who fell off of the horse and are reviewing what insurance protection for cyclists had a head injury, one out of seven had lasting difficulties. could look like. The tests show both large deficiencies in many helmets and large differences between the best and the worst helmets. 36 Drive green and safe – Most fuel efficient cars with alternative fuel that meet Folksam’s requirements in 2014 and get a discount Size Model CO2 g/km Autobrake In 2014, Folksam examined new car Standard/ models for the 17th consecutive year. Option Cars that are on our list of “Safe and Small small car VW Up Gas/Seat Mii CNG 76 VW Standard sustainable cars” contribute to less Skoda Citigo Gas Seat/Skoda Option environmental impact and safer traffic. We like this, which is why Larger small car Golf VII 1.4 TSI 122 119 Option customers who choose these cars Medium Ford Focus 1.6 CNG 109 Option get a 10 per cent discount on the Large Volvo S60 T4F 152 Standard insurance premium. Every customer Small MPV VW Touran 1.4 TSI EcoFuel 128 Not available can thereby directly contribute to saving lives and safeguarding the Large MPV environment. SUV The entire list of the 2014 safe and sustainable cars consisted of 161 models. Even though we made the Most fuel efficient cars with fossil fuel that meet Folksam’s requirements in 2014 environmental requirements more Size Model CO2 g/km Autobrake stringent by nearly 10 per cent Standard/ Option compared with 2013, there are safe and environmentally sustainable cars Small small car Toyota Yaris 1.5 HSD 79 Not available of all sizes. This is pleasing of course. Larger small car Lexus CT 200 h Eco 82 Option Medium Toyota Prius 1.8 HD hybrid electric 49 Option Large Volvo S60/V60 D4/D4e 99 Standard Small MPV Opel Zafira 2.0 CDTI ecoFlex 119 Not available Toyota Verso 1.6 D-4D 119 Not available Large MPV Renault Grand Scenic 1.5 dCi EcoFAP 105 Not available SUV Mitsubishi Outlander PHEV 49 Option We work to realise Ten indicators identified nationally1 as important focus areas for achieving goals the Zero Vision 1. Speed limit compliance, state road 6. Safer cars in traffic According to government bill network 2008/09-93, the number of traffic 2. Speed limit compliance, municipal 7. Safe motorcycles in traffic (ABS) fatalities should be cut in half road networks between 2008 and 2020. This 3. Sobriety in traffic 8. Safer state roads is equivalent to a maximum 220 4. Seat belt use 9. Safer pedestrian, cycle, moped paths fatalities in 2020, and the number in built up areas of seriously injured in road traffic 5. Helmet use 10. Operation and maintenance of must be reduced by a quarter. pedestrian, cycle, moped paths Reaching the goals the analysis 1 Ongoing supervision of national indicators is performed by GNS Väg. GNS Väg is national points to will require efficient collaboration group and a forum for the exchange of knowledge and the coordination between performance management and new different parties with the purpose of realising the Zero vision. GNS includes representatives from the information, especially concerning Swedish Transport Administration, the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Work Environment Authority and Folksam. NTF, the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation, the National Police Board, the work on increasing safety for the Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions (SALAR) and Toyota Sweden AB. unprotected road users. Folksam’s road safety research concentrates primarily on indicators that concern cycling, motorcycles, speed limit compliance and safer cars. 37 2. Injury prevention sports 3. Information and advice research We work in different ways to provide information and advice to our customers on how they can prevent injuries. Folksam has a long history as an insurance provider and This may be a matter of everything from how they protect partner of Swedish sports. Through cooperation with most against fire and burglary to how they can protect their of the sports federations, nine out of ten active athletes property in storms. We mainly distribute information are insured with us. This gives us a major opportunity to on our website, answer customer questions, make contribute to injury prevention sports research. instructional videos and communicate in the media. Every year, around 16,000 sports injuries are reported, Every year, we also conduct various studies and tests to which gives us a unique database that can be used help the customers make good and sustainable choices for research and injury prevention work. In 2014, the when they buy products. The results are published in work continued to focus on the knee control project. Its various reports and distributed in the media. The objective objective is to train football coaches, leaders, parents and is also to get companies to take responsibility. During the players on how to exercise to prevent knee injuries among year, we studied outdoor paints, heat pumps and cars and girl players aged 12 and up, who are particularly affected. conducted tests on bicycle, ski and riding helmets (which A simple exercise programme of 10-15 minutes sharply are described in more detail on page 36). When it comes reduces the risk of serious knee injuries among girl to the helmet tests, there has been considerable interest football players. Since 2013, the exercises are gathered and the tests received considerable media attention. in the app Knäkontroll, which at the end of 2014 had The sporting goods chain Stadium and one of the helmet been downloaded more than 70,000 times. manufacturers also brought up the test in their marketing at the same time that manufacturers of helmets that did Results through collaboration not get good ratings contacted us to get help to improve Our research collaboration with the Swedish School of their helmets. Sport and Health Sciences (GIH) on our sports injury database also continued in 2014. This has resulted in In 2014, Folksam conducted the following tests and studies: a number of published interim reports that build on • 13 of the most common ski helmets on the Swedish market. epidemiological studies on the occurrence of acute injuries • 10 of the most common riding helmets for adolescents and severe injuries that lead to invalidity. Comparisons are and adults on the Swedish market. made between different sports, ages and genders and • Winter tyres on the Swedish market. potential changes over time. The objective is to be able • 46 of Sweden’s most common outdoor paints (on-going). to describe risk sports and risk situations for various • Different car drivers’ risk of having accidents. acute injuries. In 2015, the collaboration will continue by describing and providing information about various sports injury patterns. Another project is the collaboration we began during the year with the Swedish Athletic Association with the goal of reducing the number of strain injuries among children and adolescents. The goal will be achieved by increasing knowledge and commitment regarding causes that affect track and field injuries among children and adolescents. Other measures include increasing competency among coaching educators and course instructors and developing programmes for preventive exercise. In 2014 and 2015, a coach inventory was conducted to map the number of coaches, their level of education and experience in the field. 38 “ It worked out very well ” When Pierre Johansson wakes up on Without electricity, no heat. Even though the storm happened in late summer, it quickly turns cold, wet and 31 August, he is still happily unaware that chilly. In combination with the broadband and phone not his plot in Malmö is under water and that working, this meant that Pierre could not live at home in his cellar is completely flooded. the first few weeks. “I was out of town that night, but drove home as soon as Pierre’s home is insured with Folksam and he feels the I read the news. It took an hour to make the last leg of the contact with Folksam worked well. trip since the roads and viaducts were flooded and cars “I understood that you were contacted by very many were stuck. Some cars were even floating about. It felt customers in a very short period of time. In spite of this, very odd, almost surrealistic.” it went relatively quickly for a claims adjuster to contact me. It worked out very well and I had good contact with Now, this spring, Pierre is counting on all practical tasks the claims adjuster, who was able to directly confirm that resulting from the rains on 31 August last year will be done. it involved extensive damage.” Three dehumidifiers have been running around the clock all autumn and it was done just before Christmas. When Pierre talks about the event, he sounds very calm, collected and understanding for the situation. In total, “Then, you don’t sleep so well. It has taken a lot of energy his claim ended up at SEK 500,000. and I have had to take off of work quite a bit during this “I am often rational. Which isn’t to say that I’m unfeeling, but time. The whole cellar was flooded so that all personal I try to keep my wits about me. Sometimes, you have to keep property was completely ruined, walls and floors were a stiff upper lip since it doesn’t help to feel sorry for yourself. water damaged and the electrical centre, which was in Life goes on. Many other houses were fit for demolition so the cellar, was destroyed.” I came out relatively unscathed anyway, I think.” It was: 2014 Pierre Johansson: “ It felt very odd, ” almost surrealistic 39 Asset management with a focus on long-term security for our customers Folksam with its subsidiaries is one of Sweden’s largest institutional investors. At the end of 2014, we managed assets of around SEK 350 billion. This gives our customers considerable possibilities for good long-term returns and to have a positive influence on the development of society. In order to achieve good risk diversification, we distributed Folksam’s managed assets our investments over various kinds of assets and markets. We invest the customers’ money in interest-bearing SEK billion securities, equities, properties and alternative investments (mdkr) (unlisted assets). Focus for the investments is long-term 350 350 security for our customers based on risk, returns and sustainable development. 300 304 281 In total, Folksam with its subsidiaries manages multiple 250 253 portfolios that all have their own investment guidelines. 235 57 per cent of all assets are invested in interest-bearing 200 securities issued by the Swedish government, Swedish municipalities, Swedish mortgage institutes or Swedish 150 companies. The equities portfolios account for 34 per cent of the assets managed and consist of listed Swedish 100 and foreign equities. We also own assets in properties, including property funds. The directly owned properties 50 are located in Sweden and have a total market value of almost SEK 20 billion. The value of the alternative 0 investments was SEK 5 billion at year-end. Alternative 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 investments are unlisted and in most cases have a low correlation with equity and fixed-income markets. Managed assets by company 2014 (SEK billion) Folksam’s managed assets 2014 (SEK billion) Folksam Life 156 Folksam Non-life 36 Swedish interest-bearing 203 Förenade Liv 4 Foreign interest-bearing 3 KPA Pension 127 Swedish equities 53 Konsumentkooperationens Foreign equities 66 penssionsstiftelse 24 Alternative investments 5 Other 3 Properties (directly owned) 20 40 Management for the customers’ best interests The objective of asset management varies between the different companies. For Folksam Life and KPA Pensionsförsäkring AB, the objective is to achieve the highest level of real return under relevant risk and investment limits, while in Folksam Non-life and the rest of the companies, it is to contribute to stable and competitive premiums. Folksam has, for a number of years and in different market conditions, successfully managed the risks and opportunities in asset management in order to create good returns for the customers. The total return for 2014 was 8.1 per cent for Folksam Non-life, 12.0 per cent for Folksam Life and 13.3 per cent for KPA Pensionsförsäkring AB. Over the last five-year period 2010-2014, the average total return on traditional insurance has been 8.3 per cent for Folksam Life and 8.5 per cent for KPA Pension. Swedbank is an important strategic holding for Folksam, where we own just over 9 per cent of the shares. At the end of the year, the value of these shares was nearly SEK 19 billion. Total return ratio Per cent % 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Folksam Non-life 8.1% 7.7% 8.2% 6.9% 6.7% Folksam Life 12.0% 7.6% 7.0% 6.5% 8.7% KPA Pension 13.3% 8.2% 7.2% 5.6% 8.2% Requirements on ethical investments and sustainability Folksam with its subsidiaries consists of 11 insurance companies, all with different profiles and emphases. Consequently, the Board of Directors of each company establishes individual objectives and levels of risk for the asset management, establishing the limits within which the capital may be invested. The starting point for every portfolio is in the statutory requirements and that we must be able to cover the obligations to the policyholders on the long term (even in negative developments of the financial and insurance markets). Our asset management follows special investment rules, primarily those that are set forth in the Insurance Business Act. In addition, we comply with the Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations and general guidelines as well as each company’s rules for environmental and ethical considerations. The managed assets are also subject to criteria concerning the environment, human rights and anti-corruption. During the year, Folksam signed the Montreal Carbon Pledge, which means that we will begin to measure and report the carbon dioxide footprint in our portfolios. On the following pages, we present our work in further detail with the types of assets included in our portfolios: • Equities and fixed-income instruments • Property • Alternative investments. 41 Equities and fixed-income 59% Fixed-income instruments: Responsible instruments owner governance 34% Shares Here at Folksam, we are convinced that companies which take responsibility for the environment and human rights are more profitable over time than those that do not. As a large institutional owner, we therefore work to influence the listed companies to conduct more sustainable operations. Carbon dioxide measurement Folksam with its subsidiaries Influencing companies to take responsibility signed the Montreal Carbon It is important to our customers that the listed companies we invest in act Pledge in 2014. This means responsibly. We therefore influence them through our investment criteria that we pledge to measure the for the environment, human rights and against corruption. Our goal is not to carbon dioxide footprint in our reject companies to invest in, but rather to influence as many as possible to equity portfolios and publish get better at taking responsibility. We also do our best to push equality issues the results. The Montreal and ensure that the bonus programmes in all of the companies are reasonable Carbon Pledge is an initiative and structured to benefit the shareholders. launched on 25 September 2014 at the meeting for the There are some companies we choose not to invest in, regardless of how small Principles for Responsible their environmental impact is or how good a working environment they have. Investments (PRI) in Montreal The disqualifying criteria are tobacco and illegal arms such as cluster weapons, and, besides PRI, is supported anti-personnel mines and nuclear weapons. All companies within Folksam apply by the UN Environment these criteria, with two exceptions. The subsidiary KPA Pension has even tougher Programme Finance Initiative exclusion criteria and therefore does not invest in the alcohol industry, the arms (UNEP-FI). industry or the commercial gambling industry. KPA Pension also has a stricter environmental criterion. For Folksam Non-life, whose car, home and holiday At 31 December 2014, the home insurance products are Good Environmental Choice certified, this means indirect carbon dioxide emis­ that, besides tobacco, we also exclude investments in alcohol, all weapons, coalsions from the equity invest­ fired power, nuclear power, uranium and companies that violate human rights. ments for Folksam amounted to a total of 1,458,947 tonnes. Criterion Folksam Life Folksam Förenade Liv KPA Pension This means around 1.03 Non-life tonnes of carbon dioxide per SEK 100,000 managed, Environment which is just over half of the Stricter environmental average for the global index criterion* (MSCI World 2,1 tCO2e). Human rights The carbon dioxide footprint Corruption expressed as carbon dioxide intensity (tCO2e per SEK Mil Tobacco turnover) amounts to 23.4. Illegal weapons All weapons The low carbon dioxide foot­ Alcohol print is due in part to Folksam having, in accordance with Gambling the ethical investment crite­ Coal-fired power ria, refrained from investing in Nuclear power certain companies with large carbon dioxide emissions, and Uranium in part to larger investment in Influencing criteria *Only energy companies with approved the banking sector. Exclusion criteria environmental ratings are approved. The measurement was done by the South Pole Group. 42 How we work with responsible owner governance An important aspect of our influence work is various Every year, around 2,000 companies are screened. kinds of collaboration. Here, we present a few examples. This means that each company is analysed and gets a On folksam.se, we present the work in more detail and rating on how good its work is in terms of human rights, based on the PRI principles. the environment and anti-corruption, and what general business risk the company has. Cooperation 1. Since 2009, Folksam has participated in the Sustainable Dialogue Value Creation project, aimed at enjoining Swedish listed Every year, we conduct an owner dialogue with several companies to adopt sustainable development and longcompanies in which we have holdings. We write letters term value creation. In 2014, Sustainable Value Creation, to representatives of these companies, such as managers together with the OMX Stockholm stock exchange, for investor relations, sustainability and/or environmental invited board chairmen, CEOs and other representatives managers. We follow up the companies’ work in terms from the 100 largest listed companies, to a seminar on of our investment criteria (environment, human rights the implementation of sustainability work. and anti-corruption) and corporate governance (such as 2. We collaborate with the Norwegian life insurance equality in the board and management and bonus and company KLP and the Finnish pensions company remuneration programmes). During the year, we held Ilmarinen, in Nordic Engagement Cooperation (NEC). meetings with seven companies we have holdings in. The objective is to coordinate corporate governance activities relating to the environment, human rights We also annually contact around 20 Swedish companies and anti-corruption. The focus is on companies where that conduct business in a high-risk industry with regard violations of international guidelines and conventions to the environment and/or human rights. In general, have been observed. companies that have a distinct physical business, such as oil extraction, run a higher risk of discrepancies that 3. We are members of the Global Network Initiative a distinct service provider. Two companies were selected (GNI), which is an international organisation whose and meetings were held with a review of the companies’ purpose is to work to safeguard human rights in risk situation. IT and telecommunications. As investors in IT and telecommunications companies, we want to call Sometimes, we participate in the debate to create opinion. the attention of these companies to their impact on The chief strategy is to reach out to listed companies via freedom of speech and integrity on the Internet and the media, so the business press is our main focus. their responsibility. If Folksam becomes aware of a holding that violates any A list of more collaborative arrangements is on page 64. of our investment criteria, we initiate a dialogue with the company to bring about a change. Sometimes, our efforts Screening and rating do not succeed and we are forced to divest the holding. In total, Folksam’s customers invest in around 1,000 In 2014, no such decisions were made. companies. Our corporate governance policy and our ethical investment criteria form the basis of which companies we invest in. Renowned corporate governance • In Max Matthiessen’s study of controversial holdings • Together with ABP from the Netherlands, Folksam ended among pension companies, Folksam and KPA Pension up first place in the category “Best RI Report by a Large received the mark Passing with Credit. Max Matthiessen Fund” when RI Reporting Award named companies writes “Folksam and KPA Pension distinguish themselves that distinguished themselves by doing good work with with their ambitious and open influence work.” Six out of responsible investments, and gave a clear, transparent 12 companies received failing marks. report of this work. RI Reporting Awards builds on an audit • When Söderberg and Partners ranked the pension of more than 1,000 companies worldwide. companies’ sustainability work, Folksam together with Swedbank and SPP ranked at the top. 43 In terms of the climate, the financial players that actively work with the issue are still in the minority in relation to Stora Enso the total capital. The major challenge for us is to further In 2014, it came forth that child labour occurred develop our way of working by taking consideration of the in the supply chain in Stora Enso’s operations in individual beneficiary’s need for risk control and returns, Pakistan. During the year, Folksam met with Stora at the same time that we use our influence as owners to Enso on separate occasions and participated in a enjoin carbon dioxide intensive companies to take more journey to Lahore, Pakistan to study the environment powerful steps. In spite of our large capital, we have not and the challenges the company faces on site. We been large enough to be able to exert an influence on our also had the opportunity to meet some of the children own. who previously worked to gather waste paper at refuse dumps and who have now been put in school. We want to ensure that Stora Enso strengthens its We influence at shareholders’ meetings policies and guidelines in the company, and towards Folksam participates in the Swedish AGMs where we subcontractors and that the work makes progress. have shareholdings. This means that we attend just over The dialogue is continuing. 40 AGMs per year. Before the meetings, we send letters to the board chairs to inform them of the issues Folksam will TeliaSonera focus on in particular. More information on what questions For several years, TeliaSonera has been linked to we asked and what answers we received are i the meeting questions of possible violations of human rights and reports, on the blog “A Cat Among the Pigeons” and on the corruption in connection with subsidiary activities in Twitter account @etikkatten. Eurasia. We have therefore had an intensive dialogue with the company. TeliaSonera has investigated and Folksam votes both for and against share-related bonus revised its operations including a revised code of schemes. In cases where companies have disregarded conduct and stronger internal control. The company Folksam’s views, we chose to vote against the bonus system. has also trained its staff in sustainability and become We have also used our influence to vote at AGMs abroad transparent to the market as regards sustainability. by electronic voting since 2005. During 2014, we voted In autumn 2014, we participated in a journey arranged at a total of 232 foreign AGMs. We were also represented by TeliaSonera to Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. Neither and asked a question at Stora Enso’s AGM in Finland and of these young countries is democratically governed presented a proposal at Chevron’s AGM. and the challenges for TeliaSonera are therefore considerable. The company has strengthened its role towards its subsidiaries and works to implement a Folksam’s work with Corporate Governance 2014 2013 2012 responsible corporate model. Folksam and a number of Number of companies with which Folksam 37 31 45 other Swedish investors participated in a meeting with held an active dialogue the Ministry of Communications in Uzbekistan where Number of Swedish general meetings in 42 43 39 freedom of speech and human rights were brought up. which Folksam participated TeliaSonera’s position was strengthened by 40 per cent Nomination committees in which Folksam 2 2 3 of the shareholders being present. Our owner dialogue is a member with TeliaSonera continues with the same focus on human rights and anti-corruption, since there are still problems of corruption and child labour in the region despite considerable progress. 44 Milestones Folksam signs Folksam the Montreal establishes Carbon the Nordic Pledge, which The Folksam Engagement Folksam Folksam means that Index of Cooperation decides to speaks at Rio we measure Folksam Folksam Corporate (NEC) divest holdings +20 about the carbon dioxide becomes a includes Social together with in companies importance of emissions in signatory of corruption as Responsibility Norwegian KLP that produce reporting on our holdings the UN Global an influencing is presented for and Finnish nuclear sustainability and publish the Compact. criterion. the first time Ilmarinen. weapons. work. results. 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Folksam begins Folksam Folksam Folksam is one Folksam is Folksam and voting at participates in co-finances a of 15 Swedish accepted as a KPA Pension Swedish AGMs. the drafting of Scandinavian investors to member of the are the only the UN initiative secretariat for take part in the Global Network Swedish Principles for the Carbon Sustainable Initiative companies to Responsible Disclosure Value Creation ( GNI), an make it into Investments Project (CDP). project, with a international the Hall of (PRI). view to putting organisation Fame category pressure on whose purpose when the Swedish listed is to work to International companies safeguard Campaign to to achieve human rights Abolish Nuclear sustainable in IT and Weapons development telecommuni­ (ICAN) draws and create cations. up a list of long-term bankers value. and asset managers who do not invest in nuclear weapons. 45 Property: 6% Property Long-term investments We want to support sustainable development in society. By owning the right properties, we create good returns in managing our customers’ money at the same time that we can offer secure housing and attractive workplaces with homes, assisted living facilities, offices and shops in prime locations. We invest long term in properties with a focus on Stockholm and Malmö. This involves offices in prime locations and with clear environmental profiles, as well as housing and assisted living facilities (existing or projects). We also develop properties. In order for the business to contribute to a positive societal development, the ownership of the properties must be responsible. In this, we count the following areas: • Environmental responsibility with clear environmental targets • Good relationships with customers and stakeholders, such as housing and office tenants • Ethical operations • Follow-up and constant improvements • Active work on energy efficiency improvements Properties are an important class of assets in Folksam’s various portfolios. In 2014, we therefore increased our strategic and financial focus by updating the investment strategy for properties. According to the new investment strategy, we will increase the investments in the portfolio by around SEK 10 billion in the next five years from today’s SEK 18 billion. We therefore began to change the operations and organisation in order to even better be able to manage the customers’ money long term. Folksam is one of few operators in the insurance industry that accounts for, and offsets, the climate impact from its property holding. Consumption of heat represents the greatest climate impact from our property holdings, totalling 3,490 tonnes of carbon dioxide. This is a decrease compared with 2013, which is due in part to efficiency enhancements in the properties owned by KPA Pension. All electricity purchased by Folksam for its properties is certified as generated by wind power. Property portfolio, total area Geographic distribution Commercial 58% Stockholm 64% Residential 37% Malmö 19% Other 5% Other 17% 46 Alternative investments: 1% Alternative Focus on unlisted investments investments Alternative investments supplement Folksam’s asset portfolio. These are investments with long investment horizons that give the customers exposure to unlisted assets. The investments are mainly made in fund-like structures and in cooperation with other players. Within alternative investments, we also make indirect property investments to supplement the direct property investments. We prioritise investments that contributing to strengthening the investing company’s brand and strategic networks. Alternative investments account for around 1.5 per cent of Folksam’s total managed assets. Alternative investments, SEK million Private Equity/Credit funds 1,965 Infrastructure/Energy 1,530 Other 1,535 Total 5,030 Some of our holdings in alternative investments: EQT Infrastructure farms with an annual generating (LKAB), Peab, Metso and Folksam EQT Infrastructure is a private equity capacity of 0.25 TWh. Electricity in bonds issued by Northland. fund that invests in infrastructure output from the 47 wind turbines assets such as energy plants, in operation is able to heat around Proventus Capital Partners distribution networks for energy and 13,000 houses. Folksam also owns Proventus Capital Partners is a ports. One example of an investment four wind power plants in Kulltorp co-investment company with that EQT Infrastructure makes is the in Gnosjö Municipality. Proventus, the Fourth AP Fund and purchase of the western Swedish gas Folksam that focuses on loan network (Swedegas). Northland financing and corporate bonds. In 2013, Folksam invested in the The company offers loan financing PWP and Gnosjö Energi mining company Northland, which to medium-sized companies and Folksam and KPA Pension own, at the end of the year was forced to invests in listed corporate bonds. together with FAM and Proventus, file for bankruptcy. The investment Power Wind Partners (PWP). The was made in the scope of an owner company owns six land-based wind consortium consisting of Norrskenet 47 Our contact with the customer Everything we do should be based on our overriding objective of having the industry’s most satisfied customers. We know that the customers who have contacted us are more satisfied than those who have not. Of the customers who have had contact with our customer service or filed a claim, nine out of ten say that they are satisfied. In addition, they also feel that they received good service. Nine out of ten are satisfied 48 We are more liked than ever During the year, the appreciation of Folksam’s brand achieved peak levels. Our foremost assets The results are the highest both in comparison with competitors and our own earlier results. Not only our customers, but the market also likes us more Around 4 million customer and this opens doors for new customer relationships and transactions. KPA 1 relationships Pension’s brand has also been strengthened and is now the most well-known brand in its market. Cooperation with union Our customer satisfaction surveys have also achieved the highest rankings 2 organisations and other to-date. Customer satisfaction is strongly linked to how the customer perceives partners his or her insurance company. We measure this perception using the Folksam Customer Index (FCI). We ask every category of customer (private customers, Customer focus and longpartners, employers) what they like about us and what we do. Including how 3 term perspective (mutuality) they perceive the information they get from us, our service, our products and our personal treatment. Satisfied customers are nothing that just happens, but rather we must earn it. Only then can be actively striving for strong relationships with combination customers. At the same time, our challenge is to ensure more frequent customer contacts. Some examples of steps we worked with during the year are combination discounts, availability and bonus interest. In our measurements, we have seen that the bonus interest has provided good results in our customers’ perception of Folksam as a brand. Find out more about our bonus interest on page 68. During the year, we also worked to increase awareness among the customers of our combination discount. The fact that our customers are more satisfied than ever is most clearly seen in our measurements of those who have been in contact with us. Nine out of ten customers who have filed a claim or have been in contact with our customer service are satisfied. We therefore work to continuously find new contact surfaces to the customers. On this front, the Internet is particularly important. Customers with multiple We have considerable potential to increase insurance policies stay longer the number of customers that have several year policies with us (år) 10 Just over 2.5 households 8 9 år have an 8 år insurance 7 år relationship 6 with Folksam Non-life and/or Folksam Life. 4 4 år Just over 4.6% of the 5.2 % of the In these 20% of these households have households have 2 households, households have home + car + home + car + there are around home + car pension savings pension savings 3.5 million and other non0 insured life insurance individuals. Car Car + home Car + home + pension savings Car + home + pension savings + other non-life insurance 49 Our customer contacts in 2014 Customer Customer service service workplace 2,400,000 20,000 customer customer contacts contacts 2014 Advisors Claims 14,790,000 570,000 questions customer customer 2,500,000** contacts contacts Internet Telemarketing 8,100,000* 1,200,000 customer customer contacts contacts * Of which 3,000,000 mobile ** Generated 925,000 claims cases More about: Customer service in 19 languages One way of increasing availability and improving our In 2014, KPA Pension received the National Government service on the customer’s terms is our continued work on Employee Pensions Board (SPV) award, Guldkanten, multilingual customer service. During the year, we began for its customer service and pension information in customer service in the 19th language: Sign language. 18 languages, and for the work of reaching out with The calls take place over a video system and provide pension information to disadvantaged groups. the deaf and hearing impaired the possibility of natural communication in their own language. Our multilingual customer service receives around 100,000 telephone calls per year and communicates with people from around 100 countries. The biggest foreign language is Arabic. 50 When the customer is dissatisfied Customer Ombudsman and disputes In 2014, we had more than 10 million customer contacts Our customer ombudsman has the main task of offering and handled around 900,000 claims cases. This naturally an impartial review for customers who are not satisfied means that misunderstandings, dissatisfaction or problems with our decisions. The function has been in Folksam of various kinds sometimes occur. For example, customers for almost 50 years and has a well-established working may feel they received too little compensation or that method. They are independent from Folksam’s company a claim was not handled according to the customer’s management and answerable only to Folksam’s AGMs. expectations. The customer should then be able to file a complaint. The possibility to be able to contact an independent function is appreciated by the customers. In 2014, around New requirements from both the Swedish Financial 9,000 customers consulted with the customer ombudsman, Supervisory Authority and EIOPA (the EU equivalent) of which 1,300 became cases. Of these, 21 per cent led to have clarified requirements for insurance company some form of change in the customer’s favour. handling of complaints, and Folksam’s management group prioritises issues that concern customer complaints. An important part of the customer ombudsman’s work is We have a central complaint group that is responsible for feeding back experiences from its activities to Folksam. coordinating complaints and quarterly reporting to Group The function works pro-actively to put the message across management. to Folksam that terms and conditions must clearly show what the customer is entitled to. In 2014, we registered around 3,300 complaints for the entire Group. The handling worked well and the customers Since we strive to maintain a high level of quality in our say in our measurements that they feel that we have gotten claims adjustment, relatively few cases led to a dispute. better at handling complaints. In 2015, the ambition is to During 2014, 122 cases were resolved by the National get even better at capturing the customer complaints by Board for Consumer Disputes (ARN), and 5 per cent of ensuring that they are registered as complaint cases. Good these were changed in favour of the customer. Of the complaint handling gives us the possibility of capturing 152 cases that were resolved in court during the year, problems, doing something about them and also ensuring Folksam won the majority of the cases or reached an that the customer is satisfied. amicable settlement. 2014 2013 2012 Number of claims 935,000 870,000 730,000 Number of cases to the Customer Ombudsman 1,306 1,300 1,140 Percentage of changes in the customer’s favour 21 21 22 Number of cases to ARN 122 115 91 Percentage of changes in the customer’s favour 5 3 4 Number of cases to court 152 114 139 51 52 “ The help was invaluable ” The family holiday longed for to Thailand was almost over and the plane back to Sweden was going to take off in a It was: few hours. But instead of boarding the plane, the journey 2014 was a rush to the hospital. The father, Joachim Ullstrand, had suffered a heart attack. Joachim Ullstrand: In summer 2014, Joachim, his wife Anneli and their two daughters Bianca “ and Alva were enjoying a holiday trip with sun and swimming on the island of Koh Samui. In the final week, Joachim thought that it was difficult to breathe, Now I can but did not suspect anything serious. But on the morning of their departure date, he and Anneli realised that everything was not as it should be. focus on “He suddenly vomited and then I saw in Joachim’s face that it was time to go to getting ” the hospital right away. It was an awful and surreal feeling. We were supposed to be on our way home, but ended up there instead,” explains Anneli. better The doctors were able to confirm the heart attack and proposed an injection what would make the muscle cramps subside. The family called Folksam to make sure that the treatment sounded reasonable and would be covered by their insurance, especially considering that the medicine cost around SEK 25,000. After a week at Koh Samui’s hospital, Joachim was flown to Bangkok Heart Hospital where he was operated on. A week later, he and the family were ready to fly home to Sweden accompanied by a physician. “It was absolutely crucial for us that we had Folksam’s large home insurance. I don’t want to think about what it would have been like without it,” says Joachim and Anneli agrees: “We’re not just thinking about the costs we avoided, but just as much about the help we god with all of the practical matters like transportation and accommodation. And above all, that the rest of the family could stay in Thailand.” Anneli says that she got help from Folksam to extend their visa. “I didn’t feel like I could handle it so we called Folksam’s local partner who arranged everything. The help was invaluable since we were busy focusing on Joachim.” Joachim feels better today, but is sick-listed and undergoing further examinations in Sweden. 53 Our own operations To fully be a modern financial company and credible in accepting responsibility, our own operations must be characterised by proper order. This is about everything from how we are governed and take care of our employees to our environmental work in daily operations. 54 A modern financial company We usually say that Folksam stands for both heart and In 2014, we built up processes and IT support to handle mind. This means that we should get involved in what the new requirements on capital adequacy calculation our customers care about, have efficient processes with and supervisory reporting. With our complex structure low operating costs per policy, case and customer, be a with many companies, insurance products and IT systems, responsible employer and do right by the environment. the project is facing major challenges. One of them concerns During the year, we conducted improvement efforts the proposal on new occupational pension regulations that through a number of projects where certain involved all mean that we do not yet know exactly what companies in of Folksam with its subsidiaries, while others concerned Folksam will ultimately follow the Solvency II rules. specific business areas, units or functions. In 2014, IT has been a prioritised issue in Folksam with its subsidiaries. When it comes to corporate governance, we have begun to We are currently undergoing a major change journey roll out new internal regulations in the parent companies to modernise, enhance efficiency and consolidate our and subsidiaries and adjust our own organisation to IT systems, which are currently too numerous and in gradually fulfil the new requirements set by the directive. come cases outdated. This work is a cornerstone in our strategic efforts on the infrastructure in Folksam and our In 2015, we will participate in the preparatory reporting subsidiaries. to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and continue to develop processes and systems that support supervisory reporting and capital adequacy calculation. Our most important project The remaining internal regulations and organisational The Solvency II programme is our largest and most changes will be decided on and implemented to strengthen important project. It concerns all of our employees and Folksam’s systems for governance. enters into effect on 1 January 2016. Solvency II is a European regulatory code for insurance companies that aims to create a uniform European insurance market Bribery and money laundering that will provide more protection to the policyholders. All financial companies in the EU are obliged to work The new rules in strengthen the connection between against or take steps to prevent money laundering and the solvency requirements and risks for insurance companies, financing of terrorism. Folksam follows the sanctions that and entail more stringent requirements on insurance have been issued against persons suspected of criminal companies having adequate capital to be able to live up activities and also takes action to prevent bribery and to their commitments to the policyholders. corruption. The work of preventing briber and corruption is related with Folksam’s work to prevent money Solvency II is important in the modernisation of Folksam laundering. We investigate if our customers are people and the rest of the industry and good for the customers. in high political office who thereby run a greater risk of We began adapting to Solvency II as early as 2009 and taking bribes or being involved in corruption. have mainly focused on coordinating the adaptation of steering documents, processes and system support we use for corporate governance and reporting. 55 Appropriate skills and sustainable work environment Folksam with its subsidiaries has nearly 3,900 employees Many of our existing and future employees appreciate distributed over various companies and locations. For working in a responsible company that both has ambitions us to be able to offer insurance and pension investments and financial conditions to make a difference. that create security and appeal to many, we must be an attractive workplace. In Universum’s annual survey “Sweden’s Best Employers”, where young professionals rate their current employer, The fast pace of change in our surroundings, including in IT, Folksam ended up 13 out of 70 among large employers. legal requirements and on the labour market, affects both This ranking is in line with what we have seen in our own the customers’ expectations of Folksam and our conditions employee survey for several years. In 2014, 80 per cent to meet them. To be able to reach our overriding objective of our employees said that they are proud to work at of having the insurance and pension savings industry’s Folksam and 78 per cent felt that they have stimulating most satisfied customers, we must succeed in staffing our and developing duties. The total index landed at the same organisation with the right employees and continuously level as 2013, which was 75 per cent positive responses. develop our employees and managers. An attractive workplace An attractive workplace means interesting career paths and a good work environment. Our employee survey and “ personnel mobility are two examples that show that we are well on our way. 80 per cent of our employees say that they are proud to Number of employees 3,868 ” work at Folksam Average age 44.2 Personnel turnover 8.8% Sickness absence 4.5% 53% 47% Gender distribution, Women Men total 48% 52% Gender distribution, Women Men managers 45% 55% Gender distribution, Women Men Group management 36% 64% Gender distribution, Women Men boards 56 Rewards programme for the Focus on work environment employees and health We have a rewards programme for our employees that is As a part of creating a modern financial company, we intended to make our strategies and overriding objectives worked in the past year to introduce an activity-based way visible and put them in focus. Among other things, this of working throughout Folksam work that will continue involves increasing employee commitment and motivation in the next few years. We want to create a modern, flexible, to reach the goals (Folksam Customer Index and the sustainable and cost-effective work environment where number of combination customers). Prior to 2014, the people thrive, feel well and perform well. An activity means of disbursements changed from cash disbursement based way of working is far more that moving furniture to deposits of the reward in an individual occupational or people. It is a matter of changing the way of working, pension insurance. behaviours and habits. It requires both changed leadership and active employees as well as technical solutions and an Personnel mobility provides environment that is adapted for the business and the tasks to be done. new opportunities A challenge for both society and Folksam is the negative One opportunity, and at the same time a challenge, is the development when it comes to sickness absences. We have increased personnel mobility. For the second consecutive various tools that should give the employees the support year, the number of external recruitments was nearly needed to maintain good health, and help to quickly capture 550. In addition, around 200 employees received new signals of illness. jobs through internal recruitment processes. An effect of this mobility is that the proportion of employees under Since 2015, Folksam is a smoke-free workplace. For a the age of 30 has increased and the average age has modern company that is committed to the employees’ decreased for several years running. The considerable health and work environment and also does not invest mobility shows that there are many career opportunities in companies that work with tobacco this is also natural. in Folksam with its subsidiaries. In connection with the change, all employees were offered the opportunity to attend a programme for tobacco According to our overall strategy, we conducted a number cessation treatment. During the year, we also received of organisational changes during the year that meant some confirmation that Folksam has good procedures for relocations of employees. For example, we concluded the systematic work environment efforts when the Swedish integration of SalusAnsvar as well as the work of changing Work Environment Authority conducted some 20 the organisation in sales and claims. In the latter project, inspections in Folksam offices around the country. a cooperative forum worked to find the best possible solutions for the employees concerned. Constantly current ethical rules Diversity provides customer Its ethical rules constitute one of Folksam’s most important regulatory codes. They are about us being a company benefit that gets involved in what the customers’ care about It is our conviction that diversity contributes to customer and being perceived as such. Folksam’s values reflect benefit, greater profitability and a more attractive work­ an ethical approach and shall permeate everything we place. Consequently, we work goal-oriented for an inclusive do. They apply to our entire operation and lay down the cooperation climate where the employees’ expertise is rights and responsibilities that employees must abide by utilised and there is acceptance for differences. A clear in different situations. Every three years, the ethical rules and skills-based staffing process supports diversity at the are included in the regulation training that all employees same time that we minimise the risk of discrimination. The receive every year. In basic management training, the new fact that Folksam currently has nearly 50 per cent women managers also receive training in the ethical rules for e.g. managers is the result of goal-oriented diversity work. When gifts, conference travel and participation in events. They we compared the average salary between male and female shall in turn be able to guide their employees in ethical employees with similar jobs, the salary difference was just considerations. over 5 per cent (4) in 2014. In order to achieve full equality of pay, we annually survey and analyse any non-objective pay differences in pay reviews instead of just conducting surveys every three years as required by legislation. 57 Our environmental work Alongside of the environmental responsibility we take in In 2015, all employees will attend sustainability training at the relationship with our customers, where we also have the same time that the new sustainability policy will be inthe greatest opportunity to exert influence, it is a given tegrated in the operations. for us to act as environmentally correctly as possible in our own operations. Our climate footprint Our ambition is to be on the forefront in this environmental The climate footprint in our own operations amounted to and climate work. We have worked with environmental 2,844 tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2014. This is an increase issues since the 1960s. of 52 tonnes compared with 2013. The increase is due to the calculation this year also including coolant and that the emission factor for electricity has been adjusted. Per Goals for our environmental work employee, the emissions decreased from 0.82 tonnes to We want to do our part for Sweden to be able to achieve 0.8 tonnes. its climate target to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40 per cent by 2020. We have therefore set targets for our Air and rail 44% own operations. In 2014, we established two environmental Road travel 21% targets for 2015: To reduce carbon dioxide emissions and Heating 23% travel by 5 per cent each (base year 2002). The main Electricity 4% Printed matter and paper 5% emissions source for us is travel itself, which accounts for Coffee 1% 65 per cent of total emissions. A part of approaching these Coolant 2% targets is to fully begin to utilise the new video conferencing Water < 1% equipment that has been at most of our locations since 2014. In 2014, we focused on screening and coordinating our environmental efforts. Some of the activities were that: • We decided to integrate environmental targets for all units, business areas and subsidiaries in our business planning. All units have at least one environmental target for 2015. • After 15 years, our ISO 14001 certification has served its purpose and we are instead focusing on working with Good Environmental Choice certification in the organisation. • We appointed a management group for Good Environmental Choice, which is responsible for reporting and follow-up of the requirement criteria. More about: All of our emissions are climate compensated We climate compensate the climate footprint from average of six trees for every tonne of carbon dioxide our operations and our property portfolio through the released. The total climate impact that we compensate Vi Agro-Forestry Programme tree-planting project. for amounted to 6,567 tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2014. We climate compensate for our dispatch of customer This means that we will plant just over 39,000 trees. documents, even if we work to fully transition to digital dispatches. The Vi Agro-Forestry Programme plants an 58 Risk a part of the business Insights of incidents A fundamental part of our business is assessing and Folksam has an incident-reporting system in which all managing risks. Through active, controlled and businessemployees may report undesirable events. The definition based decisions on risks, we create conditions for offering of an incident is an intentional or unintentional undesired the customers insurance and pension savings solutions that event that has caused or could have caused Folksam harm. create security. The more incidents reported, the better. Because then the faults underlying the incident can also be identified In order to clarify management and responsibility for risk and resolved. By reporting incidents, we demonstrate management and control, we divide activities into three openness within the operation, and a desire to be a learning lines of responsibility. organisation. The first line of responsibility is made up of business Incident management is taken care of by operations and areas, units, parent companies and subsidiaries. They followed up by the compliance organisation. There are are responsible for directing operations so that the local compliance managers throughout the organisation targets established by the board are achieved. They who follow up ensuring that the incidents are resolved. are also responsible for risk management activities, The boards receive reports about incidents through score monitoring and compliance. cards (dashboard), which the Group CEO reports to the board at every board meeting, and also through compliance The second line of responsibility comprises the risk and reports submitted half yearly. compliance departments, and the chief group actuaries. They support and follow up the first line of responsibility What distinguishes Folksam’s incident reporting system on the basis of frameworks for risk management, and from a whistle-blower system is that reporting in the latter are responsible for having an overall picture of the risk can report incidents directly to Group security without situation in the company and report this to the boards a superior manager or local compliance manager finding and the CEO. out about it. Every year, around 20 incidents are reported this way. An investigation is under way on the need to The third line of responsibility consists of internal audit, have a traditional whistle-blower system and how such which reviews and evaluates internal management and a system can supplement the new incident system. control on behalf of the boards. Number of reported incidents 2014 2013 2012 530 465 503 More about: Our risk management We assess risk taking in relation to the possibility of 3. Manage. Here, we use regulations, processes and control achieving set targets in five steps. activities. The business and corporate management are responsible for prioritising and deciding on measures 1. Identify. In the first step, we identify and disentangle necessary to control or limit risk. all significant risks we are exposed to both on the short and long terms. 4. Follow up. The business and control functions follow up on risks and measures and ensure that the risks lie 2. Evaluate. Risks are evaluated in a uniform manner within decided levels. and quantified using generally accepted methods. 5. Report. The board and CEO receive an all-round and factual view of the total risk situation. 59 “ I can actually make a difference Lena Lindström feels greatly committed to sustainable development. As a middle-school teacher, she has worked ” It was: with her students on a number of different projects on the 2014 subject. But she received a lesson last year in what impact her own pension savings have. Lena Lindström: “I had hardly reflected on where I have my occupational pension. Nor had I “ actively chosen KPA Pension. I probably thought like most people, that I want a secure pension with a good return. But now in hindsight, I can’t be happier Where my that it is just KPA Pension that manages my pension savings,” says Lena Lindström who is employed as a teacher in Vännäs Municipality. pension Last spring, KPA Pension announced a competition among customers in savings end municipalities and county councils where two winners would get to go with up feels very ” on a knowledge trip to Uganda. Over the years, KPA Pension together with Vi-skogen planted 40,000 trees at Lake Victoria, in an area that is threatened by drought, erosion and heavy rains. The aim of the trip was to follow up the important work of the tree planting project, at the same time that it gave KPA Pension an opportunity to get the customers involved in the sustainability work. Of around 800 competitors, Lena Lindström was one of two winners who travelled to Uganda this past autumn. “The global climate challenge and how poor farmers had already been affected by it became very concrete. It was particularly rewarding to visit farmers who cooperated with Vi-skogen on agroforestry, which is the planting of trees and other plants and training in forestry. We got to see successful examples where the differences in the harvests before and after were clear and how it both improves the families’ subsistence and the climate,” explains Lena and continues: “I was inspired and impressed by the work KPA Pension and Vi-skogen do. I was happy to see how a large company can serve as a good example. I also realise that we as individuals can also make a difference. Where my pension savings end up feels very important after this trip. 60 61 Our role in society We and our subsidiaries fill an important function in society. To promote both our own business and positive social development, we therefore get involved in various issues, cooperation and partnerships. On the following pages, we present some examples of how we act and interact with our surroundings. 62 Research support and prices Research foundation In 2014, prize winners Erkki Isometsä, Professor of Psychiatry, and Gerhard Andersson, Professor of Clinical Folksam has a research foundation the purpose of Psychology, were rewarded for their pioneering studies which is to promote prevention of accidents and disease, on prevalence, causes and treatment possibilities in rehabilitation and health-promoting scientific research connection with depression and anxiety. The research has through its own activity or through financial grants. among other things led to clinical treatment programmes, It is primarily intended to make research grants in the based on a scientific foundation, now being able to be used areas of road safety, health and the environment. In 2014, for these commonly occurring illnesses that negatively 32 applications for research grants were received, of affect many people both privately and in working life. which five were awarded grants: • Mora hospital on health benefits and risks of physical activity. Swedish Association of • Karolinska Institutet on risk factors for injuries in the shoulder region in connection with handball. Health Professionals’ prize • Chalmers University of Technology on why some in cooperation with Folksam whiplash protection has a negative effect on women, The Swedish Association of Health Professionals’ prize is but not men. annually awarded by the association in cooperation with • Lund University on the development and improvement Folksam. With the prize, prominent efforts and development of methods to assess the risk of cardiovascular disease of Swedish health care are recognised. In 2014, the prize in women. amount was SEK 500,000, which makes it one of Sweden’s • Chalmers University of Technology where a medical largest in the health care field. The winner was Mare instrument, bioimpedance, is evaluated for diagnostics Teinlum-Kruse, Licensed Stroke Nurse and Team Leader and monitoring of trauma patients. at the Stroke Unit at Sahlgrenska Hospital, for her work with supported release upon stroke. Idrottsfonden Sports Fund Folksam has operated the Idrottsfonden Sports Fund for Gothenburg Prize for Sustainable decades. One per cent of the capital in the fund is distributed annually in the form of scholarships. The fund invests in Development Swedish and foreign equities and follows Folksam’s ethical Folksam is one of the sponsors of the Gothenburg investment policy on human rights, corruption, tobacco, Award for Sustainable Development. The topic in 2014 the environment and in the fund also alcohol. was “Nature´s services and ingenious solutions”. The winner was Paul Polman who receives the prize of SEK Nordic Medicine Prize in 1 million for his pioneering leadership for global business. He has shown an awareness and activeness against cooperation with Folksam the short-sightedness that traditionally prevails in the corporate world. Polman became the CEO of Unilever The Nordic Medicine Prize is one of the Nordic region’s in 2009. He began a thorough course change towards medical prizes and is awarded every year by the a more sustainable business, in part through Unilever’s Ulf Nilsonnes Foundation in cooperation with Folksam. “Sustainable Living Plan”. The prize amount is SEK 1 million and shall reward researchers who focus on “medical problems that directly affect people’s daily lives and entail long-term working capacity impairment”. International agreements and frameworks UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) UN Global Compact UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative, UNEP FI Global Reporting Initiative, GRI ISO 26000:2012 The Montreal Carbon Pledge Certifications Good Environmental Choice 63 In cooperation with others Folksam has long been active in various organisations, both national and international. Through them we can gain new knowledge and information that we can use and share. Here, a selection is provided: Networks and groupings Mutuality ICMIF 206 organisations in 70 countries are members in the International Cooperative and Mutual Insurance Federation (ICMIF). Folksam is one of more than 600 insurance companies that are represented. ICMIF is right now the only international federation that represents both mutual and cooperative companies. Allnations Allnations is a limited liability company that was created in 1966 under ICMIF. The goal of Allnations is to support development in member companies experiencing financial difficulty, assist in forming new mutual and/or cooperative insurance companies through investments, and ensure that the owners obtain a reasonable return on invested capital. AMICE “Association of Mutual Insurers and Insurers Cooperatives in Europe”, was formed in January 2008 through a merger of two already existing confederations of mutual and cooperative insurance companies in Europe, AISAM and ACME. Its primary objective is to act as a uniform voice for the mutual and cooperative insurance sector in Europe. Trade associations Swedish Insurance Federation The insurance companies’ trade association that works for good operating conditions for the insurance companies. EAPSPI KPA Pension is actively involved in EAPSPI (European Association of Public Sector Pension Institutions), which is a European cooperative organisation between pension institutions with responsibility for public-sector pensions. KPA Pension holds the post as the chair since 2012. Swedish Insurance Society This organisation shall contribute to a sound and purposeful development of insurance in Sweden by developing the members’ profession-specific and general knowledge in insurance. Insurance Europe This organisation works to promote the European insurance market and its conditions. Road safety research AEB Group International group for developing tests standards for autonomous (Autonomous Emergency Braking Group) braking systems. ETSC European lobby group whose purpose is to influence European road (European Transport Safety Council) traffic legislation. GNS Forum for the exchange of knowledge and the coordination of (Group for National Collaboration) operations within the field of road safety with the purpose of realising the Zero vision. ISO/TC 22/SC 12/WG 7 Road vehicles International standardisation group in road accident analyses where Folksam is chair. ISO/TC 22/SC 12/WG 1 Road vehicles International standardisation group in the child safety area. RCAR Collaborative international insurance industry group that focuses (Research Council for Automobile Repairs) on road safety and repair methods. SAFER Collaborative Swedish group within the road safety field located at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg. SIS/TK 237 Collision tests, road traffic injury analyses and EEVC coordination; Swedish coordination group for standardisations within the specified field. SIS/TK 242 Child car safety. Swedish coordination group for standardisations within the specified field. 64 Networks and groupings, continued Corporate Governance Sustainable Value Creation In 2009, Folksam joined 14 other Swedish institutional investors in a cooperation to jointly influence listed Swedish companies for a sustainable and long-term sustainable value creation. Carbon Disclosure Project Folksam was previously involved in and sponsored the Nordic secretariate for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which gathers the listed companies’ work on climate, forests and water in their data base. Today, several hundred investors worldwide, including Folksam, stand behind CDP. CDP’s data is also among all financial information in Bloomberg. Swesif Swesif is an independent network forum for organisations that work for or with sustainable investments (SRI) in Sweden. Swesif shall increase the knowledge and interest for SRI among institutional asset owners and managers. SRI comprises investments that in addition to financial factors that consideration of the environment, social responsibility and corporate governance or other surrounding factors in the investment process. Since spring 2014, Folksam has a representative on Swesif’s board of directors. Global Network Initiative Folksam is the first European investor to be elected as a member of the Global Network Initiative (GNI). In common with other organisations such as the IT companies Google and Microsoft, various professional and industrial bodies, universities and investors, we work to safeguard human rights on the Internet and within telecommunications. Nordic Engagement Cooperation Since 2008, Folksam has cooperated with Norwegian company KLP and the Finnish company Ilmarinen in the Nordic Engagement Cooperation (NEC). The objective is to coordinate corporate governance activities targeted at listed holdings in terms of the environment, human rights and anti-corruption. NEC has meetings four times a year and in between them, the respective investors are responsible for a number of companies on a joint focus list. Institutional Owner Association Folksam cooperates with other institutional owners on regulation issues on the share market. This occurs within the scope of the Institutional Owner Association. SNS – Centre for Business and Policy Studies Folksam is a member of SNS. Since 2012, Folksam has also been a member of SNS forum for research-based dialogue on corporate governance and owner issues. Environment Haga Initiative During the year, Folksam became a member of the Haga Initiative corporate network. The network gathers companies that work to achieve the vision of a profitable business without climate impact. The Haga Initiative works to strengthen the role of business in climate policy and by showing the connection between ambitious climate strategies and greater profitability. Human rights United Nations Association of Sweden KPA Pension has cooperated with UNA Sweden since 2008. The cooperation is based on strengthening human rights in Sweden and internationally. Two projects that KPA Pension participates in are the “Project Girl” that works to improve conditions for disadvantaged girls in the world and “School food provides knowledge”. Education Universities To increase knowledge about insurance in society and to safeguard Folksam’s future skills supply, we pursue strategic educational collaborations with universities and vocational training schools. Through them, students are offered study visits and practical placement and Folksam is involved in formulating the programme contents. 65 Financial value Our sponsoring creation cooperation Through our business, we create value for our stakeholders We want our sponsoring to contribute to the approval in various ways. The premiums our customers pay in are of our brand and give us possibilities to create and redistributed to some extent back to the customers and strengthen long-term relationships with existing and other players in society. The table show our financial value future customers and partners. What we sponsor shall creation in 2014 for Folksam Life and Folksam Non-life. have a broad popular base and not be unethical or contribute to negative environmental impact. Financial value generated, SEK million 2014 Income* 45,849 Sports sponsorship Financial value distributed As the insurance company of sports, sporting sponsorship Operating expenses** -37,338 is important to Folksam. The objective is to build the brand by supporting both elite and exercise sports and creating Salaries and remuneration -2,802 and strengthening long-term relationships with Swedish Payments to capital providers -1,939 sports. Payments to central government -737 Our sponsorship collaboration in sports are: Financial value retained 3,033 • Swedish Basketball Federation * This item also covers unrealised gains and losses • Swedish Athletic Association ** This item also covers changes in the value of investment assets • Swedish Football Association and actuarial provisions • Track and Field for the Disabled and Hearing Impaired • Swedish Innebandy Federation • Ledar Camp • O-Ringen • Swedish Ski Association • Vasaloppet • Vikingarännet Human and social sponsorship “ Our sponsorship Within the area of human and socially oriented sponsorship, we have had extensive cooperation for should contribute several years with We Effect (formerly the Swedish Cooperative Centre), an aid organisation that works to to the appreciation provide the poor and disadvantaged a better life. We want ” of our brand to contribute to changing the world to make it more just, democratic and equal. Staff have the option of donating part of their pay to the organisation through deductions from salary. The sum the employees contribute is doubled by Folksam. In December 2014, Folksam also made a Christmas donation of SEK 100,000. Our total collection for We Effect amounted to SEK 1,578,457 in 2014. 66 67 Every Swedish Crown of profit benefits the customers Folksam with its subsidiaries continued to develop strongly in 2014. The positive development was particularly about large premium volumes, higher return on capital and greater appreciation of our brand. As a mutual company, Folksam’s profit stays with our Total premium volume customers in the form of better insurance, lower premiums SEK million (mkr) and bonus interest. This way, every krona of profit benefits 50 000 the customers. In many ways, 2014 was a successful year for Folksam 40 000 and its subsidiaries. Total premiums earned rose to SEK 47.5 billion (40.4). It is primarily our financial strength that continues to drive demand in our various companies. 30 000 20 000 10 000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Folksam Total 2014 2013 2012 Premiums, SEK million 1 47,501 40,631 35,226 Assets under management, SEK million 2 350,170 304,299 275,380 Fund insurance assets, SEK million 99,525 79,221 62,224 1) Premiums comprise premiums earned in non-life insurance, premiums written in life insurance, and receipts and fees from unit-linked insurance investors. 2) Assets under management represent assets according to the total return table less strategic holdings, which principally relate to the value of subsidiaries, plus assets under management in Konsumentkooperationens pensionsstiftelse. 68 Raised bonus interest During the year, we raised the bonus interest rate on traditional life insurance twice. Since September, it is 7.0 per cent before taxes and fees. The increase was made in light of our strong financial development and the fact that the collective consolidation in the company (the ratio between the company’s assets and how much is distributed to the policyholders) is above the set target level. At the end of 2014, Folksam Life’s collective consolidation was 124 per cent. KPA Pension uses rate of return instead of the bonus rate. The rate of return “ means that all returns are distributed directly to the customers after every quarter. The collective funding ratio Bonus interest is therefore always around 100 per cent at KPA Pension. The rate of return for 2014 was 13.4 per cent. is the utmost proof that we are a customerBonus interest for the third owned company that ” consecutive year Thanks to our strong financial position, Folksam Non-life is thriving was able to issue bonus interest to its customers for the third year running after having introduced the bonus interest programme in 2012. Folksam Life is a part of the bonus interest programme in risk insurance for the second consecutive year. For the 2014 financial year, 2.4 million customers share SEK 546 million (480) in bonus. Within Folksam Non-life, pet, home and automotive insurance are covered as well as personal risk, and in Folksam Life, group insurance is included. The bonus is the ultimate proof that we are the customers’ company. This contributes to strengthening our brand and achieving more satisfied customers. Folksam Life bonus interest Bonus in Folksam Non-life Insurance (covered) Bonus interest Insurance (covered) Bonus interest 2012 — — 2012 • Home 4.1% per paid premium SEK. • Automotive 2013 • Group life 20% per paid premium SEK • Personal risk 2014 • Group life 25 % per paid premium SEK 2013 • Home 4.5 % per paid premium SEK. • Automotive • Personal risk • Animals 2014 • Home 4.4 % per paid premium SEK. • Automotive • Personal risk • Animals 69 Four brands in two corporate groups Folksam comprises the two parent companies Folksam ömsesidig sakförsäkring (Folksam Non-life) and Folksam ömsesidig livförsäkring (Folksam Life) with subsidiaries. Two of the subsidiaries in Folksam Life are part-owned. These are Folksam LO Fondförsäkring, which is 51 per cent owned, and KPA Pension, which is 60 per cent owned. In Folksam Non-life, the subsidiary Folksam Skadeförsäkring is part-owned at 75 per cent. Of the group companies, Förenade Liv Gruppförsäkring (Förenade Liv) and the insurance companies in KPA Pension are not consolidated in the consolidated accounts in Folksam Non-life and Folksam Life, respectively. The reason is that these companies are not dividend-paying and therefore all surplus in the companies goes to the policyholders. To achieve economies of scale, the companies collaborate on distribution, administration and asset management. Folksam Non-life 75% Folksam Förenade Liv SalusAnsvar Tre Kronor Skadeförsäkring Folksam Life 60% 51% Folksam KPA Folksam Fondförsäkring Pension LO Pension 70 71 You are involved and have influence Folksam has no shareholders. Instead, it is influence from our just over four million customers that leads to decisions at the Annual General Meeting. For us, it is of central importance that the customers can be involved and influence what we do. Their influence in the form of voting rights, the right of expression and proposal takes place through specially elected delegates. Delegates are either directly elected policyholders or appointed by large customer groups/organisations. In Folksam Non-life, the customers are represented by 80 delegates and in Folksam Life by 75 delegates. Nomination Committee General Meeting Customer Ombudsman External auditors Audit committee Board Internal audit Remuneration Committee Group management CEO Functions for internal governance and control Finance committee 72 How our boards operate In Folksam, the board members represent the policyholders’ interests. The board members therefore represent the various customer groups, meaning the cooperative sphere, labour union sphere, sports movement, retirees, entrepreneurs and employers. Since 2013, there are also representatives in the boards outside of these spheres. The nominations committees make proposals to the annual general meetings on who should sit on the boards. They are to aim for the boards to have a suitable composition with regard to skills, age and gender. The parent company boards held seven board meetings each during the year. Ahead of each meeting, the boards received a written report from the CEO on major events in Folksam, and also in the industry in general. The boards continuously followed up the strategic goals in accordance with Folksam’s strategic agenda. During the year, they reviewed financial reports, risk and compliance reports, actuary reports, internal audit reports, subsidiary operations and finances, market and competitor analyses. In order to discuss strategic and future issues in greater depth, the boards held their annual joint two-day seminar in June 2014. The theme addressed at the seminar was market analysis, strategy review and risk and capital planning (ORSA). For more detailed information on the boards’ compositions and their work, see the corporate governance reports on folksam.se. More about: Our Group-wide sustainability committee In 2014, Folksam established a Group-wide sustainability The sustainability committee is a preparatory body that committee with the task of: provides decision support data for the individual company • adopting common goals and bases for sustainability managements and coordinates, streamlines and follows efforts to achieve our vision, up our sustainability efforts based on an overarching • consolidating sustainability work links to business policy. The committee is chaired by the Group CEO operations, and representatives from each company’s business and • coordinating each company’s sustainability efforts, sustainability departments and the public-relations unit. and strengthening customer choice in connection with sustainability issues. 73 Board of Directors Folksam Non-life Back row, from left Front row, from left Eva Lindh Ella Niia Karl-Petter Thorwaldsson, Chairman Bo Jansson Anita Modin Karin Mattsson Weijber, Vice Chair Mikael A Carlsson, employee representative Leif Linde Magnus Ling Ulf Andersson Anders Lago Göran Lindblå Ann-Louise Andersson, employee representative Kerstin Kujala, employee representative 74 Folksam Non-life Folksam Non-life is customer-owned and undertakes Occurred in 2014: general insurance activity principally focused on the 1. The summer’s powerful rains and thunder storms led Swedish household market. The company offers a full range to our weather-related claims expenses increased. of insurance products to households and individuals with 2. Folksam’s Home Insurance Plus was ranked top in car and household insurances as the base, supplemented the Konsumenternas Försäkringsbyrå (Consumers’ with commercial insurance products within selected areas. Insurance Bureau) comparison of home insurance. Folksam insures 450,000 single-family homes, terraced houses and linked houses. 3. The portfolio from SalusAnsvar was transferred to Folksam Non-life. Folksam Non-life (Parent Company) 2014 2013 2012 Premiums earned, SEK million 10,096 8,800 8,340 Profit/loss before appropriations and income tax, SEK million 2,426 2,056 1,874 Total expenses, % 99 100 102 • Claims expenses, % 82 82 83 • Operating expenses, % 17 18 19 Funding ratio,% 153 149 139 Total return, % 8.1 7.7 8.2 75 Board of Directors Förenade Liv Back row, from left Front row, from left Elisabeth Sasse Peter Lennartsson Not pictured: Lars-Erik Klason Pia Carlsson Thörnqvist Linda Jonsson, employee representative Sture Nordh, Chair Niklas Hjert Kristian Sihlén, employee representative Git Claesson Pipping Eva-Lotta Nilsson 76 Förenade Liv Förenade Liv is specialised in personal insurance for Occurred in 2014: white-collar workers and university graduates. In close 1. Förenade Livs medical care business grew strongly. cooperation with organisations and employers, smart Among other things, the Swedish Police Union chose group solutions are tailored. The products offered are to supplement its personal insurance package with life, health, diagnosis, accident and medical expenses medical care insurance for all members. Sweden’s insurance. In total, Förenade Liv insures just over 800,000 university teacher federation SULF and Kyrkans people in around 1,500 group agreements. Förenade Liv is Akademikerförbund expanded both their cooperation a non-profit limited liability company that is operated on with Förenade Liv by signing agreements for income mutual principles. insurance. 2. Together with Lärarförsäkringar, Förenade Liv paid out SEK 80 million in cash bonus to 101,000 teachers. 3. Förenade Liv further developed its unique partner web with online services. Together with flexibility in the product packaging, this led to Förenade Liv growing further on the broker market. Among other things, a voluntary group insurance was signed for all employees of Ikea Sweden. Förenade Liv 2014 2013 2012 Premiums earned, SEK million 938 866 661 Profit/loss before appropriations and income tax, SEK million 149 267 297 Total expenses, % 115 91 25 • Claims expenses, % 99 79 21 • Operating expenses, % 16 12 4 Funding ratio,% 200 199 227 Total return, % 9.6 7.6 6.7 77 Board of Directors Folksam Life Back row, from left Front row, from left Anders L Johansson, employee representative Susanna Järnek, employee representative Not pictured: Mikael Täll, employee representative Göran Arrius Eva-Lis Sirén, Vice Chairman Jan Rudén Maj-Britt Johansson-Lindfors Annelie Nordström Susanna Gideonsson Martin Linder Sam Sandberg Anders Sundström, Chair Johnny Capor Sune Dahlqvist 78 Folksam Life Folksam Life is customer-owned and conducts life Occurred in 2014: insurance business. The company offers occupational 1. Folksam Life raised the bonus interest rate on pensions and pension investments to private individuals, traditional insurance by 0.5 per cent on two occasions. directly or through partnerships, as well as group life Since 1 September 2014, the bonus interest rate has insurance and other types of risk insurance. been 7.0 per cent before tax and fees. 2. To strengthen the long-term perspective in our The solvency ratio in Folksam Life was 155 per cent at traditional life insurance and protect the already year-end. This means that we have 55 per cent more insured collective, we introduced a ceiling on deposits assets than are needed to pay out the guaranteed of SEK 500,000 per year and insured and a ceiling of pensions. A high solvency ratio is also a prerequisite SEK 10 million per insurance agreement. to be able to provide good future return on assets under management. 3. The deduction right for private pension savings was changed as of 2015. As a result of this, Folksam Life stopped new sales of private pension savings and launched a new offering in the form of a flexible endowment insurance that is very similar to private pension insurance. Folksam Life (Parent Company) 2014 2013 2012 Premiums earned, SEK million 13,437 8,569 7,547 Profit/loss before appropriations and income tax, SEK million 6,036 14,858 10,779 Solvency ratio, % 155 161 144 Total return, % 12.0 7.6 7.0 Bonus interest Life1, % 1 6.5 5.5 4.5 Collective funding Life1, % 125 120 118 Bonus interest Life2, % 1, 2 6.5 6.0 6.0 Collective funding Life2, % 2 126 118 116 1) Reported bonus interest rate pertains to the average for the year. 2) Cooperative occupational pension 79 Board of Directors KPA AB Back row, from left Front row, from left Ilmar Reepalu Elisabeth Sasse Not pictured: Pia Carlsson Thörnqvist Thomas Månsson, employee representative Ann-Charlotte Tollqvist, employee Anders Knape, Vice Chair Jens Henriksson, Chair representative Håkan Sörman Susanna Järnek, employee representative 80 KPA Pension KPA Pension is a brand and joint name for KPA Occurred in 2014: Pensionsförsäkring, KPA Livförsäkring and KPA 1. KPA Pension again won Sweden’s largest procurement Pensionsservice. KPA Pension is the pension company for of pension administration when the Skåne the local government sector and manages occupational municipalities with more than 100,000 employees pensions for employees in local government, county and just over 40,000 retirees in 33 municipalities councils, and local government and cooperative and six municipal associations chose KPA Pension companies. KPA Pensionsservice offers employer service for administration and insurance of pensions. for the handling of municipal pension commitments, 2. KPA Pension integrated SPP Pension Services administration of the employees’ individual pension and renamed them to KPA Pensionstjänst in 2014. choices and qualified consulting services, occupational One of the reasons that KPA Pension bought SPP group life insurance and professional pension advice. KPA Pension Services was to gain access to its modern Pension offers private individuals investments in private administration system. pension insurance and unit-linked insurance. Folksam 3. Since 1 September, full transfer right applies for owns 60 per cent of KPA Pension and the Swedish employees that are covered by the occupational Association of Local Authorities and Regions (SALAR) pension agreements KAP-KL, AKAP-KL, PFA98 and owns 40 per cent. The solvency ratio in KPA Pension was PFA01. Thereby, earned pension capital within the 166 per cent at the end of 2014. agreement area can be transferred from one insurance company to another. The transfer right covers all employees in municipalities, county councils, regions, municipal associations, and municipal companies. KPA Pension 2014 2013 2012 Premium income, SEK million 10,172 9,889 7,713 Solvency ratio, % 166 172 150 Total return, % 13.3 8.2 7.2 Rate of return, % 13.4 8.0 7.0 Collective funding ratio, %* 102 102 102 * The funding ratio is always around 100 per cent since all surplus and deficit are distributed to the customers after each quarter. 81 82 Folksam LO Pension Folksam LO Pension is a brand focused on collectively Occurred in 2014: agreed occupational pensions and principally covers 1. Folksam LO Pension has the best return among administration and management of pension allocations comparable companies over five years (2009-2013) made under the pensions agreement between by 12.5 per cent. the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and LO 2. Folksam LO Pension is a selectable alternative (the Swedish Trade Union Confederation). Operations after SAF-LO signed a new agreement for collective are conducted in Folksam LO Fondförsäkring, which agreement occupational pensions. is owned by Folksam Life with 51 per cent and LO and 3. The Fora selection centre had its administration several of their associations with 49 per cent. closed in the first half of 2014, which influenced sales negatively. Sales during most of the second half of the year went well. Folksam LO Pension 2014 2013 2012 Premium income, SEK million 65 50 38 Profit/loss before appropriations and income tax, SEK 304 180 152 million Solvency factor, % 3.1 2.8 2.5 Total return, % 17.9 17.8 10.8 83 Group management Jens Henriksson AnnKristine WuopioGunnar Fröderberg CEO Mogestedt Senior Vice President Born 1967 Senior Vice President and Head of IT Employed since 2013 Born 1953 and Head of Claims In current position since 2013 Employed since 2008 Born 1961 In current position since 2008 Employed since 1988 In current position since 2006 Senior Vice President Harriet Pontán Lars-Åke Vikberg and Head of Products Senior Vice President Managing Director of KPA Pension Born 1969 and Head of HR Head of Collectively Employed since 2005 Agreed Business BA Born 1953 In current position since 2008 Employed since 2005 Born 1966 In current position since 2005 Employed since 2009 Withdrawing. In position since 2014 84 Pia Marions Torbjörn Eckerdal Elisabeth Sasse Chief Financial Officer, CFO Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Born 1963 and Head of Private BA and Head of Partner BA Employed since 2014 Born 1958 Born 1966 In current position since December 2014 Employed since 1985 Employed since 2011 In current position since 2008 In current position since 2014 We provide security for our customers Tomas Norderheim Pia Carlsson Thörnqvist Executive Vice President Senior Vice President and Head of CEO Staff and Head of Marketing Born 1955 Born 1964 Employed since 1987 Employed since 1982 In current position since 1998 In current position since 2008 85 86 Auditor’s report on the review of the Folksam Sustainability Report 2013 For Folksam Introduction The review is substantially less in scope and has another We have been engaged by the Board of Directors direction compared to an audit conducted according to and Executive Management of Folksam ömsesidig IAASB standards on auditing, quality control and good livförsäkring and Folksam ömsesidig sakförsäkring accounting practice otherwise has. The procedures (Folksam) to conduct a review of the contents of the performed consequently do not enable us to obtain an Folksam Sustainability Report 2014. The company has assurance that would make us aware of all significant defined the scope of the sustainability report under the matters that might be identified in an audit. The stated heading “About the Annual Report and Sustainability conclusion based on a review therefore does not have Report 2014” on page 89 in the Annual Report and the certainty that an expressed opinion based on an Sustainability Report 2014. audit has. Our review is based on the criteria chosen by the Board The Boards of Directors and Executive and Executive Management defined above. We consider Management’s responsibility for the these criteria suitable for the preparations of the sustainability report. Sustainability Report. It is the Board of Directors and the Executive Management that bear the responsibility for preparing the We regard the evidence we have obtained during our sustainability reporting in accordance with the applicable ordered are sufficient and appropriate in order to provide criteria, which are presented under the heading “About grounds for the opinion we provide below. the Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2014” on page 89 in the Annual Report and Sustainability Report Opinion 2014, and comprising those parts of the Sustainability Based on our review procedures, nothing has come Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting to our attention that causes us to believe that the Initiative (GRI)) applicable to the sustainability report, Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, and the company’s own reporting and calculation have been prepared in accordance with the above principles. This responsibility also includes the stated criteria set forth by the Board and Executive internal control that is deemed necessary to prepare Management. a sustainability report that does not contain material misstatement, whether due to error or impropriety. Stockholm, 23 March 2015 Auditor’s Responsibility KPMG AB Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. Anders Bäckström Torbjörn Westman We have conducted our review in accordance with RevR Authorised Public Accountant Specialist member, 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports, issued by FAR. Swedish institute for A review consists in making enquiries, primarily among professional authorised persons responsible for preparing the sustainability report, public accountants and in performing analytical and other review procedures. 87 Address Postal address SE-106 60 Stockholm Visiting Address Bohusgatan 14 Telephone 0771-960 960 Project Manager Helena Hjeltström Juha Hartomaa Art Direction, Figures Eva Bergfeldt Graphic Design, Infographics Ewa Guiance Copywriter Helena Hjeltström Juha Hartomaa Helena Selander Photographer Petter Karlberg pages 7, 39, 52, 74, 76, 78, 80 and 84-85, Eva Axelsson page 61 Andreas Lind all other pages About the year’s annual report and sustainability report Folksam with its subsidiaries publishes an annual Folksam’s understanding is that the report meets the B+ report and sustainability report every year. Folksam has GRI application level, and this has also been confirmed by published a sustainability report every year since 2002. the external auditors. Sustainability is an integrated part of our operations and since 2014 we integrate our annual report with the The report applies to Folksam in its entirety, excluding sustainability report. The report describes events during Folksam’s operations in Finland (Folksam Skadeförsäkring). 2014 and supplements the information in the annual No significant changes have taken place during the year in report. In-depth sections of the sustainability report, such regard to size, structure or ownership. The report follows as environmental data, employee data, PRI reporting and Folksam’s financial year and thereby comprises the period the GRI index, are on folksam.se (search: “Sustainability 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. The last sustainability report 2014 ). report was published in March 2013. We report based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Contact: G3 guidelines and our sustainability report is audited • Juha Hartomaa, juha.hartomaa@folksam.se, externally by the public accounting firm KPMG. This audit +46-708-31 65 26 covers pages 1-13, 18-39 and 41-67 in the Annual Report • Helena Hjeltström, helena.hjeltstrom@folksam.se, and Sustainability Report, and the GRI index and in-depth +46-708-31 68 24 sections of the sustainability report on the web. 89 S14430 14-10 You own Folksam Folksam is a customer-owned company. This means our customers are also our owners and our surplus goes back to the customers. This is how we have always worked.
