SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 CONTENTS 1 2 SUSTAINABLE 3 STRATEGY CORPORATE MANAGEMENT PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION Preface 3 Our point of view 4 An overview of the BMW Group 5 APPENDIX Stakeholder expectations 141 1.1 Our management approach 11 2.1 Our management approach 26 3.1 Our management approach 46 Objectives 142 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 18 2.2 Economic impacts 28 3.2 Efficient mobility 49 About this report 146 2.3 Compliance and anti-corruption 34 3.3 Product safety 55 Independent Assurance Report 148 2.4 Risk management 37 3.4 Resource efficiency and recycling management 58 GRI Index 151 2.5 Human rights 40 3.5 Future mobility 61 Imprint/Contact 157 3.6 Customer satisfaction 66 4 GROUP-WIDE 5 6 7 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 4.1 Our management approach 72 5.1 Our management approach 94 6.1 Our management approach 108 7.1 Our management approach 132 4.2 Energy 75 5.2 Minimising risk 98 6.2 Attractive employer 112 7.2 Corporate Citizenship 137 4.3 CO emissions 80 5.3 Seizing opportunities 102 6.3 Occupational health and safety 118 ² 4.4 Waste management 85 6.4 Training and further education 122 4.5 Water 88 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion 125 Fuel consumption and CO² emissions ratings for the vehicles referred to in this report can be found on page 156. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 2 PREFACE At the BMW Group, we believe that sustainability means investing in our future. Our approach is holistic, focused on implementing sustainability throughout the value chain and ensuring that sustainability is firmly entrenched within our company structures and practised by our employees. To achieve this, we are gradually refining our sustainability strategy and setting long-term objectives in c­ learly defined areas of activity. We have steadily reduced fleet CO₂ emissions with our Efficient Dynamics technology strategy over the years. Average emissions for our European fleet currently stand at 130 grams of CO₂ per kilometre. With BMW i, we have made sustainable mobility a reality. Our customers now have a choice: with the BMW i3 and BMW i8, they can enjoy sheer driving pleasure with either an electric or plug-in hybrid vehicle. We will continue to electrify our vehicle fleet – and this will help us reach our 2020 goal of reducing European fleet emissions to half the l­evels recorded in 1995. Our understanding of sustainability includes efficient use of resources, as well as lower CO₂ emissions. We achieved a major breakthrough in power consumption in 2014 and now obtain more than half our electrical energy worldwide from renewable sources. By including sustainability considerations in all our business decisions, we create added value for the company. At the same time, we are demonstrating our commitment to international conventions such as the ten Norbert Reithofer principles of the UN Global Compact. Beyond that – and this is crucial – we create innovations with tangible Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG benefits for society. Consistent action clearly pays dividends. The BMW Group has been one of the top-rated companies in major sustainability rankings for many years: we are the industry leader in both the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project. We believe that sustainable action makes our business model more competitive and secures our company’s future growth. Dr.-Ing. Dr.-Ing. E. h. Norbert Reithofer Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 3 OUR POINT OF VIEW Milagros Caiña Carreiro-Andree Peter Schwarzenbauer Dr.-Ing. Dr.-Ing. E. h. Norbert Reithofer Klaus Fröhlich Dr. Friedrich Eichiner Dr.-Ing. Klaus Draeger Harald Krüger Dr. Ian Robertson (HonDSc) “It is our goal to engage in sustainable operations. “Our highly skilled and motivated workforce creates real “We aim to increase the efficiency and reduce emissions “We will continue to expand our successful car-sharing Among other things, this means designing new benefit for the company. After all, the only way for a of our vehicles, while at the same time making them system, intensifying our focus on adding more electric ­products to master the global challenges of our times. sustainability strategy to be successful is if it is lived and safer and more comfortable. With Efficient Dynamics vehicles. Car-sharing provides relief in terms of traffic Our innovations should be designed to serve our cusimplemented each and every day – in Germany, China, technologies, the innovations of BMW ­ConnectedDrive and the environment, especially in dense urban areas. tomers and society. As such they contribute towards the USA and every other country we do business in.” and BMW i, we have laid the groundwork for a We also work with innovative start-up companies to the long-term success of our business model.” Milagros Caiña Carreiro-Andree ­sustainable future.” develop tomorrow’s sustainable mobility concepts.” Dr.-Ing. Dr.-Ing. E. h. Norbert Reithofer Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG — Human Resources and Klaus Fröhlich Peter Schwarzenbauer Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG Labour Relations Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG — Development Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG — MINI, BMW Motorrad, Rolls-Royce, Aftersales BMW Group “Before deciding to implement a project, we first analyse “For us, Clean Production means consistently investing “Our customers are at the heart of everything we do. “Hand in hand with our partners in the supply chain, its potential profitability. Our sustainability activities in resource-efficient technologies and our vision of Their satisfaction with our products and services is we are making our supplier network more sustainable. should also be designed to make a positive contribution long-term emissions-free production at every one of a prerequisite for our sustainable future. Under the Saving resources, raising awareness of sustainability to the business. We want to attract new customers by our production facilities worldwide. By 2020, we aim banner of “Future Retail” we are constantly evolving and fostering innovative ideas – these are all oppor­ offering low-emissions vehicles. We invest in resource to almost halve our energy requirements per vehicle the customer retail experience, with the aim to be tunities to leverage potential.” efficiency because it reduces our energy and disposal produced compared to 2006.” the benchmark in our industry and beyond.” Dr.-Ing. Klaus Draeger costs in the medium term.” Harald Krüger Dr. Ian Robertson (HonDSc) Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG — Purchasing and Supplier Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG — Production Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG — Sales and Marketing BMW, Network Dr. Friedrich Eichiner Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG — Finance Sales Channels BMW Group SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 4 AN OVERVIEW OF THE BMW GROUP OUR PRODUCTION NETWORK OUR SALES NETWORK OUR SUPPLIERS 30 PRODUCTION AND APPROXIMATELY 6,000 APPROXIMATELY ASSEMBLY PLANTS DEALERSHIPS IN MORE 13,000 SUPPLIERS IN 14 COUNTRIES THAN 140 COUNTRIES INVESTMENT IN TRAINING AND EMPLOYEES OF THE BMW GROUP AUTOMOBILES DELIVERED IN FURTHER EDUCATION 2014 2014 2014 335 — in € million — as of 31.12.2014 — units 116,324 2,117,965 of which 4,595 apprentices of which 1,811,719 BMW 302,183 MINI 4,063 Rolls-Royce 282 288 105,876 110,351 1,845,186 1,963,798 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE CO² EMISSIONS OF BMW GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2014 AUTOMOBILES 2014 2014 4,566 130 8,707 — in € million — in g/km* — in € million * Fleet consumption of newly registered vehicles in Europe (EU-28) 3,952 4,793 138 g/km 133 g/km 7,803 7,893 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 5 VALUE CHAIN RESEARCH AND SUPPLY CHAIN PRODUCTION LOGISTICS AND SALES AND DISPOSAL AND DEVELOPMENT TRANSPORT UTILISATION RECYCLING HIGHLIGHTS WORLDWIDE RESEARCH AND WORLDWIDE SUPPLIER NETWORK CAR AND MOTORCYCLE TRANSPORT BY RAIL/AIR/ROAD GLOBAL SALES NETWORK WORLDWIDE RECYCLING AND ­DEVELOPMENT NETWORK WITH APPROXIMATELY 13,000 PRODUCTION IN 30 PLANTS IN OVER 140 COUNTRIES REUSE OF BMW GROUP VEHICLES IN TWELVE LOCATIONS SUPPLIERS AND ASSEMBLY FACILITIES IN FIVE COUNTRIES IN 14 COUNTRIES (INCLUDING CONTRACT PRODUCTION) MAIN ACTIVITIES Development of innovative, ­ Global cooperation with suppliers Manufacturing of cars and Securing customer-oriented Range of premium products Recovery and dismantling fascinating cars and motorcycles: to create: motorcycles by a highly expert transport logistics in the network of: and services for individual of vehicles for: and diverse workforce: mobility through: – Vehicle design – Modules/systems – Suppliers – Reuse – Series development – Components – Engine construction – Plants – Coordination of a worldwide – Recycling and disposal of vehicle – Production planning – Parts – Bodywork – Dealerships ­dealership/repair shop network components and materials – Raw materials – Paintwork – Implementation of a c­ oordinated – Assembly worldwide through the seamless and target-group-oriented – Quality control combination of various modes ­marketing mix of transport – Provision of financial services AREAS OF ACTION – Environmentally friendly – Implementation of environmental – Reduction in resource consumption – Production in the sales markets Promotion of sustainable mobility – Expansion and management of product design and social standards in the (energy, water, process waste – Increase in the share of modes behaviour patterns based on: a network for vehicle recovery – Design for recycling supply chain water, waste) of transport with low emissions – Information (e.g. vehicle fuel and recycling – Development of even more – Promotion of transparency – Reduction in environmentally – Optimisation of capacity utilisation consumption data and training – Research on recycling and efficient and alternative and resource efficiency in the damaging waste water and of modes of transport in fuel-efficient driving) Second Life use of components drivetrains such as ­electric, supply chain emissions – ConnectedDrive (e.g. carbon-fibre-reinforced ­hydrogen or hybrid vehicles – Purchase of raw materials from – Use of recycling material – Mobility services in the area ­plastic, batteries, etc.) (Efficient ­Dynamics strategy) environmentally and socially – Promotion of lifelong learning of electromobility, e.g. – ConnectedDrive, friendly sources and the development of key skills 360° ELECTRIC digital networking – Purchase of renewable raw among employees – Car-sharing products (DriveNow) – Life cycle engineering ­materials and materials with – Promotion of diversity within – Mobility assistance services ­sustainable characteristics, the company – Mobility services to promote e.g. secondary aluminium – Creation of a working environment ­intermodal mobility that fosters long-term health and high performance SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 6 BUSINESS MODEL Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft of approximately 3,250 BMW, 1,550 MINI name Alphabet, the BMW Group has an (BMW AG) has its headquarters in Munich and 130 Rolls-Royce car dealerships. The international multi-brand vehicle fleet busi(Germany). Bayerische Motoren Werke GmbH company also has approximately 1,000 BMW ness that offers loans to large customers to began operations in 1917, having been Motorcycle dealerships around the globe. finance their car fleets. It also provides comfounded in 1916 as Bayerische Flugzeugwerke prehensive management of company vehicle AG (BFW). The firm became Bayerische With these brands, the BMW Group offers fleets in 19 countries. This also includes Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft (BMW AG) its customers a wide range of products for full-service solutions such as the corporate in 1918. individual mobility in the premium segment. car-sharing programme AlphaCity, as well as In addition, the BMW i brand is further AlphaElectric, a comprehensive e-mobility The BMW Group is one of the most successexpanding the concept of what “premium” solution. ful manufacturers of cars and motorcycles in actually means. BMW i is even more strongly the world and its BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce characterised by the idea of sustainability; it Long-term thinking and responsible action premium brands are three of the strongest stands for vehicles that lead the way in terms have always been the basis for our business in the automotive industry today. In addition of electric drive, revolutionary lightweight success. In addition to business aspects, to its car brands, the BMW Group also has construction, exceptional design, and mobility other integral parts of the BMW Group’s a strong market position in the motorcycle services that have been designed from the strategy are environmental and social cri­ industry and is a successful financial services ground up. teria along the entire value chain, product provider. In recent years, the company has responsibility in all areas as well as a clear also become one of the leading providers of BMW Motorcycles also focuses on the precommitment to resource efficiency. premium services for individual mobility. mium segment, offering a wide range of One example of this is DriveNow, the carproducts which since the beginning of the sharing programme the company offers in current financial year have also included the collaboration with Sixt SE. C Evolution e-scooter for urban mobility. Innovative technologies and a large number The BMW Group is an international company, of driving apparel options contribute towards represented in over 140 countries around increasing customer safety and comfort. the globe. At the end of the year it employed PLEASE FIND FURTHER INFORMATION ABOUT THE 116,324 people (2013: 110,351). The company The financial services segment is a partner BMW GROUP AND ITS BRANDS AT: has a large research and innovation network, to the sales organisation, and is represented with 12 locations in five countries around in over 50 countries. The largest business w ww.bmwgroup.com the world. Currently, its production network area in this segment is loan financing and w ww.mini.com comprises 30 locations in 14 countries. The leasing of BMW brand cars and motorcycles w ww.bmw.com worldwide vehicle sales network is made up for private customers. Under the brand w ww.rolls-roycemotorcars.com SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 7 1 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 STRATEGY 1.1 1.2 Our management approach Stakeholder engagement Read more at www.bmwgroup.com p. 11 p. 18 8 MUNICH, GERMANY BMW WORLD How can a company be sustainable if it continues to build dynamic sports cars? Sustainability exhibition at the visitors’ centre SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 9 1 — STRATEGY PROGRESS IN 2014 INDICATORS 2015+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES RECOGNITION FOR SUSTAINABILITY RANKING IN SUSTAINABILITY RATINGS PROMOTE INTEGRATION ­PERFORMANCE 2014 We will continue to promote integration In 2014, the BMW Group was able to retain of sustainability into all areas of the company its ­position as the most sustainable premium and will focus on implementing our revised ­manufacturer in the automotive industry and sustainability strategy. ranked top on renowned rating lists. Industry leader First place Listed 2013 Top 3 First place Listed SUSTAINABILITY AMBITION REVIEWED FOUR PRINCIPLES OF OUR INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY AMBITION INTO OUR BUSINESS MODEL In 2013 and 2014, we reviewed our sustainability ambition with regard to the main challenges facing – Business innovation In the coming years, we will focus on consistently the automotive industry. – Social impact integrating sustainability into our business model. – Alliances The main areas we will address are climate change – Scaling and its consequences, resource availability, urban mobility and social impact along the entire value chain. BMW GROUP DIALOGUES STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUES IN: EXTENDING DIALOGUE HELD WORLDWIDE 2014 We will foster further dialogue with stakeholders Berlin, In 2014, we conducted Stakeholder Dialogues in Toronto, Germany and continue to expand it internationally. Canada Washington, Toronto, Incheon and Berlin, among CA BE DE others. Some of the topics discussed were US US KR Brussels, electromobility, mobility services, digitalisation San Francisco, Washington, Belgium Incheon, USA USA South Korea and the BMW Group’s sustainability strategy. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 10 1 1 .1 Our management CONSISTENT IMPLEMENTATION OF CORPORATE STRATEGY NUMBER ONE approach Our Corporate Strategy Number ONE was established in 2007, and we have been consistently implementing it ever since. It has defined targets to 2020 and is clearly defined: the BMW Group aims to be the leading supplier of ­premium products and premium services for individual mobility. To achieve this goal, we focus on four areas of action and their key objectives: STRATEGY For us, constant integration of sustainability into our – Gwayrowth: Develop products and services that lead the business model is an investment in our future. By acting and tap into new markets and customer groups. 1.1 Our management approach sustainably, we leverage new business opportunities, 1.2 Stakeholder engagement minimise risk and seek to overcome social and business – Smobility haping the future: Design new concepts for individual challenges at an early stage. and develop new business fields along the entire value chain. At the same time from our perspective, sustainability is – Pindividual rofitability: Be a leader in innovation in the area of capable of making a positive contribution to the long-term mobility and leverage potential efficiencies business success of the company. Taking social and envir­ along the entire value chain. onmental responsibility for everything we do is an ­integral part of how we perceive ourselves as a company. – Atechnologies ccess to technologies and customers: Access new and enable customers to experience the We are convinced that the lasting economic success of company as well as its products and services. any enterprise these days is based increasingly on acting responsibly and ensuring social acceptance. Efficient and These core action areas form the four pillars of our corpor­ resource-friendly production processes and state-of-theate strategy. Sustainability is an integral part of each of art solutions for sustainable individual mobility offer a the four pillars and is one of our core principles. Strategy clear competitive advantage. Number ONE thus makes an essential contribution towards achieving a competitive advantage see Figure 01. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 11 1 .1 F.01 Corporate Strategy Number ONE – Abusinesses lliances: We enter into alliances with policymakers, and decision-makers in society in order to have an impact above and beyond our direct sphere of VISION influence. Competitive advantage – Sfocus cale effects: Our capacity is limited. That’s why we our investments and activities on consistently Access to new Growth Shaping Profitability technologies shaping core areas of action. the future and customers Core principles SEEING TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AS AN Sustainability OPPORTUNITY as part of the competitive advantage and core principles STRATEGY The automotive industry is currently going through a process 1.1 Our management approach of technological transformation. We want to be pioneers and Our sustainability vision is in line with the Action 2020 drivers of this transformation process. We base our efforts on 1.2 Stakeholder engagement programme that we developed in collaboration with other two complementary approaches: evolution and revolution. The companies on the World Business Council of Sustainable further development of technologies such as highly efficient Development (WBCSD). It provides the basis for our suscombustion engines, lightweight construction and hybrid tainability goals and our efforts to integrate sustainability drivetrains – that is what we call evolution. We see revolution, along the entire value chain as well as in all underlying on the other hand, as being zero-emissions mobility with new processes – thus creating added value for the company, drivetrain technologies, combined with new materials and inthe environment and society. novative mobility services. Both the evolutionary and the revolutionary approaches of the BMW Group are designed to make In 2013 and 2014, we reviewed our sustainability vision a long-term contribution towards further reducing the CO² as well as our targets and measures with regard to the emissions of our products. main challenges facing the automotive industry. In terms of sustainability, climate change and its consequences, In times of technological change as well as air pollution, availability of resources, urban we have to improve our existing technologies and invest heavily REVOLUTION mobility and road safety are of particular relevance. Howin new technologies to remain –Alternative drivetrains Growth, technological progress ever, it is just as important to remain aware of effects on future-proof. –Mobility services society along the entire value chain. Our Sustainability Leadership goals are characterised by four principles. EVOLUTION – Efficient combustion engines – Eanntrepreneurial innovation: We see social challenges as – Innovative technologies opportunity to provide new products and services. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE –E-mobility – Isociety mpact on society: Our actions and innovations benefit –Hybrids –Internal combustion engine as well as our customers. Time SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 12 1 .1 F.02 Long-term sustainability targets CTS AND SERVICES P RO D U ELECTROMOBILITY Leader in taking a holistic approach to premium electromobility CO² EMISSIONS MOBILITY PATTERNS Reduced by at least 50% Permanent change as a result in the European of integrated mobility services new vehicle fleet in selected metropolitan areas (base year 1995) STRATEGY HEALTH AND PERFORMANCE Foster individual responsibility CREATING VALUE: RENEWABLE ENERGY and design the working THE MOST SUCCESSFUL Leader in using renewable energy 1.1 Our management approach environment AND SUSTAINABLE for production and value creation PREMIUM PROVIDER OF INDIVIDUAL MOBILITY 1.2 Stakeholder engagement LONG-TERM EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Sustainability targets of BMW Group up to 2020 Find employees, tap into young YEE talent, develop potential and E M P LO secure employability RESOURCE CONSUMPTION ATI O Water, energy, waste, solvents N per vehicle reduced by 45% CRE SA (basis year 2006) ND DIVERSITY UE CO Diversity within DV the company increased AL RP OR and innovative strength AN E enhanced ON AT RESOURCE-EFFICIENT TI CI INTERCULTURAL SUPPLY CHAIN UC TI UNDERSTANDING Increase transparency OD NS ZE HI Leader in intercultural and resource efficiency PR P understanding in the supply chain For a detailed overview see Objectives. Pursuing long-term sustainability goals Corporate Citizenship, and in terms of Production Our current strategic long-term goals, which have defined and Value Creation we want to improve transparency targets to 2020, have been set in the areas of Products and resource efficiency in the supply chain. This goal and Services, Production and Value Creation as well as complements our objectives with respect to renewable Employees and Corporate Citizenship. As a result of the ­energies along the entire value chain. In this way, we 2014 Strategy Review, we added two new goals to our are also emphasising the great importance of the supply sustainability goals for 2020: we want to support interchain when it comes to risks and opportunities. cultural understanding in the area of Employees and SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 13 1 .1 MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY F.03 Organisation of sustainability in the BMW Group Sustainability is a component of our corporate strategy. For this reason, our Sustainability and Environmental SUSTAINABILITY BOARD Protection department has been directly incorporated – Comprises the entire Board of Management into our Corporate Planning and Product Strategy unit – Chairman: Chairman of the Board of Management since 2007, under the mandate of the Chairman of – Responsible for strategic alignment the Board. This unit is responsible for the sustainability ­strategy and sustainability management worldwide. Some of the department’s tasks are: SUSTAINABILITY CIRCLE – Comprises department heads from all divisions – Tcoreo identify and take an internal approach to addressing – Chairman: BMW Group Sustainability and Environmental Representative – Responsible for preliminary work to support decision-making challenges. STRATEGY – TToo develop and monitor sustainability goals. – ability further develop, specify and integrate our sustainSPECIALIST DIVISIONS 1.1 Our management approach initiatives into individual divisions, taking account of the entire value chain. – Implement measures and processes needed for the BMW Group 1.2 Stakeholder engagement – To provide a central corporate function for environto achieve its goals mental protection (Group Representative) and manage the environmental protection network. – To manage global centres of competence on a range of environmental issues. Integrating sustainability as a strategic corporate objective The entire Board of Management is represented on the Sustainability has been established at the BMW Group Sustainability Board, which makes decisions on the since 2009 as a strategic corporate objective based long-term alignment of the sustainability-related areas on specific targets and key performance indicators. of action of Strategy Number ONE. The heads of central ­Sustainability is therefore an explicit component of the Corporate Communications and Sustainability and BMW Group’s management system. This means on the Envionmental Protection are also members of the Sustain­ one hand that every major project must be measurable in ability Board, which convenes twice a year to assess the terms of “Sustainability” as a corporate objective, ensurcompany’s progress. The topics are prepared for presening that, in addition to economic factors, environmental tation to the Sustainability Board by the ­Sustainability and social aspects are also accounted for in the decision-­ Circle, which comprises department heads from all making process. ­divisions see Figure 03. A dual management system is in place – the Board of Management of the company is It also means that sustainability as a corporate objective responsible for management tasks, with the Supervisory is broken down to the level of business areas and div­ Board providing advice and monitoring see Chapter 2.1. isions. As a result, the personal targets set for managers include sustainability aspects and criteria which have an effect on their performance-based remuneration. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 14 1 .1 F.04 Key performance indicators (KPI) five-year review 10 11 12 13 14 Change to previous year in % Ordinary activities Revenues (in € million) 60,477 68,821 76,848 76,059³ 80,401 5.7 Profit before tax (in € million) 4,853 7,383 7,803 7,893³ 8,707 10.3 Sales volume automobiles (in thousand units) 1,461.2 1,669.0 1,845.2 1,963.8 2,118.0 7.9 Product responsibility CO² emissions of BMW Group vehicles (EU-28) (in g/km) 148.0 145.0 138.0 133.0 130.0 – 2.3 STRATEGY Research and development expenditure (in € million) 2,773 3,373 3,952 4,793 4,566 – 4.7 1.1 Our management approach Group-wide environmental protection¹ Energy consumption per vehicle produced (in MWh/vehicle) 2.72 2.43 2.41 2.36 2.25 – 4.7 1.2 Stakeholder engagement Water consumption per vehicle produced (in m³/vehicle) 2.4 2.25 2.22 2.18 2.18 0.0 Process wastewater per vehicle produced (in m³/vehicle) 0.6 0.57 0.51 0.47 0.47 0.0 CO² emissions per vehicle produced (in t/vehicle) 0.89 0.75 0.72 0.68 0.66 – 2.9 Waste for disposal per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle) 10.49 8.49 6.47 5.73 4.93 – 14.0 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle) 1.66 1.75 1.78 1.59 1.29 – 18.9 Employees BMW Group workforce at the end of the year 95,453 100,306 105,876 110,351 116,324 5.4 Attrition rate at BMW AG (as a percentage of workforce) 2.74 2.16 3.87 3.47 1.41 – 59.4 Share of women in total workforce of BMW AG (in %)² 15.2 16.1 16.8 17.4 17.8 2.3 Share of women in management positions at BMW Group (in %)² – 11.8 12.7 13.8 14.2 2.9 Average days of further training per BMW Group employee 2.4 3.3 3.7 3.5 3.9 11.4 Accident frequency at BMW Group (per one million hours worked) 3.6 7.1 5.8 4.8 5.1 6.3 Corporate Citizenship Expenditure on donations in 2012 by the BMW Group (in € thousand) 10,242 12,873 9,638 8,485 10,199 20.0 Expenditure on Corporate Citizenship by the BMW Group in 2012 (in € thousand) 26,591 36,846 31,979 28,944 34,524 19.3 1 Due to a change in the calculation method, these figures cannot be compared with the 2012 figures. For more details see Key facts and figures section. 2 Figures for 2012 adapted due to data cleansing. 3 The previous year’s figures were adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see note number [9] in the Notes to the Group Financial Statements in the BMW Group Annual Report 2014. The key performance indicators (KPIs) form a complete management system at the various levels, thus ensuring that the BMW Group will achieve its sustainability objectives. At regular intervals, we measure and evaluate our level of achievement of these objectives and take corrective steps where necessary. See the Key facts and figures section for a detailed list of the indicators. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 15 1 .1 F.05 Materiality analysis CO² emissions and climate change 9 Environmental and social standards in the supply chain Product safety 8 Anti-corruption/compliance 7 Water Future mobility/mobility services Alternative drivetrain technologies Importance for stakeholders Further education 6 Corporate Citizenship and training Efficient use of resources and recycling management 5 Biodiversity Energy supply/ renewable energy 4 Diversity Human rights STRATEGY 3 Corporate volunteering Life balance Occupational health and safety 2 Donations / sponsoring Demographic change 1.1 Our management approach 1 1.2 Stakeholder engagement Importance for BMW Group 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 From the materiality matrix it is evident that the topics of CO² emissions and climate change continue to be the most relevant for both stakeholders and the BMW Group. The topics of environmental and social standards in the supply chain, product safety as well as alternative drivetrain technologies are also top priorities. IDENTIFYING KEY ISSUES The list of topics on the materiality matrix itself is also reviewed on a regular basis, the last time in 2013. In 2013, We carry out a materiality process in order to identify the review process involved telephone interviews with in good time which topics may bring opportunities and 12 representative stakeholders, including customers, suprisks to our business today or in the future. To do this, pliers, investors, authorities, NGOs and scientists from we regularly analyse the importance of current sustaindifferent regions of the world. ability topics, both from the perspective of different stakeholder groups as well as that of the company. We then combined the interview results from 2013 with the results of the stakeholder survey and analysis from The materiality analysis results in the materiality matrix, 2012. This provides us with an updated rating of the issues which is used to verify the direction our sustainability from an external perspective. To update the internal objectives and indicators are taking. We judge a core area ­perspective, we conducted a materiality workshop with to be particularly significant if it is categorised as very 18 representatives from the relevant company divisions important by both our stakeholders and the BMW Group (including their strategy offices). Our experts from see Figure 05. ­Corporate Strategy then collated the results. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 16 1 .1 F.06 Sustainability ratings 2014 Ratings Evaluation and result The BMW Group is industry leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). This makes the BMW Group the only company in the automotive industry to be listed every year since the Index was established. On the Global 500 rating of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the BMW Group again achieved 100 out of a possible 100 points for transparent reporting. It also received top marks for climate protection measures, taking first place again in 2014. As a result, the BMW Group is listed on the worldwide Climate ­Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) of companies with Performance Score A – the only company in the automotive industry to achieve this top ranking for five consecutive years. STRATEGY The BMW Group was again listed on FTSE4Good in 2014, an index of the British index family on sustainability and corporate governance provided by FTSE in L­ ondon. 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement In addition, we maintain continuous dialogue with our Our ranking in sustainability ratings stakeholder groups see Chapter 1.2 and look for solutions The BMW Group’s position on the various sustainability to the challenges society is facing. Current topics include ratings documents our sustainability performance from expansion of sustainable mobility concepts and challenges an external perspective. In 2014, the BMW Group ranked resulting from the rapid spread of digitalisation. This high in several sustainability indices and received a ­concerns new functions and services as well as all areas ­number of awards see Figure 06. of data security. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 17 2 1 .2 Stakeholder the same time, we explain clearly and transparently what can be expected of us. By fostering dialogue with our engagement stakeholders, we want to build trust and consolidate partnerships. This is why it is important to have one strategy for stakeholder engagement worldwide. Our Stakeholder Engagement Policy forms the basis for continuous dialogue. It defines the goals of the dialogue, sets the criteria for identifying and prioritising our stakeholders and ­provides a template for a range of suitable formats and communication channels see Figure 07. EXCHANGING VIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS STRATEGY The BMW Group engages in ongoing dialogue with its One of the cornerstones of this dialogue is our ongoing stakeholders at all its locations and in relevant markets. and systematic identification and prioritisation of stake1.1 Our management approach We aim to identify trends early on, and integrate them holders. To this end, we regularly map out stakeholder into our strategy process. Although not all differences of groups that are involved in strategically important topics 1.2 Stakeholder engagement opinion can be resolved in dialogue with our stakeholders, at all relevant locations. We foster our dialogue with each party can gain an understanding of the other side’s stakeholders by developing different formats. position. Our subsidiaries, our political offices in the different markets as well as our plants engage in regular dialogue As a global corporation with a complex value chain, with local stakeholders on relevant topics. A range of both our manufacturing activities and our products have committees and channels allow our different corporate an effect on the environment and society. Knowing the departments to contact relevant stakeholder groups ­position of our stakeholders and at the same having the directly. opportunity to explain the extent of our room for influence in terms of social and environmental issues enables Our basic goal is to host at least one multi-stakeholder us to increase the level of acceptance of the actions we dialogue per year in Europe, Asia and North America take and the decisions we make. In spite of this, there respectively. We set the themes for these stakeholder remains a certain amount of potential for conflict. The ­dialogues according to how currently relevant they are. dialogues show that on certain questions of mobility the In 2014, for example, we conducted stakeholder dialogues position of individual stakeholders and that of the on the topics of electromobility, mobility services and BMW Group remains divided. Stakeholder dialogue also the BMW Group’s ambitions in the area of sustainability allows us to analyse the market situation with regard leadership. to market-­relevant topics such as the introduction of ­electromobility, and to communicate key m ­ essages to In addition to these events, we also have direct contact information multipliers in advance. with individual stakeholders on specific occasions when special topics arise. For example, in 2014, a number of Strategically aligning our engagement with stakeholders non-governmental organisations contacted us to request We want to understand the different perspectives of our information on social and environmental standards in stakeholders and to respond in an adequate manner. At the value chain. Connectivity is another topic we have SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 18 1 .2 F.07 Stakeholder groups and forms of dialogue Individual and group Dialogue in industry initiatives, dialogue, roadshows, joint events, training courses, conferences, informational lectures, Supplier Risk events on new products, ­Assessment, Learning from telephone conferences Suppliers forum Participation of Board ­members and technical Customer survey, experts in a number of social media, initiatives, forums and events, trade fairs, media membership of initiatives STRATEGY CAPITAL SUPPLIERS MARKET 1.1 Our management approach NETWORKS/ CUSTOMERS ASSOCIATIONS 1.2 Stakeholder engagement Dialogue with employees Workshops on key topics, and managers, employee regular “Green Tables” survey, idea management, POLICYwith parliamentarians EMPLOYEES internal media THE MAKERS in Germany BMW GROUP IN DIALOGUE CIVIL SOCIETY/ RESEARCH NGOs Face-to-face meetings/ Round tables, visits from LOCAL dialogue, responding MEDIA universities, lectures, STAKEHOLDERS to enquiries discussions, “BMW Group BUSINESS Dialogue” with students PARTNERS One-on-one dialogue, Dialogue in the form of plant visits, neighbourhood public relations trips and press dialogue, press events releases, informational events Dialogue with sales organisations on new products, test drives, and the association of German trade fairs BMW dealerships, business ­conferences, dialogue via the central coordinating units of importers SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 19 1 .2 FOR DETAILED INFORMATION ON STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS AND THE BMW GROUP’S RESPONSE, SEE: Stakeholder expectations chart IN DIALOGUE WITH POLITICAL DECISION-MAKERS By engaging in regular, active and open dialogue with political decision-makers, union representatives and associations as well as non-governmental organisations (NGOs), we are fulfilling the task of playing a constructive role in shaping the general political framework for our business activities. We offer our expertise to help STRATEGY promote fair competition for all involved and find ­sustainable solutions. 1.1 Our management approach The political offices concern themselves with public 1.2 Stakeholder engagement affairs as they affect environmental, financial and socio-­ DISCUSSING SUSTAINABILITY WITH STUDENTS — political topics and deal with relevant economic policy and BMW Group Dialogue for Students 2014 in Berlin industry-specific issues. In the period under report, the main topics in this regard were how to put CO₂ regulation taken up in dialogue with our stakeholders, and it has into practice, how to deal with trade barriers, fair taxation been a point of discussion at several events in different legislation as well as social challenges such as democountries. graphic change. All of our stakeholder dialogue formats are based on one CO² regulation in Europe principle: the views of our stakeholders feed back into Legal regulations on emissions are becoming increasingly the company. The participants from the BMW Group stringent worldwide, continually posing new challenges ensure that the results of the discussions and their perto the automotive industry. As early as in the year 2000, sonal impressions flow back into the organisation and our the BMW Group set the course for reducing fuel consumpdecision-making committees. This is how they contribute tion and emissions. towards making sure that external perspectives on relevant topics continue to be discussed within the company. The European Union (EU) has set the target for all new vehicles at 130 g of CO₂/km by 2015. The EU defines On the other hand, the stakeholder organisations that ­targets for CO₂ emissions based on vehicle weight. Based take part in the dialogues become familiar with the on this, the BMW Group has set itself the goal of decreasBMW Group’s views and positions on certain topics ing levels to under 140 g of CO₂/km. Between 1995 and and can take account of this in their day-to-day work. 2014, we reduced the CO₂ emissions of our newly sold vehicles in Europe (EU-28) by 38%. Average CO₂ emissions YOU CAN FIND FURTHER INFORMATION ON SPECIFIC EVENTS OF THE were 130 g/km in 2014. The BMW Group had already BMW GROUP DIALOGUE FORMAT ON THE BMW GROUP WEBSITE UNDER: achieved the EU target by 2012. w ww.bmwgroup.com SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 20 1 .2 All manufacturers will be required to reduce emissions of their new vehicle fleet in Europe to an average of 95 g/km by 2020. From the outset, the BMW Group made a clear commitment to this target. By 2020, we want to cut the CO₂ emissions of our vehicle fleet at least in half compared to 1995. The BMW Group would like to see countries throughout the EU take similar measures to those already in place in other countries and regions when it comes to promoting electromobility. In Japan, China and the USA in particular, alternative drivetrains are receiving stronger govern­ mental support. STRATEGY Promoting the transatlantic free trade agreement EXPANDING DIALOGUE — First BMW Group Dialogue in Korea 1.1 Our management approach As a global enterprise, the BMW Group supports the further opening of worldwide markets as well as the con­ 1.2 Stakeholder engagement tinuous reduction of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers. ment advisory committee on electromobility founded by Thus, the BMW Group is also in favour of consolidating Chancellor Angela Merkel in May 2010. This platform transatlantic relations and welcomes the bilateral negoti­ aims to push for progress on electromobility, create a ations on a comprehensive and far-reaching economic and lead market for e-mobility in Germany and speed up the trade pact between the EU and the USA (Transatlantic market launch of innovative electric vehicles. Here again, Trade and Investment Partnership, TTIP). Reducing trade the BMW Group provides the government with its barriers should lead to considerable benefits for corpor­ knowledge and research results and actively helps shape ations and will therefore also have positive effects for conpolitical discussion of framework conditions via input sumers on both sides of the Atlantic. The BMW Group from established political networks internationally. is calling for gradual elimination of tariffs in the auto­ motive industry as well as the elimination of non-tariff-­ Supporting democratic parties related trade barriers and closer regulatory cooperation, The BMW Group supports the work on social policy in particular with regard to harmonising technical ­carried out by the democratic parties in Germany (CDU, standards. CSU, SPD, FDP and Bündnis 90/Die Grünen). The company places high value on transparency in this regard Shaping our urban future with electromobility and complies with the relevant legislation. In 2013, the The global social, economic and environmental changes BMW Group began to change its procedure for supportwe are facing call for new solutions that are specifically ing political parties. Since 2014, it has supported the work designed for urban spaces. Electromobility is an importon social policy carried out by the democratic parties in ant step in this direction. However, in future we need Germany solely through content-based partnerships. The to introduce additional effective measures that support BMW Group has made this change in order to focus its the success of this technology. engagement on content, for example, by providing financial support for public discussion forums and dialogue The BMW Group also plays a active role in the National formats. All partnerships are subject to the clear sponsorPlatform for Electric Mobility (NPE), a German governship guidelines of the BMW Group. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 21 1 .2 In the past, the BMW Group primarily donated vehicles F.09 Donations in the field of politics for use. The parties provided the BMW Group with conin € firmation of receipt of a donation by stating the corres­ 700,000 ponding value or rental rate. In 2013, this procedure 600,000 was temporarily continued for the CSU. This led to a final 500,000 ­settlement for vehicle transfer of €5,881 see Figure 08. 400,000 All BMW Group donations above €10,000 for each year 300,000 are published by name in the accounts included in the 200,000 party financing report of the President of the German 100,000 Federal Parliament. 10 11 12 13 14 F.08 Donations made to political parties in Germany in 2014 603,145 430,517 427,442 223,701 31,499 STRATEGY (vehicle donations only) in € € rental rate incl. VAT according to 1.1 Our management approach BMW Rent’s price list for private customers 1.2 Stakeholder engagement FORECAST CSU 5,881 CDU 0 The BMW Group aims to further expand its dialogue with stakeFDP 0 holders internationally. We will continue to hold at least one SPD 0 annual Stakeholder Dialogue event in Europe, North America Bündnis 90/Die Grünen 0 and Asia. In addition, we plan to hold international Stakeholder Total 5,881 ­Dialogues on current topics such as digitalisation, data security and charging infrastructure for electromobility. We will also place even stronger focus on urgent topics as they come up. International political donations by the BMW Group are Only in a constructive dialogue can viable solutions be develonly made in clearly defined and exceptional cases which oped to successfully meet the challenges of the future. are subject to the respective legal framework conditions. Expenditure on international political donations in 2014 amounted to approximately 0.6% (previous year: 0.9%) of total expenditure on international donations. These donations were made by the BMW plant in Spartanburg (USA). The BMW Group participates in the general political process in the US Federal State of South Carolina by funding activities of the two leading political parties – the Democrats and the Republicans. However, no support is provided for election campaigns or individual candidates. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 22 2 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MANAGEMENT 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 Our management approach Economic impacts p. 28 p. 26 Compliance and anti-corruption Risk management Human rights Read more at p. 40 www.bmwgroup.com p. 37 p. 34 23 TORONTO, CANADA EVERGREEN BRICK WORKS How is the Sustainability Strategy implemented in day-to-day business? BMW Group Multi-Stakeholder Dialogue, May 2014 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 24 2 — SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE MANAGEMENT PROGRESS IN 2014 INDICATORS 2015+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES NET VALUE ADDED INCREASED NET VALUE ADDED CONTINUE TO GROW PROFITABLY Net value added increased by 7.3% in 2014. 2014 In 2015, we will continue to pursue our path of 25.3 The majority of the net value added (47.4%) profitable growth. Our vision is to achieve a was again applied to employees. further increase in sales figures in the Automotive and Motorcycles segment. Further plug-in hybrid offerings will contribute towards this. % 2013 24.8% COSTS REDUCED THANKS TO COST SAVINGS DUE TO RESOURCEACHIEVE ADDED VALUE FOR THE BUSINESS RESOURCE EFFICIENCY EFFICIENT PRODUCTION We are convinced that by taking farsighted Resource efficiency reduces the risk of availability 15.8 2014 action now and by integrating environmental bottlenecks and price fluctuations. It also makes principles into all business processes we a direct contribution to earnings as it reduces costs. € can achieve added value both in terms of the Resource efficiency measures led to cost savings environment and our business. of €15.8 million in 2014. million 2013 €6.8 million ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING FOR EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED CONTINUE TO DEVELOP TRAINING ­A NTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING, since 2008 By the end of 2014, we had trained over 25,000 We will continue to train our employees managers and employees in compliance and By the end of 2014 in compliance and anti-corruption matters 25,400 ­anti-corruption. The BMW Group ensures full as well as to further develop our online training coverage for its managers in compliance courses on compliance. matters. By the end of 2013 20,300 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 25 1 2 .1 Our management F.10 Vehicle production of the BMW Group by plant in 2014 approach in units m j k l a i h g b f e c d a) Dingolfing 369,027 h) Tiexi¹ 144,076 SUSTAINABLE The BMW Group manages its business in accordance b) Spartanburg 349,949 i) Rosslyn 68,771 with responsible corporate governance principles geared ­CORPORATE to long-term value creation. c) Regensburg 272,015 j) Graz (Magna Steyr)² 113,401 Munich 228,126 Born (VDL Nedcar bv)² 29,196 MANAGEMENT d) k) e) Leipzig 211,434 l) Goodwood 4,495 f) Oxford 179,318 m) Assembly plants 52,368 2.1 Our management approach Foresighted investments in future-ready products and g) Dadong¹ 143,390 2.2 Economic impacts services form the basis for profitable growth. Production sites in different markets help to balance this growth 1 BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang, China (joint venture). 2 Contract production. 2.3 Compliance and between the various regions of the world. We strive for anti-corruption long-term engagement in these areas, promoting employ2.4 Risk management ment and growth in the local economies see Chapter 2.2. growth in value. It thus determines the strategic orientation of the enterprise and ensures its implementation. 2.5 Human rights The BMW Group regards lawful conduct and respect The Board of Management is furthermore responsible for human rights as fundamental prerequisites for fair for compliance with all provisions of law and internal competition and social prosperity. We also expect this ­regulations as well as for adequate risk management and conduct from our business partners along the entire risk controlling see Chapter 2.4. The Supervisory Board value chain see Chapter 2.3 and see Chapter 2.5. advises and supervises the Board of Management in ­conducting its duties (dual management system). Corporate culture within the BMW Group is founded on transparent reporting and internal communication, a The Supervisory Board decides on the level of compensa­policy of corporate governance aimed at the interests of tion received by members of the Board of Management, stakeholders, fair and open dealings between the Board orienting its decisions on the sustainable development of Management, the Supervisory Board and employees of the BMW Group. Bonuses are also based in part on and compliance with the law. ­personal performance, evaluated primarily according to qualitative criteria. The contribution made by each Board Rewarding sustainable business success of Management member to sustainable long-term and The Board of Management governs the enterprise under business development and the future viability of the its own responsibility, acting in the interests of the enterprise is thus measured, for example, based on ecoBMW Group with the aim of achieving sustainable logical innovation (e.g. reduction of carbon emissions), SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 26 2 .1 SUSTAINABLE ­CORPORATE MANAGEMENT 2.1 Our management approach 2.2 Economic impacts 2.3 Compliance and DISCUSSING THE BMW GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY — anti-corruption BMW Group Dialogue 2014 in Toronto (Canada) 2.4 Risk management ability to adapt, customer focus, leadership accomplishguidelines for multinational companies and the contents 2.5 Human rights ments and contribution to the company’s attractiveness of the ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development, as an employer, progress in implementing the diversity as well as the United Nations Environment Programme concept, and activities that foster corporate social responCleaner Production Declaration. sibility Compensation report in the Annual Report 2014. By signing the United Nations Global Compact in 2001 Upholding and enforcing international conventions and and, together with employee representatives, issuing a principles Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions in the The BMW Group stands by its social responsibilities. Our BMW Group, the Board of Management gave its commitcorporate culture combines the drive for success with a ment to abide worldwide by internationally recognised willingness to be open, trustworthy and transparent human rights and with the fundamental working stanBMW Group basic principles 2014. dards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) see Chapter 2.5. Our models for ensuring compliance with environ­ mental and social standards along the value chain are based on various internationally recognised guidelines. The BMW Group is committed to adhering to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 27 2 2 .2 Economic Corporate autonomy gives us the scope to continue working toward realising our vision and to make targeted impacts investments in our future in all areas of individual mobility. PURSUING BOTH SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM GOALS Decisions made in favour of new products or technologies lead to cash flows lasting many years. Such decisions therefore have a considerable influence on the long-term development of the business. The enterprise is, however, evaluated based on its annual results. Strategic management and financial planning ensure that we achieve our SUSTAINABLE annual profitability targets. This in turn forms the basis STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT for continuing to invest in the future viability of the ­CORPORATE business. MANAGEMENT The BMW Group’s vision for 2020 is to be the world’s most successful and sustainable provider of premium products Aligning investments with sustainability goals 2.1 Our management approach and premium services for individual mobility. The responsible In order to ensure sustainable, profitable growth, the 2.2 Economic impacts use of resources and the assumption of social responsibility BMW Group continually invests in its employees, in new are prerequisites for achieving this vision. products and production structures, in systems and pro2.3 Compliance and cesses. Despite the increasing number of models and anti-corruption variations, the application of uniform standards world2.4 Risk management wide and the use of modular products and processes Key objectives of the BMW Group are to achieve sustainallow us to efficiently develop and profitably man­ufacture 2.5 Human rights able, profitable growth, increase the value of the business, new products of the highest quality standard, including safeguard jobs and maintain corporate autonomy. vehicle types that have so far been produced only in small numbers, such as electric-­battery-driven vehicles and plug-in hybrids. These objectives can only be achieved if available equity and debt capital is employed profitably and if the profit Addressing the challenges faced by the automotive indusgenerated sustainably exceeds the costs of capital try in the context of sustainability see Chapter 1 is a key employed. The achievement of this central business mandriver for our investment decisions. Important examples agement objective is measured in terms of “value added”, of our integrated investment approach in the Automotive, or the contribution made to business value growth Mobility Services, Employee, Sales and Production Sites during the financial year ¹. In 2014, value added was segments are: €3,839 million (2013²: €3,639 million). – Mtional easures to further improve the efficiency of convenvehicles and to reduce air pollutants. – Telectric 1 Value added corresponds to the amount of earnings over and above the cost of capital. For an exact definition see General Information on the BMW Group in the Annual Report 2014. 2 The previous year’s figures were adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see note number [9] in the Notes he expansion of our range of (plug-in) hybrids and to the Group Financial Statements in the BMW Group Annual Report 2014. vehicles. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 28 2 .2 – Tperformance he development of new technologies such as high-­ Achieving financial success with our Efficient Dynamics strategy battery cells, hydrogen technology and Foresighted corporate planning leads to sustainable sucmaterials for lightweight construction, both on our cess. The competitive advantage offered by the Efficient own and in collaboration with others. Dynamics strategy we adopted in 2000 is one reason why the BMW Group had its fifth record year in a row in – Tbyhecombining further development of intermodal solutions 2014, despite continuing high investments, in particular private vehicles with mobility services in future-oriented products and production structures as to promote urban mobility with and without cars. well as in processes and skills. – Telectronically he extension of existing driver assistance systems by With its products and services, the BMW Group was linking vehicles and traffic infrastructure able to increase its Group revenues to €80,401 million (for example to avoid accidents at intersections), (2013²: €76,059 million). Sales figures were up for all which also contributes to the development of highly three Group brands, BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce, with SUSTAINABLE ­automated and autonomous driving. a total of 2,117,965 vehicles delivered to customers (2013: 1,963,798). The same goes for motorcycles, with ­CORPORATE MANAGEMENT – Mtraining easures in the Future Retail initiative, for example ­123,495 delivered in 2014 (2013²: 115,215). highly specialised customer service staff in retail outlets to focus more on the options offered A significant financial indicator at Group level is the 2.1 Our management approach by BMW products and technologies (including the Group profit before tax. In 2014 it totalled €8,707 million 2.2 Economic impacts ­explanation of fuel efficiency, safety and networked (2013: €7,893 million) and was thus 10.3% above the premobility features) rather than just sales. vious year’s figure. Operating performance is managed at 2.3 Compliance and segment level (Automotive, Motorcycles, Financial anti-corruption – Ttisehe inestablishment and expansion of employee exper­Services) on the basis of the capital rates of return RoCEs 2.4 Risk management the area of e-mobility as well as education and and RoEs for details on the BMW Group management system training on the subjects of healthcare and work safety. see General Information on the BMW Group in the Annual Report 2014. 2.5 Human rights – Twork,he expansion of our international production netDue to the central importance of the Automotive segment including measures for achieving our resource for the Group as a whole, consideration is also given to efficiency targets in production. additional key value drivers which have a significant impact on RoCE and hence on segment performance. Accordingly, our research and development costs rose This is the EBIT margin ³, which at 9.6% was within the again slightly in 2014 to approximately €4.6 billion target range of 8–10%, despite extensive investments. (2013: around €4.8 billion) and our investments¹ Another indicator is the level of EU fleet emissions, increased to approximately €6.1 billion (2013: around which thanks to increasingly efficient drivetrain systems €6.7 billion). and more electric vehicles declined by 2.3% in 2014 to 130.0 g CO₂/km (2013: 133.0 g CO₂/km). 2 The previous year’s figures were adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see note number [9] in the Notes to the Group Financial Statements in the BMW Group Annual Report 2014. 1 Incl. active development costs. 3 Earnings before interest and taxes divided by revenues in the Automotive segment. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 29 2 .2 FUTURE BUSINESS VIABILITY THROUGH SUSTAINABLE F.11 Current business ratings MANAGEMENT Moody’s Standard & Poor’s The future viability of any enterprise is closely tied to its success as a business. Global megatrends such as urban­ Long-term liabilities A2 A+ isation and climate change are leading to modifications Short-term liabilities P-1 A-1 in the regulatory framework and to changing customer Outlook stable stable demands and business models. For example, premium customers from the retail and fleet business increasingly The ratings reflect the solid financial profile and the very high level of creditworthiness of the BMW Group. expect a carmaker to demonstrate a comprehensive This gives the company good access to the international capital markets as well as opportunities to take ­advantage of attractive refinancing conditions that are of particular benefit to the Financial Services business. understanding of product responsibility and to implement the corresponding measures. Mobility services and networked mobility are new business fields to be mastered SUSTAINABLE see Chapter 3. Maintaining the confidence of the capital market through future viability ­CORPORATE With its Efficient Dynamics strategy see Chapter 3 and The confidence of the capital market in the future via­ MANAGEMENT overall performance in the area of sustainability, the bility of the BMW Group business model once again led BMW Group has developed a true competitive advanto top scores in capital market ratings and hence to low 2.1 Our management approach tage. Please see the following for a few examples of ­refinancing costs in 2014. 2.2 Economic impacts how sustainability contributes to the financial success of the BMW Group. Reducing risks and increasing efficiency potential through 2.3 Compliance and sustainability in supplier management anti-corruption Boosting sales through innovative models and mobility services Active management of sustainability risks along the 2.4 Risk management Investments in innovative mobility concepts contributed ­supply chain reduces compliance and image risks, among to the success of the BMW Group in 2014. Examples: others. We have established a comprehensive supplier 2.5 Human rights in financial year 2014, 16,052 BMW i3 and 1,741 BMW i8 management system for this purpose see Chapter 5. models were sold. By the end of 2014, over 390,000 ­customers had registered for our DriveNow car-sharing We work with our suppliers to continuously improve scheme, thus almost doubling user numbers compared resource efficiency. Since 2013 we have therefore been to the p­ revious year. In addition, the company has been participating in the supply chain programme of the Car­running the scheme at an operational profit since early bon Disclosure Project (CDP). The transparent reporting 2014. At corporate level, full-service solutions such as the of strategy and efficiencies achieved in energy and water corporate car-sharing scheme AlphaCity as well as the consumption as well as reductions in CO₂ emissions e-mobility solution AlphaElectric are ensuring the success reveals potential for working together to further improve of our fleet service provider Alphabet. With its products resource consumption and hence reduce manufacturing and solutions, the BMW Group helps also fleet customers costs and environmental impact. For example, the suppliers achieve their CO₂ targets. surveyed reported savings of over 21 million tonnes in CO₂ equivalents in 2014, representing significant savings on energy costs across the corresponding manufacturing processes. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 30 2 .2 Reducing costs through resource efficiency Resource efficiency reduces the risk of availability bottleIDEA MANAGEMENT necks and price fluctuations, thus contributing directly to higher earnings by reducing costs. Between 2006 and Idea management at the BMW Group is a worldwide tool to 2014, energy and water consumption and waste and ­involve and empower employees, giving them the opportunity VOC emissions per vehicle produced in the worldwide to contribute their ideas and have an impact on change within BMW Group production network were reduced signifithe company. This is done through a process that is transparent cantly. This allowed us to achieve €15.8 million in cost for all those involved, from idea submission through the forsavings in 2014. Increasing resource efficiency and miniwarding of the idea to the relevant departments for evaluation mising waste as well as the continuous optimisation of all the way to a bonus paid to the employee if the idea receives our environmental management processes, which are a positive assessment. ISO 14001-certified at all BMW Group production plants, lead to lower investment needs on environmental Idea management improves the company’s competitiveness SUSTAINABLE protection. and promotes employees’ loyalty to the company as well as their motivation and entrepreneurial thinking and action. ­CORPORATE Staying competitive through sustainable The ideas submitted lead to improvements in products and MANAGEMENT human resources policies processes as well as to significant savings. In 2014, a total of The BMW Group ranked as one of the most attractive approximately 7,700 ideas were put into practice, resulting in 2.1 Our management approach employers worldwide in 2014. Our leading role in the area savings of €31.0 ­million ¹. 2.2 Economic impacts of sustainability means that our employees tend to identify with the company and its products. This is one of the In order to further strengthen idea management, the upgraded 2.3 Compliance and reasons for our low employee turnover rate, which in IT system used since 2012 by BMW AG will be introduced anti-corruption turn reduces hiring costs. In order to live up to our claim incrementally at the international company locations. In 2014, 2.4 Risk management of technology and innovation leadership, we try to attract the company sites in the UK and our plant in Steyr (Austria) the best talent and promote each individual’s s­ pecial skills. were integrated into the idea management system. The inter2.5 Human rights The diversity of our customers should also be reflected national rollout will continue in 2015 with the plants in in the workforce of the BMW Group. ­Spartanburg (USA) and Rosslyn (South Africa). A variety of health education offerings promote the health This system is accompanied by ongoing internal measures to of our workforce. Healthcare measures also help to counfurther encourage employee participation. One example is the teract employees’ age-related physical limitations. Work Idea Management Award launched in 2014. safety measures reduce accident risks. These initiatives 1 In general, strong fluctuation is possible as certain ideas may make a larger contribution to the promote better performance on the job and the avoidance savings achieved in some years more than others. of illnessand injury-related absenteeism. They thus also contribute to the achievement of competitive human resources expenditure. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 31 2 .2 F.12 Savings for BMW Group resulting from suggestions for improvement F.13 BMW Group value added 2014 in € million in % 80 c d Employees 47.4 70 60 50 40 a Providers of finance 8.4 30 Governm./public sector 16.0 b Shareholders 9.2 Group 18.9 10 11 12 13 14 Minority interest 0.1 67.4 77.9 36.9 38.8 31.0 a) Net value added 25.3 SUSTAINABLE b) Cost of materials 54.1 ­CORPORATE c) Depreciation and amortisation 9.5 d) Other expenses 11.1 MANAGEMENT CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS THROUGH SUSTAINABLE, PROFITABLE GROWTH 2.1 Our management approach 2.2 Economic impacts The sustainable, profitable growth of the BMW Group The majority of employees hired after 1 January 2014 creates value. Direct positive economic benefits are risk-­ receive defined-benefit pension commitments with a 2.3 Compliance and commensurate returns for capital providers, attractive minimum interest rate. anti-corruption salaries for employees as well as a social contribution 2.4 Risk management through income tax payments. These are quantified in The benefits granted are covered for the most part by the allocation statement for net value added. funded benefit plans as well by pension provisions ². 2.5 Human rights The net value added results from the value of work perIn 2014, pension fund assets rose to €15,861 million formed less the value of work bought in during the finan(2013: €13,461 million). Pension provisions increased to cial year including depreciation. At €20,620 million €4,604 million (2013: €2,303 million). The main reason (2013¹: €19,217 million) it has remained at a constant for this increase is the drop in the discount rate used for high level. The bulk of the net value added, 47.4%, is actuarial calculations in Germany from 3.50% to 2.10%. applied to employees (2013¹: 46.9%). The assets of pension plans in the BMW Group are administered by trusts and are thus legally separate from In addition to an attractive salary, company benefits and the company’s assets. The company’s need to draw on pensions are also important components of employee the operational business to fund pension payments will remuneration. These mainly consist of defined-benefit be substantially reduced in future as these payments pension plans, which include old-age pensions, invalidity will come primary from the assets of the pension funds and survivor’s benefits, and medical care (only in the or trusts. USA and South Africa) after reaching retirement age. 2 In financial accounting for pension provisions, the defined-benefit obligations are offset against the plan 1 The previous year’s figures were adjusted in accordance with IAS 8; see note number [9] in the Notes ­assets measured at their fair value for details see note number [36] in the Notes to the Group Financial to the Group Financial Statements in the BMW Group Annual Report 2014. Statements in the BMW Group Annual Report 2014. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 32 2 .2 Driving economic development – BinMW i Ventures, based in New York City, is investing As a global enterprise, the BMW Group contributes to start-ups in the field of mobility services and aspires positive economic developments and prosperity worldto enter into long-term strategic partnerships in the wide. It currently employs 116,324 people in attractive areas of e-mobility, flexible use, parking and jobs. The purchase of intermediate products secures jobs intermodality. in our supply chains. Attractive products and services are the basis for an economically viable dealership network. – Melectromobility, any new business fields are emerging in the area of such as the operation or expansion of The BMW Group strives to achieve balanced growth in the charging infrastructure and decentralised energy all markets and on all continents by following the prin­ production systems (for example the partnership ciple of “Production follows the market”. In 2014, we between the BMW Group and Solarwatt for solar carexpanded our production network to encompass 30 proports). duction sites. Joining the network are the Araquari plant SUSTAINABLE in the Brazilian state of Santa Catarina as well as the ­contract manufacturing of MINI models at VDL Nedcar ­CORPORATE in the town of Born in the Netherlands. FORECAST MANAGEMENT The BMW plants in the international markets make a In 2015, we will continue to consistently pursue our path of 2.1 Our management approach contribution to market development there. Shifting part profitable growth. 2.2 Economic impacts of the value chain to the respective sales markets leads to a reduction in currency risks through natural hedging. In terms of business management, we will strive to further 2.3 Compliance and At the same time, a locally based automotive industry is boost sales in the Automotive and Motorcycle segments and anti-corruption also a driver for growth and employment at each plant to further increase our profit before tax. 2.4 Risk management location, for example through employee salaries, taxes paid to cities and municipalities, as well as through the A wider range of plug-in hybrids in future models will contribute 2.5 Human rights suppliers who open businesses around the plant sites. towards this. B­ uilding on the success of the BMW i8, we will introduce the BMW X5 PHEV in 2015. By implementing innovations and opening up new ­business fields, the BMW Group fosters the creation of In order to help shape the technological transformation that new value chains and jobs. Examples: is currently taking place in the automotive industry, in 2015 we will continue to invest in the development of innovative – Icapabilities n 2014, the BMW Group continued to build on its vehicle concepts and mobility services. in the field of e-mobility and alternative drivetrains. – Iwith n the joint venture SGL Automotive Carbon Fibers the SGL Group, we are currently expanding p ­ roduction capacity for carbon fibres in Moses Lake (USA), creating 120 additional jobs. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 33 3 2 .3 Compliance and The BMW Group Compliance Committee comprises the heads of the following departments: Legal Affairs, anti-corruption ­Corporate and Governmental Affairs, Corporate Audit, Organisational Development and Corporate Human Resources. It manages and monitors activities necessary to avoid non-compliance with the law (legal compliance) and reports regularly to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board on all compliance-related issues. The BMW Group Compliance Management System includes training and communication measures, indi­ vidual counselling, consistent follow-up on cases of non-compliance as well as the management of compliSUSTAINABLE ance-relevant processes and controls. STRATEGIC DIRECTION ­CORPORATE The extent and intensity of compliance activities are MANAGEMENT The BMW Group is unconditionally committed to lawful and based on an annually updated Group-wide compliance responsible conduct. risk assessment covering all 331 BMW Group business 2.1 Our management approach units and functions worldwide. 2.2 Economic impacts COACHING AND COMMUNICATING COMPLIANCE 2.3 Compliance and Current legislation provides the binding framework for anti-corruption the BMW Group’s wide range of activities around the The BMW Group Legal Compliance Code, which was updated 2.4 Risk management world. It is therefore essential that the Board of Managein 2014, is the cornerstone of the Group’s Compliance ment and all employees are aware of their relevant legal Management System, spelling out the Board of Manage2.5 Human rights obligations and comply with them with complete convicment’s acknowledgement of the fact that compliance is a tion. This shapes the public image of the BMW Group joint responsibility (Tone from the Top). This document, and creates confidence in our products and brands. Earnwhich explains the significance of legal compliance and ing this confidence is in turn the basis for our business provides an overview of the various areas relevant for the success. BMW Group, is available on the intranet in German and English as well as 11 other languages for the convenience of all employees. INTEGRATING COMPLIANCE IN THE ORGANISATION Since 2014, new employees receive a welcome e-mail about In order to protect the company systematically against compliance when they join the company to demonstrate compliance-related and reputational risks, the Board the special commitment of the BMW Group to compliance of Management created a Compliance Committee matters. several years ago, mandated to establish a Compliance ­Management System throughout the BMW Group. Managers in particular bear a high degree of responsi­ bility and must set a good example in the process of ­preventing infringements. Managers throughout the BMW Group accept this principle by signing a written SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 34 2 .3 declaration in which they also undertake to inform staff performed for national sales companies and in the Finanworking for them of the content and significance of the cial Services segment in China, UK and Canada. Legal Compliance Code and to make them aware of legal risks. RESPONDING TO COMPLIANCE-RELATED QUERIES More than 25,400 managers and staff (2013: 20,300) In order to avoid legal risks, all members of staff are worldwide have received training in compliance and expected to discuss compliance matters with their mananti-corruption basics since the introduction of the agers and with the relevant departments within the BMW Group Compliance Management System. SuccessBMW Group, in particular Legal Affairs, Corporate Audit ful participation in the training programme is mandatory and Corporate Security. The BMW Group Compliance for all BMW Group managers and is ensured through Contact serves as a further point of contact for both corresponding personnel processes. In this way, the employees and non-employees for any questions regardBMW Group achieves full training coverage for its maning compliance. SUSTAINABLE agers in compliance matters. In addition to this basic training, in-depth training is also provided to certain Employees also have the opportunity to submit information ­CORPORATE groups of staff on specific compliance issues. Advanced – anonymously and confidentially – via the BMW Group MANAGEMENT training on competition and antitrust law was introduced SpeakUP Line about possible breaches of the law within in 2013 and already completed the same year by 3,900 the company. The BMW Group SpeakUP Line is available 2.1 Our management approach employees. in a total of 34 languages and can be reached via local 2.2 Economic impacts toll-free numbers in all countries in which BMW Group Additional Compliance Market Coachings have been employees carry out activities. 2.3 Compliance and implemented in local markets since 2012. These seminars anti-corruption strengthen the understanding of compliance in selected Compliance-related queries and concerns are docu2.4 Risk management units and enhance cooperation between the central mented and followed up by the BMW Group Compliance BMW Group Compliance Committee Office and decenCommittee Office using an electronic Case Management 2.5 Human rights tralised compliance offices. In 2014, market coaching was System. If necessary, Corporate Audit, Corporate Security, the Works Council and Legal Affairs may be called upon to assist in the investigation process. F.14 Total number of employees trained in anti-corruption Number MONITORING AND AUDITING COMPLIANCE 30,000 25,000 Compliance with and the implementation of the Legal 20,000 Compliance Code are audited regularly by Corporate 15,000 Audit and subjected to control checks by Corporate 10,000 ­Security and the BMW Group Compliance Committee 5,000 Office. As part of its regular activities, Corporate Audit carries out on-site audits. The BMW Group Compliance 11 12 13 14 ­Committee also engages Corporate Audit to perform compliance-specific checks. In addition, random checks 12,800 16,500 20,300 25,400 (BMW Group Compliance Spot Checks) specifically SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 35 2 .3 risks. These procedures are particularly relevant for ­relations with sales partners and service providers such as agencies and consultants. Depending on the results of the evaluation, appropriate measures – such as communication measures, training and possible monitoring – are implemented to manage compliance risks. The Business Relations Compliance programme has already been launched in 32 units (from a total of 70) since 2012 and will be rolled out successively over the coming years throughout the BMW Group’s worldwide sales organisation. We will also continue in 2014 to include compliance clauses in dealer and SUSTAINABLE importer contracts to protect contractual relationships. ­CORPORATE INFORMATION FOR THE ENTIRE WORKFORCE — The BMW Group’s Compliance publication MANAGEMENT designed to identify potential corruption risks are carried FORECAST 2.1 Our management approach out. In 2014, one Compliance Spot Check was performed. In addition to rolling out the Business Relations Compliance 2.2 Economic impacts To ensure compliance in the BMW Group, it is essential programme in further units, the BMW Group plans to conduct 2.3 Compliance and that employees are aware of and comply with applicable three Compliance Spot Checks in the coming year as well as anti-corruption regulations. The BMW Group does not tolerate violations continuing to develop its online compliance training. 2.4 Risk management of law by its employees. Culpable violations of the law result in employment contract sanctions and may involve 2.5 Human rights personal liability consequences for the employee involved. The BMW Group reports on legal infringements in its Annual Report if the events in question could be of interest for shareholders, analysts and other stakeholders due to economic consequences. We are not aware of any such infringements having occurred in 2014. ENSURING COMPLIANCE BY BUSINESS PARTNERS In the same way that the BMW Group is committed to lawful and responsible conduct, it also expects no less from its business partners. In 2012, the BMW Group developed a new Business Relations Compliance programme aimed at ensuring the reliability of its business relations. Relevant business partners are checked and evaluated with a view to identifying potential compliance SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 36 4 2 .4 Risk management tions of the Treadway Commission). Corporate Risk Management also works in close cooperation with the Compliance Committee, the internal control system and the Corporate Audit department. Integral components of the risk management process are identifying risks early on, comprehensive analysis and risk assessment, the coordinated deployment of appropriate control tools, and the monitoring and evaluation of measures taken. Opportunities and risks in the area of sustainability are discussed by the Sustainability Circle. The strategic options and measures that result for the BMW Group are presented to the Sustainability Board. Risk aspects disSUSTAINABLE cussed are integrated into the Group-wide risk network. STRATEGIC DIRECTION The close ties between the Risk Management and Sus­CORPORATE tainability Circles ensure that risk and sustainability MANAGEMENT The BMW Group has a company-wide decentralised risk management are closely coordinated. management system in place in order to identify, analyse and 2.1 Our management approach actively manage any risks within or outside the company that DEALING WITH POLITICAL, SOCIAL AND GLOBAL could endanger the achievement of our business objectives. ECONOMIC RISKS 2.2 Economic impacts 2.3 Compliance and As one of the world’s leading providers of premium prodanti-corruption ucts and premium services, the BMW Group faces some 2.4 Risk management The BMW Group operates in a dynamic environment major challenges. In many countries, individual mobility where it is constantly confronted with new opportunities is subject to political regulations and national industrial 2.5 Human rights and risks. Professional risk management is a fundamental policy. Changing values in society and fast-growing prerequisite for being able to deal successfully with urbanisation call for new mobility solutions. At the same changes in prevailing political, legal, technical, social or time, the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in the euro area economic conditions. In order to achieve growth, profitand volatile economic conditions continue to unsettle ability, efficiency and sustainable levels of business in markets and consumers. The slowdown of economic the future, the BMW Group deliberately exposes itself to momentum in China, one of the BMW Group’s main ­certain risks. markets, poses further risks. The escalation of political conflicts and terrorist activities Risk management at the BMW Group is based on a as well as natural disasters or possible pandemics could ­company-wide decentralised network, which is superall have a negative impact on the global economy and vised by central risk management. The risk management international capital markets. The BMW Group counters process is geared towards meeting the criteria of effecthese risks primarily by internationalising its sales and tiveness, usefulness and comprehensiveness. The design production structures in order to reduce the potential of the BMW Group risk management network is regularly impact of risk exposures in individual countries. checked against the internationally recognised COSO framework (COSO: Committee of Sponsoring OrganizaSUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 37 2 .4 TURNING STRATEGIC AND INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC RISKS with Sixt SE for mobility services as well as a cooperation INTO OPPORTUNITIES with Toyota in the field of hydrogen. The automotive industry worldwide is faced with increasThe market introduction of alternative drivetrain technolingly strict requirements for reducing fuel consumption ogies means new challenges and additional investments and emissions. are in store for the automotive industry. At the same time, the BMW Group views this development as a Government intervention into activities that have an chance to put its engineering expertise and innovative impact on climate change is intensifying, the aim being strength to use. Issues such as greater fuel economy and to reduce air pollution in densely populated areas. Resultthe reduction of emissions are fundamental parameters ing regulatory changes (e.g. city tolls or CO₂-based taxes), that we automatically include when designing new prodtrends in fuel prices as well as environmental influences ucts. The BMW Group generates carbon footprints for and a higher degree of environmental awareness among selected vehicles so that it can capture data on CO₂ emisSUSTAINABLE the public all have an impact on customer behaviour. The sions throughout the entire life cycle from the developBMW Group is facing these changes with our Efficient ment stage. ­CORPORATE Dynamics strategy, which includes improving the effiMANAGEMENT ciency of conventional drivetrains, future electrification of AVOIDING ENVIRONMENTAL AND NATURAL RISKS the drivetrain and e-mobility as well as mobility services. 2.1 Our management approach We are also working on solutions for sustainable mobility The BMW Group minimises its exposure to natural and 2.2 Economic impacts in densely populated areas. Our Efficient Dynamics environmental risks by implementing a number of techni­strategy gives us an edge on the competition. These cal and organisational measures. Particularly relevant in 2.3 Compliance and improvements result in tangible benefits for the c­ ustomer, this respect are climatic changes as well as the increased anti-corruption increasing the attractiveness of our products and strengthincidence of environmental events such as flooding or 2.4 Risk management ening the brand image of the BMW Group. hurricanes. Production interruptions and breakdowns pose risks that the BMW Group tries to c­ ircumvent by 2.5 Human rights Continuing on our present growth course depends above taking corresponding precautionary ­measures. Such all on our ability to develop innovative products and sermeasures are incorporated into the production and logisvices and to bring them to market. With the introduction tics structures at the initial planning stage to make proviof the BMW i brand, new target groups are being sion for such eventualities, both in terms of likelihood addressed and the company is consolidating its reputation of occurrence and loss impact. In addition to technical as a sustainable and future-oriented enterprise. The existfire prevention, these measures include preventive maining product portfolio in the area of mobility services was tenance, protecting company sites from potential risks expanded through the rollout of DriveNow, ChargeNow such as flooding, spare parts management coordinated and ParkNow see Chapter 3.5. The BMW Group is keepbetween plants as well as the planning of alternative ing close watch over the long-term trend towards greater transport routes. sustainability, which opens up sales opportunities for sustainable products with possibly stronger pricing. With To avoid negative ground impact and groundwater polluthe introduction of new business models and the use of tion, we develop appropriate preventive strategies and its growing partner network, the BMW Group is taking initiatives at our company sites. When choosing a new full advantage of these opportunities. This includes for site for a facility, we analyse and take into account the example the implementation of the 360° ELECTRIC effects of climate change in the region and the risk factors portfolio in the field of electromobility, a partnership associated with it. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 38 2 .4 We also use this information as a decision-making cri­ terion when choosing suppliers. In order to identify and ENSURING COMPREHENSIVE DATA PROTECTION counteract any risks to our supply of parts and materials early on, we assess the extent to which supplier sites The BMW Group meets all data protection requirements when are exposed to natural hazards such as floods or handling personal data from its customers, prospects, employearthquakes. ees and business partners. The protection of information and data is an integral component of our business processes and FOR MORE ON THE BMW GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AS WELL AS is based on the International Security Standard. In the field of OTHER RISK CATEGORIES, INCLUDING RISKS ARISING FROM OPERATIONAL AREAS (PRODUCTION, PURCHASING, SALES), LEGAL AND FINANCIAL RISKS, vehicle communication as well (Connected Drive), data security AND INFORMATION, DATA PROTECTION AND IT RISKS, SEE THE RISK REPORT and prevention of misuse are a key concern. IN THE 2014 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT: www.bmwgroup.com We view data protection not only as the fulfilment of statutory requirements, but also as a way of promoting customer and SUSTAINABLE employee trust in the BMW Group. ­CORPORATE FORECAST In 2014, the BMW Group successfully complete the validation MANAGEMENT process for the B ­ inding Corporate Rules (BCR) scheme. The In order to achieve growth, profitability, efficiency and sustainBCR guarantee a data protection standard that is to be upheld 2.1 Our management approach able levels of business in the future, the BMW Group deliberately and maintained by BMW AG and all its subsidiaries. This enexposes itself to risks. In the future, both the world economy sures that in the BMW Group personal data is always handled 2.2 Economic impacts and our business processes are going to become even more at a uniformly high security level, regardless of whether the 2.3 Compliance and complex. We must therefore further optimise the interplay data are processed for example in Europe, Asia or America. anti-corruption between risk management, strategy and dialogue with external partners. Central offices of the BMW Group keep close watch With the introduction of the BCR, the BMW Group established 2.4 Risk management over changes in the legal framework. We evaluate the resulting a Group-wide committee for ensuring a uniform level of data 2.5 Human rights opportunities and risks to derive possible concrete measures privacy worldwide. Personal data is only collected, processed or alternative implementation scenarios. We then present our or used if this is legally permissible, or with the consent of the proposals to the Board of M ­ anagement for its decision. interested party. The board or management team in each BMW Group company is responsible for data protection at that company. Each group company has its own local Data Privacy Protection Officers. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 39 5 2 .5 Human rights Assuming social responsibility is an integral part of the BMW Group’s perception of itself as a business enterprise. In 2001 it was therefore one of the first German companies to sign the UN Global Compact. With the Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions at the BMW Group, the Board of Management together with employee representatives reconfirmed this commitment to respecting human rights. ENSURING DUE DILIGENCE Our due diligence process for human rights is modelled on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human SUSTAINABLE Rights. We use these principles to critically reflect on our STRATEGIC DIRECTION processes and to ensure the observance of human rights ­CORPORATE within the company and along the value chain throughMANAGEMENT The BMW Group is committed to respecting and observing out our sphere of action and influence. In particular, human rights within its sphere of corporate influence and we require our employees to respect human rights and 2.1 Our management approach action. It models its conduct on the UN Guiding Principles on protect them in their daily actions. We also oblige our 2.2 Economic impacts Business and Human Rights. business partners to comply with human rights. One focus here is the integration of human rights aspects into the 2.3 Compliance and risk management process for suppliers. anti-corruption 2.4 Risk management The BMW Group’s philosophy and core principles include We constantly monitor current developments in the a commitment to respecting human rights within the international human rights debate and we analyse poten2.5 Human rights company’s sphere of influence and action. We consider tial need for action to be taken by the BMW Group. it an integral part of sustainable management to fulfil In 2012, we performed a s­ ystematic analysis of the rights this responsibility both within the company as well as cited in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights with along the value chain. As an international enterprise regard to their relevance and implications for different with highly complex supply chains, the BMW Group is business units. Based on the results, we reviewed our exposed to increased risk of being confronted directly strategic alignment and used what we learned to continuor indirectly with human rights violations. We therefore ously develop our due diligence process for the company treat the protection of human rights as a top priority and and in relation to our business partners. We regularly require our business partners to do the same. report on our progress to the Sustainability Circle and the Sustainability Board. TRAINING EMPLOYEES We educate our employees on the position taken by the BMW Group and on the specific requirements with regard to human rights in business operations. The topic is a fixed part of our sustainability training, which is SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 40 2 .5 SUSTAINABLE ­CORPORATE RAISING AWARENESS OF IMPORTANT TOPICS — Employee training at the BMW Group CARRYING HUMAN RIGHTS A STEP FURTHER — Getting business partners and suppliers on board MANAGEMENT aimed in particular at new employees and trainees, as MAKING SURE PARTNERS HAVE HUMAN RIGHTS CLAUSES 2.1 Our management approach well as our Web-based training on sustainability for all 2.2 Economic impacts employees. Information and course materials are available The Board of Management of BMW AG is committed to online at all times for our managers and employees. The consistently respecting human rights. We expect the 2.3 Compliance and goal of the training is to raise employee awareness of same from our business partners and take this issue into anti-corruption human rights and the approach taken by the BMW Group consideration when making investment decisions. 2.4 Risk management and to inform them on what they have to be alert to in their daily actions and whom they can turn to for Obliging business partners and suppliers to observe 2.5 Human rights questions. human rights We expect our business partners to consistently observe For purchasers and commodity managers, we offer a diahuman rights and see this as an important criterion for logue event on sustainability in the supply chain that also long-term business relations. The commitment to human deals with the issue of human rights. In 2013, we achieved rights is included in the General Terms and Conditions our Balanced Scorecard goal of training over 80% of our of Business and the international purchasing conditions purchasers in sustainability. To maintain this level, we of BMW AG. In practice it is ensured, among other things, conducted further training courses in 2014 for new purwith the help of our risk management process for sup­ chasers and those who had not yet received training, and pliers see Chapter 5. will continue to do so in 2015. You can read more in the chapter on Supplier Management see Chapter 5. Starting in 2015, all dealership contracts in Europe as well as all contracts with importers worldwide will contain a binding human rights clause, including a requirement to comply with the core labour standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). Our goal is to integrate this clause into all dealership contracts worldwide by 2016. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 41 2 .5 By joining the UN Global Compact at the beginning of FORECAST 2014, our joint venture BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. in China also explicitly committed to observing human Together with internal process partners and in dialogue with rights. external stakeholders, we will continue to develop our due ­diligence process further in 2015. We also plan to integrate a Taking human rights criteria into account in human rights clause into all dealership contracts not only investment decisions in Europe but all over the world by 2016. Human rights requirements are part of our risk management process and are also taken into account in investment decisions and the choice of company sites. When subcontracting to local business partners for investment projects, we make sure they are committed to observing human rights. SUSTAINABLE In 2014, approximately 100% of the order volume for all ­CORPORATE our material investments in property, plant and equipment MANAGEMENT (including production equipment and buildings) were covered by human rights clauses. 2.1 Our management approach ADDRESSING HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS 2.2 Economic impacts 2.3 Compliance and If employees have any questions regarding human rights, anti-corruption they can ask their line managers or the BMW Group 2.4 Risk management Human Rights Contact helpline. Employees also have the opportunity to submit information about possible human 2.5 Human rights rights violations within the company via the BMW Group SpeakUP Line – anonymously and confidentially. The BMW Group SpeakUP Line is available in a total of 34 languages and can be reached via the Internet in 47 countries. The Human Rights Response Team, which includes one representative from the Works Council, handles the reports by employees and initiates measures as required to remedy possible violations. In 2014, no violations of human rights within the company were reported via internal channels. Two relevant reports were, however, received on possible violations in the supplier network. These were checked and could not be confirmed. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 42 3 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 Our management approach Efficient mobility Product safety Future mobility Customer satisfaction Read more at www.bmwgroup.com p. 49 p. 55 p. 46 Resource efficiency and recycling management p. 61 p. 66 p. 58 43 WASHINGTON D.C., USA GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY Why is the BMW Group ­focusing on electromobility? BMW Group Student Dialogue, May 2014 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 44 3 — PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 INDICATORS 2015+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES REDUCTION IN CO² EMISSIONS CO² EMISSIONS OF BMW GROUP PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY AUTOMOBILES (EU-28) With our efficiency technologies and electric In the coming years, we will continue to apply 130 vehicles, we were able to reduce CO² emissions 2014 efficiency measures to conventional drivetrains, of our newly sold vehicles in Europe (EU-28) with a focus on reducing CO² emissions, and by 38% between 1995 and 2014. we will further develop drivetrain ­electrification. ­Another area of focus is the expansion of g/km ­innovative mobility services. 2013 133 g/km FURTHER REDUCTION IN AVERAGE AVERAGE FUEL CONSUMPTION (EU-28) DEVELOP NEW TECHNOLOGIES WITH FUEL CONSUMPTION EFFICIENT DYNAMICS 2014 Thanks to the introduction of efficient vehicles, Petrol Diesel We aim to continue to reduce fuel consumption 6.0 4.9 we were able to reduce the average fuel of our vehicles. With our EfficientDynamics ­consumption of our vehicle fleet once again. Strategy, we will be exploring a diverse range of technological options to ensure that we can offer l/100 km l/100 km customised solutions for future requirements worldwide. 2013 6.2 l/100 km 4.8 l/100 km EXPANSION OF CAR-SHARING NUMBER OF DRIVENOW USERS ELECTRIFY CAR-SHARING In 2014, we further expanded the number of December 2014 In the coming years, we intend to further 390,000 users of DriveNow. And now the new roaming expand our car-sharing service both nationally function allows German customers to use the and internationally, increasingly integrating service in other countries. over electric cars. January 2014 approx. 220,000 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 45 1 3 .1 Our management REDUCING EMISSIONS – PROMOTING MORE SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY approach Governments are increasingly taking measures to combat climate change and reduce urban air pollution caused by hazardous substances. Worldwide, requirements are becoming more stringent to increase fuel efficiency of car fleets and to reduce vehicle emissions (e.g. particles, CO, HC, NOx). 94% of the vehicles we sell are subject to ­corresponding regulations and legislation. For example, certain countries have introduced CO₂ taxes or limited vehicle registrations by placing restrictions on the number of plates issued. We are also aware that air quality in the PRODUCT As a leading provider of premium products and services cities presents a challenge for urban mobility in terms of for individual mobility, the BMW Group takes a compreNOx and particles. RESPONSIBILITY hensive approach to product responsibility and its implementation throughout the product life cycle. For us, Customer behaviour is also affected by increasing regula3.1 Our management approach sustainability starts with the development of fuel-efficient tion, fuel price trends, environmental impact and rising 3.2 Efficient mobility vehicles that are safe for drivers and other road users. awareness of climate change. Low-emissions vehicles, Product responsibility also covers resource-efficient alternative drivetrain systems as well as mobility services 3.3 Product safety development and production processes as well as inteare becoming more and more important to our customers. 3.4  esource efficiency and R grated and high-quality customer care. Recycling concepts recycling management ensure that our vehicles provide valuable raw materials We are facing these changes with our Efficient Dynamics after they reach the end of their life cycle. We are also development strategy. First, this strategy aims to make 3.5 Future mobility developing intelligent services to shape the mobility of vehicles with conventional petrol and diesel engines more 3.6 Customer satisfaction the future. efficient through engine optimisation, lightweight design, aerodynamics and energy management. The next step is then to tap into the new potential that electric vehicles We strive every day to meet our customers’ requirements, generate in terms of sustainable mobility. BMW’s philosoto comply with legislation and to retain our competitive phy includes implementing Efficient Dynamics not only edge. To achieve this we combine product innovation with in niche models, but also as a standard component in our the highest quality possible. Our management approach high-volume vehicles. In this way, we can have a greater in this regard takes a broad, life-cycle-oriented perspective effect in terms of environmental protection see Chapter 3.2. on product responsibility. Our visionary BMW i electric vehicles are spearheading our long-term efforts to produce entirely emissions-free vehicles. BMW i also offers innovative services for individual mobility see Chapter 3.5 and represents a new understanding of the “premium” concept, defined chiefly in terms of sustainability. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 46 3 .1 TAKING A BROADER VIEW OF PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY We use Life Cycle Engineering to increasingly integrate environmental aspects into the design and development Our product responsibility is, however, not limited to of our products. With regard to existing vehicles, we aim producing eco-friendly vehicles. As a provider of preto achieve a significant improvement in environmental mium products and premium services for individual impact from one vehicle generation to the next. The mobility, safety is fundamental to our sense of product checks and balances for this process are oriented towards responsibility. This goes for our customers’ safety as well ambitious targets, and we apply the Life Cycle Assessment as the safety of other road users. Through active safety in accordance with ISO 14040/44 to evaluate the progress features we try to prevent accidents, and we use passive made in the development process. safety systems to mitigate their effects see Chapter 3.3. Life Cycle Engineering was used in the development of the Other elements in our approach to product responsibility BMW i8 as well as in the BMW i3 before it. The result of the are increasing resource efficiency in the supply chain Life Cycle Assessment in accordance with ISO 14040/44 PRODUCT see Chapter 5, resource-efficient production see Chapter 4 for the BMW i8 series vehicle as well as for the BMW i3 was and high recycling and reuse standards that make the certified externally by the German automobile certificaRESPONSIBILITY materials cycle as complete as possible see Chapter 3.4. tion body TÜV SÜD. Life Cycle Engineering is also carried out on BMW Group vehicles with combustion engines. 3.1 Our management approach Finally, we aim for a high degree of customer satisfaction. 3.2 Efficient mobility We conduct studies and customer interviews and constantly analyse customer feedback to find out how we can 3.3 Product safety improve even further from our customers’ perspective 3.4 R  esource efficiency and see Chapter 3.6. recycling management ENSURING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGHOUT 3.5 Future mobility THE VEHICLE LIFE CYCLE 3.6 Customer satisfaction A large part of the environmental and social impact caused by a vehicle throughout its life cycle is determined during the initial development stage. Some of the main influencing factors are material selection, production technologies, supplier selection, engine type, as well as the recyclability of the vehicle’s components. For us, high sustainability levels have the same significance as, for example, cost or weight criteria in the development process of the vehicle. This is based on an integrated accounting method that assesses the environmental, economic and social impact of our products throughout their life cycle. The method includes, for example, data from the purchasers’ sustainability risk ­filter see Chapter 5 as well as a business assessment see Chapter 2. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 47 3 .1 F.15 Product responsibility in BMW Group vehicle projects SPECIALIST Targets Requirements DEPARTMENTS EXECUTIVE UNITS COORDINATING UNITS – Drivetrain MANAGEMENT PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY VEHICLE COMPLETE VEHICLE – Chassis BOARD e.g. Efficient Dynamics Strategy PROJECTS e.g. Efficient Dynamics unit – Body – Electrics/ electronics/ Reporting Measures cockpit PRODUCT MANAGING PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY FORECAST WITHIN THE COMPANY RESPONSIBILITY In the coming years, we will continue to apply efficiency meas­ The above-mentioned aspects of product responsibility ures to conventional drivetrains, with a focus on reducing 3.1 Our management approach are an integral part of the target systems and organisaCO² emissions, and we will further develop drivetrain electrifi­ 3.2 Efficient mobility tional processes of our vehicle development see Figure 15. cation in hybrid (HEV), plug-in hybrid (PHEV) and fully electric (BEV) vehicles. Another focus of our work will be on expanding 3.3 Product safety One important example is the management process we innovative mobility services. 3.4 R  esource efficiency and use to achieve global CO₂ vehicle fleet targets. This process recycling management entails the BMW Group defining specific CO₂ targets for We have set ourselves ambitious targets in this area. By 2020, each product line and each new vehicle project. A departwe plan to have reduced CO² emissions in the European new 3.5 Future mobility ment within the Strategy unit is responsible for monitorvehicle fleet (EU-28) by at least 50% compared to the base 3.6 Customer satisfaction ing and further developing these targets. The Complete year 1995. Vehicle Architecture unit coordinates the development and implementation of fuel-saving technologies in the After the successful introduction of the battery-powered individual vehicle projects. This ensures that the market-­ BMW i3 and the plug-in hybrid BMW i8, the BMW X5 plug-in specific fleet requirements are taken into consideration hybrid with eDrive technology will follow in 2015. in the very early stages of vehicle project development and are subject to Efficient Dynamics measures during the development process. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 48 2 3 .2 Efficient mobility REDUCING CO² EMISSIONS – OUR EFFICIENT DYNAMICS STRATEGY Based on our Efficient Dynamics development strategy, the BMW Group reduces the energy requirements of every vehicle through intelligent lightweight construction, innovations in energy management and consistently ­optimised aerodynamics. Furthermore, the efficiency technologies are constantly being expanded and further developed. At the same time, we are successively offering more electrified drivetrains based on the BMW i drive technologies, PRODUCT including for models of the core BMW brand. After the STRATEGIC DIRECTION successful introduction of the battery-driven electric RESPONSIBILITY model (BEV) BMW i3 and the plug-in hybrid (PHEV) The BMW Group will have reduced CO² emissions of the BMW i8, the BMW X5 plug-in hybrid with eDrive technology 3.1 Our management approach ­European new vehicle fleet (EU-28) by at least 50% by 2020 will be launched in 2015. 3.2 Efficient mobility (base year 1995). Between 1995 and 2014, we were able to reduce CO₂ 3.3 Product safety By 2020, the BMW Group will be the leader in taking a emissions of our newly sold vehicles in Europe (EU-28) by 3.4 R  esource efficiency and holistic approach to premium electromobility. over 38% see Figure 16. Average fuel consumption in 2014 recycling management was 6.0 litres of petrol per 100 kilometres or 4.9 litres of diesel per 100 kilometres. In Europe (EU-28), average 3.5 Future mobility CO₂ emissions were 130 g of CO₂/km. 3.6 Customer satisfaction The BMW Group is getting closer and closer to its vision of sustainable mobility. We use innovative efficiency At the end of 2014, 53 of our models had m ­ aximum CO₂ technologies in all vehicle models. In addition, we are emissions of 120 g/km. This means that we have similar adding electrically powered cars to our model range. fuel consumption and CO₂ emissions to a number of In view of climate change and scarce resources, we want other large carmakers in Europe. to further reduce the CO₂ emissions of our vehicles. The average fleet CO₂ emissions per kilometre worldwide decreased in 2014 by 4.4% to 152 g of CO₂/km (2013: The automotive industry is also facing new challenges 159 g of CO₂/km). Average CO₂ emissions in the USA worldwide due to intensified emissions l­egislation for were 168 g of CO₂/km and 176 g of CO₂/km in China. vehicles. 94% of the vehicles we sell are subject to corres­ The regional differences in fleet consumption result from ponding legislation. As early as 2000, even before reguladifferences in customer purchasing patterns. tions were passed, the BMW Group was already setting the course for reducing fuel con­sumption and emissions. By 2020, we will reduce the CO₂ emissions of our vehicle fleet by 50% compared to the base year 1995. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 49 3 .2 F.16 Development of CO² emissions of BMW Group cars in Europe (Index: 1995 = 100; Basis: Fleet consumption of newly registered cars in Europe [EU-15] measured on the basis of the New European Driving Cycle in accordance with the ACEA self-commitment) 110 105 100 95 90 85 80 75 70 65 60 PRODUCT 55 RESPONSIBILITY 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09¹ 10 11 12 13 14 3.1 Our management approach 102.4 101.0 98.6 96.7 96.7 92.9 92.9 94.8 90.0 88.6 80.0 73.3 71.4 70.0 69.0 66.0 63.0 62.0 3.2 Efficient mobility 1 Measured only on EU-27 basis from 2009 onwards and on EU-28 basis from 2014 onwards. 3.3 Product safety 3.4  esource efficiency and R SAVING FUEL IN SERIES MODELS THROUGH driving situation. In addition, vehicles with automatic recycling management EFFICENCY TECHNOLOGIES transmission can cruise at between 50 and 160 km/h: as soon as the driver releases the gas pedal, the drive3.5 Future mobility Our range of efficiency technologies represent the first train is decoupled and the vehicle is controlled by rolling 3.6 Customer satisfaction and currently most effective components in emissions and wind resistance exclusively, thus running at minimum reduction. These include efficient engines, optimised consumption. The Proactive Driving Assistant uses data aerodynamics, intelligent energy management, lightfrom the navigation system to tell the driver about speed weight design, forward-looking drive control, the Auto limits, tight bends and roundabouts or turns ahead, Start Stop function, brake energy regeneration, tyres with and gives tips on the most efficient way to drive. reduced rolling resistance or air flap control. These are not optional extras for niche or special models but have been standard in every new vehicle since March 2007. For example, driving in ECO PRO mode will reduce fuel consumption by up to 15% depending on the individual’s driving behaviour. As soon as ECO PRO mode is activated, it optimises the drivetrain systems management as well as the heating and air-conditioning functions to ensure maximum efficiency. ECO PRO mode also gives the driver specific hints on how to drive more efficiently, for example by displaying the most efficient gear to drive in for each SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 50 3 .2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY NAVIGATION SYSTEM IN PRACTICE — BMW ConnectedDrive PLUG-IN HYBRIDS — BMW X5 xDrive40e 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 Efficient mobility To complement our efficiency technologies, BMW ConLEVERAGING FURTHER POTENTIAL WITH nectedDrive uses the BMW navigation systems to map HYBRID DRIVETRAINS 3.3 Product safety out the traffic situation on main roads almost in real 3.4  esource efficiency and R time. This enables the driver to avoid congested areas The electrification of the drivetrain by way of various recycling management and save on fuel. hybrid solutions is another vital component of our ­Efficient Dynamics strategy. This enables us to realise 3.5 Future mobility BMW ConnectedDrive is a package of intelligent technolfurther fuel-saving potential. 3.6 Customer satisfaction ogies that interconnect the driver, vehicle occupants, the vehicle itself and the environment. The system is based Since autumn 2012, the BMW Group has been marketon the two pillars of driver assistance systems (comfort ing the models BMW ActiveHybrid 3, BMW ActiveHybrid 5 and and safety functions) and services (infotainment and BMW ­ActiveHybrid 7. In 2014, we introduced the plug-in mobility products). hybrid BMW i8, with an electric range of approximately 37 kilometres and CO₂ levels of 49 g/km in the EU cycle. As well as reducing the carbon emissions of our cars, we are constantly working to bring down other emissions. In 2015 and 2016, further plug-in hybrids will be added We are playing a pioneering role in meeting the Euro 6 to our portfolio. Plug-in hybrid models use up to 50% less standards, which call for a significant reduction in nitrofuel than their combustion-powered equivalents. gen oxide (NOx) levels, in particular for diesel vehicles. Thanks to BMW BluePerformance technology, since 2008 customers in some markets can choose from a large range of models with particularly clean diesel engines that ­comply with Euro 6 standards or other strict regulations that apply outside the EU. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 51 3 .2 F.17 Fuel consumption and CO² emissions of the most efficient and best-selling models in 2014¹ l/100 km l/100 km g CO²/km g CO²/km kWh/100 km Manual Automatic Manual Automatic transmission transmission transmission transmission (combined) (combined) Most efficient models worldwide MINI One D 3.4 – 3.5 – 89 – 92 – – MINI Cooper D 3.5 – 3.6 3.7 – 3.8 92 – 95 98 – 99 – BMW i8 – 2.1 – 49 11.9² BMW i3 (with range extender) – 0 (0.6) – 0 (13) 12.9 (13.5)³ Best-selling models in Germany PRODUCT BMW 116i 5.4 – 5.6 5.6 – 5.8 125 – 131 129 – 134 – RESPONSIBILITY BMW 320d Touring 4.7 – 4.8 4.7 124 – 125 123 – 124 – Best-selling models in EU-28 3.1 Our management approach BMW X3 xDrive20d 5.2 – 5.6 5.0 – 5.4 136 – 146 131 – 141 – 3.2 Efficient mobility BMW X1 sDrive18d 4.9 5.0 128 132 – 3.3 Product safety As at December 2014. Further, regularly updated information on the vehicles referred to in this publication can be found at www.bmw.com, www.mini.com and www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com. 1 Fuel consumption is determined in accordance with the ECE driving cycle. 2 Combined electricity consumption (in addition fuel consumption). 3.4 R  esource efficiency and 3 Average total energy consumption. recycling management 3.5 Future mobility 3.6 Customer satisfaction ZERO-EMISSIONS LOCAL DRIVING WITH one or add an electric engine (conversion approach). ELECTRIC DRIVETRAINS What we did from the very beginning was to plan new and independent vehicle concepts (purpose-built approach) An important component of our Efficient Dynamics in order to exploit the full potential of the new drivetrain Strategy are our electromobility activities. On the basis technology and make it practicable for customers. This of these activities we introduced the BMW i brand in includes intelligent lightweight design – using carbon-­ 2013 and are successively implementing electromobility fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP) and a host of new, more in our core brand models. environmentally friendly materials and highly resource-­ efficient production. The result is visionary vehicles that Since 2007, our project i has been developing completely represent an ideal balance between vehicle weight, range new concepts for individual mobility as well as vehicle and driving enjoyment. BMW i is thus creating the basis architecture and production that integrate sustainable for a substantial reduction in CO₂ emissions see Figure 17. solutions in an even more innovative fashion along the entire value chain. The resulting models of the BMW i sub-brand do not ­simply replace the combustion engine with an electric SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 52 3 .2 expressly for travel between the outskirts and the city centre. The main focus here is on two requirements: firstly, that performance is comparable to that of a ­combustion-powered maxi-scooter, and secondly that it has a high range in practice. Increasing range with hydrogen and fuel cells As an alternative to developing purely electric drivetrains, we are also doing research into hydrogen and fuel cell technology as further solutions for local emissions-­free driving with a greater range. Hydrogen is used here as an energy source that is converted by the fuel cell into ­electricity and water. PRODUCT The BMW Group is collaborating with the Toyota Motor RESPONSIBILITY CHARGING ELECTRIC VEHICLES — Solar carport concept from DesignworksUSA Corporation (TMC) in this field. Together, we aim to develop series-ready components by 2020. The partner3.1 Our management approach Charging electric vehicles with renewable energy ship is working on tank technologies, fuel cells, an elec3.2 Efficient mobility An electric car can only reach its full potential when it tric engine and a battery, among other things. Both runs on electricity that is as carbon-neutral as possible. companies are also cooperating on the development of 3.3 Product safety We estimate that around three-quarters of all electric technologies for producing lightweight bodies. 3.4  esource efficiency and R vehicle owners in Germany recharge their vehicles at recycling management home from renewable energy sources. 3.5 Future mobility BMW i customers can benefit in this regard from the FORECAST 3.6 Customer satisfaction BMW Group’s strategic partnership with Naturstrom AG. This gives BMW i customers the option of purchasing We will continue to offer innovative solutions for the diverse a suitable renewable ­electricity package for charging mobility needs of our customers. We are deliberately focusing their electric vehicles. We also have a partnership with our efforts on building a broad technology base so that in the ­Solarwatt, a company that manufactures solar modules coming years we can offer tailored solutions worldwide for for surfaces like carports and house roofs. This allows wide-ranging individual mobility needs. We will also expand customers themselves to produce green power to our range of vehicles that meet the Euro 6 standard. recharge their BMW i3 or BMW i8 ­in their own homes. In other international markets, for example in France, the UK, the Netherlands and the USA, we offer our BMW i customers similar solutions with local partners. Further markets will follow in 2015. Getting around town on electric scooters In 2014, we launched our electric scooter. The fully ­electrically powered scooter has 47.5 hp and a range of 100 km. It has been designed as a commuting vehicle SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 53 3 .2 AWARD-WINNING SOLUTIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY We have received several awards for our technological solutions for sustainable mobility, some of which are listed below: – 2014 WORLD CAR AWARDS: – GREEN MOBILITY TROPHY 2014, First place for the BMW i3 in the category AUTO ZEITUNG: First place for the BMW i3 in the categories “World Green Car” and “World Car Design of the Year”. “Bestes Elektroauto” (best electric car) and “Bestes Leichtbauauto” (best lightweight car), – AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS EXPO 2014 AWARDS, first place for the BMW i8 in the category AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS EXPO: “Bestes Hybridauto” (best hybrid car). First place for the BMW i3 in the category PRODUCT “Production Interior Vehicle Design of the Year”. – IF PRODUCT DESIGN AWARD, 2014, IF INDUSTRIE FORUM DESIGN E.V.: RESPONSIBILITY – AUTO TROPHY 2014, “iF gold product design award” for the BMW i3. AUTO ZEITUNG: First place for the BMW i8 in the categories 3.1 Our management approach “Beste Neuerscheinung” (best new launch) and – INTERNET AUTO AWARD 2014, 3.2 Efficient mobility “Bestes Elektro-/Hybridauto” (best electric/hybrid vehicle). AUTOSCOUT24 MAGAZIN: First place for the BMW i8 in the category “Elektrofahrzeuge” (electric vehicles). 3.3 Product safety – BEST CARS 2014, 3.4 R  esource efficiency and AUTO, MOTOR UND SPORT: First place for the BMW i3 – INTERNATIONAL PAUL PIETSCH AWARD 2014, recycling management in the category “Kleinwagen” (compact car). AUTO, MOTOR UND SPORT: First place for the BMW i3. 3.5 Future mobility – DAS GOLDENE KLASSIK-LENKRAD 2014, – RED DOT DESIGN AWARD 2014, 3.6 Customer satisfaction AUTO BILD KLASSIK: First place for the BMW i8 in the category DESIGN ZENTRUM N ­ ORDRHEIN WESTFALEN: “Sportwagen und Coupés” (sports cars and coupés). BMW i3 in the “Best of Best” category. – DESIGN TROPHY 2014, – SCHWEIZER AUTO DES JAHRES 2015, AUTO ZEITUNG: First place for the BMW i3 in the category SCHWEIZER ILLUSTRIERTE: “Kleinwagen/City Cars” (compact cars/city cars), First place for the BMW i8 in the category first place for the BMW i8 in the category “Sportwagen” (sports cars). “Das Lieblingsauto der Schweizer” (Switzerland’s favourite car). – GERMAN DESIGN AWARD 2014, – TOP GEAR MAGAZINE’S CAR OF THE YEAR, 2014, GERMAN DESIGN COUNCIL: First place for the BMW i3 TOP GEAR UK: First place for the BMW i8. in the category “Transportation and Public Space”. – TROPHÉES DE L’ARGUS 2014, – GREEN CAR OF THE YEAR AWARD 2015, L’ARGUS FRANCE: First place for the BMW i3 in the category GREEN CAR JOURNAL: First place for the BMW i3. “Voiture Écologique” (green car). SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 54 3 3 .3 Product safety For more than 30 years, we have been carrying out systematic research into the causes of accidents and developing technologies and strategies to improve the safety of all road users. We take an integrated approach to this task, which means we analyse the entire process chain, from accident prevention to post-crash applications. Based on these analyses, we integrate active safety features into all vehicles to try to prevent accidents from happening in the first place, and apply passive safety features to ­mitigate their consequences. In addition, the BMW Group is working with partners from the industry and research in order to develop a PRODUCT method of evaluating primarily active safety in a real-life STRATEGIC DIRECTION environment. RESPONSIBILITY The BMW Group protects its customers and other road users Preventing accidents through active and passive safety systems 3.1 Our management approach from injury by creating networks of active and passive safety Active safety includes perfect chassis coordination, 3.2 Efficient mobility systems. ­optimal traction and effective brakes. Electronic chassis control systems also contribute towards preventing 3.3 Product safety accidents. 3.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management As a provider of premium products and premium services One of the main ways we increase safety is through for individual mobility, safety is fundamental to our sense driver assistance systems, which are now being increas3.5 Future mobility of product responsibility. This goes for our customers’ ingly integrated into our model ranges. They play an 3.6 Customer satisfaction safety as well as that of other road users. We take an important role in making driving safer by providing a ­integrated approach to mastering this challenge, which second set of eyes to observe what is happening on the encompasses not only passive and active safety systems, road in order to warn and support the driver. but also aspects such as product information, safety ­training, the avoidance of potentially critical materials One example of this is the warning system with city as well as minimising emissions in the vehicle interior. braking – a driver assistance system that uses camera images to analyse the urban traffic situation and warn the driver of potential collisions with pedestrians. The In addition to new legislation on the reduction of fuel system received the Euro NCAP Advanced Award in consumption and emissions, carmakers are also facing 2014. As well as for other models, it can also be ordered increasingly stringent safety regulations. These include for the BMW i3, MINI Cooper and BMW 2 series Active criteria for testing active and passive vehicle safety. Tourer and should be available for all of our vehicles in This changes the requirements placed on vehicles, and the future. new safety technologies have to be developed as a result. The traffic jam assistant is another support function: in long and monotonous driving situations, for example in traffic congestion, the vehicle helps to keep the car SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 55 3 .3 feature from 2017. In addition, our range of safety technology products is undergoing rapid expansion, for example through innovations in chassis control systems and lighting technology. Guaranteeing product and service information for customers Information on the safety of our vehicles and on protecting the health and safety of our customers can be found in the in-vehicle operating manuals, in printed form or as an app, and they are also available on the Internet. This is complemented by vehicle labelling and additional background information on service, accessories, components and BMW ConnectedRide. PRODUCT The BMW Group is obliged by the applicable legislation RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATIVE SAFETY TECHNOLOGIES IN MOTORCYCLES — The new BMW R 1200 R with standard ABS and automatic stability control to inform customers about the proper use of its products and services as well as any potential risks and hazards. 3.1 Our management approach longitudinally and laterally positioned in the lane, easing In the European Union, for example, we report on the 3.2 Efficient mobility the strain on the driver. fuel economy of our vehicles based on the NEDC (New European Driving Cycle). We also publish information 3.3 Product safety A number of other passive safety systems in our vehicles on fuel consumption and CO₂ emissions for each vehicle 3.4 R  esource efficiency and also protect the health and safety of road users and save model on the websites of the individual brands. recycling management lives on a daily basis. These include energy-absorbing crumple zones, safe passenger cells, restraint systems Training courses in safe driving 3.5 Future mobility and air bags. Since 1977, the BMW Group has also been offering train3.6 Customer satisfaction ing courses in driving safety in order to help protect road Setting safety standards with BMW motorcycles users. Today, we offer some 50 different training courses BMW Motorcycles has firmly established safety as part in 30 countries worldwide for BMW and MINI cars and of its corporate strategy and has developed the integrated BMW motorcycles. BMW is the first manufacturer of Sicherheit 360° (Safety 360°) concept. The concept is ­premium automobiles to offer a training course with an based on three complementary modules: innovative safety electric vehicle – the BMW i3 eDrive Experience. Drivers technologies in the motorcycle, high-quality, functional learn about the special product features and receive driver apparel, and training courses for every driving ­comprehensive safety training. In the year 2014, more level and every terrain. than 25,000 participants in driving safety courses learned how to identify critical driving situations and respond Since 2013, all BMW Motorcycle models are equipped properly, and how to avoid such situations in the first with ABS as a standard component. The company is place if possible. Over the next few years, these profes­acting early to implement ABS in motorcycles. This will sional Driving Experience courses will be made available become mandatory in the euro area from 2016 onwards. in further markets as part of our international­isation According to EU law, all newly registered motorcycles strategy, so that an even greater number of p­ articipants above 125 ccm must be equipped with ABS from 2016 can benefit from them. and all newly homologated motorcycles must have this SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 56 3 .3 Using safe materials FORECAST In the early development phase, we evaluate the potential materials to be used in a product or process to determine In the coming years, we want to further strengthen both active their risk potential and eliminate any problematic mate­r­ and passive safety features. We will focus here on the consist­ ials from the outset. This ensures that all legislation with ent introduction of warning and emergency brake systems for regard to product safety, health and the environment is all vehicle categories. complied with worldwide for every phase of the vehicle life cycle (from development to utilisation, and right We are also expanding our competencies in the areas of through to the recycling stage). ­technologies and methodology. This is in line with our vision of creating highly automated driving experiences. It will enable We apply our high BMW Group standards to all current us to offer a range of modern driver assistance systems and to and future supply materials. Material mixes are analysed, come another step closer to the ideal of accident-free mobility. evaluated and after approval stored in a dedicated BMW PRODUCT database. As well as all series parts, all auxiliary production substances and process materials such as paint and RESPONSIBILITY adhesives also undergo rigorous qualification processes OUTSTANDING VEHICLE SAFETY that eliminate undesirable materials and specify measures 3.1 Our management approach to be taken in the area of occupational health and safety We have received numerous awards for the safety of 3.2 Efficient mobility and environmental protection. our v­ ehicles, including: 3.3 Product safety Avoiding emissions inside the vehicle – BMW 2 Series Active Tourer – Euro NCAP 5 Stars 3.4  esource efficiency and R Due to our internal commitment to Responsible Care, recycling management the BMW Group has been collaborating with independent – BMW 2 Series – Top Safety Pick+, toxicologists since the 1990s in order to ensure that the July 2014 (AEB Advanced) 3.5 Future mobility targets set by the experts are met in all new vehicles. 3.6 Customer satisfaction – BMW X5 – IIHS Test AEB Superior, March 2014 By consistently avoiding the integration of substances that people may be sensitive or allergic to into vehicle – BMW 3 Series – IIHS Test AEB Advanced, March 2014 components, the risk of an allergic reaction within the vehicle interior is reduced to a minimum. The use of – BMW 5 Series – IIHS Test AEB Superior, April 2014 ­special interior air filters also significantly reduces the introduction of allergenic substances such as pollen – BMW X3 – IIHS AEB Basic award from the air outside into the vehicle. – MINI – US NCAP 4 Stars June 2014, China NCAP 5 Stars November 2014 – BMW China Services Ltd. received the United Nations 2014 China Auto Safety Achievements Contribution Award as part of the United Nations Decade of Action for Road Safety and the UK’s Global New Car Assessment Programme (NCAP) SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 57 4 3 .4 Resource efficiency and complying with legislation such as the end-of-life vehicles directive. recycling management USING RAW MATERIALS AND RESOURCES INTELLIGENTLY For us, intelligent use of raw materials and resources begins long before the time comes to dispose of them. In the initial development and architecture phase, we already design our vehicles and processes with a view to minimising the use of valuable resources. Making recycling part of the process from the outset In the early stages of vehicle development, the decisions our designers and engineers make, including the mater­ PRODUCT ials and components they select, will determine the reusSTRATEGIC DIRECTION ability of our vehicles decades into the future. In line RESPONSIBILITY with our Design for Recycling principle, we create our The BMW Group integrates sustainability throughout the vehicles in such a way that their components can largely 3.1 Our management approach entire life cycle of its vehicles. It completes materials cycles be reused or recycled efficiently once the vehicle reaches 3.2 Efficient mobility in order to grow the business in spite of scarce resources. the end of its life cycle. 3.3 Product safety Reducing use of rare earths 3.4 R  esource efficiency and How we use rare earths can contribute towards reducing recycling management Intelligent design and the use of secondary and renewable fuel consumption, for example by increasing the efficiency raw materials enable us to minimise our consumption of electrical systems. 3.5 Future mobility of valuable resources. When optimising our recycling 3.6 Customer satisfaction ­structures, we are now preparing for increasing v­ olumes When employing these valuable raw materials, a careful of electric vehicles in the future. balance is drawn between weight, function and costs. The further development of magnetic materials by BMW’s materials developers led to a considerable reduction in Resource efficiency and life cycle management are the the use of rare earths, without any negative functional main pillars of our sustainability agenda. There are two impact. For other components, too, it has been possible good reasons for this. Firstly, we see global scarcity of to find alternatives to rare earth elements which may resources (e.g. food, water, land, energy and raw mate­r­ become scarce. ials) as a risk to economic and political stability. End-of-life vehicle recovery and recycling And secondly, efficient use of resources also gives us a Established recovery systems for end-of-life vehicles, direct competitive advantage. For example, it helps components and materials ensure that they are reintereduce dependencies on external suppliers and thus mitigrated into the raw materials cycle. So we do not consider gate the negative effects of price fluctuations and supply end-of-life vehicles as waste to be disposed of, but rather bottlenecks. This means we have a vital business-based as a secondary source of raw materials. We recycle 95% interest in resource efficiency above and beyond simply of materials in our current vehicle models. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 58 3 .4 Our global system for returning used components is F.18 Average distribution of materials in BMW Group vehicles¹ helping us to protect resources and make more efficient in % use of raw materials. g h i ef d In 2015, the legally required recycling rate for end-of-life c vehicles, components and materials will be raised to 85% a reuse and recycling of materials and 95% overall recovery. We laid the groundwork for this early on: all vehicles brought to market since 2008 already meet the requireb ments set for 2015. New drivetrain concepts, new challenges a) Steel and iron 56 f) Textile 1 The incremental introduction of new drivetrains and the PRODUCT b) Non-ferrous metals 18 g) M.O.N.³ 1 modified vehicle concepts that result are presenting new challenges in terms of how we use resources. One ex­ RESPONSIBILITY c) Thermoplastic resins 12 h) Other 5 ample is the increased use of components made of innovad) Elastomers² 4 i) Operating fluids 1 e) Duromers 2 tive, lightweight carbon-fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP). 3.1 Our management approach This is the material used in the passenger compartments 3.2 Efficient mobility 1 Calculation of representative vehicles includes: BMW 1 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 7 Series, BMW X1, BMW X5, MINI Hatchback, MINI Countryman, RR, i3, i8. of the BMW i3 and BMW i8. BMW also plans to use CFRP 2 Such as tyres and seals. in other models. 3.3 Product safety 3 Modified organic natural materials. 3.4 R  esource efficiency and Steel and iron still make up the largest proportion by weight of materials CFRP could potentially also be used in mats, rear ­window recycling management used in BMW Group vehicles. The percentage share of each material is not shelves, pillar trims, etc. ­comparable with the figures for 2013 due to a refinement of the calculation 3.5 Future mobility method. Weighting of the representative vehicles by number of units began this year. We also increased the number of representative vehicles, e.g. by At our recycling and dismantling centre, we continuously 3.6 Customer satisfaction ­adding MINI and BMW i models. The influence of materials used in Project i test recycling concepts for new vehicle components that is not yet m­ easurable due to the small number of units produced so far. are used in hybrid models and electric vehicles. Batteries from hybrid and electric vehicles can either be integrated into existing recycling networks or used in 2nd Life applications. In the early 1990s – long before the legislation came into effect – the BMW Group began to build an extensive netUsing secondary and renewable raw materials work within the European Union for the recovery and Secondary raw materials are finding more and more recycling of end-of-life vehicles (ELV). Each BMW Group applications in our vehicles. Up to 20% of the thermo­ ELV that is returned complete within this network is plastic materials in our automobiles are already made recycled at no charge to the last owner. In cooperation from recyclates. One example is the substrate used for with its national sales companies, the BMW Group has the centre console and the door armrest. By increasing installed recovery systems for end-of-life vehicles in 30 the use of recyclates in our vehicles, we need less crude countries so far, offering vehicle owners environmentally oil for the manufacture of polymer materials. This saves friendly recycling and disposal at dedicated recovery cenenergy and resources. tres. Our European dealerships are contractually obligated to meet the BMW Old Parts Recycling Retail Standard. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 59 3 .4 Wherever it makes technical, business and environmental FORECAST sense and is socially acceptable, we replace artificial ­primary materials with natural, renewable materials. The In the coming years, we want to further improve our resource focus here is on naturally cured leather for the vehicle efficiency and increasingly complete our material cycles. interior and biopolymers in technical areas. Alternative natural fibre materials are also used as a substitute for We are also looking into innovative solutions for the reuse the plastics used in the past. Examples of this are the of old batteries from electric cars. The aim is to extend as far wool used in seat upholstery, flax, kenaf and sisal fibres as possible the life cycle of lithium-ion batteries developed in substrate materials for door panels and rear window ­specifically for use in the BMW i3. To achieve this, we are shelves as well as wood fibre in seat recliner coverings. developing a number of concepts for reusing batteries after they have been removed from the vehicle. Used batteries can Example: renewable materials and recyclates in the BMW i3 be employed, for example, as stationary energy storage units. The interior of the BMW i3 offers door and instrument This allows them to help optimise use of renewable energy or PRODUCT panels based on a natural fibre structure, naturally cured reliable energy supply to buildings. leather and open-pored eucalyptus wood from 100% RESPONSIBILITY FSC®-certified forestry. Up to 25% of the thermoplastic A recycling and dismantling centre modelled on the centre material in the BMW i3 has been substituted by renewable in Munich (Germany) will be opened in Shenyang (China) in 3.1 Our management approach materials and recyclates. High-quality PET recyclate is early 2016. 3.2 Efficient mobility used for the polyester materials of the seat covers. 3.3 Product safety 3.4 R  esource efficiency and F.19 Share of plastic recyclates in vehicles¹ recycling management in % 25 3.5 Future mobility 20 3.6 Customer satisfaction 15 10 5 12 13 14 15 20 20 1 Recyclate share in thermoplastic materials. The vehicle with the highest share of recyclates is shown. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 60 5 3 .5 Future mobility PRODUCT STRATEGIC DIRECTION RESPONSIBILITY SHAPING THE MOBILITY OF THE FUTURE — Focus on digitalisation The BMW Group will have permanently changed mobility pat3.1 Our management approach terns in selected metropolitan areas by 2020 by introducing The BMW Group aims to make the entire value chain of 3.2 Efficient mobility integrated mobility services. future mobility as sustainable as possible. Environmental sustainability is a focus here, along with social impact 3.3 Product safety The company will be the leading supplier of premium products and economic viability. The challenges of urban mobility 3.4  esource efficiency and R and premium services for individual mobility. in particular demand change – not only in terms of the recycling management vehicles offered on the market but also with regard to brand-new mobility services. 3.5 Future mobility 3.6 Customer satisfaction We want to shape tomorrow’s mobility. With this in DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE mind, the BMW Group has introduced the BMW i brand, MOBILITY SERVICES offering visionary vehicles and providing innovative ­services for individual mobility. BMW i represents a new BMW i offers innovative services that enhance urban understanding of the “premium” concept, defined chiefly mobility – both with and without a car. In our efforts to in terms of sustainability. help shape the cities of the future, we provide intelligent and integrated services for existing and new customers. The BMW Group today faces the challenge of recognising For example, we focus on mobility services in the areas changing global mobility trends early on and meeting of car-sharing (e.g. DriveNow), finding parking (e.g. them successfully. Several questions need to be addressed ­ParkNow), recharging (e.g. ChargeNow) and mobility for in this regard: What is the future of individual mobility in business customers (e.g. AlphaCity). We also carry out cities with increasingly dense populations? What concepts continuous research into mobility concepts for the future. are needed in order to make mobility climate-friendly and easy on resources? SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 61 3 .5 F.20 Innovative mobility services CAR-ENABLED CAR-RELATED CAR-INDEPENDENT * * 360° ELECTRIC BMW AND MINI DRIVERS PRODUCT AUTOMOBILE USERS RESPONSIBILITY MOBILE (SMARTPHONE) USERS 3.1 Our management approach * selected services 3.2 Efficient mobility 3.3 Product safety BMW i offers the following mobility services: By 31 December 2014, DriveNow had more than 360,000 3.4 R  esource efficiency and customers in Germany and over 390,000 worldwide. recycling management Premium car-sharing with DriveNow FURTHER INFORMATION: In 2011, the BMW Group and Sixt SE launched their 3.5 Future mobility joint venture car-sharing service DriveNow. It is the first www.drive-now.com 3.6 Customer satisfaction car-sharing concept to build exclusively on efficient ­premium automobiles and comprehensive service. Cars can be rented immediately and spontaneously anywhere within the defined urban area. When they are finished with the DriveNow vehicle, customers can simply leave them at any public parking space. We are also integrating electric vehicles into the DriveNow concept in order to give customers easy access to emissions-free mobility. So far, DriveNow is available in Munich, Berlin, Düsseldorf, Cologne, Hamburg, Vienna, London and San Francisco. In October 2014, we introduced a roaming function which allows DriveNow customers who are already registered in Germany to use our car-sharing service abroad, too. CAR-SHARING AT VIENNA AIRPORT — DriveNow SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 62 3 .5 Car-sharing for business customers with AlphaCity With the innovative car-sharing product AlphaCity, companies can offer their employees an additional alternative to other modes of transport, for either business or private use. While DriveNow is specifically aimed at private customers, AlphaCity is a sustainable solution for businesses and their employees. As the vehicles can be used by a number of employees, the company benefits from the opportunity to reduce the size of its vehicle fleet and thus to save on costs. For employees, AlphaCity is an attractive additional perk as they can use the vehicles outside office hours and at the weekend at very reasonable conditions. PRODUCT AlphaCity is currently available in nine countries: RESPONSIBILITY ­Germany, Austria, France, the Netherlands, England, Denmark, Belgium, Spain and Italy. 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 Efficient mobility Creating sustainable parking patterns with ParkNow ALWAYS IN CONTACT WITH YOUR VEHICLE — ParkNow is an app and Web-based service that is fundaBMW i 360° ELECTRIC assistance services 3.3 Product safety mentally changing parking patterns. First, it makes the 3.4 R  esource efficiency and urban parking situation more transparent. And it also recycling management allows users to book their parking space in advance and DriveNow. 360° ELECTRIC thus provides easy and then be guided directly to their selected space. So P ­ arkNow ­convenient electromobility in virtually any situation. 3.5 Future mobility users are also protecting the environment as the traffic 3.6 Customer satisfaction caused by drivers searching for parking spaces, which ChargeNow: Cross-border and multi-provider access to accounts for a significant share of traffic volume in some a network of partner charging points cities, is no longer an issue. ChargeNow is an important component that is paving the way to sustainable electromobility. It makes rechargConvenient electromobility with BMW i 360° ELECTRIC ing at public charging points as simple and transparent One example of our holistic approach to electromobility as possible. With ChargeNow, BMW i drivers can quickly is our 360° ELECTRIC product and service package. find one of 24,000 public charging points in a large and It includes recharging both at home with the BMW i wallconstantly growing partnership network. Drivers can box and on the go at public charging points that accept locate ChargeNow charging points via the BMW i ChargeNow – a recharge card that enables access and ­ConnectedDrive services in the navigation unit, using a payment at a large number of charging points installed by smartphone, or on the website. Locating and using public various providers. 360° ELECTRIC also includes Assist­ charging points couldn’t be easier. Since November 2014, ance Services with ConnectedDrive services designed for example, BMW i customers from Germany, Austria specifically for electromobility as well as further service and Belgium have been able to use their ChargeNow card and repair offers. In addition, BMW Add-on Mobility to gain cross-border roaming access to the entire charging gives customers access to conventional BMW vehicles for infrastructure of all three countries. long-distance travel as well as the car-sharing service SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 63 3 .5 Find the perfect parking space with JustPark JustPark is an online market place for parking spaces that connects owners of unoccupied spaces with those searching for one. The service was launched in London and is now available throughout the UK. This reduces traffic volume caused by drivers searching for parking spaces, leading to lower CO₂ emissions and less time wasted, as the driver can navigate directly to the reserved parking space. Connecting family members with Life360 Life360 is an innovative smartphone app that connects families and other groups within urban spaces. With the PRODUCT help of location-based technology and a check-in feature, users can see on a map where various family members RESPONSIBILITY STAY CONNECTED WITH YOUR FAMILY — Life360 happen to be at a certain time. This social networking method enables people to meet up easily. There is also 3.1 Our management approach PROMOTING INNOVATIVE MOBILITY CONCEPTS a chat function for direct contact. A navigation system 3.2 Efficient mobility guides you to the desired location and an emergency In order to promote and utilise the innovative potential ­button brings help fast in an emergency. 3.3 Product safety of start-up companies, the BMW Group founded BMW i 3.4  esource efficiency and R Ventures, headquartered in New York City. BMW i MyCityWay recycling management ­Ventures invests in start-up companies with high potential MyCityWay is a mobile city guide that provides up-to-date in the area of mobility services and looks for long-term information on local events, services and tickets. The app 3.5 Future mobility strategic partnerships in the areas of e-mobility, flexible is available for over 70 cities worldwide and has been 3.6 Customer satisfaction use, parking and intermodality (mobility with several downloaded over 5 million times so far. modes of transport). RESEARCHING FUTURE MOBILITY Expanding the charging infrastructure with ChargePoint and Chargemaster Analysing scenarios BMW i Ventures has made strategic investments in Our traffic researchers and engineers are hard at work ­Coulomb Technologies and Chargemaster, among others. on finding solutions for the mobility of tomorrow. For Coulomb Technologies is a US company with a large example, since 1998, the Institute for Mobility Research (ifmo), ­network of charging stations for electric vehicles (over a research organisation that is part of the BMW Group, 18,700 charging points). Chargemaster is a leading infrahas been studying the mobility challenges that various structure provider for electric vehicle recharging in the means of transport will be facing in the future. The instiUK. The company’s charging stations are also available tute’s research findings are incorporated into the strategy and undergoing expansion in other countries in Europe. ­process of the BMW Group. Both providers are partners in the BMW i ChargeNow network. In 2001, ifmo started drafting future scenarios of various means of transporting people and goods in Germany. These research-based forecasts have since been extended SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 64 3 .5 to the USA and China. The Germany scenarios, which r­ eliable, convenient and intermodal mobility – without are currently being updated for the year 2035, will be losing sight of issues such as affordability, traffic safety completed in 2015. The present study attempts to project and minimal environmental impact. In 2014, the key developments in the areas of demographics, economy, BMW Group was involved chiefly in urban projects in transport policy, technology and energy into the future Hamburg (Germany), Chengdu (China) and Indore and assess their impact on tomorrow’s mobility. (India). In many cases, the BMW Group collaborates nationally and internationally with a number of different local, regional and pan-regional partners in order to test, for FORECAST example, electromobility in day-to-day life and to improve its application in practice. The BMW Group sees itself as a driving force in terms of mobility research and would like to continue to take a leading role in PRODUCT Research focus on mobility in the world’s megacities shaping sustainable urban mobility. For this reason, we have The research project Mobility Trends in Cutting Edge Cities set up the Center of Competence Urban Mobility. Together with RESPONSIBILITY analyses mobility trends in Paris, Vienna, Singapore, cities and other stakeholders, the Center will work towards Santiago de Chile and Tokyo. The majority of the people solving urban traffic issues with the help of our products and 3.1 Our management approach in these cities still own a car, but also use other modes mobility services. With this in mind we continually strive to 3.2 Efficient mobility of transport, deciding on a day-to-day basis which one identify new trends at an early stage and to translate the most they will choose. promising research findings into practical applications. 3.3 Product safety 3.4 R  esource efficiency and Another research project, new utilisation concepts for In the coming years, we intend to further expand our car-sharing recycling management individual mobility, looks at the market potential of service both in Germany and internationally, increasingly mobility services in the sharing economy. Who is willing ­integrating electric cars. 3.5 Future mobility in principle to share a car, and what sustainable mobility 3.6 Customer satisfaction strategies can be developed for the future based on this? Online applications and networking opportunities will change the face of future urban mobility. We will continue to work A further project examines the effect of information and on intelligent networking of mobility services (DriveNow, communications technologies (ICT) on physical mobility. ­ChargeNow, ParkNow) in order to make urban mobility more It has become clear as a result of this research that ICT flexible, convenient and sustainable. cannot replace physical mobility. People do not travel less due to new virtual technology, but they travel differently. Sustainable Mobility Project – shaping urbanity together The BMW Group is participating in the three-year Sustain­ able Mobility Project II initiated by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The project brings together a global, cross-industry group of mobility-related companies that are interested in working together with selected city administrations to promote sustainable urban mobility. The goal is to collaborate with the cities on road maps for expanding access to safe, SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 65 6 3 .6 Customer satisfaction PRODUCT FOCUS ON THE CUSTOMER — Consultation at the BMW Welt STRATEGIC DIRECTION RESPONSIBILITY Compared with our competition, the BMW Group is top in And we are aware of the fact that customer satisfaction is 3.1 Our management approach terms of customer satisfaction in the respective market not only created while customers are using our vehicles 3.2 Efficient mobility ­segments when it comes to vehicle concepts and reliability and services, but that the services that come before and as well as the sales and support experience we offer. after purchase also play a decisive role. So the general 3.3 Product safety brand image of the BMW Group is also very important 3.4  esource efficiency and R We provide our customers with all the information necessary when it comes to customer satisfaction. In many markets, recycling management to make a careful and deliberated decision when purchasing in addition to the classical factors such as product and a vehicle. service quality, the overall image of companies is becom3.5 Future mobility ing increasingly dependent on their image as a sustainable 3.6 Customer satisfaction company. Our corporate Strategy Number ONE puts customers at Achieving a high degree of customer satisfaction is the the centre of all we do. Their satisfaction with the products responsibility both of our corporate headquarters and and services of the BMW Group is key to our current of our international subsidiaries. The sales organisations and future business success. in our largest markets (such as the USA, China and ­Germany) report regularly to a specially established committee which deals exclusively with customer satisfaction. High levels of customer satisfaction offer the BMW Group Since 2011, the CustomerFirst initiative has been focusa number of opportunities. Satisfied customers are more sing on increasing customer focus in all areas of the comloyal, upgrade their vehicle purchases over time and are pany. The initiative’s activities aim to align all processes more likely to recommend the dealership, the model or and decisions towards customer benefit. the service they have used (upselling potential). They also tend to avail of other BMW Group services (cross-selling We are aware of the fact that the product recalls by a potential). Consolidating and increasing customer satisnumber of carmakers last year led to a considerable faction is therefore very important for our long-term amount of public attention. As in previous years, the ­business success. BMW Group took voluntary, immediate and consistent SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 66 3 .6 action in such cases in 2014. Whenever necessary or ETHICALLY CORRECT ADVERTISING advisable from a customer perspective, we called back all affected vehicles to the workshops as a precautionary The BMW Group develops central advertising campaigns measure and repaired any existing defects. for its brands. The campaigns are then adapted by those responsible for the respective country markets, ensuring INCREASING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION WITH that local and national circumstances and requirements DEALERSHIPS are complied with. We are careful to ensure that our advertising complies with all relevant legislation and that no Since 2010, we have been gathering transparent feedback social groups are discriminated against. The BMW Group from our BMW and MINI customers on the performance has its own standards and behaviour guidelines with of our dealerships in several important markets. This is regard to advertising, which are subject to continuous based on an ongoing customer satisfaction survey which review. Internal committees help us to ensure that our we carry out by telephone, in writing and online. We advertising complies with these principles and other PRODUCT publish the results of this survey by way of a 5-star rating ­ethical criteria. system and short customer statements on the website RESPONSIBILITY of the respective dealership. This level of transparency The BMW Group does not offer any products whose sale reflects the BMW Group’s customer focus strategy. is prohibited in specific markets. We provide our custom3.1 Our management approach ers with all the information necessary to make a careful 3.2 Efficient mobility Experiencing sustainability in sales and services and deliberated decision. No essential information is The BMW Group wants its customers to experience what ­concealed or presented in a misleading manner. 3.3 Product safety sustainability means to us. Selected sales facilities have 3.4 R  esource efficiency and therefore been constructed as Green Buildings with low Our principles also include incorporating sustainability recycling management energy consumption, high levels of energy efficiency as as a theme in advertising. This is done both by means well as natural light and air conditioning. We have also of stand-alone campaigns as well as through continuous 3.5 Future mobility ensured that Green Building requirements are being met vehicle-integrated communication. Some examples of 3.6 Customer satisfaction for new builds by integrating them into the Europe-wide stand-alone campaigns are advertising for the Efficient Retail Standards for our retail partners. Dynamics models and the online CO₂ Finder. Sustainability is also an integral part of our sales training. Our local marketing specialists are responsible for impleOur goal is for the sales staff at our dealerships to be so menting our advertising campaigns in each country. well informed that they are able to answer any questions The BMW Group is not aware of having violated any regu­ customers may have on the BMW Group’s sustainability lations pertaining to advertising during the reporting activities. period. IMPROVING EVEN FURTHER THROUGH CUSTOMER SURVEYS In 2014, we surveyed approximately 2.3 million customers in 90 markets to find out about their needs and experiences. This feedback is then incorporated into the development and optimisation of our products and services. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 67 3 .6 Our surveys show that our customers’ needs vary considerably from country to country. We must take these national and cultural differences into account. To do this, we constantly carry out customer surveys. In 2012, we implemented stricter standardisation requirements for the customer satisfaction surveys carried out in our ­subsidiaries in order to ensure the completeness and comparability of the results. ESTABLISHING FUTURE RETAIL We have launched the Future Retail programme in over 40 markets in order to fulfil the wishes expressed by our PRODUCT customers. Dealerships were remodelled and our “­ Product Genius” was introduced. In the year under review, there FROM CAPE TOWN TO MUNICH RESPONSIBILITY were approximately 1,700 of these product experts in over 1,000 dealerships worldwide. The Product Genius’ The BMW 318i – affectionately nicknamed “Percy” – has been 3.1 Our management approach task is not to sell vehicles but to offer the customer going for more than 20 years, clocking up over 400,000 kilo3.2 Efficient mobility ­comprehensive advice – with no pressure to purchase. metres. And it still managed the journey from Cape Town to The first new Brand and Retail Stores have now been Munich without major incident. 3.3 Product safety established on shopping strips in cities like Rome and 3.4  esource efficiency and R ­Brussels. And Future Retail also provides professional This was especially important to its owner Mike Lomberg, recycling management HR management to help dealerships find and train the a test driver from South Africa. After all, Percy was the reason right employees. why Lomberg regained a sense of mobility and independence 3.5 Future mobility again when he was confined to a wheelchair after suffering a 3.6 Customer satisfaction car accident 25 years ago. Out of sheer gratitude, Lomberg decided to return the old BMW 318i to its manufacturer to FORECAST have it recycled. His friends Rowan Jelley, Ian Scrimgeour and Max Cromarty instantly agreed to help him. It took the three The BMW Group wants to further enhance the satisfaction South Africans at least three months to complete the 17,000of its customers in the coming years and to expand our direct kilometre trip, during the course of which they met all sorts of contact to them. In order to achieve this, we will gradually wonderful people from their continent. “Percy’s an engineerextend our customer surveys and our Future Retail programme ing masterpiece. The car didn’t just have a positive impact on to more countries. Mike Lomberg’s life, it made a dream come true for us in many ways,” said Scrimgeour when the group arrived in Munich on 13 July 2014. The three have documented their trip in a blog with photos and stories. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 68 4 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 GROUP-WIDE ­ENVIRONMENTAL ­PROTECTION 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 Our management approach Energy p. 75 CO emissions p. 80 Waste management Water Read more at ² p. 88 www.bmwgroup.com p. 85 p. 72 69 LANDSHUT, GERMANY BMW GROUP PLANT LANDSHUT How does the BMW Group save resources at its plants? Plant tour for visitors, September 2014 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 70 4 — GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROGRESS IN 2014 INDICATORS 2015+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES FURTHER INCREASE IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER VEHICLE EXPAND SHARE OF RENEWABLE PRODUCED ENERGY SOURCES In 2014, we further reduced energy consumption By 2020, we plan to reduce energy consumption 2.25 per vehicle produced by 4.7%. One of the meas­ 2014 ures that contributed towards this improvement per vehicle produced by 45% compared with 2006. in efficiency is the use of intelligent energy data management. MWh 2013 2.36 MWh IMPROVEMENT IN PROCESSES WASTE FOR DISPOSAL PER VEHICLE FURTHER REDUCE WASTE FOR DISPOSAL PRODUCED A number of process improvements enabled us to We will continue to minimise the share of waste 4.93 further improve the efficiency of the materials used 2014 for disposal in 2015, and will integrate as many on our production lines. This led to a decrease in residual materials as possible into a complete life waste for disposal of 14% per vehicle produced. cycle management system. kg 2013 5.73 kg INCREASE IN USE OF RENEWABLE SHARE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY AS INCREASE USE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY ENERGY SOURCES A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL CONSUMPTION In addition to the intelligent use of energy, we will We increased the share of renewable energy be placing particular focus on renewable ­energy 51 2014 as a percentage of total power consumed by ­expansion. Our vision is to draw 100% of our the BMW Group to 51% in 2014 (2013: 48%). ­energy requirements from renewable sources. % 2013 48% SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 71 1 4 .1 Our management We have been able to achieve reductions in the past eight years in the following areas: approach Energy consumption – 34.2% Water consumption – 33.1% Process wastewater – 42.7% Waste for disposal – 74.0% Solvent emissions – 48.6% CO² emissions – 37.1% GROUP-WIDE The BMW Group aims to be not only the leading, but In 2014, utilisation of resources and emissions per vehicle also the most sustainable, premium provider of individual produced were reduced by an average of 6.7% compared ­ENVIRONMENTAL mobility. We therefore pursue a policy of comprehensive, with the previous year, yielding savings of €15.8 million. PROTECTION Group-wide environmental management. The company integrates environmental considerations into all its major 4.1 Our management approach investment decisions at an early stage, setting itself ambiF.21 Resource consumption and emissions per vehicle produced 4.2 Energy tious targets and using key environmental indicators to compared with previous year constantly track and monitor how it is performing. We 4.3 CO² emissions also transfer best-practice solutions from within the com2013 2014 Compared p.a. pany to the entire production network and are convinced 4.4 Waste management that by taking farsighted action now and by integrating Energy consumption 4.5 Water environmental principles into all business processes we in MWh 2.36 2.25 – 4.7% can achieve added value both in terms of the environment Water consumption and our business. in m³ 2.18 2.18 – 0.0% Process wastewater in m³ 0.47 0.47 – 0.0% Waste for disposal CONTINUOUSLY INCREASING RESOURCE EFFICIENCY in kg 5.73 4.93 – 14.0% Solvent The BMW Group continuously increases its resource emissions in kg 1.59 1.29 – 18.9% ­efficiency by integrating environmental management into CO² emissions all production processes. Since 2006, we have reduced in t 0.68 0.66 – 2.9% our use of resources and emissions per vehicle produced by an average of more than 45%. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 72 4 .1 CONSOLIDATING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Establishing environmental management systems WITHIN THE ORGANISATION The BMW Group has established environmental management systems at all of its production plants and plans to Environmental protection is part of our sustainability install them at all future facilities. These encompass both management system. The steering committee of our the corporate planning departments (e.g. Production and international environmental protection network controls Development) as well as the network of international environmental management under the direction of the locations. With the exception of the motorcycle plant in Group Representative for Environmental Protection. Manaus, Brazil (which is certified according to the Every machine, every building and every area at each ­Brazilian national standard), these systems are certified in production site is assigned to an operator. That operator accordance with ISO 14001. The systems at the German is responsible for the products, processes, machines and and Austrian sites have undergone additional external technical systems in his or her allocated area as well as audits and meet European Eco-Management and Audit their environmental impact. Scheme (EMAS) standards. The BMW Group thus has GROUP-WIDE environmental management systems in place at 100% of Sharing best practices its production plants. We have also installed environmental ­ENVIRONMENTAL In line with our Clean Production philosophy, we design management systems at our dealerships in Germany, PROTECTION our manufacturing processes for minimum environmental Austria and Switzerland. All German dealerships, as well impact and resource consumption. We underscored this as six others in Europe (in Vienna, Zurich, Rome, Milan, 4.1 Our management approach commitment in 2001 when we signed the International Madrid and Barcelona) are already certified in accordance 4.2 Energy Declaration on Cleaner Production of the United Nations with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Environment Programme. 4.3 CO² emissions Requiring environmental protection from partners and suppliers Environmental improvements that have been effective As well as ensuring that environmental standards are 4.4 Waste management at one location are implemented at other locations whercomplied with and improved at its own production plants, 4.5 Water ever possible. Our six competence centres (for water, the BMW Group expects its partners and suppliers to waste, energy, emissions, training and the environmental do the same. We require proof from our main suppliers management system) are staffed by environmental that they have an environmental management system experts from the different plants and by specialists from in place see Chapter 5. Corporate Environmental Protection. They discuss legal requirements and best-practice solutions with technology We also work closely with our joint venture partners experts from the production plants and develop reference SGL Group and Brilliance Automotive Ltd. to implement systems on which to base future planning and process continuous improvement in the area of environmental improvements. protection. For example, our joint venture with SGL Automotive Carbon Fibers in Moses Lake (USA) uses Considering environmental issues when making investments renewable hydropower to produce its carbon fibres. One main method of enhancing resource efficiency is to take account of environmental aspects when planning any new investments. This allows potential improvements in efficiency to be identified and implemented at an early stage. If they are found to be insufficient, we seek out more environmentally friendly alternatives. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 73 4 .1 With an average of 1.29 kg of VOC emissions per vehicle RECOGNISING AND PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY produced, we are also below the strict maximum levels stipulated in Germany which we apply to all plants worldThe BMW Group takes ownership of the environmental impact wide. There is only one exception, a plant at which the of its activities. Part of this responsibility involves researching national maximum levels are of course complied with and the impact of our production processes on the animal and plant for which we are already preparing further VOC reducworld. At certain locations, for example at our testing centre tions. Emissions per vehicle produced dropped by 18.9% in Aschheim close to Munich, we have gathered evidence of in 2014. This is mainly due to the fact that the retrofitting this impact. As a result we gained knowledge about the ­existing of the paint shop at the Dadong plant in China with an animal and plant species and were able to preserve or even exhaust air purification system had a full-year effect for the improve the biodiversity at that location. In Aschheim, we idenfirst time. These are some of the ways we made a signifitified, for example, the butterfly species Polyommatus b­ ellargus cant contribution towards lower environmental impact. and Colias hyale/alfacariensis as well as the grasshopper GROUP-WIDE ­Oedipoda caerulescens – all of which are on Germany’s red list of endangered species – and we are taking measures to protect F.22 Solvent emissions per vehicle produced ­ENVIRONMENTAL the stocks of these species. in kg/vehicle PROTECTION 2.25 We use a biodiversity indicator to regularly identify the environ­ 2.00 4.1 Our management approach mental status of selected facilities. We use this to gain an 1.75 under­standing of the flora and fauna there. 1.50 4.2 Energy 1.25 4.3 CO² emissions In the coming year, this kind of biodiversity research will also 1.00 be introduced at selected international production plants. 4.4 Waste management The research will be based on a set of BMW Group biodiversity 10 11 12 13 14 4.5 Water guidelines. 1.66¹ 1.75¹ 1.78¹ 1.59¹ 1.29¹ 1 This row of numbers is not directly comparable with those published in 2012. Efficiency indicator = VOC emissions divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Minimising environmental damage from Magna Steyr and Nedcar contract production plants. volatile organic compounds (VOC) In our Group-wide environmental efforts, we also aim to minimise the impact on the environment of our VOC FORECAST emissions. By the year 2020, we aim to reduce VOC ­emissions by 45% compared to the reference year 2006. The BMW Group will continue to pursue its Clean Production philosophy and is transferring best practices of particularly At the end of 2014, we had reduced VOC emissions by successful plants across the Group. In the coming years, we 48.6% compared to 2006. This means that we have also plan to transfer our successful efficiency measures to already more than achieved the target we set ourselves. the entire value chain, the intention being to leverage potential However, we will continue to reduce emissions through for more resource efficiency in the supply chain. We will also to 2020. intensify our efforts to achieve CO²-free energy supply see Chapter 4.2. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 74 2 4 .2 Energy IMPLEMENTING STRATEGIC AREAS OF ACTION In order to further enhance our energy efficiency and to move forward with the use of renewable energy, we have defined the following strategic areas of action: – IFurther mprove energy efficiency: development of an integrated energy ­management system; Continuous improvement of ongoing operations; Planning and implementation of energy-efficient real estate, plants and technologies. GROUP-WIDE – Use renewable energy sources. STRATEGIC DIRECTION ­ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION – Rdeal aise employee and manager awareness of how to Our vision is to achieve a completely carbon-neutral energy with energy. supply for the BMW Group. One of the main levers we use 4.1 Our management approach to do this is energy efficiency. By 2020, we plan to reduce IMPROVING EFFICIENCY OF PROCESSES AND BUILDINGS energy consumption per vehicle produced by 45% compared 4.2 Energy with 2006. We monitor and optimise our energy consumption on an 4.3 CO² emissions ongoing basis. For this purpose, we use an energy management system based on the environmental management 4.4 Waste management systems ISO 14001 and EMAS. In addition, we are also 4.5 Water The BMW Group is continually reducing its energy concontinually improving the environmental management sumption and is intensifying its efforts to produce more systems on the basis of internal and external audits. power in-house and to use energy from local renewable sources. The company also actively supports the expansion We set ourselves ambitious goals that we aim to achieve of renewable energy. This enables us to increase our with the aid of the latest technologies and continuous autonomy and profitability and ensure that our production optimisation of vehicle production processes. is not impacted by energy bottlenecks. At the same time we are reducing our environmental impact and making These are some examples of our process improvements: sure that we work as efficiently as possible with scarce raw materials. – W aste heat utilisation at the Landshut plant At our Landshut (Germany) facility, heat exchangers enable us to reuse the waste heat from the foundry for The BMW Group uses the most environmentally friendly heating and cooling. The waste heat provides hot water and sustainably profitable energy source at each producfor the plant and is also fed into special machines that tion plant. Security of supply also plays a role here. cool the production process. This saves us over €1 million annually and also helps us to achieve a positive effect for the environment. In future, 10,000 tonnes of SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 75 4 .2 CO₂ will be saved per year and energy consumption The resulting reduction in energy costs in the face of will sink by 15,000 MWh. ­rising medium-term energy prices makes a significant contribution towards the BMW Group becoming more – Sdata ustainable production through intelligent energy profitable and more competitive. management The introduction of the intelligent energy data manageWe now use combined heat and power systems (CHP) at ment (iEDMS) system, which is part of the BMW Group a total of eight locations and are continuing to expand the production concept “Industrie 4.0”, has enabled us to CHP system at the Landshut plant. These systems allow optimise energy consumption of building and supply us to utilise both the electricity generated as well as the structures at selected facilities. This system captures and ­resulting waste heat. evaluates all relevant data. Worldwide, the BMW Group aims to reduce its energy consumption by up to 7% by applying iEDMS at our production plants. GROUP-WIDE ­ENVIRONMENTAL F.23 Energy consumption in detail PROTECTION in MWh 10 11 12 13 14 4.1 Our management approach Total energy consumption (upper heating value in case of fossil fuels) 4.2 Energy Total energy consumption 4,072,217 4,278,582 4,549,788 4,721,174 4,867,094 4.3 CO² emissions Total energy consumption in detail (upper heating value in case of fossil fuels) 4.4 Waste management Electricity (external source) 1,654,956 1,702,157 1,790,534 1,910,065 2,141,222 4.5 Water Community heating 319,270 200,808 249,123 316,532 281,216 from renewable energy sources in %¹ 18 28 36 48 51 Fossil fuels Fuel oil 43,828 12,176 12,622 14,023 7,459 Natural gas 1,756,760 2,034,529 2,169,059 2,165,362 2,198,202 of which CHP losses 110,511 211,680 210,514 191,840 210,740 Non-fossil fuels Biogas (landfill gas) 288,402 328,912 328,450 315,192 238,654 of which CHP losses 86,100 91,600 103,422 94,486 73,638 Regenerative fuels Solar energy (photovoltaics) 3 0² 114³ 142 341 1 Conservative calculation from the country-specific shares. Method adapted for Germany and Austria by using the transparency data in supplier invoices since 2012. 2 No contribution to energy supply due to maintenance work. 3 Commissioning of a new system in 2012. Further systems planned. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 76 4 .2 AQUIFER PROJECT IN DINGOLFING In 2013, in collaboration with the Technical University of ­Munich, the BMW Group launched a research project on innovative temporary storage of thermal energy in a high-temperature “aquifer” store. The basic idea of aquifer storage is to tempor­ arily store superfluous thermal energy that is not immediately needed (for example in summer months when thermal energy is generated in combined heat and power systems) 500 to 700 metres below the earth’s surface and to draw it back for use in winter. This is a unique project worldwide and is making an important contribution towards fundamental research in the GROUP-WIDE area of thermal storage. If it is successful, new opportunities for decentralised energy production and storage will be opened up, ­ENVIRONMENTAL and this could lead to significant CO² savings. The Bavarian PROTECTION Ministry of Economics, Infrastructure, Transport and Technology is providing approximately €4.5 million in funding for the project, 4.1 Our management approach as it could make an important contribution towards the transformation of the energy industry in Bavaria. 4.2 Energy 4.3 CO² emissions 4.4 Waste management DESIGNING SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS 4.5 Water The reference system for sustainable construction is the basis for new-building projects and building conversions CLEAN ENERGY FOR BMW i PRODUCTION — at the BMW Group. It sets down principles and concepts The wind farm at the BMW plant in Leipzig (Germany) for buildings throughout the BMW Group and enables us to monitor the measures taken during the individual project phases. The aim is to minimise consumption of TAKING ADVANTAGE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY energy and resources during all phases of a buildings life cycle – from planning, construction, use and renovation In addition to the intelligent use of energy, we are also right up to renaturation. This is not only a cost-saving focusing on renewable energy expansion. Our vision is to measure – we also aim to have as little impact on the draw 100% of our energy requirements from renewable environment as possible. Based on this reference system, sources. Instead of relying on energy from one specific we were able, for example, to receive LEED (Leadership source, we will take a look at local conditions and decide in Energy and Environmental Design) certification for all which concept makes most sense at each location. buildings erected for the production of the BMW i3 at our In 2010, we implemented a development plan to assess Leipzig plant. the potential of each production facility and we are now ­putting it into practice step by step. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 77 4 .2 GROUP-WIDE ­ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4.1 Our management approach 4.2 Energy RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR PRODUCTION OF THE MINI — Solar panel system at the plant in Oxford (UK) 4.3 CO² emissions 4.4 Waste management Here are some specific examples of how we use I­ celand is powered entirely by two autonomous renew4.5 Water ­renewable energy: able energy sources: geothermal and hydro. As a result, operation of the computer centre is completely – Pinhotovoltaic system at the BMW Group plant environ­mentally neutral. Oxford At our MINI plant in Oxford (UK) over 11,500 solar – BIniogas for twin-unit power station modules spread across an area of 20,000 square meters Rosslyn (South Africa), installation of a biogas-­ supply the facility with renewable energy. It is one of powered twin-unit power station, to be operated by the the largest solar energy systems installed on a roof in the new independent provider Bio2Watt, began in 2014. UK and can generate over 3 MWh – enough to supply The biogas used will come from recycled waste from 850 households a year with electricity. cattle ranches and chicken farms as well as food waste. – CAomputer centre in Iceland We increased the share of renewable energy as a percenthuge amount of computer capacity is needed for age of total power consumed by the BMW Group to 51% vehicle development at the BMW Group. Currently, in 2014 (2013: 48%). It is one of our primary targets to we require 6,300 MWh of electricity per year. We have further increase this share in the future. moved a number of computing applications from ­Germany to Iceland in order to exploit the potential of the colder climate there. The computer centre in SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 78 4 .2 F.24 Share of renewable power in total power purchased F.25 Energy consumption per vehicle produced by the BMW Group in MWh/vehicle in % 3.0 60 2.8 50 2.6 40 2.4 30 2.2 20 10 10 11 12 13 14 11 12 13 14 2.72¹ 2.43¹ 2.41¹ 2.36¹ 2.25¹ 1 This row of numbers is not directly comparable with those published in 2012. Efficiency indicator = energy 28 36 48 51 GROUP-WIDE consumption minus CHP losses divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. ­ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION RAISING EMPLOYEE AND MANAGER AWARENESS OF year 2006, bringing us considerably closer to our goal HOW TO DEAL WITH ENERGY of reducing energy consumption per vehicle by 45% 4.1 Our management approach compared with 2006. 4.2 Energy Teaching trainees how to deal with energy efficiently is an integral part of vocational training at the BMW Group. 4.3 CO² emissions In addition, we offer courses on value-creating production systems, a systematic approach to improving efficiency FORECAST 4.4 Waste management in technical and administrative processes that addresses 4.5 Water the entire workforce. Using a training demonstrator, The BMW Group will continue to successfully pursue its energy employees can actively learn how to use energy efficiently. targets in the coming years. We will continue to expand the use of renewable energy and, from 2015 onwards, we will parIn summer 2014, we also published an interactive online ticipate in the energy market with tried and tested combined training module for all employees in Germany and Austria heat and power systems. This will be our contribution towards on the subject of energy efficiency in the BMW Group. securing a stable energy supply. In addition, we are collabo­r­ We now have an English version for our international ating with a number of universities to develop new approaches locations. and methods. Two current activities that we will continue to pursue in the coming years are the Aquifer project in Dingolfing FURTHER REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER VEHICLE (Germany) that explores the possibility of underground thermal storage and a research project into how to find ways to use Our efforts to continually improve energy efficiency spent batteries from BMW i vehicles as Second Life batteries pay off. For example, in 2014 we were able to further for flexible stationary storage of renewable energy. reduce our energy consumption per vehicle to 2.25 MWh (–4.7% compared to the previous year see Figure 25). This represents an improvement of 34.2% over the base SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 79 3 4 – MWeinimising .3 CO₂ emissions CO₂ emissions at company locations are pursuing our vision of CO -free energy supply ₂ at our own locations. This includes emissions that are generated directly from burning fossil fuels (Scope 1) and indirectly through the company’s electricity and heat consumption (Scope 2). Our production locations generate approximately 90% of these emissions. This is why the strategic area of action we focus on is to reduce CO₂ emissions on the production line. – Rfrom educing CO₂ emissions upstream and downstream the value chain In this area we continually reduce emissions caused by GROUP-WIDE the use and disposal of our products, in our supply STRATEGIC DIRECTION chain, in transport logistics and by employees commut­ENVIRONMENTAL ing to and from work (Scope 3). 70% of these Scope 3 PROTECTION The BMW Group aims to be the leader in using renewable emissions are generated during the utilisation phase ­energy for production and value creation. Our vision is to (not including upstream fuel). With our Efficient 4.1 Our management approach achieve CO²-free energy supply. Dynamics strategy see Chapter 3.2 ­we are continually 4.2 Energy reducing the average fleet emissions of CO₂ per kilometre worldwide – in 2014 by 4.4% to 152 g of CO₂/km 4.3 CO² emissions (2013: 159 g of CO₂/km). The average CO₂ emissions of The consequences of climate change are highly relevant the three main regions were 130 g of CO₂/km (EU-28), 4.4 Waste management for the BMW Group. Global climate change affects the 168 g of CO₂/km (USA) and 176 g of CO₂/km (China). 4.5 Water behavioural patterns of our customers. At the same time, in order to counteract climate change, many governments Another 20% of the Scope 3 emissions were generated are creating new framework conditions through fleet in the upstream supply chain. We constantly work with emissions targets, new fuel taxes, efficiency labels and our suppliers to look for further possibilities to use other measures such as emissions trading systems. And resources more efficiently see Chapter 5.3. With Design climate change can lead to extreme weather conditions, for Recycling, we ensure that as many of the comporesulting in bottlenecks in the supply chain and on the nents as possible flow back into the materials cycle production line. once the vehicle has reached the end of its life cycle. This leads to lower CO₂ emissions in the value chain see Chapter 3.4. And finally, we increase the CO₂ effiReducing CO₂ emissions along the entire value chain ciency of our transport logistics on an ongoing basis. makes sense for the BMW Group, both from an environmental and from a business perspective (due to lower energy consumption, avoidance of CO₂ charges as well as attractive offers that fulfil the requirements of many of our fleet customers’ green car policies). With this in mind, we are taking action along our entire value chain: SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 80 4 .3 F.26 BMW Group CO² footprint in t CO² 10 11 12 13 14 Total emissions¹ 1,961,348 2,715,364 61,603,503 64,019,874 66,913,264 Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions Total emissions 409,911 450,828 484,612 492,798 494,931 Emissions of company-owned production sites 340,131 370,241 395,012 399,473² 403,810² Company vehicles 65,974 76,120 84,633 88,695 85,695 Company-owned planes 3,806 4,468 4,966 4,630 5,426 Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total emissions 933,097 858,785 862,214 922,843² 966,067² GROUP-WIDE Electricity/heat purchased by company­ENVIRONMENTAL owned production sites 933,097 858,785 862,214 922,843² 966,067² PROTECTION Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total emissions 618,340 1,405,751 60,256,678 62,604,233 65,452,266 4.1 Our management approach Logistics³ 466,027 1,195,887 1,247,100 1,383,774 1,518,304 Business trips³ 48,450 108,492 111,971 113,388 137,601 4.2 Energy Employees’ commuter traffic 4 103,863 101,372 113,505 122,584 121,428 4.3 CO² emissions Upstream chain 5 – – 12,592,090 13,274,865 14,331,118 Utilisation phase 6 – – 45,251,958 46,696,786 48,239,470 4.4 Waste management Disposal 5 – – 940,054 1,012,836 1,104,345 4.5 Water 1 Addition of emissions from employee’s commuter traffic as well as from 2012 onwards emissions from supply chain, utilisation phase and disposal. 2 Currently applicable VDA emissions factors applied. 3 Emissions figures from 2011 onwards are not directly comparable to previous years due to refinement of the calculation method. 4 Extrapolation from the table “Means of transport used by BMW employees and indirect CO² emissions from employees’ commuter traffic”. 5 Emissions from supply chain and disposal processes are calculated based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines. 6 The fleet emissions are extrapolated from the average fleet emissions of the main sales markets of the BMW Group. The calculation was based on an average mileage of 150,000 km. REDUCING CO² EMISSIONS AT OUR PRODUCTION PLANTS ment in medium and long-term measures has to make economic sense. For this reason, we monitor and analyse For many years now, the BMW Group has been working regulatory requirements worldwide as well as future to use resources more efficiently and reduce CO₂ emistrends in the energy sector, and we take this into considsions at its production facilities. And we will continue eration when making decisions. along this road. Some of the main points on our road map are the con­ In order to realise our vision of CO₂-free energy supply, tinuous improvement of energy efficiency, use and we follow a road map that includes medium to long-term expansion of energy and CO₂-efficient combined heat targets as well as specific action that has to be taken in and power systems, focused expansion of renewable the short term see Chapter 4.2. At the same time, investSUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 81 4 .3 energy supply capacity and the purchase of certificates CHOOSING LOW EMISSIONS OPTIONS IN LOGISTICS of origin for parts of our energy supply. The global transport volume required to supply our In 2014, total emissions in our production network ­production plants with materials, to deliver our vehicles amounted to 1,369,877 tonnes of CO₂ (2013: 1,322,316 and to supply spare parts to the markets has grown tonnes). This is only a slight increase of 3.6%, in spite of ­considerably in the past few years. This is primarily due a significant increase of 7.6% in production volume. The to an increase in global production and sales volume, ongoing reduction in CO₂ emissions per vehicle p ­ roduced combined with regional shifts in these volumes. Above-­ demonstrates that we have already made considerable average growth in North America and Asia means that progress along this road. Emissions per vehicle produced long transport distances must be covered. decreased by 2.9% to 0.66 tonnes of CO₂ (2013: 0.68 tonnes of CO₂ per vehicle produced). We were also able The increase in transport volume in recent years has also to increase the share of green energy to 48% of energy led to more CO₂ emissions caused by transport logistics. GROUP-WIDE purchased in 2013 and to 51% in 2014. To keep these emissions as low as possible, we are optimising our logistics based on the following principles: ­ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION F.27 CO² emissions per vehicle produced – Production follows the market. in t/vehicle 4.1 Our management approach 0.95 – Wlow-carbon e are continually increasing the percentage of 4.2 Energy 0.90 modes of transport. 0.85 4.3 CO² emissions 0.80 – We enable sustainable mobility for our employees. 0.75 4.4 Waste management 0.70 An overview of our transport capacity 4.5 Water 0.65 In 2014, the BMW Group had a total transport volume of approximately 37.2 billion tonne-kilometres, emitting 10 11 12 13 14 around 1.52 million tonnes of CO₂ in the process. 0.89¹ 0.75¹ 0.72¹ 0.68¹ 0.66¹ Compared to 2013, transport volume increased by 10.2%. This is due on the one hand to an increase of approximately 1 This row of numbers is not directly comparable with those published in 2012. Efficiency indicator = CO² emissions minus combined heat and power (CHP) losses divided by the total number of vehicles 7.9% in the number of BMW and MINI vehicles produced ­produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr and Nedcar contract production plants. and shipped. On the other hand, system limits for the collection of data to encompass additional transport volImproved energy efficiency, the use of highly efficient and environmentally sustainable combined heat and power systems (CHP) as well as renewable ume were extended. Total CO₂ emissions rose by 9.7% energy led to a reduction in CO₂ emissions per vehicle produced in the compared to the previous year; excluding new volumes ­reporting period of 2.9% to 0.66 tonnes (2013: 0.68). the increase was 5.6%. Shifts in the ratios of modes of transport used can likewise be attributed mainly to the extension of the system limits for data acquisition see Figure 28. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 82 4 .3 F.28 Logistics: Carriers and CO² emissions¹ 10 11 12 13 14 Inbound (material provision of the plants and spare parts delivery) Transport capacity in million tkm 3,810 9,072 10,703 11,560 12,682 CO² emissions in t 320,526 518,157 547,049 580,616 630,215 Outbound (distribution vehicles and spare parts) Transport capacity in million tkm 15,088 18,854 20,195 22,226 24,537 CO² emissions in t 145,501 677,730 700,051 803,158 888,089 Total (inbound and outbound) GROUP-WIDE Transport capacity in million tkm 18,898 27,926 30,898 33,786 37,219 ­ENVIRONMENTAL CO² emissions in t 466,027 1,195,887 1,247,100 1,383,774 1,518,304 PROTECTION Percentage share of carriers in total (inbound and outbound) in terms of transport volume and CO² emissions 4.1 Our management approach tkm g CO² tkm g CO² tkm g CO² tkm g CO² tkm g CO² 4.2 Energy Sea 79.9 14.1 78.9 51.3 79.2 53.1 78.9 51.6 77.8 50.1 Road 13.3 61.2 11.9 24.2 10.7 20.2 12.4 23.1 13.5 24.3 4.3 CO² emissions Rail 6.3 7.3 8.2 5.5 8.9 4.6 7.5 3.8 7.3 2.7 4.4 Waste management Air 0.5 17.4 1.0 19.0 1.2 22.1 1.2 21.5 1.4 22.9 4.5 Water 1 Figures refer to BMW and MINI, excluding Rolls-Royce automobiles. CO² emissions calculated in accordance with DIN EN 16258. Since the 2011 financial year, the scope has expanded significantly and currently comprises: inbound volumes ­(material supplies to plants and spare parts delivery) for BMW and MINI vehicles in Germany, the UK, the USA, South Africa, China, Thailand, India and CKD/SKD locations as well as for delivery of spare parts to the parts supply centre ZTA in ­Dingolfing (Germany). Outbound volumes (distribution of vehicles and spare parts) are included up to arrival at the distribution centres in the markets worldwide as well as for some markets up to arrival at the dealerships. Expanding the use of low-carbon modes of transport all three of these railway connections have been running We are continually increasing the share of low-carbon entirely on electricity from renewable sources. modes of transport. We give rail transport preference over road transport wherever possible. Applying a rail strategy in order to secure capacities We developed a rail strategy to secure sufficient rail For example, we have for years been using a daily train capacity for our vehicle distribution. By applying this from the greater urban areas of Hanover, Wuppertal and strategy we were able to secure for the long term approx­ Frankfurt to supply each of our Bavarian plants. This imately 75% of the relevant covered-wagon rail freight strategy enables us to avoid some 30,000 truck trips per capacity available in Central Europe. For this purpose, two year, saving more than 13,000 tonnes of carbon emissions of our transportation service providers are investing in in the process. We also make a significant contribution ­additional covered railcars. By 2015, we will have at our to relieving the congestion on traffic routes. Since 2014, disposal over 300 new, state-of-the-art covered wagons – SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 83 4 .3 all new wagons will be equipped with “whisper brakes” FORECAST that significantly reduce noise emissions from the trains. At our production plants, we will continue in the coming year to We increased the average volume of rail transport of work on our vision of a CO²-free energy supply for our locations. BMW Group vehicles from the plants to 63.3% in 2014. One example of how we are reducing CO² emissions in 2015 is This was up from 60.7% the previous year see Figure 29. the commissioning of a biogas-fired combined heat and power system to supply energy to our plant in South Africa. We will also further reduce CO² emissions upstream and downstream F.29 Share of vehicles shipped by rail from BMW Group plants¹ from the value chain. With our Efficient Dynamics Strategy in % see Chapter 3.2 we are continually reducing the average 70 fleet emissions of CO² per kilometre worldwide. In the area of 60 logistics, we will further increase the share of low-carbon 50 modes of transport. We also work with our suppliers to look for GROUP-WIDE 40 further possibilities to use resources such as energy more ­efficiently see Chapter 5.3. ­ENVIRONMENTAL 30 20 PROTECTION 10 4.1 Our management approach 10 11 12 13 14 4.2 Energy 49.5 53.1 56.9 60.7 63.3 4.3 CO² emissions 1 Excluding Rolls-Royce automobiles. 4.4 Waste management 4.5 Water In cases where rail transport is not possible, we require that our carriers use environmentally friendly vehicles (at a minimum, compliance with the Euro 5 standard and for newly acquired vehicles compliance with the latest statutory Euro standard is required). Promoting sustainable mobility for our employees Staff commuting is a major item on the BMW Group’s logistics balance sheet. Here, too, we try to keep our impact on the environment as low as possible. Among the measures that are in place are our plant buses which reduce the number of individual drives to work. In Germany, 42% of all employees travelled to work by plant bus or public transport in 2014, and another 7% by bicycle or on foot. The carbon footprint for employees at our German locations was 4.5 kg of CO₂ per employee and day in 2014 (2013: 4.6 kg). SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 84 4 4 .4 Waste management GROUP-WIDE STRATEGIC DIRECTION ­ENVIRONMENTAL GLOBAL CHALLENGE — waste avoidance at the BMW Group plant PROTECTION By 2020, the BMW Group aims to reduce waste per vehicle in Spartanburg (USA) produced by 45% compared to 2006. 4.1 Our management approach 1. Prevention: Where possible, we avoid creating waste 4.2 Energy We want to reduce all waste for disposal to a minimum, to the in the first place. This is the best solution, both in extent that this is technically and legally possible. We will ­economic and environmental terms. 4.3 CO² emissions achieve this by improving our waste separation processes and working hard to find further recycling and reuse options for 2. Reuse: We reuse any viable waste material immediately. 4.4 Waste management the individual waste types. Otherwise we prepare it for reuse in its original area 4.5 Water of application. 3. Recycle: If reuse is not an option, we recycle the ma­ With raw materials becoming increasingly scarce worldterial in such a way that we can reintroduce it to the wide, the BMW Group engages in recycling manage­ ­cycle. It can then replace primary raw materials. ment throughout material life cycles. Part of this entails ­continuously optimising our processes and reducing 4. Recovery: We incinerate most non-recyclable waste waste volume. Because what we think of as waste is often materials. We also use other recovery options such as a valuable resource, which we try to use intelligently. filling caverns in salt mines. 5. Disposal: Only the small volume of non-recyclable AVOIDING AND RECYCLING WASTE waste that is then left over is earmarked as waste for disposal. When we recycle materials or residual materials, we ­comply with the five-step hierarchical model set down by the European Union. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 85 4 .4 In order to comply with this target hierarchy we focus F.30 Waste for disposal per vehicle produced on the following areas of action: in kg/vehicle – CWeomplete utilisation cycles at our plants 14.0 12.0 try to either immediately reuse any viable residual 10.0 materials on the same machine (closed loop) or to 8.0 first prepare them and then reuse them (post-industry 6.0 loop). For example, we send sheet metal scraps from 4.0 our press line back to the same steelworks the coils for 2.0 vehicle production came from. Old plastic containers go through a recycling process that produces new 10 11 12 13 14 containers. GROUP-WIDE – AWectively managing waste 10.49¹ 8.49¹ 6.47¹ 5.73¹ 4.93¹ manage and gather data on all waste and materials ­ENVIRONMENTAL at BMW Group production plants worldwide. To do 1 This row of numbers is not directly comparable with those published in 2012. Efficiency indicator = waste for disposal divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the PROTECTION this, we use our central waste information system Magna Steyr contract production plant. “Abfallinformationssystem” (ABIS), which is installed 4.1 Our management approach at all BMW Group production plants. 4.2 Energy Non-recyclable production waste was further reduced in APPLYING BEST PRACTICES TO AVOID WASTE 2014, to 4.93 kg per vehicle produced (–14% compared 4.3 CO² emissions to 2013). Materials use and waste management are two areas in 4.4 Waste management which we apply best-practice solutions that we have RECYCLING OF NEW MATERIALS 4.5 Water ­g radually rolled out across our production network. These are some examples of our activities in 2014: Our innovations in the area of electromobility and lightweight construction go hand in hand with new recycling – Wonethe changed the processing method for washing water processes for materials from vehicle production or vehicle production line for brake discs at our recycling. Berlin plant. This led to a reduction in waste for disposal of approximately 14% compared to the previous year. For waste from carbon-fibre-reinforced plastics (CFRP), we use new recycling processes such as the manufacture – Wreduced aste for disposal in our plant Landshut has been of granulate as a filler material for thermoplastic applicaby more than 100 tonnes in 2014 compared tions (e.g. plastic components in vehicles). to 2013. Main activities for this improvement has been an adjustment of the waste water treatment plant in the paint shop of the bumpers as well as the recycling of the demolition rubble of the lining of the smelting ­furnaces as raw material for road construction. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 86 4 .4 F.31 Waste in t 10 11 12 13 14 Total waste 564,117 594,791 664,752 680,299 727,079 Hazardous waste for recovery 14,987 18,413 19,979 21,884 28,503 Hazardous waste for disposal 9,772 8,720 8,127 7,668 7,439 Non-hazardous waste for recovery 534,188 562,482 633,394 647,725 688,237 Non-hazardous waste for disposal 5,171 5,176 3,252 3,022 2,900 Materials for recycling 549,175 580,895 653,373 669,609 716,740 Metals for recycling (scrap) 428,175 449,900 494,894 500,589 525,812 Waste for disposal 14,943 13,896 11,379 10,690 10,339 GROUP-WIDE ­ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION MANAGING WASTE VOLUMES FORECAST 4.1 Our management approach The BMW Group’s own waste information system (ABIS) We already achieved our aim of reducing waste volume by 4.2 Energy is used to decide which disposal procedure is most suit45% by 2020 compared to the base year 2006. In spite of this, able for each type of residual material. The method speciwe will continue to minimise the share of waste for disposal in 4.3 CO² emissions fied is then implemented at all plants, provided that there 2015, and will integrate as many residual materials as possible is a suitable disposal provider in the respective country. into a complete life cycle management system. 4.4 Waste management ABIS was introduced at our new plant in Araquari 4.5 Water ­(Brazil) in 2014. Due to local legislation in Shenyang (China), the BMW Group operates a wastewater treatment system for all wastewater ABIS is also used to document the individual waste flows generated by its Tiexi plant. In the past, the filter cake from and categorises waste as hazardous or safe in accordance this wastewater treatment system has been disposed of in a with country-specific regulations. There were no incilandfill. In future, we will try to find other recycling possibil­ dences of the import or export of treated or untreated ities in the Chinese province of Liaoning, where the plant is hazardous waste in the reporting period. located. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 87 5 4 .5 Water GROUP-WIDE STRATEGIC DIRECTION ­ENVIRONMENTAL REDUCING USE OF DRINKING WATER AT PRODUCTION PLANTS — PROTECTION By 2020, the BMW Group will have reduced water consumpBMW Brilliance Automotive plant in Tiexi (China) tion and process wastewater by 45% per vehicle produced 4.1 Our management approach compared to 2006. Our vision is to achieve wastewater-free 4.2 Energy production processes. sary for reasons of hygiene. We aim to gradually increase use of process water (industrial water) and hence reduce 4.3 CO² emissions our consumption of drinking water. We want our wastewater to contain only as many substances as can be 4.4 Waste management Water is becoming an ever scarcer resource: over one­broken down naturally. 4.5 Water third of the global population live in countries with ­inadequate water supply. At the same time, access to 86% of the water used by the BMW Group comes from clean drinking water is a basic human need. As a result, the public drinking water system. 14% is groundwater. careful use of this resource is becoming more and more We are planning in general to reduce use of drinking important. We are working hard to reduce our water conwater at our production plants. There was no consumpsumption and are developing wastewater-free processes tion of water from sensitive sources (i.e. water from for our production lines. ­conservation areas) during the reporting period. Due to legal requirements the limits are regularly conCurrently, there is no risk to water supply at the trolled. BMW Group water guidelines provide worldwide BMW Group’s production plants, even though we are standards on how to handle substances that could be active in countries with high water risk, such as South hazardous to the water supply. These standards usually Africa, the USA and China. However, in these countries exceed the local requirements. in particular, we are continuing to reduce our water ­consumption in order to help preserve a resource that is very scarce in these regions. In the USA, for example, we reduced water consumption by 60% between 2006 and 2014. We try to use drinking water only when it is necesSUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 88 4 .5 F.32 Water consumption per vehicle produced¹ in m³/vehicle 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.1 10 11 12 13 14 2.40² 2.25² 2.22² 2.18² 2.18² 1 These figures refer to the production sites of the BMW Group. GROUP-WIDE 2 This row of numbers is not directly comparable with those published in 2012. Efficiency indicator = ­water ­consumption divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the ­ENVIRONMENTAL ­Magna Steyr contract production plant. SAVING RESOURCES THROUGH STATE-OF-THE-ART TECHNOLOGY — PROTECTION Paint shop at BMW Brilliance Automotive plant in Tiexi (China) One specific example is the recycling system we retro­ 4.1 Our management approach fitted to improve wastewater processing from the paint 4.2 Energy REDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION shop at our plant in Dingolfing (Germany). Up to 18,000 m³ of fresh water per year is now saved at the 4.3 CO² emissions We use the environmental management system ISO 14001 plant. to manage our water consumption. The three largest water 4.4 Waste management consumers at the BMW Group are the sanitary facilities Water consumption per vehicle was 2.18 m³ in 2014. 4.5 Water for our workforce (45%), evaporation mainly at cooling This represents a reduction of 33.1% compared to the towers (around 33%) and the production processes, in base year 2006 see Figure 32. particular at the paint shops (21%). We are continuously improving our resource efficiency in all three areas by: Finding individual solutions to conflicts in meeting targets In the reporting period, although we faced a number of – Replacing sanitary fittings with water-efficient versions. challenges such as large construction projects and unscheduled maintenance work with washing and clean– Gones radually replacing open cooling towers with closed ing losses, we were able to maintain the previous year’s and using groundwater for cooling. This allows level of consumption. However, we did run into some used water to be reintroduced into the system. conflicts when it came to meeting our targets, so individual solutions had to be found. For example, although – Cducing ompleting water cycles at the paint shops and introchanging the paint process from wet to dry (dry separ­ waterless processes (for example dry separation ation) does reduce water consumption, it also creates at the paint plants). stone powder, which must be disposed of. Our Leipzig plant developed a solution to this conflict by making the stone powder available for use by a cement plant. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 89 4 .5 FORECAST F.33 Process wastewater per vehicle produced¹ in m³/vehicle We plan to further reduce our water consumption in the coming 0.70 years. To achieve this, we will continue to close the water 0.60 cycles in the paint shops and in engine production as well as 0.50 replace old sanitary facilities and open cooling towers when 0.40 they have reached the end of their life cycles. 0.30 In specific terms, we are planning a project to save drinking 10 11 12 13 14 water at the paint shop of our plant in Spartanburg (USA). Technical processing in a recycling system will in future feed 0.60² 0.57² 0.51² 0.47² 0.47² the process wastewater back into the cooling towers. 1 The indicators refer to production wastewater. GROUP-WIDE 2 This row of numbers is not directly comparable with those published in 2012. Efficiency indicator = process wastewater divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the ­ENVIRONMENTAL ­Magna Steyr contract production plant. PROTECTION REUSING PROCESS WASTEWATER 4.1 Our management approach 4.2 Energy Recycling systems process this kind of wastewater so that it can be reused in the same or other process steps: 4.3 CO² emissions Two specific examples: 4.4 Waste management 4.5 Water – Aexchanger t the Dingolfing plant in Germany, an old ion was replaced by a more efficient one. The number of regenerations that consume water and chemicals was significantly reduced as a result. In addition, the wastewater produced during regeneration is reused in another process. – Aduret the Regensburg plant in Germany, the new proceto reduce wastewater in cathodic dip painting had a full year effect for the first time. Using membrane technology, the anolyte wastewater is purified and returned to the production cycle. In 2014, the water consumption per vehicle produced was 0.47 m³ see Figure 33. This was the same volume as in the previous year and represents a drop of 43% compared to 2006. We have therefore already almost reached our goal of reducing consumption by 45% by 2020. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 90 5 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5.1 5.2 5.3 Our management approach Minimising risk Read more at p. 98 Seizing opportunities www.bmwgroup.com p. 102 p. 94 91 SHENYANG, CHINA TIEXI PLANT, JOINT VENTURE BMW BRILLIANCE AUTOMOTIVE LTD. Can the BMW Group also ensure sustainability in its supply chain? Sustainability Forum, October 2014 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 92 5 — SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT PROGRESS IN 2014 INDICATORS 2015+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES EXPANSION OF LOCAL SOURCING REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUSTAINABILITY ALONG THE ENTIRE PURCHASING VOLUME VALUE CHAIN In 2014, we moved our value creation even further along the supply chain towards the respective sales 2014 We will work even more closely with our suppliers in markets. This enables us to reduce both transport in %, basis: production material order to achieve greater transparency in the supply volumes and CO² emissions. e f chain for critical components and raw materials. d a c FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT b IMPROVE RISK IDENTIFICATION In 2014 we improved our management ­system in We want to be even more proactive in our risk order to ensure that suppliers who are nominated a) Germany 47.2 management activities. In addition, the OEM to receive contracts from the BMW Group comply b) Eastern Europe 17.2 questionnaire (an industry-wide sustainability with our sustainability expectations. We also introc) Rest of Western Europe 15.9 questionnaire) will enable us to establish sustain­ duced new modular online supplier assessments. d) NAFTA 14.5 ability requirements even more firmly in the e) Asia/Australia 3.7 request for proposal process. f) Africa 1.5 IMPROVEMENT IN RESOURCE EFFICIENCY PURCHASING VOLUME IN THE CDP SUPPLY CHAIN EXPAND SUPPLIER PROGRAMME 45 Since 2014, we have been participating in the 2014 We will further expand our resource efficiency Supply Chain Programme of the Carbon D ­ isclosure programme. To do this, we will derive specific Project. Savings of over 21 million tonnes of CO² measures from the knowledge already gained equivalents have been reported to us from the ­supplier network for 2014. % from our participation in the CDP Supply Chain Programme. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 93 1 5 .1 Our management Our procurement volume is distributed worldwide as follows: approach F.34 Regional mix of BMW Group purchase volumes in 2014 in %, basis: production material e f d a c SUPPLIER Our global supply chain network makes a major contrib bution to value creation and innovative strength, and MANAGEMENT hence to the success of the BMW Group. Our suppliers Germany 47.2 NAFTA 14.5 therefore play a significant role in helping us to achieve a) d) 5.1 Our management approach Eastern Europe 17.2 Asia/Australia 3.7 our sustainability goals and in the contribution the b) e) Rest of Western Europe 15.9 Africa 1.5 5.2 Minimising risk BMW Group makes towards the sustainable development c) f) of society as a whole. 5.3 Seizing opportunities Our collaboration with our suppliers is based on common In order to ensure sustainability and continuous visions and convictions. This entails a mutual under­improvement throughout the entire supplier network, standing of product and production quality, innovative we concentrate mainly on two areas: strength, security of supply and competitive prices as well as the continuous integration of our sustainability – Comprehensive Managing and minimising risk see Chapter 5.2 goals into all production and business processes. In times risk management enables us to ensure of complex global supply chains, involving a large number that all BMW AG suppliers, both of direct and indirect of suppliers and sub-suppliers, these goals present a goods and services, comply with sustainability stand­ ­considerable challenge but also a great opportunity. ards. In addition, we analyse specific, particularly ­relevant or critical raw and other materials along the As part of our global growth, the BMW Group is shifting its supply chain. value creation along the supply chain even more strongly towards respective sales markets. Besides reducing currency We have developed our own method of carrying out risks, local sourcing offers numerous additional benefits. this comprehensive risk analysis of relevant supply It both helps us support communities and regions and also chains: we model the supply chains, gather the data of improves our logistics, resulting in lower CO₂ emissions. the relevant suppliers and evaluate the sustainability of For example, we locally source approximately 60% of the the suppliers right back to the raw material extraction goods and services needed to manufacture vehicles at our stage. If we identify any issues, we define the approprilargest production plant in Germany. At other production ate countermeasures in collaboration with the supplier plants as well, we make sure that we create value locally. concerned. The results of the supply chain analyses are SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 94 5 .1 integrated into future product development; we also labour and social standards. The BMW Group Sustainuse them internally to fine-tune our sustainability, ability Standard is an integral part of the request for ­procurement and material strategies. ­proposal documentation for new suppliers and is thus a key tool in the integration of sustainability aspects into – Exploiting opportunities and leveraging potential the procurement process. see Chapter 5.3: Together with our suppliers, we are working towards ever-increasing efficiency in the way Each potential new supplier must take into consideration we use resources. We also focus on fostering innovation the BMW Group sustainability requirements when subin the area of sustainable technologies and processes mitting a proposal. When the decision for a particular and provide training in sustainable operations both to supplier is being made, a standard template provides the our own employees as well as those of our suppliers. committees responsible with all relevant information. Sustainability is one of the decision-making criteria, For example, the BMW Group has set itself the goal alongside product and production quality, security of SUPPLIER of significantly increasing transparency and resource supply, innovative strength and competitive pricing. efficiency in the supply chain by 2020. We measure MANAGEMENT our progress along concrete parameters such as our ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS suppliers’ CO₂ emissions, water and energy consump5.1 Our management approach tion. In order to ensure transparency of resource Engaging with our stakeholders is an additional 5.2 Minimising risk ­consumption in the supplier network, BMW AG was ­important tool in our continuous efforts to improve our the first German carmaker to join the CDP Supply measures and activities and to identify and discuss 5.3 Seizing opportunities Chain Programme. ­external trends. INTEGRATION WITHIN THE ORGANISATION AND It has become evident from our dialogue that stakeholders INTERNAL COOPERATION expect companies like the BMW Group to assume more responsibility along the supply chain. Key recommendaWithin the company, three specialist divisions work tions that resulted from a Stakeholder Dialogue 2013 closely together: Sustainability in the Purchasing and included applying solutions from other industries to the Supplier Network, Sustainability and Environmental automotive industry, and systematically focusing and ­Protection, and Raw Materials Management. They ­prioritising the company’s own activities (for example assume joint responsibility for ensuring sustainability with respect to certain raw materials or supply chains). in our supply chains. In addition, the stakeholders advised industry-wide and cross-industry cooperation to develop joint approaches. DEFINING PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS FOR SUPPLIERS For the BMW Group, it is essential that our business partners meet the same environmental and social stand­ ards we set for ourselves. The BMW Group Supplier ­Sustainability Standards are the foundation on which this process is based. The standards establish basic principles that are to be adhered to by all BMW Group sup­ pliers. This includes compliance with all internationally recognised human rights as well as environmental, SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 95 5 .1 COLLABORATING IN INDUSTRY INITIATIVES AND NETWORKS ability in supply chains and to establish standard minimum requirements for suppliers. One result this group Engagement in initiatives, networks and associations has produced is the first industry-wide Self-Assessment and the resulting dialogue beyond the boundaries of our Questionnaire on CSR/Sustainability for Automotive company are essential for us to continuously improve ­Sector Suppliers, which was published in April 2014. our sustainability strategy see Figure 35. In autumn 2014, the BMW Group started applying this questionnaire. At the European level, for example, we have been col­ laborating since 2012 with ten other carmakers in the Furthermore, as a member of econsense, the Forum ­European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain for Sustainable Development of German Business, we Sustainability, which is coordinated by CSR Europe. ­promote cross-industry auditing systems to evaluate Within this workgroup, we jointly develop measures to ­sustainability at supplier companies. minimise risk and work on projects to increase sustainSUPPLIER MANAGEMENT F.35 Industry-wide initiatives and networks with BMW Group participation 5.1 Our management approach Collaborative Product/ Across products, initiative with BMW Across IndustryInterCountrymaterialmaterials and 5.2 Minimising risk engagement industries wide national specific specific services Objectives 5.3 Seizing opportunities Implement sustainability standards along the value chain Harmonisation of the methodology for social ­assessment of products Develop a global standard for aluminium ­sustainability Work together on common projects in order to improve sustainability in supply chains Adopt LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) data ­collection format Exchange best practice cases and experiences, identify sustainability trends, participate in specific working groups and initiatives Exchange best practice cases and experiences, identify sustainability trends, participate in specific working groups and initiatives CDP recommendations and results are used in Supplier Performance Review (SPR) meetings to set location-specific environmental targets for top 100 suppliers SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 96 5 .1 responsibly produced aluminium along the entire value chain – from responsible corporate governance to ­compliance with environmental and social standards. The standard was developed in a multi-stakeholder process involving companies and NGOs. The ASI Performance Standard was finalised on schedule at the end of 2014 and represents a key milestone in the initiative’s efforts to establish ASI-certified products. It is one of the first comprehensive sustainability standards for the entire value chain of metal as a raw material. SUPPLIER FORECAST MANAGEMENT EFFICIENT USE OF RAW MATERIALS — Carbon, lightweight construction material Ensuring sustainability along the entire supply chain requires joint effort and long-term action. The BMW Group will therefore 5.1 Our management approach SUSTAINABLE EXTRACTION AND PROCUREMENT continue to expand its collaboration with other carmakers to 5.2 Minimising risk OF RAW MATERIALS promote sustainability in supply chains. We will also work even more closely with our suppliers in order to achieve greater 5.3 Seizing opportunities Raw materials are the basis for every industrial productransparency in the supply chain for critical components and tion process. However, with today’s multi-layered and raw materials. In addition to aluminium, we will be focusing dynamic global supply chains, actually tracing the route on conflict minerals as well as selected renewable materials of a raw material from the mine to the end product is an in 2015. extremely complex undertaking. This is mainly due to the intermediate trade and processing stages and commodities trading on the stock exchange. It is therefore quite a challenge to implement sustainability standards as early as the raw materials extraction stage. In view of this, the BMW Group focuses on selected ­relevant or critical raw materials and supply chains. We analyse and evaluate the supply chains as well as the action required and then derive measures that we ­implement in conjunction with our suppliers. For this purpose, we also participate in cross-industry ­initiatives for sustainable use of raw materials. For ex­ ample, we joined the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) in December 2012. Aluminium plays a major role in lightweight construction, because it weighs s­ ignificantly less than steel. The ASI aims to establish a standard for SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 97 2 5 .2 Minimising risk contract, our suppliers also commit to ensuring that their suppliers in turn comply with these agreements. The main instrument we use to ensure implementation of our sustainability standards is our sustainability risk management process. It is made up of the following three steps see Figure 36: – Isustainability dentify risks: Application of a BMW Group-specific risk filter. – Squestionnaire elf-assessment questionnaire: Use of a self-assessment developed for the automotive industry SUPPLIER (since autumn 2014; previously the BMW Group STRATEGIC DIRECTION applied its own self-assessment questionnaire). MANAGEMENT 5.1 Our management approach We are convinced that sustainability in the supply chain can – Cauditors. onduct audits: Sustainability audits by external only be achieved if we work hand in hand with our suppliers. 5.2 Minimising risk We therefore aim to collaborate with our partners in order to make the entire supplier network sustainable. As part of the continuous improvement of our risk 5.3 Seizing opportunities ­management process, we introduced two new aspects in 2014. One was the “nomination process”, an upstream step before the procurement process to ensure that nomiAs a global enterprise, the BMW Group faces the chalnated potential suppliers comply with our sustainability lenge of using sustainability management to find the requirements. We also carried out modular online assessright solutions under very diverse local conditions. ments of suppliers in addition to our sustainability audits. Increasing internationalisation of procurement in regions such as Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America has led to new and bigger sustainability risks. We therefore continuously improve our sustainability risk management system in order to become familiar with the respective country, industry and product risks and to ensure compliance with our sustainability standards. All agreements made by BMW AG with its suppliers ­contain clauses based on the principles of the UN Global Compact and the International Labour Organization (ILO). These principles also specify that a contractual commitment must be made to comply with human rights, labour and social standards as well as to implement ­environmental management systems. When they sign the SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 98 5 .2 F.36 Risk management process of the BMW Group 1. IDENTIFY RISKS 2. RETRIEVE SELF-ASSESSMENT 3. CONDUCT AUDITS 1a 1b 2a 2b 3a 3b Identify high-risk Identify and analyse Obtain Develop Sustainability Corrective supplier locations high-risk suppliers self-assessment supplier-specific audit conducted action plan based on based on media sustainability corrective by independent based on sustainability screening questionnaire action plan external auditors audit result risk filter SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5.1 Our management approach STEP 1: IDENTIFY RISKS STEP 2: SELF-ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE 5.2 Minimising risk Using special filters to identify risks Ensuring sustainability standards via self-assessment 5.3 Seizing opportunities In the first step of our risk management process, our questionnaires ­proprietary sustainability risk filter evaluates the envir­ The risk filter forms the basis for the next step, i.e. suponmental, social and governance risk potential of all plier self-assessment via questionnaire. Since 2009, we existing and new suppliers. The filter takes into account have been asking suppliers to complete this questionboth location-specific and product-specific risks. This naire to provide a self-evaluation of their sustainability includes, for instance, an assessment of social risks in management and related activities. Until 2014, we used a ­certain countries, such as child labour or forced labour. self-assessment questionnaire developed by BMW, based We also consider environmental risks such as damage to on our sustainability standards. Since autumn 2014, we nature, emissions and process materials containing subhave been using an industry-wide questionnaire based stances that can be hazardous to health. The respective on Guiding Principles that apply to all OEMs (original production facility of the supplier, rather than its head equipment manufacturer). This questionnaire ensures office, is assessed in each case. If sub-suppliers are thought that minimum standards are complied with throughout to be repeatedly in breach of sustainability standards, the industry. We introduced modular online assessments the supply chain is also evaluated using the sustainability in order to ensure compliance with BMW-specific and risk filter. We continuously improve the system used for other additional requirements. the risk filter. When new suppliers offer us their services, they must Using the media to identify potentially risky suppliers make a clear commitment in their self-assessment to We also use media screening to identify potentially critical social standards such as compliance with human rights. suppliers. Through systematic observation and analysis Sustainable use of materials such as secondary aluminium of supplier-specific media coverage and social media posts, is also verified at the request for proposal stage. The we can identify potential risks at an early stage. OEM questionnaire also asks for information on whether SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 99 5 .2 the environmental management system in accordance STEP 3: CONDUCT AUDITS with ISO 14001 is in place, integration of recycling aspects in product development as well as on recycling Sustainability standards verified by external auditors concepts. After the proposal has been submitted, these Supplier production facilities that are at high risk of details are included as key decision-making indicators breaching sustainability requirements and facilities in the procurement process. In 2014, approximately ­suspected of such a breach are subject to independent 3,000 suppliers submitted the information we requested. audits. The first step is a detailed examination of sustainability performance at the supplier’s production facility Correcting sustainability deficits using a specially designed catalogue of criteria. Based on If a low sustainability level is identified on the supplier’s this, verifications and certifications are carried out by self-assessment questionnaire, we communicate the external auditors. If we conclude at some point that industry-wide standard recommendations to them. Addi­further validation of the supplier is necessary, we then tional BMW Group-specific measures are agreed between initiate a complete on-site sustainability audit. This audit SUPPLIER the supplier and our Sustainability in the Purchasing and includes, for example, plant inspections and interviews Supplier Network division. For suppliers with known with management and employees, as well as a review of MANAGEMENT sustainability deficits, we supplement the supply contracts the management system. with corrective action plans and clauses. We can thus 5.1 Our management approach ensure that all sustainability requirements will be met by Corrective action plan based on audit result 5.2 Minimising risk start of production or provision of services. If the results of an audit show non-compliance or potential for improvement, we work with the supplier to 5.3 Seizing opportunities This approach reflects our conviction that sustainability develop a specific plan of action and provide assistance in supply chains can only be achieved if we work hand with implementing this plan. If the supplier is uncooperin hand with our suppliers. Our goal is for compliance ative or in breach of a fundamental BMW Group sustainwith these standards to be viewed as a matter of course. ability clause, termination of business relations may This applies not only to our suppliers, but also to their follow. Our goal, however, is to determine the majority of sub-suppliers. We only have indirect influence on sub-­ risks during the first two steps, to manage these risks suppliers. However, we oblige our direct suppliers to and to help suppliers raise their sustainability standards. ensure that our sustainability requirements are also met Audits represent the final stage of our risk management by their sub-suppliers. We also develop individual action process and are carried out only in exceptional cases. plans for specific supply chains. When we become aware of individual cases of non-­ compliance with our sustainability principles, our Supply Chain Response Team handles them, applying a defined three-step process: 1. The management of the supplier company is asked to respond to the specific issue or case. 2. If the management responds and if the supplier is cooperative, we visit their company in order to ensure that the non-compliance will not be repeated. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 100 5 .2 3. If non-compliance is confirmed and the supplier is not FORECAST cooperative or shows no improvement, termination of the current business relations with the supplier may Based on what we have learned, we want to be even more result as a final step. ­proactive in our risk management activities. In addition, the OEM questionnaire will enable us to establish sustainability The Supply Chain Response Team is made up of one requirements even more firmly within the request for proposal respective representative from Operational and Strategic process. And finally, BMW employees will additionally imple­Purchasing, Corporate Strategy (a sustainability expert), ment social audits in order to secure the social sustainability ­Corporate Communications and the Works Council. The performance of our suppliers. team had to take action in three cases in 2014. In one case, the accusation was a breach of environmental standards, another was a Health and Safety issue and the third related to a number of breaches of basic labour SUPPLIER standards. In the Health and Safety case, a careful audit showed that no BMW location was affected. In the case MANAGEMENT of breach of basic labour standards, the supplier was asked to respond and the location was inspected. No 5.1 Our management approach ­evidence that would lend merit to the accusations was 5.2 Minimising risk found. In the environmental standards case, measures were developed to ensure that no limits would be 5.3 Seizing opportunities exceeded in future. Some of these measures have already been implemented and audited. Others are still in the implementation phase. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 101 3 5 .3 Seizing 2. We train purchasers and suppliers. We enable them to identify potential for sustainable operations and we opportunities use case studies to convince them to take the initiative and implement it in practice. 3. We foster innovation on all levels within the BMW Group and with our suppliers. CREATING TRANSPARENCY, IMPROVING EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES For many years now, the BMW Group has been working to use innovative technologies and processes to reduce SUPPLIER resource consumption and to increase energy efficiency STRATEGIC DIRECTION on the production line. Because much of the value-added MANAGEMENT is created by our suppliers, it is not enough for us to The BMW Group sees collaboration with its suppliers as an only set sustainability standards for our own production. 5.1 Our management approach ­opportunity to integrate sustainability into the entire value The BMW Group’s Sustainability Standards are valid 5.2 Minimising risk chain. A long-term, close cooperation with our p­ artners allows ­worldwide and their integration is mandatory along the us to tap into new potential for sustainable o­ perations in the entire supply chain. 5.3 Seizing opportunities supplier network. For this reason, we joined the Supply Chain Programme of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2014. CDP is a non-governmental organisation that aims to reduce We can achieve a lot if we work together with our sup­ energy and resource consumption and thus counteract pliers. We promote innovative ideas, increase awareness climate change. By participating in this programme, supof sustainability along supply chains and protect valuable pliers can record their resource consumption on a generresources by increasing efficiency. ally accepted platform and derive cost-saving potential as a result. Within the CDP Supply Chain Programme we annually monitor and analyse resource consumption and We cooperate with our suppliers to turn the challenges CO₂ emissions and identify improvement potential for presented by sustainability into an opportunity and to suppliers, who we select according to turnover volume, leverage potential. emissions and consumption aspects. Based on this, we currently achieve coverage of over 45% of production-­ The action we take here focuses on three areas: relevant procurement volume for BMW AG. The resulting transparency is further disseminated in terms of quality 1. We improve efficient use of resources by creating and quantity through the agreements made in supplier transparency and agreeing on corresponding goals development interviews as well as the contracts granted and action to be taken. each year. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 102 5 .3 – Awithbasica module training course for new purchasing employees, on sustainability. 156 employees ­participated in this training in 2014. – Apurchasers basic training course designed specifically for new of non-production-related material such as services. – Afordialogue event on sustainability in the supply chain purchasers and commodity managers. In 2013, we aimed to provide sustainability training to at least 80% of our more than 800 purchasers. To achieve this aim, we c­ arried out mandatory training courses in 2013 SUPPLIER and reported the number of participants as a target value on the balanced scorecard to the top manageMANAGEMENT COLLABORATING WITH SUPPLIERS WORLDWIDE — Suppliers in China ment level. In order to continue to ensure we have a high number of trained purchasers, training courses 5.1 Our management approach These measures help us to assess suppliers’ efficiency were offered again in 2014. 5.2 Minimising risk and to work together to uncover ways of saving energy 5.3 Seizing opportunities and resources and to develop over time. 81% of the – Aofficer two-day course to become a certified sustainability BMW suppliers taking part in the CDP have integrated for the purchasing and supplier network. In climate change into their corporate strategy, 77% took cooperation with the University of Ulm, we offer this the initiative to reduce emissions in 2014 and 69% set course to employees and suppliers. In 2014, a total of themselves specific targets to achieve this. Savings of 38 people participated in the certification training. over 21 million tonnes of CO₂ equivalent were reported to us from our supplier network for the year 2014. These – ABMW Web-based sustainability training course at the savings mainly resulted from an increase in energy effiGroup that includes case studies on sustainabilciency in production processes and from optimisation of ity in the supplier network. This training is available to transport processes. As a rule, investment by suppliers both employees of the BMW Group and its suppliers. for these measures pays off within three years. – Pinresentations at external events as well as participation TRAINING FOR EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLIERS round tables and panel discussions. These include, for example, conferences and meetings for medium-­ We offer a wide range of training courses for purchasers, sized German businesses, as well as colloquiums on internal process partners and suppliers. This makes them research studies. more aware of the topic and they learn about cause and effect. We also clearly communicate our expectations to them. In this way, we enable participants to make decisions that contribute towards greater sustainability in the supply chain. These are the training courses we offer: SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 103 5 .3 At the awards ceremony in October 2014, the winner of the Supplier Innovation Award in the Sustainability category was ASK Chemicals GmbH. The company’s innovative anorganic core binder has enabled the BMW Group to set up an emissions-free foundry and further improve employee working conditions. At the same time productivity and component quality improved. FORECAST SUPPLIER In 2015, we will expand our resource efficiency programme by taking concrete action based on the knowledge gained from our MANAGEMENT RECOGNISING INNOVATION — BMW Supplier Innovation Award 2014 participation in the CDP Supply Chain Programme. In addition, we will continue to develop our sustainability training formats 5.1 Our management approach PROMOTING INNOVATION for suppliers and employees. In addition we continue to pro5.2 Minimising risk mote and reward innovations initiated by our suppliers. We incentivise our suppliers to develop innovative 5.3 Seizing opportunities ­solutions to the challenges presented by sustainability. The Learning from Suppliers forum In 2012, the Learning from Suppliers forum was established to give our suppliers the opportunity to showcase best-practice case studies on innovative and sustainable solutions for products, materials and production processes. At this monthly series of events, suppliers can present sustainable product and process innovations at the BMW Group Research and Innovation Centre in Munich. The aim of the event is to encourage an exchange of information on the topics of innovation and sustainability, while closely interlinking these two issues in strategy, product and process development from the very beginning. Supplier Innovation Award The BMW Supplier Innovation Award was presented for the third time in 2014. It went to a total of eight supplier companies for outstanding innovation and development performance, among other things in the area of sustainability. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 104 6 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 Our management approach Attractive employer Occupational health and safety Training and further education Diversity & Inclusion Read more at www.bmwgroup.com p. 112 p. 125 p. 108 p. 118 p. 122 105 INCHEON, SOUTH KOREA BMW GROUP DRIVING EXPERIENCE Does the BMW Group pay above average wages to its employees abroad? BMW Group Multi-Stakeholder Dialogue, October 2014 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 106 6 — EMPLOYEES PROGRESS IN 2014 INDICATORS 2015+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES INCREASE IN HEADCOUNT EMPLOYEES AT THE BMW GROUP SECURE FUTURE COMPETENCY REQUIREMENTS Our workforce grew again in 2014. This was 2014 Strategic HR planning will ensure that next year 116,324 mainly due to the expansion of our international again we can identify the competencies we need production network as well as our increasing to pursue our corporate strategy and recruit focus on innovation and future technologies. personnel accordingly. Additional engineers and experts were recruited for this purpose. 2013 110,351 INVESTMENT IN EMPLOYEE TRAINING EXPENDITURE ON TRAINING AND PROMOTE COMPREHENSIVE TRAINING FURTHER EDUCATION AND FURTHER EDUCATION Expenditure on training and further education To keep up with the development of new technol­ 335 increased in the reporting period (€335 million/ 2014 +16.3% year on year). Key areas of further training ogies in the automotive industry, we will continue were electromobility and modern production € to invest in the training and further education of technologies. our workforce. million 2013 €288 million MORE PROMOTION OF FEMALE MANAGERS SHARE OF WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS FURTHER EXPAND DIVERSITY AT THE BMW GROUP The share of women participating in our Global By engaging in focused diversity management, 14.2 Leadership Development Programme was over 2014 we will continue to promote diversity in the 50% in 2014. This enables us to lay the groundworkforce. After all, diversity makes an important work for a new generation of female managers contribution towards our competitiveness. who are more technically competent, networked and highly aware of cultural and societal issues. % 2013 13.8% SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 107 1 6 .1 Our management approach EMPLOYEES The success of the BMW Group is based on the dedication ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER — A dedicated and skilled workforce enhances and technical expertise of our employees. We make every our competitiveness 6.1 Our management approach effort to attract and keep the best people. To achieve this, we offer them attractive and secure jobs, comprehensive 6.2 Attractive employer development and training opportunities, and good longThe main strategic cornerstones of our HR policy are: term prospects. We also offer above-average pay and give 6.3 Occupational health and safety our employees a number of options to help them balance – Ltraining eadership qualification and development: Advanced work and private life. and personal development for managers to 6.4  raining and further T equip them to lead effectively and thus competently education support employees in achieving personal and company 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion The increasing average age of the world population as well objectives see Chapter 6.4. as changing job profiles and a shortage of skilled workers in Germany call for flexibility and foresight in human – Fopment uture Talent programme: Early recruitment and develresources planning. We therefore aim to position ourselves of university graduates and future managers even more consistently as an attractive employer on all to build up a long-term and diverse global talent pool relevant labour markets, for all target and age groups see Chapter 6.4. see Chapter 6.2. – Douriversity & Inclusion: Continuous development of International and intercultural alignment of our human existing Diversity Concept into a Diversity & resources strategy I­ nclusion Strategy suitable for global application. Based on our Strategy Number ONE, the BMW Group ­Definition of objectives and performance indicators Human Resources Strategy was passed in 2008 and has at global, national and regional level to derive and been continuously developed since then, keeping close implement suitable measures see Chapter 6.5. watch over regional trends. – Hemployees’ ealth and work environment: Safeguarding our health and best possible performance through demand-oriented measures in the area of health and working environment see Chapter 6.3. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 108 6 .1 OBJECTIVES OF OUR HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY Our specific objectives for our workforce are summarised by these strategic pillars: F.37 Targets in the area of employees Diversity in the workforce Long-term employee development Health and performance A diverse workforce enhances our competitiveness By finding the right people, ensuring their employability, To preserve the health and the performance of our employees and innovative strength. making the most of their skills and fostering their developin the long term, we promote personal responsibility and an ment, our HR strategy makes a significant contribution appropriately designed work environment. Maintaining the 15–17% share of women in our general to the success of the company. ­ orkforce and also achieving this ratio in management w Number of employees taking part up to the year 2020 ­positions by 2020, both in Germany and worldwide Maintaining employer attractiveness at a permanent in the Health Management 2020 programme (target: 25%) high level Accident frequency rate (target: –40% by the year 2020; EMPLOYEES Average number of training days per employee/year base year: 2010) (target: at least 2.5 days) Incorporating the targets for ergonomic workstation design 6.1 Our management approach Needs-oriented qualification of managers in all new vehicle projects as of 2015 (target: at least 70% of managers by 2016) 6.2 Attractive employer 6.3 Occupational health and safety 6.4  raining and further T All targets are anchored in the internal target system, F.38 BMW Group employees at end of year¹ education with regular performance monitoring. Number 120,000 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion One of the key parameters applied in our HR policy is 100,000 the number of employees working for the BMW Group. 80,000 This number increased worldwide by 5.4% to a total of 60,000 116,324 employees by the end of 2014 as a result of high 40,000 demand for our vehicles see Figure 38. 20,000 INTERNAL RESPONSIBILITY AND INCENTIVES 10 11 12 13 14 BMW AG Human Resources is responsible for the various Total 95,453 100,306 105,876 ² 110,351³ 116,324 4 aspects of employment. Key decisions that affect employEmployees in Germany Employees international ment are taken by the entire Board of Management. Progress on the implementation of the Human Resources 1 Figures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the non-work phases of pre-retirement arrangements and low income earners. Strategy is regularly reported to the Board of Manage2 Of whom 35.2% are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. 3 Of whom 35.1% are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. ment. Human Resources and the specialist divisions bear 4 Of whom 36.1% are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. equal responsibility for successful implementation. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 109 6 .1 COMPREHENSIVE EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION For the European locations of the BMW Group, there is a European Works Council composed of employee The timely and comprehensive involvement of employee ­representatives from European production sites of the representatives, in particular when major operational BMW Group. changes are planned, is an integral part of our corporate culture. The BMW Group therefore undertakes the Employee representation at the other international loca­following to make sure this happens. tions of the BMW Group follows the respective national regulations, with employee representation most recently In accordance with the German law on co-determination, established in India (Chennai plant) and in the sales BMW AG has a Supervisory Board with equal representaand financial service companies in China. tion of all parties, including external representatives of the competent trade union as well as company represenFreedom of association is one of the principles set down tatives from the works councils formed at the BMW AG in the Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions EMPLOYEES company locations. at the BMW Group. The BMW Group complies with con­ ventions 87 and 98 of the ILO (International Labour 6.1 Our management approach At the German BMW AG locations and the subsidiaries ­Organization), which guarantee workers freedom of within Germany, works councils are formed according to ­association and the right to collective bargaining. This 6.2 Attractive employer the German Works Constitution Act. The local works also includes, for example, the right to establish and to councils also delegate representatives to the Group Works join independent trade unions and other advocacy 6.3 Occupational health and safety Council of BMW AG. ­organisations as well as protection against discrimination on grounds of membership in a trade union or employee 6.4 T  raining and further representative body. education 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion F.39 Share of employees represented by a trade union or falling under collective agreements¹ in % 10 11 12 13 14 Germany³ 100 100 100 100 100 UK² 75 94 86 86 86 China (plant) 100 100 100 100 100 Austria³ 100 100 100 100 100 South Africa 46 51 61 61 60 USA (no collective agreements exist) 0 0 0 0 0 1 Figures from the UK, China and South Africa only available from 2010 onwards. 2 In 2012, all employees from central functions as well as the Goodwood plant were included in the calculation. The figure for the UK is therefore not directly comparable with those of previous years. If the same method were applied, the share would also be 86% in 2011. 3 Excluding executives. At the BMW Group, institutionalised operational co-determination is implemented Group-wide according to the applicable national regulations. At all BMW AG plants and branches as well as in Austria and the UK, elected works councils observe co-determination for the employees. In China and South Africa, employees are represented by local workers’ representatives, while at the company locations in the USA no collective agreements exist. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 110 6 .1 FORECAST To meet human resources challenges and take advantage of opportunities, we have defined various fields of action for 2015. We will, for example, continue to pursue and further expand concepts and measures in the area of diversity management. We also plan to step up international cooperation on strategic HR matters with and in the regions where we do ­business. Our training and health offerings will be adjusted, expanded and internationalised as required. EMPLOYEES 6.1 Our management approach EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES — Chennai plant (India) 6.2 Attractive employer Safeguarding employment in the long term 6.3 Occupational health and safety Long-term job security is one of the priorities of our human resource policy. Our company agreements on 6.4 T  raining and further BMW working time accounts and strategic flexibility, education which enable us to deal with fluctuations in demand, 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion help us to achieve this goal. – Baccount MW working time account: The BMW working time makes the relation between working time and remuneration more flexible. This enables us to adapt working time to the respective project and order situ­ ation without changing employees’ pay. – Sensure trategic flexibility: We use a range of instruments to flexibility, enabling us to adapt working hours to fluctuations in demand. These include standard shift models and modular capacity systems, such as defined extensions and reductions in shift hours, working through breaks and collective breaks. We also ensure flexibility by utilising temporary work contracts and by using the services of temping agencies. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 111 2 6 .2 Attractive employer EMPLOYEES BUILDING SKILLS FOR THE FUTURE — Further training at the BMW Group STRATEGIC DIRECTION 6.1 Our management approach The BMW Group is regarded as an attractive employer and Securing skills for the future 6.2 Attractive employer has a common management understanding of the importance We therefore try to set the course at an early stage. As of employee focus. part of strategic human resources planning, we determine 6.3 Occupational health and safety annually the skill sets we need based on our corporate The BMW Group promotes flexible working hours and gives and departmental strategies and we align our young 6.4 T  raining and further employees a range of options to help them find the right ­talent and further training programmes as well as our education ­work-life balance. hiring plans accordingly. 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion Demographic effects on the structure of the workforce and thus on future staffing requirements are highly releAs of one of the world’s most attractive employers, the vant for human resources planning. In 2013, BMW AG BMW Group has a decisive advantage in the competition therefore introduced an IT-based strategic human for skilled workers. We intend to build further on this resources planning system, and in 2014 extended its advantage by offering employees attractive additional scope to cover our large international plants as well. benefits and helping them to develop their personal strengths. ABOVE-AVERAGE REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL BENEFITS The BMW Group policies for remuneration and additional But at the same time, we face many challenges. For ex­ benefits apply for all of our companies. We pursue a total ample, as the BMW Group becomes more international, remuneration approach in which salaries as well as our there is an increasing need to work across different time extensive range of benefits are considered part of a total zones, which is not always easy to reconcile with employpackage. The main guiding principle is fair pay. For every ees’ personal lives. Needs and requirements can also location worldwide, the total remuneration package must ­differ quite significantly from country to country as be above the average for the respective labour market. ­society becomes more individualised and the range of different lifestyles increases. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 112 6 .2 Offering additional social benefits F.40 Profit-sharing scheme at BMW AG by year of payment¹ Apart from the fixed and variable salary components, in % of monthly salary/in % of personal base value (from 2011) the BMW Group also offers its employees a wide range 200 of social benefits, such as a company pension. 175 150 The employees at our international sites are similarly 125 offered numerous social benefits geared toward supple100 menting the social services available in their country. 75 In the USA, for example, we offer above-average health insurance coverage for employees and their families. 10 11 12 13 14 Employee pension plans none 98.0² 153.0 152.6 162.8 The BMW Group supports its employees in Germany EMPLOYEES Due to the significant decline in profits, in 2009 and 2010 BMW AG employees did not receive and internationally with attractive pension programmes any bonuses for 2008 and 2009. 1 New employees receive full bonuses after four years of employment. to safeguard their standard of living when they reach 6.1 Our management approach 2 New bonus system from 2011 based on personal base value. retirement. 6.2 Attractive employer The pension benefits focus on three fields: In addition to a fixed salary, our employees receive a vari6.3 Occupational health and safety able share in the company’s profits. Due to the positive –  FSinancial provisions for retirement; 6.4 T  raining and further business development in 2013, employees took home a – (spouse urvivors’ benefits in case of death of the employee record-breaking profit share in 2014. and children who are still in education); education – Iduensurance against a reduction in earning capacity 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion Our remuneration system is gender-neutral. To make sure to occupational disability. that this is the case all over the world, all our companies are interviewed regularly. In 2014, a multidimensional In Germany, the BMW Group offers members of manmonitoring process was established within BMW Group agement (approx. 2% of the workforce) and all those in Germany to annually check the gender-neutrality of who joined the company after 1 January 2014 a defined-­ remuneration. Data from more than 60,000 employees contribution pension plan. The money is invested in the were analysed. Analysis results confirm that our gender-­ capital market and generates an attractive return throughneutral compensation system has been successfully estabout its entire period. All other employees in Germany lished. Carrying out this analysis annually will enable are paid a fixed pension depending on their years of us to detect any counter-­trends at an early stage. ­service and their level. Based on a voluntary commitment, the compensation At the international locations of the BMW Group, there received by temporary workers employed by BMW AG is are many different types of pension arrangements. In oriented on the collective agreements applicable to our Mexico, as soon as we open a new plant we set up a comcore employees in the automotive industry and not the pany pension scheme for our employees and also offer collective agreements in the temporary work sector. them further options for accumulating assets through social benefits. An attractive pension plan was also introduced at the production location we opened in Brazil SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 113 6 .2 in 2014. Overall, 90% of our workforce has access to a F.41 Group-wide BMW Group employee survey in 2013 pension plan. in % Overall satisfaction 89 IMPROVEMENTS THROUGH FEEDBACK 0 100 Employee surveys (e.g. on satisfaction, health or customer Attractiveness as employer 91 focus) and other feedback systems are key management 0 100 tools at the BMW Group. Additional social benefits 85 0 100 A Group-wide employee survey is conducted every two years, most recently in 2013. 89% of those surveyed were Job security 87 ­satisfied on the whole with the BMW Group. Very posi0 100 tive ratings were also given to attractiveness as an EMPLOYEES employer (91%), social benefits (85%) and job security (87%) see Figure 41. 6.1 Our management approach Retaining satisfied employees We complement the employee survey with IT-supported In 2014, the employee attrition rate fell to 1.41% 6.2 Attractive employer feedback systems for managers: Feedback for Managers see Figure 42. This was mainly due to fewer people retir(outside Germany) and 360+ Feedback in Germany, the ing during the year. If retirement figures are excluded, 6.3 Occupational health and safety USA, the UK and Austria (Steyr plant). This feedback the attrition rate remains very low, demonstrating the ­system will be successively introduced in other countries effectiveness of the proven programmes and measures of 6.4  raining and further T as well. With the aid of these tools, managers can compare the BMW Group geared toward positioning the company education the feedback provided by their staff, colleagues and as an attractive employer. 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion superiors with their self-assessment. The thoroughness of our feedback systems becomes apparent in the fact that we also regularly survey the ­participants in our young talent programmes as well as students on internships with the BMW Group. These ­surveys enable us to obtain a realistic picture from young people of how they perceive the BMW Group, enabling us to derive any necessary measures for improvement. In addition to the many positive results, the surveys also show us where we need to take action, especially with regard to processes and structures as well as customer focus. For instance, we can improve how we define responsibilities. The aim is to place even more focus on the requirements and desires of our customers in our day-to-day activities. We will measure the effect of these follow-up measures derived from the 2013 employee ­survey with the next survey in 2015. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 114 6 .2 ing hours and work locations more flexible. In 2014, F.42 Employee attrition rate BMW AG¹ more employees made use of options such as “Vollzeit as a % of the workforce Select” (Fulltime Select), mobile working and parental 6 leave than ever before. In addition, each BMW Group 5 location develops individual measures with a view to 4 country-specific conditions. 3 2 Offering flexible working hours 1 Our “Vollzeit Select” (Fulltime Select) working time tool allows employees in Germany and Austria to take 20 10 11 12 13 14 additional days of leave each year with corresponding adjustments to their salaries, without any complicated red 2.74 2.16 3.87 3.47 1.41 tape. Meanwhile, BMW Group employees in Germany, EMPLOYEES 1 Number of employees on unlimited employment contracts leaving the company. Austria, the USA and the UK can also take sabbaticals of up to six months (in the UK this initiative is open to our 6.1 Our management approach managers only). In the UK, up to 40 weeks parental leave ENCOURAGING LIFE BALANCE can be taken on full pay, well in excess of the statutory 6.2 Attractive employer allowance. In today’s world, work and private lives are becoming 6.3 Occupational health and safety increasingly intertwined and should ideally complement We facilitate individually tailored working times and each other. To make this ideal a reality, the BMW Group ­promote work-life balance by not obliging employees to 6.4  raining and further T tries to help its employees achieve a harmonious work-life be present during certain core periods. education balance. The main way we do so is by making their work6.5 Diversity & Inclusion F.43 Alternative work forms at BMW AG¹ Number of employees 10 11 12 13 14 Part-time employees 3,709 3,825 3,948 3,966 3,739 in % of total number of employees 5.3 6.0 5.8 5.7 5.1 Teleworking positions³ 9,209 11,717 15,235 18,094 22,297 ² in % of total number of employees 13.2 16.4 22.5 25.9 49.9 Sabbaticals 498 450 514 511 516 in % of total number of employees 0.7 0.6 0.8 0.7 0.7 Parental leave 1,600 1,513 1,674 1,968 2,271 in % of total number of employees 2.3 2.1 2.5 2.8 3.1 1 Figures refer to employees with permanent and part-time contracts. 2 Reporting logic was adapted when teleworking was introduced in 2014. In the past, reporting was based on the technical possibility of teleworking; since 2014, the number of employees is reported who actually engaged in teleworking. 3 Administrative positions. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 115 6 .2 EMPLOYEES 6.1 Our management approach 6.2 Attractive employer 6.3 Occupational health and safety 6.4 T  raining and further education 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion FLEXIBLE WORKING HOURS — Teleworking at the BMW Group Enabling mobile working The campaign motto “Flexibel arbeiten, bewusst The option of working without being tied to a specific abschalten” (Work flexibly but know how to switch off) location also helps to ensure a positive work-life balance. illustrates that optimal performance at work depends on On the basis of a successful two-year pilot project for genuine regeneration in an employee’s free time. Outside mobile working, a new company agreement was signed, of agreed work time, employees have the right to switch which came into force on 1 January 2014. The new off and not be available. BMW is a pioneer in this respect mobile working instrument gives both employees and the and its concept of mobile working was duly recognised company greater flexibility. Mobile working does not this year by the German Association of Human Resources mean a bigger volume of work, but rather a more flexible Managers with its BPM Award for outstanding achieveorganisation of existing working time to gain more ments in human resources management. Dialogue between ­personal freedom and flexibility. Childcare and caring employees and their superiors promotes target-focused, for dependents can then be better integrated into the flexible working as well as the long-term health and ­everyday work routine and thus gain greater acceptance employability of our staff. Less than a year after the introas an important part of life. duction of mobile working, the response has been extremely positive, with some 20,000 employees taking advantage of this option. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 116 6 .2 Supporting parents with childcare ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER AWARDS IN 2014 We have established childcare services at many of our German and international locations. With the support of – TRENDENCE GRADUATE BAROMETER GERMANY 2014: parents’ initiatives, we were able to accommodate over number 1 in business, number 2 in engineering, number 3 in IT. 300 children aged zero to six years at our German sites as of the end of 2014. – UNIVERSUM GRADUATE SURVEY GERMANY 2014: number 2 in business and engineering, number 7 in IT. At BMW Group facilities around the world, childcare ­services meet local and regional requirements. We also – GLOBAL REPUTATION INSTITUTE 2014 offer a special working time model (Home and Elder (GLOBAL REPTRACK 100): Care) for employees who care for sick or elderly family number 3 (thus the top automotive company and top ­ members. German company). EMPLOYEES – TRENDENCE EUROPE’S TOP 500 EMPLOYERS 2014: 6.1 Our management approach number 5 in business, number 4 in engineering. FORECAST 6.2 Attractive employer – UNIVERSUM WORLD’S MOST ADMIRED The long-term establishment of mobile working is an innovative EMPLOYERS 2014: step towards self-determined working hours, more focus on 6.3 Occupational health and safety number 14 in business, number 3 in engineering results and greater flexibility in tailoring working environments (thus the top automotive company and top German company). to individual requirements. It is supported and communicated 6.4 T  raining and further as a joint effort by top management and the works council. The education – TRENDENCE PUPIL BAROMETER GERMANY 2014: BMW Group is taking a pioneering role in fostering the neces6.5 Diversity & Inclusion number 3 (thus the top automotive company). sary dialogue between employees and managers, in particular on the topic of availability. – TRENDENCE YOUNG PROFESSIONAL BAROMETER GERMANY 2014: The employee survey in 2015 will measure the success of the 1st place in the categories business, engineering and IT. action taken since the last survey and highlight any new areas that may need to be addressed. – UNIVERSUM PROFESSIONAL SURVEY GERMANY 2014: number 2 in business and engineering, number 3 in IT. – HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AWARD 2014 FROM THE GERMAN ASSOCIATION OF HUMAN ­RESOURCES MANAGERS: 1st place in the large enterprise category for the concept “Flexibel arbeiten, bewusst abschalten: Mobilarbeit bei BMW” (Work flexibly but know how to switch off: mobile working at BMW). SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 117 3 6 .3 Occupational health new technologies presents the company with additional challenges in the area of occupational health and safety. and safety INTEGRATED HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT In Germany, special committees on occupational health and safety are in place at every plant. These committees convene once every quarter to consult on occupational health and safety issues as well as accident prevention. Each committee consists of employer representatives, experts in occupational health and safety, company physicians, safety officers and additional experts. Occupational health and safety committees are also in place at all interEMPLOYEES national locations. Up to 90% of BMW Group employees STRATEGIC DIRECTION are represented by committees on occupational health 6.1 Our management approach and safety and environmental protection. To preserve the health and the performance of our employees 6.2 Attractive employer in the long term, we promote personal responsibility and an At present, occupational health and safety management appropriately designed work environment. systems certified according to the OHRIS (Occupational 6.3  ccupational health O and safety Health and Risk Management System) and OHSAS (Occupation Health and Safety Assessment Series) are in 6.4 T  raining and further place at 19 of our 30 production plants; the other facilities education The BMW Group attaches great importance to the health work with systems that meet national standards. The 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion and performance capability of its employees. This is even new production site in Brazil will be certified according more the case in these times of demographic change, to the international standard in the spring of 2016. when especially in Germany an ageing workforce must meet increasing demands at work. Our main measures in The accident frequency rate at the BMW Group, includthe area of occupational health and safety are integrated ing subsidiaries, was 5.1 accidents per million working health management, working initiatives to suit an ageing hours in 2014. There have been no fatal accidents at the workforce and a high degree of safety at work. We also BMW Group for the last nine years. offer extensive prevention, rehabilitation and exercise programmes. Our employees are our most important success factor. To make sure they can perform at the highest level, we try to raise awareness among our workforce that it is worthwhile to cultivate a healthy lifestyle. Our managers know that their leadership behaviour can have an impact on the health of their staff and they therefore do their best to create a healthy work environment. Dealing with SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 118 6 .3 F.44 Accident frequency rate at BMW Group¹ ERGONOMICS IN PRODUCTION per one million hours worked 10.0 The foundation for ergonomic working conditions on the pro9.0 duction line is already laid during the product development 8.0 ­process. To further improve the ergonomic quality of work­ 7.0 stations and render it measurable, a continuous process has 6.0 been established to exploit every potential for optimisation 5.0 right up to the start of production. 4.0 This process already begins in the early stages of product de10 11 12 13 14 velopment. We then continuously monitor workstations during series production to further optimise ergonomics with a view 9.1 7.1 5.8 4.8 5.1 EMPLOYEES to ensuring ageing-appropriate conditions on the BMW pro1 Number of occupational accidents per one million hours worked with at least one day of absence from work. duction lines. Job rotation, workplace physiotherapy and the 6.1 Our management approach involvement of production staff in the ergonomic improvement Within the new system limits (around 88% of BMW Group employees captured process are integral elements in our production system. A in data), the accident frequency rate is 5.1; based on the system limits of the 6.2 Attractive employer seminar developed in 2014, called introduction to ergonomics 2013 financial year, the figure is 4.4 (improvement of 8.3%). and the use of the ABAtech method (requirement and capacity 6.3  ccupational health O and safety analysis) in ergonomic assessment, will serve as a basis for ­further improvements in working conditions. 6.4 T  raining and further TAKING PREVENTIVE MEASURES education 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion The BMW Group takes an integrated approach to health management in accordance with its Health Initiative, In addition to motivating our employees to get more which is applied internationally. ­exercise through a variety of offerings, the cafeterias at the BMW locations conduct numerous campaigns and Prevention is a core element in our health management measures to promote healthy nutrition. The traffic-light system. The BMW Group complies with international system of food labelling in all company restaurants is standards in prevention, adapting them to national one example of how guidance is provided for a healthy ­circumstances. We implement prevention campaigns and balanced diet. internationally, setting common goals and standards. To promote ergonomic workplace design for employees For example, every employee at our German locations who are primarily office-based, the BMW Group develis entitled to use our company-owned gyms and take oped the seminar “Gesundes Arbeiten im Büro” (Health ­special courses there. And our ProBike initiative allows at the Office) and implemented it successfully in 2014. employees at our Munich locations to cycle from one meeting to the next for free. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 119 6 .3 Providing health check-ups The BMW Group offers its employees annual check-ups, which are tailored to the local needs at our international locations. Comparable with the check-ups covered by statutory health insurance in Germany, these examin­ ations include the recording of vital signs. Employees on deployment to other countries and their families receive country-specific health advice, check-ups and all other necessary preventive care. F.45 Sickness rate at BMW AG EMPLOYEES in % 5.0 6.1 Our management approach 4.5 AGEING-APPROPRIATE WORK — Ageing-appropriate working environment – 4.0 designing an ergonomic workstation in Dingolfing (Germany) 6.2 Attractive employer 3.5 3.0 6.3 O  ccupational health and safety 2.5 As our workforce ages, we aim to create working conditions worldwide in which young employees can remain 6.4 T  raining and further 10 11 12 13 14 healthy as they grow older and older employees can education contribute their particular strengths. The BMW Group 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion 4.6 4.5 4.4 4.3 4.2 therefore speaks not of age-appropriate but of ageing-­ appropriate working conditions that preserve employee The sickness rate at BMW AG (4.2%) is again lower than the previous year’s health and performance. Nearly 50,000 employees will level (4.3%). The sickness rate was thus reduced for the fourth consecutive time. benefit worldwide by the end of 2014 from the Today for Tomorrow programme and the resulting measures. INTEGRATING PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES AND SUPPORTING AN AGEING WORKFORCE SUPPORTING REHABILITATION The BMW Group sees demographic change in Germany At our plants, we make every effort to safeguard the jobs as a challenge we are actively addressing. In a society of employees with debilitating health issues in the long in which the average age is increasing, we can only be term. All social partners work together to ensure that ­successful in the long run if we strengthen the health employees who are no longer able to carry out the work and performance of our employees and consistently take they once did as well as severely disabled employees are advantage of their wealth of experience. In our Today provided with adequate working conditions and fully for Tomorrow programme, we have been developing a integrated into working life. variety of constructive responses to demographic change for several years now. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 120 6 .3 FORECAST F.46 Share of employees with severe disabilities at BMW AG in % The Health Management 2020 programme will continue in 6 2015 as planned and will also be expanded internationally. 5 BMW’s own office workplace analysis, conducted successfully 4 for 15 years, will be overhauled this year. The rollout of the new 3 programme will take place in the spring of 2015 in Germany, 2 Austria and the USA. Accident frequency rate calculations, 1 which due to system restrictions currently include only 88% of the BMW Group workforce, will be expanded further. 10 11 12 13 14 The programme Today for Tomorrow will be reviewed in 2015 to verify its adequacy for future requirements. 6.0 5.1 6.0 5.9 6.2 EMPLOYEES The figure for severely disabled employees is based on the statutory requirements in accordance with the German Social Insurance Code (SGB IX). In 6.1 Our management approach addition, the BMW Group awarded contracts amounting to around €30 million to workshops for the severely disabled in 2014. Around €7 million of 6.2 Attractive employer this figure can be written off in accordance with the compensatory levy act. The order volume increased by around 1 million compared to the previous year. 6.3 O  ccupational health and safety 6.4 T  raining and further The BMW Group supports employees in Germany who education want to go to rehab after a long period of illness, both 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion through its reintegration management programme and its Netzwerk Reha rehabilitation programme. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 121 4 6 .4 Training and further ATTRACTING AND FOSTERING TALENT education We invest in attracting and promoting talent on an ongoing basis. This enables us to fill our staffing requirements in the long term in a dynamic, fast-changing environment. The BMW Group’s global package of measures ranges from vocational training to young talent programmes for student target groups to high-potential programmes for future managers. BMW Group expenditure on training and further education programmes increased in 2014 to €335 million (+16.3% year on year). On average, our employees particiEMPLOYEES pated in 3.9 days of further training in 2014 see Figure 47. STRATEGIC DIRECTION 6.1 Our management approach Finding the right employees, making the most of their skills and F.47 Average days of further training per BMW Group employee¹ 6.2 Attractive employer ensuring their employability makes a significant contribution to Number the success of the company. 4.0 6.3 Occupational health 3.5 and safety 3.0 6.4  raining and further T 2.5 education The education and further training of our employees is 2.0 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion of growing importance. It is essential to keeping pace 1.5 with technological advances in the automotive industry. Through advanced training courses, the BMW Group 10 11 12 13 14 promotes the individual strengths of our trainees, skilled workers and managers. 2.6 3.6 3.7 3.5 3.9 1 Data retrieved by direct capture of the number of participants as well as a small share by qualified extrapolation. In the coming years, there will be a significant increase in the demand for well-trained skilled workers. This is particularly true in the case of innovations such as drivetrain electrification and the use of hydrogen technology and fuel cells. To meet our demand for qualified employees, we try to detect talent at an early stage and develop it in full through the right education and training. We also offer our employees a large number of development and certification programmes. The BMW Group thus consist­ ently fosters the concept of life-long learning. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 122 6 .4 Implementing young talent programmes worldwide In 2014, we had approximately 1,500 apprentices worldwide. There are currently around 4,500 young people taking part in vocational and young talent programmes in the BMW Group, over 3,800 of them in Germany. Expanding our vocational training internationally will be a key focus in the coming years. F.48 BMW Group apprentices as at 31 December Number 5,000 4,500 EMPLOYEES 4,000 3,500 3,000 6.1 Our management approach 2,500 THE BMW GROUP’S STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS WITH UNIVERSITIES 6.2 Attractive employer 10 11 12 13 14 6.3 Occupational health and safety Total 3,798 3,899 4,266 4,445 4,595 Expanding international student programmes 6.4 T  raining and further In keeping with the BMW Group’s global corporate philoseducation ophy, participants in our young talent programmes are Around 1,500 young people began their vocational training at the BMW Group 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion in 2014, 1,200 of whom were located in Germany. The company has thus provided with both financial support and focused training expanded its training activities worldwide (2013: 1,363 vocational trainees in their areas of expertise as well as other additional skills. worldwide). On the reporting date, the company employed a total of 4,595 young people in vocational training and young talent programmes worldwide. In 2014, approximately 250 young talents took part in the ongoing, practice-oriented bachelor’s and master’s programmes funded by the company in Germany. Around 230 doctoral candidates are currently studying for their Establishing dual vocational training worldwide PhDs with the BMW Group. Their research and innovative We believe in the dual vocational training system. For spirit benefits departments in all areas of the company. this reason, we are extending the proven German system Some 50 young people from all over the world are taking to our international locations as well. Our production part in the international bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral locations in China, the USA, South Africa and the UK are programmes introduced in 2014. already working with the dual system and are setting national standards in their countries. For 2015 and 2016, Through strategic partnerships with selected universities, we plan to launch training courses according to the dual we promote and support activities in the target fields of system in Brazil, Mexico, Thailand and India. young talent retention, management training as well as research and innovation worldwide. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 123 6 .4 TRAINING MANAGERS AND EMPLOYEES F.49 Average training hours at the BMW AG Academy, by employee category¹ We base the further education and training of our Number of employees employees and managers on a leadership principle that 12 13 14 focuses on people’s strengths. Team workshops also give managers the opportunity to work on developing Non-tariff strength-focused collaboration. employees 27.1 31.2 30.5 “Meister” Optimising the effectiveness of leadership (master craftsmen) 32.5 40.7 35.0 The BMW Group inaugurated a worldwide Corporate Tariff² 16.2 17.0 17.5 Leadership Programme in 2010 that imparts clear mesDays of further training for managers in the BMW Group sages on leadership derived from the company’s corporate Number 16,123 18,843 18,920 and human resources strategy. In 2014, we further 1 Until 2008: BMW AG Performance Centres. EMPLOYEES expanded this programme internationally to ensure that 2 (w/o “Meister”) + vocational trainees + other. it is also applied to the lower hierarchy levels throughout 6.1 Our management approach the BMW Group. To foster international young talent, the BMW Group developed the Global Leader D ­ evelopment Targeted health training 6.2 Attractive employer Programme. Integral components of the programme are We continued to expand our health training courses in various practical phases in Germany and abroad, targeted 2014, trying to gear them more closely to our employees’ 6.3 Occupational health and safety training measures, and diverse net­working and exchange current needs. A special coaching programme helps opportunities. Special emphasis is placed on developing employees to identify personal health concerns and to 6.4 T  raining and further intercultural competence. find appropriate ways of dealing with them. education 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion Topic-specific training BMW Group employees can gain state-of-the-art expertise by taking part in funded study courses outside working FORECAST hours. We continuously adapt the topics to the company’s requirements, for example by offering courses in electroA further expansion in our Corporate Leadership Programme mobility, lightweight construction, composite materials and international young talent programmes for student target and hydrogen/fuel cells. groups is planned for 2015. The selection of in-house further training courses will also be expanded, including at our interWeb-based sustainability training national locations. To this end, we plan to set up international Since 2013, an interactive Web-based training course has education and training networks on specific topics. This will been available to all employees worldwide that was create transparency and help us to identify where further ­specially developed to familiarise them with the principles action is required. Standard or newly conceived education of sustainable management and its relevance to day-toand training products can then be offered worldwide. day practice. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 124 5 6 .5 Diversity & Inclusion EMPLOYEES STRATEGIC DIRECTION 6.1 Our management approach ENHANCING INNOVATIVE SPIRIT THROUGH DIVERSITY — We want to maintain the 15–17% share of women in our The BMW Group’s Diversity Concept 6.2 Attractive employer ­general workforce and also achieve this ratio in management positions by 2020, both in Germany and worldwide. 6.3 Occupational health and safety – Gender; – Cultural background; 6.4 T  raining and further education – Age and experience. Modern society is characterised by a variety of different 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion lifestyles. The diversity of the population as a whole Special attention is paid to these three diversity dimenhas increased in the wake of globalisation, demographic sions throughout the BMW Group. At all of our locations, developments and changing values in society. As an we seek to prevent discrimination on the grounds of gen­international company, the BMW Group regards an interder, sexual orientation, religion, disability, age or origin. cultural workforce, an appropriate gender balance and The BMW Group SpeakUP Line offers all employees a good age mix as beneficial to our business. We are conworldwide the possibility to anonymously and confidenvinced that a diverse workforce enhances our innovative tially report breaches of this principle. Employees can strength and further increases our competitiveness. also address their queries to their own managers, the ­relevant offices of the BMW Group, the HR department, the works council or the Diversity & Inclusion Office. In all their diversity, each and every one of our employees is accorded equal levels of appreciation, respect and opportunity. To further promote diversity among our workforce, the Board of Management passed a targeted Diversity Concept in 2010, with a definition of three areas where diversity is to be strengthened throughout the company, taking due consideration for local conditions: SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 125 6 .5 general workforce and also achieve this ratio in management positions by 2020, both in Germany and worldwide. The ratio of female managers in the BMW Group worldwide was 14.2% as of 31 December 2014 (share of women in the entire workforce: 17.8%). In Germany, the proportion of women in the total workforce reached 14.8%, and in the Board of Management 12.5%. F.50 Share of female employees in management positions at BMW AG/BMW Group in % EMPLOYEES 12 13 14 PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION — Supervisory 6.1 Our management approach Board 20.0 20.0 25.0 Training courses for BMW Group managers 6.2 Attractive employer Board of Management 12.5 12.5 12.5 6.3 Occupational health Non-tariff employees and safety RAISING MANAGERS’ AWARENESS OF DIVERSITY BMW AG 10.0 10.9 11.4 AND INCLUSION ISSUES BMW Group 12.7¹ 13.8 14.2 6.4 T  raining and further education Diversity and inclusion are central themes in the compul1 Figures for 2012 adjusted due to data cleansing. 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion sory further training programmes for managers. Participants in these programmes reflect on these issues by trying to see things from different perspectives. In the proF.51 Share of female employees in total workforce cess, they learn to take advantage of the specific potential of BMW AG/BMW Group of teams that are particularly diverse in terms of gender, in % age and the cultural backgrounds of their members. Over 18 2,000 managers were trained on this theme in 2014. 17 16 PROMOTING FEMALE EMPLOYEES AND MANAGERS 15 14 The BMW Group’s Diversity Concept aims to bring the 13 share of women in management positions into line with 12 the overall employee structure. This also means that we are complying with the recommendations of the German 10 11 12 13 14 Corporate Governance Code. In 2011, together with the other DAX-30 companies, we made a commitment to BMW AG 13.2 13.5 14.2 14.5 14.8 increase the share of females in management positions. BMW Group 15.2 16.1 16.8¹ 17.4 17.8 We want to maintain the 15–17% share of women in our 1 Figures for 2012 adjusted due to data cleansing. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 126 6 .5 F.52 Share of employees at BMW AG from Europe (not including Germany) and from non-EU countries in % c b a EMPLOYEES GETTING YOUNG WOMEN INTERESTED IN TECHNICAL PROFESSIONS — a) From Germany 91.1 Fostering young talent at the BMW Group b) Europe (not including Germany) 4.0 c) Non-EU countries 4.9 6.1 Our management approach 6.2 Attractive employer Getting women interested in technical occupations As at 31 December 2014, employees from 108 different countries worked We place a special emphasis on women in both our for BMW AG. 6.3 Occupational health and safety ­academic young talent programmes and our vocational training programmes in an effort to recruit more female 6.4 T  raining and further employees in the long term. The proportion of women education in the Global Leader Development Programme was over work in Germany. To enhance cooperation, we also 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion 50% at the end of December 2014. This creates the basis ­promote employee exchanges between companies of for a new generation of leadership that is more feminine, the BMW Group worldwide. technically competent, well-networked, and sensitive to cultural and social issues. To further promote an international perspective and intercultural understanding among our new employees, ENHANCING INNOVATIVE STRENGTH THROUGH we designed our BMW vocational training as well as CULTURAL DIVERSITY the Global Leader Development Programme with the needs of international participants in mind. As a company that is currently active in over 150 countries, we see diversity among our workforce as a major As an international company with an intercultural workopportunity. In Germany, we currently have employees force, we focus on recruiting managers with international from 108 different countries working together very successexperience and are also working to increase the share of fully. The diversity of our employees helps us to underinternational top managers. The international character stand the specific needs of our customers worldwide. of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of BMW AG also reflects the global scope of the company’s We foster cultural diversity by focusing on recruiting new business. employees locally at our facilities in the growth markets and by recruiting employees from other countries to SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 127 6 .5 Innovative Employer Award for Best Practice in Age F.53 BMW AG employees according to age group divided into functions and gender¹ ­Management (AARP). In addition, the wide range of ­support offered by our Health Initiative helps employees in % stay healthy in the long term. To complement this, we < 30 years old 30 – 50 years old > 50 years old raise awareness among managers of the challenges posed by mixed-age teams. 2012 total 10.9 65.3 23.8 2013 total 12.5 64.1 23.5 2014 total 12.5 62.0 25.5 FORECAST direct² 15.1 58.8 26.1 indirect³ 10.8 64.2 25.1 The BMW Group will continue to promote a diverse workforce male 11.3 62.1 26.6 through targeted Diversity Management. In 2015, we plan female 20.4 61.6 18.0 EMPLOYEES to pursue and further expand existing measures in this area. 1 Figures refer to employees with permanent contracts. For example, with our ProGesundheit 2015 (Pro-health 2015) 2 Clock-controlled production employees. 6.1 Our management approach 3 All employees without clock control. campaign we will hold trade fair events at BMW locations to raise awareness among staff for the topic of age/experience. 6.2 Attractive employer Demographic change in an aging workforce is also reflected in the age When setting up our plant in Mexico, we will engage in specific ­structure at BMW AG. While the share of employees under 30 remained human resources marketing that addresses and recruits candi6.3 Occupational health constant year on year and the share of employees between 30 and 50 and safety slightly decreased, the share of over 50-year-old employees increased. dates from target groups of different ages. Additional targets will be set in the coming years to further develop our Diversity 6.4 T  raining and further Strategy, not only for gender but also for the dimensions of education ­cultural diversity and age/experience. 6.5 Diversity & Inclusion TAKING ACCOUNT OF AGE DIVERSITY When setting up new locations or divisions we recruit people from a range of age groups. For example, at our new BMW locations in Brazil and Mexico we are recruiting a mixed-age workforce from the start. This will allow us to avoid age structure issues and to focus on tapping into the specific strengths of different age groups. The number of years each employee works for the BMW Group is increasing. This is a result of earlier entry into the company and later exit, due for example to rising retirement ages. In order to benefit from the special strengths and experience of employees of different ages, we have introduced extensive programmes for flexible and mobile working see Chapter 6.2. To maintain employees’ performance as the workforce ages, we introduced the Today for Tomorrow programme, for which we have received a number of awards, including the International SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 128 7 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7.1 7.2 Our management approach Corporate Citizenship Read more at www.bmwgroup.com p. 137 p. 132 129 BALI, INDONESIA BALI NUSA DUA CONVENTION CENTER How serious is BMW about being a Corporate Citizen? Intercultural Innovation Awards ceremony, August 2014 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 130 7 — CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP PROGRESS IN 2014 INDICATORS 2015+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES FOCUS ON SOCIAL IMPACT EXPENDITURE ON CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP IMPLEMENT STRATEGY WORLDWIDE In 2014, we continued to implement our Corporate 2014 In 2015, we will continue to implement our 34.5 Citizenship strategy, focusing on projects that have Corporate Citizenship strategy at our facilities a measurable impact on society. worldwide, with a focus on our markets in the € USA, Brazil and India. million 2013 €29 million EXTENSION OF INTERCULTURAL NUMBER OF PEOPLE BENEFITING FROM THE REACH ONE MILLION PEOPLE INNOVATION AWARD INTERCULTURAL INNOVATION AWARD, since 2011 In the area of intercultural innovation and social We increased the scope of the Intercultural End of 2014 inclusion, we aim to meet in 2018 our target 420,000 Innovation Award. In addition to providing finanof having one million people benefit by 2020. cial support, we now also offer award winners In 2015, we will focus on the UK and China. the opportunity to benefit from any BMW Group competencies that may serve their purpose. End of 2013 175,000 EFFECTIVE CONTRIBUTION MADE BY EXPENDITURE OF FOUNDATIONS ON FIND SOLUTIONS TO SOCIETAL ISSUES OUR FOUNDATIONS NON-PROFIT PROJECTS The two BMW foundations will continue to bring With their programmes and projects, our foun­ 5.4 2014 people from different contexts and cultures dations again made a significant contribution in ­together to drive social innovations, promote global 2014 towards shaping a society characterised approx. € dialogue and encourage decision-makers to act by cohesion and i­ nnovation. responsibly. million 2013 approx. €5.2 million SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 131 1 7 .1 Our management Intercultural innovation and social inclusion as well as responsible use of resources are some of the main focal approach areas of our strategy. Knowledge transfer is a particular area of focus. We offer educational projects to promote understanding for these topics. In addition, road safety measures and social projects play an important role at a local level. All of our activities as a corporate citizen are based on one main goal – to provide long-term benefit to each ­society we are engaged with. In exceptional cases, such as (natural) catastrophes, we also provide support spon­ taneously and independently of our main focus areas. CORPORATE Corporate Citizenship forms an integral part of the BMW Group’s vision of itself as a business enterprise. TAKING RESPONSIBILITY AS A CORPORATE CITIZEN ­CITIZENSHIP With this in mind, we address current challenges in AT A LOCAL LEVEL ­society and focus on those areas in which we can apply 7.1 Our management approach our core expertise to achieve specific and measureable For us it is important to scale up our corporate citizen7.2 Corporate Citizenship improvements. We believe that our corporate citizenship ship activities on an international level and to help activities contribute towards mastering challenges in ­people to help themselves in the long term. In addition ­society, while at the same time bringing economic benefit to our global focus areas of intercultural innovation and to the company. Thus we can utilise the experience and social inclusion as well as responsible use of resources, expertise we gain to the benefit of our core business. we also support neighbourhoods in the vicinity of our plants and thus contribute to local development. F.54 Corporate Citizenship at the BMW Group NARROWER SENSE BROADER SENSE BMW GROUP CULTURAL FOUNDATIONS UNIVERSITIES CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ENGAGEMENT Corporate ­ Corporate Donations Eberhard Citizenship ­Volunteering BMW Foundation von Kuenheim Partnerships Projects Herbert Quandt Foundation Neighbourhood support/community relations SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 132 7 .1 CORPORATE ­CITIZENSHIP 7.1 Our management approach 7.2 Corporate Citizenship COMMITMENT TO COMBATING HIV/AIDS — BMW Group plant in Rosslyn (South Africa) It is both our objective and duty to be a dependable partREWARDING VOLUNTARY WORK BY EMPLOYEES ner to society. We mainly focus on topics that are relevant for us, and on regions in which we have manufacturing To complement our Corporate Citizenship measures, activities. Our aim is to integrate the company into society we bestow awards on those employees worldwide who and to create mutual acceptance and a positive image at deserve recognition for what they have given back to sociand around our locations. In the UK and South Africa, ety. This is the company’s way of thanking those employfor example, we carry out a local analysis in the proximity ees who do voluntary work in their free time. In 2014, of our production plants, and implement a variety of employees from ten countries applied, and four projects projects as a result. In Oxford (UK), for instance, we place were presented with the award. Each project focused a special focus on inter­cultural communication, and in on different aspects of social responsibility. The winning Rosslyn (South Africa) we are committed to the fight projects range from training programmes for mentally against HIV/AIDS. and physically disabled sportspeople in the USA, to ­providing support for mentally disabled children and their mothers in Bangladesh, to development projects in ­southern India and support for farmers in isolated regions of China in the planting and sale of their products. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 133 7 .1 SHAPING THE FUTURE THROUGH FOUNDATIONS BMW FOUNDATION HERBERT QUANDT We believe it is possible to successfully shape a society that is based on social cohesion and innovation if the The BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt brings people from competencies and skills of each individual are harnessed different cultures, nations and sectors together to drive social for the general good and used to implement social change. innovations, promote global dialogue and encourage decision-­ Our foundations contribute towards making this happen. makers to act responsibly. We take this approach in order to break down barriers between policymakers, industry and civil society, so that the community can benefit from the creative diversity that results from cross-border collaboration. EBERHARD VON KUENHEIM FOUNDATION The political format BMW Foundation ­Global Table, introBMW’s Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation sees itself as duced in 2014, has enabled the BMW Foundation Herbert CORPORATE a creator of forums within which social responsibility can be Quandt to create unconventional, strategic dialogue between fostered in Germany. Its mandate is to promote entrepreneurial decision-makers from Europe and from the developing econ­ ­CITIZENSHIP thinking and action above and beyond the economic context. omies in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The topics for the first Under the motto freude am neu:wagen (try something new), two-year event cycle are resources and security. 7.1 Our management approach it develops and tests new solution models for today’s social 7.2 Corporate Citizenship issues. Projects with selected partners create forums for Another example is the further development and global distri­social innovation and responsibility. When the projects reach bution of the concept of Social Intrapreneurship. With this ­completion they become independent entities that have their concept, we aim to support those employees in corporations effect in day-to-day life. and administrations who drive innovations that equally benefit the organisation and society. Some examples of Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation projects are Lehr:werkstatt (teaching workshop), Junge Vor!Denker (youth thinking ahead) and Sinnvestition (sensible investment). The teaching workshop, a further education project for The BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt and the Eberhard teachers and teaching diploma students, posted its highest von Kuenheim Foundation plan and manage their proever number of participants for the school year 2014/15, with grammes themselves. Both foundations are independent, 550 applicants and 183 tandems. In addition, the JOBLINGE both legally and with respect to their content. In some project, initiated by the Boston Consulting Group in collabor­ areas, the foundations collaborate with the BMW Group ation with the foundation, was named Integration ­Project of in order to make their commitment effective on a larger the Year 2014, receiving the Goldene Victoria award from the scale. In 2014, they invested a total of €5.4 million (2013: Deutschlandstiftung (Germany Foundation) under the aegis €5.22 million) in non-profit programmes and projects. of German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Since 2007, over 2,000 young people have found vocational training or work positions ESTABLISHING PARTNERSHIPS WITH UNIVERSITIES via JOBLINGE – 70% of whom come from an immigrant family WORLDWIDE background. Since 2011, we have been realigning our partnerships with universities worldwide. Eight strategic university partnerships and collaborations have now been set up or expanded in Europe, the USA and Asia. Each strategic SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 134 7 .1 university partnership focuses on the areas of research MEASURING THE EFFECTS OF OUR ACTIVITIES and promotion of young talent. Corporate citizenship should have a measurable effect. EXPANDING CULTURAL ENGAGEMENT INTERNATIONALLY For this reason measurability is high on our list of prior­ ities. Since 2010, we have been measuring the effects of The BMW Group has been promoting art and culture our corporate citizenship activities using the iooi (Input for over 40 years. Our focus in this area is on classical Output Outcome Impact) method, which was developed music and jazz, contemporary and modern art, as well in cooperation with other DAX-listed corporations in a as architecture and design. working group established by the Bertelsmann Foundation. This method provides guidance for the systematic trackOur cultural activities enable us to increasingly be seen ing of expenditure on and impact of corporate citizenship as a corporate citizen, to stand out from the competition activities. and to enhance our reputation. In addition, they transfer CORPORATE an image that contributes towards a positive perception of the BMW Group among the general public. The unreF.55 Amount of expenditure on corporate citizenship, by type of activity ­CITIZENSHIP stricted creative freedom of our cultural partners is guarin € thousand anteed at all times. The aim is to support international 40,000 7.1 Our management approach projects in markets that are of particular relevance to the 35,000 7.2 Corporate Citizenship BMW Group, such as China and the USA. 30,000 25,000 In 2014, we successfully expanded our cultural activities 20,000 at international level. For example, we published a book 15,000 on the BMW Art Cars in three languages, established 10,000 the Open for All format in China and initiated the BMW 5,000 Art Journey as well as a global cultural partnership with Soho House. The feedback we receive, for example from 10 11 12 13 14 ­creative artists, customer surveys and in the form of ­positive media reports, demonstrates the high level of Total 26,591 36,846 31,979 28,944 34,524 public acceptance of our cultural activities. Donations/contributions in kind Community investment  Commercial activities (sponsoring, cause-related marketing) MANAGING AND COORDINATING CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP The activities of the BMW Group in the area of corporate citizenship are divided into three main areas. Firstly: monetary donations and donations Within the company, the Sustainability Board is respon­ in kind. Secondly: community investment. Community investment refers to sible for corporate citizenship. The Corporate Commu­ investment in project initiatives conceived in-house, cooperative endeavours nications Department, in close collaboration with the and partnerships as well as corporate volunteering by BMW Group employees. And thirdly: commercial activities, i.e. sponsorship and cause-related marketing. department for sustainability strategy and environmental protection, is responsible for managing our corporate cit­i­ zenship activities. In cooperation with Group Corporate Communications at headquarters, local initiatives are taken care of by local production and sales organisations. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 135 7 .1 FORECAST F.56 BMW Group donations worldwide in 2014 in %, total amount €10,199,438¹ The BMW Group plans to further raise the profile of its core f d e competencies in the area of corporate citizenship. Therefore, c we will continue to expand on the content and structure in the focal areas of intercultural innovation and social inclusion as a well as efficient use of resources, with a particular focus on the topic of knowledge transfer. Our aim in 2015 is to further implement this strategy at our locations worldwide and thus to b better leverage synergies. We will be placing particular focus on our markets in the USA, Brazil, India and South Africa. a) Science/education 43.1 d) Politics 0.3 CORPORATE b) Society/community 41.3 e) Environment/sustainability 0.3 ­CITIZENSHIP c) Culture 6.9 f) Sport 8.1 1 The sum indicated here does not include either cause-related marketing or sponsorship and does not contain the projects and activities carried out in the context of the company’s social and cultural commitment. 7.1 Our management approach 7.2 Corporate Citizenship The BMW Group focuses its activities in the area of donations on society and the community as well as science and education, providing targeted support of projects connected with the company’s core competencies and activities. Donations made by the BMW Group in 2014 were approximately 20% higher than in 2013. Before we start a corporate citizenship project, we examine the social challenges faced at local level. The key question we ask ourselves is whether and how the expertise we provide can actually improve local conditions. In 2014, we spent a total of €34,523,920 (2013: €28,944,466), of which €10,199,438 took the form of donations (2013: €8,485,289). To see how these funds were allocated to our various areas see ­Figure 55 and see Figure 56. Total expenditure on corporate citizenship activities of the BMW Group increased compared to the 2013 financial year. The main reasons for this were individual lighthouse projects that were expanded in the 2014 financial year, for example the Intercultural Innovation Award and Junior Campus. In addition, due to new legislation, expenditure on CSR activities in certain markets were increased in order to comply with regulations. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 136 2 7 .2 Corporate PROMOTING INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION AND SOCIAL INCLUSION Citizenship As a global corporation with a multinational workforce, the BMW Group has been working for many years now to promote understanding between different nations, religions and ethnic groups. One of our core areas of expertise is professional diversity management. Between 1997 and 2010, the BMW Group Award for Intercultural Learning went to a large number of innovative projects and individuals worldwide. In 2011, we further developed this award to establish the Intercultural CORPORATE Innovation Award in collaboration with the United STRATEGIC DIRECTION Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC). The award ­CITIZENSHIP recognises innovative concepts that are designed to solve Due to its core areas of expertise, the BMW Group is a leader intercultural tensions and conflict. In addition to providing 7.1 Our management approach in intercultural communication. In the areas of intercultural financial support, we also offer the award winners the 7.2 Corporate Citizenship ­innovation and social inclusion, we plan to reach out to a total opportunity to benefit from any BMW Group competenof one million people by 2020. cies that may serve their purpose. For a period of one year, a pool of experts offers projectrelated support and provides advice on organisational Through our activities as a corporate citizen, we contribute development. We also carry out workshops with the towards mastering social challenges together and proaward winners and BMW employees, where participants moting understanding between different cultures. We receive training in how, for example, to deal with inalso benefit as a company from our corporate citizenship vestors, develop a business plan and manage human activities. For example, we become more familiar with resources, as well as gaining expertise in communications, local social structures, reach new target groups and learn marketing and the use of social media. to see things from an alternative perspective. Our corporate citizenship activities also enhance the reputation of Since its establishment in 2011, more than 420,000 people the company and lead to closer dialogue with our stakeworldwide benefited from the award. holders. YOU WILL FIND MORE INFORMATION ON THE AWARD AT: www.interculturalinnovation.org In 2014, our focal areas were intercultural communication and social inclusion as well as knowledge transfer on ­sustainable use of resources. In addition, road safety measures and social projects play an important role at a local level. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 137 7 .2 CORPORATE ­CITIZENSHIP RAISING ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS — BMW SEED in South Africa GETTING CHILDREN INTERESTED IN SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY — 7.1 Our management approach Junior Campus in South Korea 7.2 Corporate Citizenship RAISING AWARENESS FOR RESPONSIBLE USE OF EXPERIENCING MOBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY RESOURCES Promoting understanding and enthusiasm for technology Responsible use of resources is a major challenge in and sustainable mobility among children and adolescents ­society today. We want to raise awareness of the need to is another aspect of our corporate citizenship activities. protect the environment and resources. Particular focus One example is the BMW Group’s Junior Campus. is placed here on children and disadvantaged groups Together with renowned educators and scientists, the in society. The SEED project in South Africa, our waste company developed a concept that enables people to use ­separation project in Thailand and the Green Future all their senses to discover mobility and sustainability. Camp in South Korea are just some of the examples of The first Junior Campus was opened in autumn 2007 at our range of activities. the BMW Welt in Munich. Here, children can carry out interactive research as well as tests and experiments that allow them to experience SEED – ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS IN the life cycle of a car from a mobility perspective. SOUTH AFRICA In 2014, 13,149 children and adolescents took part in the workshops. The Schools Environmental Education Development Project (SEED) aims to raise young people’s awareness of environmental Junior Campuses have now also been established in issues and encourage social responsibility. The SEED pro­Berlin (Germany), Incheon (South Korea) and Moscow gramme was launched in 1996 at 15 schools in the vicinity of the (Russia). The concept has been adapted to local condiBMW plant in Rosslyn and has since expanded to 60 schools. tions in each country. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 138 7 .2 SUPPORTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES BMW KOREA FUTURE FUND The BMW Group has 30 manufacturing and assembly plants in 14 countries. Its sales network has 42 subsid­ The BMW Korea Future Fund was established by the BMW Group iaries. Wherever we are represented in the world, we are Korea in 2011, and has since been making a valuable contribucommitted to social responsibility. tion to Korean society under the motto Responsible Leadership for Future. This fund supports various projects to promote Helping to improve society child development. Two good examples of our activities in this area are the BMW Warm Heart Fund and the BMW Korea Future The BMW Driving Center in Incheon (South Korea) opened in Fund. Both funds offer a platform that enables the 2014. The Center also offers a Junior Campus. Here primary BMW Group, its workforce, dealerships and customers school children can discover a diverse educational programme to make a contribution towards improving society in on the topics of mobility and road safety. A mobile Junior CORPORATE the respective countries. ­Campus had already been opened in 2012. ­CITIZENSHIP In the Young Engineer Dream Project mentoring programme, technically minded young people receive special support from 7.1 Our management approach BMW WARM HEART FUND BMW and MINI experts. The first year was brought to successful 7.2 Corporate Citizenship completion in September 2014 with a visit to the BMW plant The BMW Warm Heart Fund was established in 2008 by BMW in Shenyang (China). China and BMW Brilliance Automotive in collaboration with the China Charity Federation (CCF). Since the foundation was In addition, the BMW Korea Future Fund supports the Hope ­established, donations totalling over CNY 90 million (approxiSharing School programme, which offers meals and schooling mately €12 million) have been made, around half of which bene­ to disadvantaged children during the school holidays. Over fited the local population. In the past six years, over 65,000 20,000 children have participated in the programme since customers and employees have contributed to the BMW Warm 2012. The fund’s activities are rounded off by its support of the Heart Fund, and over 85,000 people across the country business plan competition From Idea to Startup, which is tar­received support. geted at students and graduates. Almost 3,500 students have participated in this competition since 2012. The fund financed, for example, the BMW Joy Home Children Care programme, which provides both material and psycho­ logical support to children in underdeveloped regions in China. By the end of 2014, 53 BMW Joy Home Centers had reached FORECAST out to over 40,000 children in 28 provinces. The BMW Group will continue to expand its corporate citizenThe BMW Joy Future programme offers financial and educaship activities in line with its core areas of expertise, i.e. intertional support to outstanding students from less privileged cultural innovation, social inclusion and resource efficiency. families. By the end of 2014, just under 6,200 students had In the area of intercultural innovation and social inclusion, received financial support totalling approximately CNY 1.5 we now aim to achieve in 2018 our original goal of providing ­million (around €200,000). benefits to a total of one million people by 2020. We will ­continue to expand Junior Campus internationally. Our focus markets for 2015 are the UK and China. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 139 APPENDIX Stakeholder expectations p. 141 Objectives p. 142 About this report p. 146 Independent Assurance Report p. 148 GRI Index p. 151 Imprint/Contact p. 157 Read more at www.bmwgroup.com SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 140 Stakeholdererwartungen Stakeholder expectations (from our worldwide dialogue events in 2014) E-mobility Sustainability Leadership Improve infrastructure for electromobility We can only achieve this by entering into partnerships with other companies. With Implement sustainability along Our sustainability ambition is in line with the Action 2020 programme that we ChargeNow, BMW i drivers can quickly find one of 24,000 public charging points in the entire value chain ­developed in collaboration with other companies on the World Business Council a large and constantly growing partnership network worldwide. of Sustainable Development (WBCSD). It provides the basis for our goals and ­activities: The BMW Group integrates sustainability along the entire value chain Reduce cost of electric vehicles As with any technical innovation, the initial series models are quite expensive. and in all underlying processes – thus creating added value for the company, Once batteries go into mass production, prices will fall. So we are dependent here the ­environment and society. on our suppliers as well as market developments. Set ambitious CO² targets for our fleets The BMW Group is getting closer and closer to its vision of sustainable mobility. Secure green energy sources In Germany, BMW i customers can purchase an accompanying Naturstrom AG We use innovative efficiency technologies in all vehicle models. In addition, we are green energy package directly from us. In the international markets, we will offer ­adding electrically powered cars to our model range. Due to climate change issues our ­customers similar solutions with local partners. and scarce resources, we want to further reduce the CO² emissions of our vehicles. We have set ourselves an ambitious new target: by 2020, we will reduce the CO² Improve battery recycling We are developing a variety of Second Life concepts for batteries. Used batteries emissions of our vehicle fleet (EU-28) by 50% compared to the base year 1995. can be employed for example as stationary energy storage units. This allows them to ­optimise use of renewable energy supply in buildings. Transparent lobby work We participate in the political debate in a constructive and transparent manner. Some of our key positions can be found in this report, e.g. with regard to the practiIncrease number of electric vehicles In the year under review, 16,052 BMW i3s and 1,741 BMW i8s were sold. Develcability of the CO² regulations in Europe or how to deal with trade barriers. There are in our fleet opment of this market going forward is strongly dependent on external conditions extremely strict transparency requirements regarding support for political parties. such as battery, crude oil and electricity prices. In the coming years, we will also All partnerships are subject to the clear sponsorship guidelines of the BMW Group. be ­adding plug-in hybrid vehicles to our range. Improve prevailing conditions that We deliberately enter into alliances with policymakers, businesspeople and Mobility services promote sustainability ­decision-makers in society in order to have an impact along our entire value chain above and beyond our direct sphere of influence. For example, the BMW Group Further develop services to promote One example of our holistic approach to electromobility is our 360° ELECTRIC participates in a number of multi-stakeholder platforms, e.g. the World B ­ usiness e-mobility ­service package. It covers everything from recharging at home and at public charging ­Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) as part of the Sustainable M ­ obility points to range of different assistance systems. BMW Add-on Mobility gives project, the National Platform on Electromobility (NPE) in Germany and the ­customers access to conventional BMW vehicles for long-distance travel as well as ­Aluminium Stewardship Initiative, which defines sustainability standards in the the car-sharing service DriveNow. ­international value chain. Improve access to mobility services For example, DriveNow is now available in Munich, Berlin, Düsseldorf, Cologne, Integrate sustainability into Sustainability is an integral part of our sales training. We aim to ensure that sales Hamburg, Vienna, London and San Francisco. In October 2014, we introduced the marketing strategy personnel can provide information to the customer on all BMW Group sustainability a roaming function which allows over 360,000 DriveNow customers who are activities and the sustainability performance of the various products. Sustainability already r­ egistered in Germany to use our car-sharing service abroad, too. aspects are also the focus of both brand communication of the BMW i as well as our What’s next campaign. Promoting intermodality In the near future, BMW i ConnectedDrive Services will use the Intermodal Routing service to include public transport, current schedules and to guide drivers to a free parking space close to the respective station or stop. Facilitate the search for parking spaces Our ParkNow app will permanently change the way people find parking spaces. It makes the urban parking situation transparent and spaces can be booked in advance. Comply with data protection regulations In Germany, our Group-wide data protection guideline Binding Corporate Rules in all areas (BCR) was official recognised by the state office for data protection in 2014. The BMW Group successfully complete the application procedure for this kind of recognition. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 141 Ziele Sustainability targets in the area of strategy Sustainability area Strategic direction/vision 2020 General direction/areas of action Indicators Further information Strategy and governance The BMW Group bases its actions on the principles of respon­ Consistently integrating sustainability into our business model see Chapter 1.1 sible corporate governance, oriented towards sustainable value Take account of sustainability when making business decisions, creation. ­integrate in agreed targets and reward them based on performance The BMW Group is the most successful and sustainable premium provider of individual mobility worldwide. Stakeholder engagement The BMW Group engages in ongoing dialogue with its Continuous and systematic dialogue with relevant stakeholders see Chapter 1.2 ­stakeholders at all its locations and in relevant markets. Feed results of dialogue back into company and derive concrete measures Integrate knowledge gained from dialogue into our strategy ­development processes Sustainability targets in the area of sustainable corporate management Sustainability area Strategic direction/vision 2020 General direction/areas of action Indicators Further information Economic effects Our vision is that the BMW Group as the leading provider of Investment in sustainable and profitable growth Profit before tax see Chapter 2.1 ­premium products and premium services for individual mobility Achieve business success through sustainable management see Chapter 2.2 will also set standards for sustainability management. (sustainability business cases) Create value for our stakeholders by engaging in sustainable ­management (external effects of our business activities) Anti-corruption/compliance, The BMW Group commits fully to lawful and responsible action. Teach and monitor compliance, penalise breaches Total number of employees trained see Chapter 2.3 integrity Respond to compliance enquiries and reports Ensure compliance at business partner and supplier companies Human rights The BMW Group has committed to respecting and maintaining Integrate human rights clauses into contracts with production see Chapter 2.5 human rights in its business activities and actions within its ­partners as well as with dealerships and importers area of influence and complies with the UN Guiding Principles Train employees on ­Business and Human Rights. BMW Group SpeakUP Line SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 142 Sustainability targets in the area of product responsibility Sustainability area Strategic direction/vision 2020 General direction/areas of action Indicators Further information Future mobility The BMW Group will have permanently changed mobility Integrated mobility services, e.g. car-sharing, BMW i Ventures, Research and development expenditure see Chapter 3.5 patterns in selected metropolitan areas by 2020 by introducing ParkNow, ELECTRIC 360°, etc. (in € million) integrated mobility services. Research on the future of mobility Number of DriveNow users CO² emissions (product) The BMW Group will have reduced CO² emissions of the Development of even more efficient and alternative drivetrains such CO² emissions of BMW Group vehicles see Chapter 3.2 and climate change European new vehicle fleet by at least 50% by 2020 as ­electric, hydrogen or hybrid vehicles (Efficient ­Dynamics strategy) (in g/km) (base year: 1995). Average fuel consumption (EU-28) Number of BMW i vehicles sold By 2020, the BMW Group will be the leader in taking a holistic approach to premium electromobility. Sustainability targets in the area of Group-wide environmental protection Sustainability area Strategic direction/vision 2020 General direction/areas of action Indicators Further information Energy By 2020, the BMW Group will have reduced energy consumption Improve energy efficiency in processes and buildings Energy consumption per vehicle see Chapter 4.2 per vehicle produced by 45% compared to 2006. ­produced Increasingly use and raise share of renewable energy By 2020, the BMW Group will be the leader in the use of Power from renewable sources as ­renewable energy in production and value creation. Raise awareness among employees and managers about how a share of total power supplied to to manage energy the BMW Group Emissions (production) By 2020, the BMW Group will have reduced VOC e­ missions Reduction in energy consumption and increasing use of CO² emissions per vehicle produced see Chapter 4.3 per vehicle produced by 45% compared to 2006. renewable energy (in tonnes/vehicle) Process improvements in selected plants to reduce VOC emissions VOC emissions per vehicle produced The BMW Group will optimise transport volumes and increase Production follows the market Share of rail transport the share of low-emissions modes of transport and capacity Continuous increase in share of modes of transport with low ­utilisation in new vehicle transport. CO² emissions Sustainable mobility for BMW Group employees SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 143 Sustainability targets in the area of Group-wide environmental protection Sustainability area Strategic direction/vision 2020 General direction/areas of action Indicators Further information Waste By 2020, the BMW Group will have reduced waste volumes Reduction in waste for disposal Waste for disposal per vehicle produced see Chapter 4.4 per vehicle produced by 45% compared to 2006. Establish a complete life cycle management system at our locations by incrementally applying best practices Water By 2020, the BMW Group will have reduced water consumption Complete water life, e.g. at the paint shops and in engine construction Water consumption per vehicle ­produced see Chapter 4.5 (including process wastewater) by 45% per vehicle produced Replace old sanitary facilities and open cooling towers compared to 2006. Sustainability targets in the area of supplier management Sustainability area Strategic direction/vision 2020 General direction/areas of action Indicators Further information Environmental and social standards The BMW Group is convinced that sustainability in the supply Three-step process to minimise risk Regional purchasing distribution see Chapter 5.2 in the supply chain chain can only be achieved if we work hand in hand with our Leverage opportunities and potential see Chapter 5.3 ­suppliers. We therefore aim to collaborate with our partners in order to make the entire supplier network sustainable. Foster industry partnerships for sustainability in the supply chain Resource efficiency The BMW Group will increase transparency and resource Participation in the CDP Supply Chain Programme Degree of coverage of volumes pursee Chapter 5.2 in the supply chain ­efficiency in the supply chain by 2020. chased from suppliers who p­ articipate see Chapter 5.3 in the CDP Supply Chain SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 144 Sustainability targets in the area of employees Sustainability area Strategic direction/vision 2020 General direction/areas of action Indicators Further information Occupational health and safety To maintain the long-term health and performance of our Group-wide coverage of occupational health and safety management Accident frequency at BMW Group see Chapter 6.3 ­employees, we foster individual responsibility and improve systems in accordance with OHRIS and OHSAS per one million hours worked the working environment. Preventive measures (fitness courses, ergonomic workplace The BMW Group will reduce the long-term accident frequency design, etc.) rate with days absent from work at BMW Group worldwide to under 5.0 accidents per one million hours worked by 2020. Securing and maintaining performance and employability: focus on demographic change/ageing-appropriate working Long-term employee development By finding the right employees, deploying them as effectively as Attracting and fostering talent: attractive young talent programmes Average days of further education and see Chapter 6.4 possible, fostering their skills and securing their employability, (dual vocational trainees, students) training per BMW Group employee we make an essential contribution to our business success. Manager training Corporate Leadership Programme Vocational trainees at BMW Group Topic-specific training courses and international exchange BMW Group investment in education and further training Diversity and equal opportunities With its diverse workforce, the BMW Group is internationally Promoting female employees and managers Share of female employees in total see Chapter 6.5 successful and is increasing its innovative strength. ­workforce of BMW Group Taking account of age diversity Our vision is for women to make up 15–17% of our workforce Share of women in management by 2020, both in the general workforce and in management Increasing cultural diversity ­positions at BMW Group ­positions within the BMW Group, in Germany and worldwide. Sustainability targets in the area of corporate citizenship Sustainability area Strategic direction/vision 2020 General direction/areas of action Indicators Further information Corporate citizenship Based on its core competencies, the BMW Group is a leader E xpansion of the two focal areas of intercultural innovation and Total expenditure on corporate see Chapter 7.1 in intercultural understanding. social inclusion as well as resource efficiency ­citizenship see Chapter 7.2 In the areas of intercultural innovation and social inclusion, Implementation of Corporate Citizenship strategy at our locations Number of people benefiting from the BMW Group plans to reach a total of one million people ­Intercultural Innovation Award (IAA) by 2020. Commitment in the form of the Intercultural Innovation Award (IIA) SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 145 About this report The underlying idea for the graphical design of this report is the worldwide dialogue with our stakeholders. Accordingly, the images presented on the front page as well as at the beginning of each chapter portray dialogue situations with our stakeholders. We would like to thank our stakeholders for their willingness to engage in ­dialogue with us. REPORTING PERIOD The reporting period is the 2014 calendar year. The ­effective date for all facts and figures is 31 December 2014. The “Key facts and figures” section generally maps APPENDIX The BMW Group Sustainable Value Report (SVR) 2014 the figures for 2009 – 2014 (with the exception of newly has been published to provide stakeholders with compreadded key figures). They refer to the entire BMW Group Stakeholder expectations hensive information about the company’s sustainability with its three brands BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce. There strategy and the progress made in integrating sustainabilare, however, some exceptions concerning site-specific Objectives ity into its corporate processes. This year, the Sustainable topics and local sustainability programmes. Wherever Value Report is being published on the same date as the this is the case, the entity the figures apply to is specified About this report BMW Group Annual Report for the first time. accordingly, e.g. BMW AG. Where necessary and possible, Independent Assurance Report calculation methods are explained in footnotes to the respective graphical figures. GRI Index Topics have been selected and weighted in accordance Imprint/Contact with the findings of a systematic materiality process The Sustainable Value Report (SVR) is published annually. see Chapter 1. Where appropriate, references are also The last SVR was released in May 2014 as an interactive ­provided to supplementary information in the Annual PDF covering financial year 2013. The SVR is available Report or on other BMW Group websites. on www.bmwgroup.com/sustainability. The next Sustainable Value Report (SVR) will be published in early 2016. Each chapter starts with a one-page overview of the main facts. In 2014, these included progress made as well as a forecast of future objectives. In addition, the report ­contains the key performance indicators that control and monitor the BMW Group’s sustainability performance. The “Key facts and figures” section see separate PDF d­ ocument provides a transparent list of all of the key ­sustainability indicators, together with explanatory texts. The report is published in German and English. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 146 GRI A+ FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The BMW Group’s Sustainable Value Report 2014 has The BMW Group SVR contains various forward-looking statebeen compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting ments about future developments which are based on the Initiative (GRI G3.1) guidelines. To what extent GRI ­current status of the BMW Group’s assumptions and forecasts. ­indicators are met is shown in the GRI Index. At GRI They are thus subject to a variety of predictable and unpredictlevel A+ (GRI checked), this SVR 2014 meets the able risks, uncertainties and other factors, so that the actual ­maximum requirements detailed in the GRI guidelines. outcome, including the company’s financial and assets position, Sector-specific aspects have also been considered on its development or performance could differ considerably. the basis of the GRI Automotive Sector Supplement The BMW Group makes no commitment to update such (Pilot Version 1.0). forward-­looking statements or to adapt them to future events or developments. THE COMPREHENSIVE GRI INDEX IS AVAILABLE FOR DOWNLOADING FROM THE INTERNET AT: APPENDIX www.bmwgroup.com/svr Stakeholder expectations Objectives UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS About this report The BMW Group committed to implement the principles Independent Assurance Report of the United Nations Global Compact in 2001, and in this report once again reports on progress achieved GRI Index in complying with these principles. References to the Imprint/Contact Global Compact principles have been integrated into the GRI Index. THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION The entire report (the texts of all chapters as well as Key facts and figures) were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers see Assurance Report. In addition, indicators from the areas of environmental protection and occupational health and safety were audited by external auditors and experts in accordance with ISO 14001, EMAS and OHSAS. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 147 Independent Assurance Report TO BMW AG, MUNICH We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the information in the Sustainable Value Report of BMW AG, Munich (hereinafter: the Company), for the business year from 1 January to 31 December 2014 (hereinafter: the Report).¹ MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY APPENDIX The Company’s Board of Managing Directors is responsible for the proper preparation of the Report in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Stakeholder expectations – Materiality, Objectives – Stakeholder Inclusiveness, – Sustainability Context, About this report – Completeness, Independent Assurance Report – Balance, – Clarity, GRI Index – Accuracy, Imprint/Contact – Timeliness, – Comparability and – Reliability. This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. ­Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Report. 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Sustainable Value Report. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in the German language – the German text is authoritative. PAGE 1 OF 3 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 148 OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional ­Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The company applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, ­professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. PRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY APPENDIX Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed as to whether anything has come to our Stakeholder expectations ­attention that causes us to believe that the information in the Report of the Company for the business year 2014 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Objectives ­Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the GRI. We also have been engaged to make recommendations for the further development of sustainability management and sustainability reporting based on the results of our assurance engagement. About this report Independent Assurance Report We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement, GRI Index under consideration of materiality, to provide our conclusion with limited assurance. Imprint/Contact In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures: – Inquiries of personnel responsible for the preparation of the Report regarding the process to prepare the reporting of sustainability information and the underlying internal control system; – Inspection of documents regarding the sustainability strategy as well as understanding the sustainability management structure, the stakeholder dialogue and the development process of the Company’s sustainability programme; – Inquiries of personnel in the corporate functions that are responsible for the individual chapters of the Report; – Recording of the systems and processes for collection, analysis, validation and aggregation of sustainability data and its documentation on a sample basis; PAGE 2 OF 3 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 149 – Performance of site visits as part of the inspection of processes for collecting, analysing and aggregating selected data: – in the corporate headquarters in Munich (Germany), – in the production plant in Oxford (UK), – in the production plant in Regensburg (Germany), – in the production plant in Rosslyn (South Africa), – in the production plant in Steyr (Austria); – Analytical procedures on sustainability data of the report; – Gaining further evidence for selected data of the report due to inspection of internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports from external service providers. CONCLUSION APPENDIX Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Stakeholder expectations information in the Report of the Company for the business year 2014 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) Objectives of the GRI. About this report EMPHASIS OF MATTER – RECOMMENDATIONS Independent Assurance Report Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development GRI Index of the Company’s sustainability management and sustainability reporting: Imprint/Contact – Further formalisation of the internal control system for sustainability information especially regarding earlier reporting; – Further harmonisation of worldwide reporting systems to facilitate sustainability information collection; – Stronger focus of the Report content based on the results of the materiality analysis, especially with regard to the new G4 Guidelines of the GRI. Munich, 17 March 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Andreas Fell Hendrik Fink Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) PAGE 3 OF 3 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 150 GRI Index GRI Index The following GRI Index is an abbreviated version. Please go to bmwgroup.com/svr to access the complete GRI Index including comments in the version that was referred to by GRI for auditing purposes. UNGC Profile Reported Reference Principles 1. Strategy and analysis 1–10 1.1 Statement from the Board of Management -3, 4 1.2 Impacts of operational activity, key risks and opportunities -11–12, 26–27, 37–39, 46–48, 72–74, 94–97, 108–111, 132–136 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation -1 2.2 Primary brands, products and services -7 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation -7, AR2013 198–199 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters -157 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates -5, 7, AR2013 198–199 2.6 Ownership structure and legal form -7 2.7 Markets served -7, AR2013 198–199 2.8 Company profile/scale of the organisation -5, 7, KF 3, 6 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership -C 2.10 Awards -17, 54, 55, 57, 116, 117, 128, 137 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period -146 3.2 Date of most recent previous report -146 3.3 Reporting cycle -146, C 3.4 Contact persons for questions regarding the report -157 3.5 Process for defining report content -16, 146 3.6 Boundary of the report -146, KF 2 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report -146, C 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures -AR2013 198–199 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations -C 3.10 Restatements of information -C 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods -146 3.12 GRI Content Index -151–155 3.13 External assurance for the report -148–150 This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR2013 BMW Annual Report 2013 KF Facts and figures of BMW Group SVR14 Key facts and figures section, where you can find key performance indicators and explanatory texts at www.bmwgroup.com/svr All core indicators are printed in bold. 151 UNGC Profile Reported Reference Principles 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 1–10 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation -126, AR2013 168–179 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board -AR2013 168–171 4.3 Number of independent members in the highest governance body -AR2013 168–171 4.4 Co-determination right of employees and shareholders -110, 35, 110, 113, AR2013 86 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation and achievement of sustainability goals -14, 26–27, AR2013 185–194 4.6 Process in place to avoid conflicts of interest -34, AR2013 166 ff., 172–175 1–10 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the highest governance body regarding economic, environmental and social topics -AR2013 155–157, AR2013 164–165 1–10 4.8 Values, mission statements, principles and codes of conduct of the organisation relevant to sustainability -11–17, 34, 95, 73, 12, AR2013 179, C 4.9 Oversight of the sustainability performance and relevant risks by the Board of Management -14 4.10 Assessment of the performance of the Board of Management regarding sustainability -14, 26–27 7 4.11 Precautionary approach -11–14, 34–39, 46–48, 72–74, 94–97, 118–121, 137 1–10 4.12 Support for external economic, environmental and social activities -27 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations -23 1–10 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation -19 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders -18–20 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement -19 1–10 4.17 Key stakeholder topics -16, 141, KF 7, C UNGC Indicator Reported Reference Principles Economic 1, 6, 7 Management approach -4, 7, 11–12, 26–39, 94 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed -32, 136, KF 3, C 7 EC2 Financial implications due to climate change -38, 49–53, C 1, 6 EC3 Organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations -113–114, KF 5 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government -KF 5–6, C 1 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level compared to local minimum wage -112–114, C EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of locally based suppliers -94, KF 23 6 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and local senior management -109, KF 27, C EC8 Development/impact of infrastructure investments and services -132–136 EC9 Indirect economic impacts -33, 94, 137 This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR2013 BMW Annual Report 2013 KF Facts and figures of BMW Group SVR14 Key facts and figures section, where you can find key performance indicators and explanatory texts at www.bmwgroup.com/svr All core indicators are printed in bold. 152 UNGC Indicator Reported Reference Principles Environmental protection 7, 8, 9 Management approach -13, 34–39, 46–53, 58–61, 72–90, 102–103, KF 12–22 8, 9 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume -59, KF 11–12 8, 9 EN2 Percentage of used materials that are recycled materials -60, KF 11, C 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption -76, KF 15 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption -77, KF 14, C 7, 9 EN5 Energy savings -75–77, KF 14, C 8, 9 EN6 Energy-efficient products and services -49–53, KF 9–10 8, 9 EN7 Reduction of indirect energy consumption -50–52, 75–79, 83–84, 84, 102–103 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal -89, KF 15 8 EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water -88 8, 9 EN10 Percentage of water recycled and reused -90 8 EN11 Production plants in protected areas -74, C 8 EN12 Significant impacts upon biodiversity in protected areas -74, C 8 EN13 Habitats protected and restored -74, C 8 EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity -74, C 8 EN15 Endangered species in areas affected by operations of the organisation / C 8, 9 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions -81, KF 16–18, C 8 EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions -81, 103, KF 8, 10, 17 7, 8, 9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved -50–52, 75–79, 83–84, 84, 102–103, KF 20–22 8 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances -C 8 EN20 NOX, SOX and other significant emissions -KF 17 8 EN21 Total water discharge -90, KF 19, C 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method -86–87, KF 19, C 8 EN23 Significant spills C 8 EN24 Cross-border transport or treatment of hazardous waste -87, KF 19 8 EN25 Areas impacted by the organisation’s discharges of water and run-off -C 7, 8, 9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate harmful environmental impacts of products -47, 49, 58, C 8, 9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category -59, C 8 EN28 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws -C 8 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products, goods, materials and members of the workforce -82–84 7–9 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments -KF 22 This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR2013 BMW Annual Report 2013 KF Facts and figures of BMW Group SVR14 Key facts and figures section, where you can find key performance indicators and explanatory texts at www.bmwgroup.com/svr All core indicators are printed in bold. 153 UNGC Indicator Reported Reference Principles Employees 1, 3, 6 Management approach -13, 27, 108–128 LA1 Breakdown of workforce by employment type, contract and region and gender 109, 121, KF 24–27, C 6 LA2 Number and rate of employee turnover 114–115, KF 28–29, C LA3 Benefits provided only to full-time employees -112–114 1, 6 LA15 Parental leave 115, KF 30, C 1, 3 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements -110, KF 29 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes -C 1 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in occupational health and safety committees -118, C 1 LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, working days lost, absentee rate and work-related fatalities 119–120, KF 35–38, C 1 LA8 Preventive healthcare, counselling and training regarding serious diseases -119–121 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions -118, C LA10 Education and further training measures 122, KF 31, C LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees -122–124 LA12 Employee performance and career development reviews -C 1, 6 LA13 Diversity in senior management and employee structure -126, KF 26 1, 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of male and female employees -112–113, C Human rights 1–6 Management approach -26–27, 37–42, 95, 99, 110–111, 125–128, C 1–6 HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses -42, C 1–6 HR2 Percentage of suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights -98 1–6 HR3 Employee training on human rights 41, 103, C 1, 2, 6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken -125, C 1–5 HR5 Operations with significant risk concerning the freedom of association and collective bargaining 41–42, 98–101, 110, C 1–5 HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour -98–101, C 1–5 HR7 Operations with significant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour -41–42, 98–101, C 1, 2 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained on aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations C 1, 2 HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people -C 1, 2 HR10 Impact assessments/reviews on human rights -40 1, 2 HR11 Grievances related to human rights -42 This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR2013 BMW Annual Report 2013 KF Facts and figures of BMW Group SVR14 Key facts and figures section, where you can find key performance indicators and explanatory texts at www.bmwgroup.com/svr All core indicators are printed in bold. 154 UNGC Indicator Reported Reference Principles Society 10 Management approach -5, 20–22, 34–39, 131–139 SO1 Impacts of operations on local communities and regions -18–19, 73, 118–119, 137–139, C 10 SO2 Number of business units analysed for corruption-related risks -34 10 SO3 Employee training regarding anti-corruption 35 10 SO4 Anti-corruption measures 34, C 10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying -20–22, C 10 SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties and politicians -22, KF 38, C SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour -36, C SO8 Number of fines for non-compliance with laws -C SO9 Operational activities with negative impact on local community -26–27, 37–39, 46–48, 72–74, 94–97, 108–111, 132–136 SO10 Avoidance and mechanisms to reduce negative impact on local community -18–19, 34–36, 35, 42, 125 Product responsibility 1, 8 Management approach -37–39, 45–68 1, 8 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed -48, 55–57 1 PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and of safety of products -55–57, C 8 PR3 Principles and measures related to product and service information and labelling -56, C 8 PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product information and labelling -C PR5 Customer satisfaction -66–68 10 PR6 Programmes for compliance with laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications -67 PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes related to marketing communications -67 1 PR8 Number of substantiated customer data protection complaints -39, C PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products 76, C Sector supplement1 A1 Stipulated work hours per week and average hours worked overtime in production -KF 30 A2 Percentage of employees not managed with overtime compensation schemes -C A3 Percentage of major first tier supplier facilities with independent trade union organisations -C A4 Numbers of vehicles sold, broken down by type, fuels, power train technologies and region -52, KF 10 A5 Compliance of vehicles sold with the respective existing and next defined emissions standards -52 A6 Average fuel economy by type of vehicle -52, 156, KF 10 A7 Average carbon dioxide emissions by type of vehicle -156, KF 10 A8 Compliance of vehicles sold with the respective existing and next defined noise standard -KF 10, C A9 EN29 – relevant indicator for automotive sector -81–83 A10 Weight of vehicle and percentage breakdown of generic, recyclate and renewable material of a best-selling vehicle -59, KF 10, 12 1 GRI Sector Supplement Automotive Sector, Pilot Version 1.0, 2004 This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR2013 BMW Annual Report 2013 KF Facts and figures of BMW Group SVR14 Key facts and figures section, where you can find key performance indicators and explanatory texts at www.bmwgroup.com/svr All core indicators are printed in bold. 155 Fuel consumption and CO₂ emissions ratings for the vehicles referred to in this report Model Urban (l/100 km) Extra-urban (l/100 km) Combined (l/100 km) CO² emissions combined (g/km) BMW ActiveHybrid 3 – [5.5] – [6.2] – [5.9] – [139] BMW ActiveHybrid 5 – [6.1 – 6.7] – [6.6 – 7.2] – [6.4 – 7.0] – [149 – 163] BMW ActiveHybrid 7 – [6.0] – [7.2] – [6.8] – [158] BMW 116i 7.0 – 7.3 [7.2 – 7.4] 4.5 – 4.7 [4.6 – 4.8] 5.4 – 5.6 [5.6 – 5.8] 125 – 131 [129 – 134] BMW 320d Touring 5.9 – 6.0 [5.7] 4.0 [4.1] 4.7 – 4.8 [4.7] 124 – 125 [123 – 124] BMW X1 sDrive18d 5.7 [5.6] 4.4 [4.7] 4.9 [5.0] 128 [132] BMW X3 xDrive20d 5.9 – 6.3 [5.4 – 5.8] 4.7 – 5.1 [4.8 – 5.1] 5.2 – 5.6 [5.0 – 5.4] 136 – 146 [131 – 141] MINI Cooper D 4.3 – 4.4 [4.2 – 4.3] 3.1 – 3.2 [3.5] 3.5 – 3.6 [3.7 – 3.8] 92 – 95 [98 – 99] MINI One D 3.9 – 4.0 3.1 – 3.2 3.4 – 3.5 89 – 92 Model Urban (l/100 km) Extra-urban (l/100 km) Combined (l/100 km) CO² emissions combined Average total energy consumption (g/km) (kWh/100 km) BMW i3 (Range Extender) omitted omitted – [0.6] – [13] – [13.5] BMW i3 omitted omitted – [0] – [0] – [12.9] Model Urban (l/100 km) Extra-urban (l/100 km) Combined (l/100 km) CO² emissions combined Electricity consumption combined (g/km) (in addition to fuel consumption) (kWh/100 km) BMW i8 omitted omitted [2.1] – [49] – [11.9] BMW X5 xDrive40e¹ omitted omitted – [3.3 – 3.4] – [77 – 78] – [15.3 – 15.4] 1 Provisional data. Figures in brackets apply to automatic transmission. Fuel consumption and CO² emissions are dependent on wheel and tyre size. Fuel consumption is determined in accordance with the ECE driving cycle. Valid for vehicles with a European country specification. All engines comply with at least Euro 5 emissions standards. Further information on the official fuel consumption, specific official CO² emissions and power consumption of new passenger vehicles can be found in the “Guideline for fuel consumption, CO² emissions and electric power consumption of new passenger vehicles”, available free of charge from all sales outlets, the Deutsche Automobil Treuhand GmbH (DAT), Hellmuth-Hirth-Straße 1, 73760 Ostfildern – Scharnhauser Park, Germany and at http://www.dat.de/angebote/verlagsprodukte/leitfaden-kraftstoffverbrauch.html. As at December 2014. Further, regularly updated information on the vehicles referred to in this publication can be found at www.bmw.com, www.mini.com and www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 156 WE LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING FROM YOU FURTHER INFORMATION AND PUBLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT: www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility KAI ZÖBELEIN MILENA PIGHI Sustainability Corporate Citizenship Communications Communications Telephone: Telephone: +49 89 382-2 11 70 +49 89 382-6 65 63 E-mail: E-mail: Kai.Zoebelein@bmwgroup.com Milena.PA.Pighi@bmwgroup.com BMW GROUP MORE FROM THE BMW GROUP THE BMW GROUP BRANDS ON THE INTERNET SOCIAL MEDIA Petuelring 130 www.bmwgroup-classic.com www.bmw.com Facebook: www.facebook.com/BMWGroup 80788 Munich www.bmw-welt.com www.mini.com Twitter: twitter.com/BMWGroup Telephone +49 89 382-0 www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com YouTube: www.youtube.com/BMWGroupview www.bmwgroup.com www.bmw-motorrad.com Google+: www.google.com/+BMWGroup SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2014 157
