Having recently undergone a series of events involving serious threats to the Group, KB Financial Group has set out on a new course of action, which is to seek a new path of change and growth in constant communication with its stakeholders. With this Sustainability Report, KB raises the question of the Right and Ascending Way that the Group ought to pursue. Striving to find and follow a responsible path, beyond the road of efficiency and fast growth, KB intends to maintain communication with its stakeholders year in and year out and reflect their feedback and advice on its business activities. The new path that KB shall pursue must be both right and ascending. Our new slogan captures our determination to find and follow the right and ascending way in constant communication with our stakeholders. About This Report Contents This Sustainability Report, the fourth of its kind that concerns the entire KB Financial Group, CEO Message 02 is a central channel in which records of economic, social, and environmental progresses and KB 2014 Highlight 04 achievements achieved by its members are disclosed. This report concerns matters of interest to major stakeholders together with objectives and the advice of independent experts and Company Profile 06 professionals. Corporate Governance 08 Sustainable Business Strategy 10 Reporting and Verification Standards Stakeholder Engagement 12 This Sustainability Report was written and prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Materiality Test 14 Initiative(GRI)’s new G4 reporting guidelines and following the requirements of the Core option. Please uphold your principles. That is all I ask. Sustainability Key Issues To identify and determine the issues to be covered in this report, a materiality evaluation was performed in advance. The selected topics are described and explained in detail in each of the Key Issues 1. Reinforcing Customer Information Security 16 ten chapters of this report. To ensure the reliability and quality of the information presented in Key Issues 2. Ethical Management Anticorruption 22 this report, the content has been subjected to verification by an independent third-party agency, Helps us take pride in KB s name. Changes must begin with the Key Issues 3. Brand Value Management 28 whose written opinion on the verification process can be found as part of this report as well. people. The system comes later. Key Issues 4. Advancement of Risk Management 34 Reporting Period and Scope This report concerns the sustainability-related activities and achievements of the 11 subsidiaries Be a friendly and warmhearted neighbor. Sustainability Key Performance of KB Financial Group at all its business locations in Korea including the Group's headquarters. That is what befits KB. 05 Strengthening Customer Satisfaction Management 40 In addition to its coverage of major topics and issues, this report also provides information on the 06 Specialized Social Contribution Activities 44 specific activities and achievements of each subsidiary, thus providing a balanced view on the 07 Social Contributions through Finance 50 progresses at the levels of individual subsidiary and of the entire Group alike. The relevant period Please tell us the truth. 08 Expanding Support for Small and Medium Enterprises 54 for this report spans from January 1 to December 31, 2014; however, it contains quantitative Honesty is the foundation of a 09 Expanding the Share of Non-bank Businesses 58 data for the last three years for ease of comparison. Descriptions of some of the qualitative good partnership. 10 Enhancing the Satisfaction of Officers and Employees 59 outcomes and achievements also include progresses made in the first half of 2015. For Questions and Comments Sustainability Performance of Our Subsidiaries For more information on the Group, you may look to its Web site, annual business reports, listing KB Kookmin Bank 64 KB Kookmin Card 68 KB Investment & Securities 70 on the Financial Supervisory Service’s Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer(DART) System KB Life Insurance 72 KB Asset Management 74 KB Capital 76 (http://dart.fss.or.kr), and/or the Form 20-F Annual Reports submitted to the New York Stock KB Savings Bank 78 KB Real Estate Trust 80 KB Investment 82 Exchange. Should you have any questions or requests for additional information in relation to KB Credit Information 84 KB Data Systems 86 this report, please contact us using the following information. Appendix KB Financial Group Sustainability Data 89 UN Global Compact 91 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 92 KB KB Financial Holding Inc. Public Relations Department GRI G4 Index 94 Tel: +82-(0)2-2073-7822 Fax: +82-(0)2-2073-0639 Website: www.kbfg.com E-mail: jjoo@kbfg.com Main address: 26 Gukjegeumyung-ro 8-gil, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 CEO Message We will listen to our customers to find the Right Way Q. People talk of the recent changes at KB. Can you give us more specific details about these changes? Q. KB has long been perceived as Korea s leading bank and also a trustworthy company. Given this reputation, the recent turn of events must have shocked the company For one thing, KB reclaimed first place among financial holding companies in all the more. How do you look back on last year? Korea in six years, having scored the greatest amount of net term profit in the first quarter of this year. I must point out that this result reflects our success Last year was indeed a trial for all of us at KB. We at KB have been working with with the stabilization of our governance structure and the normalization of our a strong sense of pride that we were the most trusted company in Korea. Last business capability notwithstanding the crisis last year. In the first quarter alone, year’s events utterly undermined this self-image, casting a dark cloud over the we generated a consolidated net term profit of KRW 605 billion, a 68.4% company’s atmosphere and lowering the company morale. We, together with our increase from the same period last year. Once LIG Insurance joins KB as a customers, however, strongly aspired to use the incident as an opportunity for new subsidiary company in the latter half of this year, it will strengthen us as a new growth in the long run. We therefore launched a thoroughgoing investigation comprehensive financial group. I believe that these recent achievements indicate into the matter, developed a new plan of action, and worked hard to reestablish a the progresses we have been making with the three key objectives I have been culture of reconciliation and honest communication toward restoring our trusted stressing since my inauguration: that is, to recover the pride of being Korea’s status. I bet the dedication of all our employees and the Group-wide synergy will leading financial group; to make the best efforts to regain customers’ trust; and continue to produce amazing results in the coming months and years. to enhance competitiveness through differentiation. Q. Q. The average life expectancy for stock market–listed With your slogan of the Right Way, you recently companies in Korea is 33 years. KB is well into its 50s raised a new question on the direction in which KB now, if we count its days starting with the Housing should be headed to ensure its sustained growth. What Bank, its predecessor. What new visions does the Group is the right way that KB ought to follow from now on? have in terms of sustainability and future growth? Customers and the market are changing much more rapidly than expected. The continued drop in the interest rate amid the ongoing effect of the latest global Companies that solely focus on catching up with this pace of change are likely financial crisis has set back financial companies in Korea. The resulting decline to neglect latent and potential problems. By the time they come around and in profitability has sapped these companies of the impetus they had for future recognize these issues, it will already be too late for them to formulate solutions— growth. It is therefore noteworthy that KB is the only financial company in Korea not without risking great losses and sacrifices. The painful lesson we have learned that is currently experiencing a boost in performance and power. This was made from the recent KB Kookmin Card incident is that what matters more is not the possible because we boldly sacrificed our short-term performance goals in favor growth itself, but the right way of growing. Having learned this lesson, we at KB of maintaining a sustainable management strategy single-heartedly focusing on struggle to find the right way that will lead us not to short-term achievements midto long-term growth. Please consider our plan for the upcoming voluntary and profits, but to sustained growth. At KB, we continue to ask what the proper retirement of 1,122 employees in the next 5 years. It will cost us KRW 300 roles of finance are what values we ought to provide for our customers, and what billion or so in the short run, but in the long run, it will enable us to transform our our social responsibilities are, and seek answers in constant communication with convex-shaped personnel structure into a more efficient pyramidal structure with diverse groups of stakeholders. enhanced business capability. In the area of Fintech, which we predict to be the I assure you that KB will continue to follow the right way that customers can new engine for our future growth, we have also begun to encourage customers to trust upon. I humbly ask you to continue to be with us on our journey with your get familiar with smartphone banking and introduced Portable Branch, in addition feedback and encouragement. June 2015 to other financial services based on the latest information technology, with an eye Chairman & CEO KB Financial Group Inc. Jong Kyoo Yoon to leading the future of the financial market in Korea. 2 3 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 2014 KB Highlight Named Korea’s KB Good Job Fair Best Trade Bank hosted LIG Insurance approved for four consecutive to become a subsidiary KB Kookmin Bank held the KB years of KB Good Job Fair 2014 on the last KB Capital two days of October, providing In 2014, KB Kookmin Bank On December 24, 2014, KB launched was again named the Best a bridge between prospective Financial Group finally received Having acquired and merged Trade Bank in Korea by Trade companies and creative and authorization from the Financial with Woori Financial as its Finance, a prestigious magazine talented students majoring in Services Commission on 11th subsidiary, KB Financial on trade finance, for the fourth sciences and engineering. incorporating LIG Insurance as a Group renamed the new time in a row. new subsidiary of the Group. member KB Capital. Won the National Brand Award(NBA, in the corporate brand Jong Kyoo Yoon category) for three inaugurated as the Won the Grand Prize consecutive years new chairman of in the Corporate Listed in the DJSI Asia KB Financial Group and KB Financial Group won the 2014 Social Responsibility Pacific Index for six the new CEO of Evaluation National Brand Award Grand Prize consecutive years KB Kookmin Bank in the financial category for the third KB Financial Group won the time in a row. On November 21, 2014, Jong Kyoo KB Financial Group was Grand Prize in the financial Yoon was inaugurated as Chairman again included in the DJSI insurance category in the of KB Financial Group and CEO of Asia Pacific Index for the Corporate Social Responsibility KB Kookmin Bank. The inauguration sixth time in a row. Evaluation 2014, performed by ceremony was held at the Kookmin the Next Society Foundation. Bank headquarters. KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Company About KB Financial Group In response to the diverse changes taking place in the financial environment worldwide, KB Financial Group came Subsidiaries of KB Financial Group KB Financial Group has subsidiaries in the banking business(KB Kookmin Bank), credit card business(KB Kookmin Profile into being with the establishment of KB Financial Holding Incorporated on September 29, 2008, made possible by the comprehensive transfer of the stocks of major subsidiary. As of December 2014, the Group was Korea’s largest Card), financial investment business(KB Investment & Securities, KB Asset Management, KB Real Estate Trust, and KB Investment), insurance business(KB Life Insurance), and other businesses(KB Capital, KB Savings Bank, KB and leading provider of a comprehensive range of financial services, complete with total assets amounting to KRW Credit Information, and KB Data systems). It aims to strengthen its global competitiveness through synergy among 308 trillion and with the farthest-ranging customer basis and network of branches in Korea. KB Financial Holding’ its subsidiaries. s subsidiaries located in Korea include KB Kookmin Bank, KB Kookmin Card, KB Investment and Securities, KB Life To enhance its non-banking operations and to contribute to the stabilization of finance for working-class people, Insurance, KB Asset Management, KB Capital, KB Savings Bank, KB Real Estate Trust, KB Investment, KB Credit on September 2, 2013, the Group acquired Yehansol Savings Bank, which has become a subsidiary. It merged with Information, and KB Data systems. The Group’s subsidiaries overseas include Kookmin Bank Hong Kong Limited in KB Savings Bank on January 13, 2014. On March 20, 2014, the Group acquired Woori Financial and renamed it Hong Kong, Kookmin Bank International Limited in the United Kingdom, Kookmin Bank Cambodia PLC, and Kookmin to KB Capital, making it one of KB Financial Group’s subsidiaries. In June 2015, the Group finished the acquisition Bank China Limited. process for the inclusion of LIG Insurance, paving the way for the launch of KB Insurance on June 24, 2015 *As of December 31, 2014 Company Name KB Financial Group KB Financial Holding Chairman & CEO Jong Kyoo Yoon Headquarters 84, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul(Euljiro 2-ga) Number of Employees 25,233(including all subsidiaries, temporary contracts) KB KB KB KB KB KB KB KB KB KB KB Kookmin Bank Kookmin Card Investment & Life Insurance Asset Capital Savings Bank Real Estate Investment Credit Data systems Total Assets KRW 308,355,708 million 100% 100% Securities 100% Management 52.02% 100% Trust 100% Information 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Operating Income KRW 1,959,123 million Net Income KRW 1,415,111 million Information on Domestic Branches Number of Branches 1,301(domestic: 1,289, overseas: 12) Chungcheong Seoul 491 27 Daejeon 46 Jeollanam-do 21 Daegu 54 Busan 89 Number of Customers 28,659,386(KB Kookmin Bank) buk-do Key Financial Statement Incheon 64 Sejong 3 Jeollabuk-do 26 Gangwon-do 19 Ulsan 17 Jeju 8 Major Shareholders and National Pension Service(9.42%) The Bank of New York Mellon(8.41%) Employee Stock Ownership Share Ratios Association(0.63%) Chungcheong Gyeongsang Gyeongsang Gyeonggi-do 293 nam-do 28 Gwangju 32 buk-do 31 nam-do 40 Total Asset Vision and Strategy Overseas Business Sites 5.5% 2014 KRW 308 trillion Aspiring toward becoming an international leader of finance, particularly in Asia, KB Financial Group has launched a KB Financial Group seeks to enter the overseas markets in Asia, a region with a geographical and cultural proximity to 2013 KRW 292 trillion phase-by-phase management strategy. First, until 2016, the Group will continue to consolidate the basis for becoming Korea where high growth is expected, under the objective of becoming the leading global financial group in the Asiana global leader of finance, developing and honing its key strengths and distinction in core areas of business and financial industry. The Group is on its way to expand its overseas networks through business activities of KB Hong Equity enhancing the stability of its business operations. Based on analyses of its management environment, the Group has 5.9% Kong, KB London, KB Cambodia, and Kookmin Bank(China). identified four overarching strategy aims—strengthening the basis for growth, reinforcing risk management, enhancing business capability and productivity, and strengthening future growth potentials—as well as 15 core tasks. The Group London Harbin 2014 KRW 28 trillion will regain and consolidate its leadership over the financial market in Korea by 2019 with significant returns on its assets Beijing 2013 KRW 26 trillion China New York and investment portfolios, and thereby will become ready to predominate the Asian financial market by 2022. Suzhou Yangon Guangzhou Tokyo Net Income Vision Global Finance Group Leading the Asian Financial Industry 11.02% Mumbai Strategic Osaka Goals Securing Unparalleled Competitive Advantages for Key Businesses(~2016) 4 Strategic Enhancement of Sales and Strengthening Future 2014 KRW 1.4 trillion Reinforcement of Growth Basis Risk Management Enforcement Auckland Directions Production Capabilities Growth Engines 2013 KRW 1.3 trillion Hong Kong • Enhance competitiveness in retail • Improve credit risk management • Improve HR management system • Enhance competencies for entry Tuol Kork Hanoi banking system into overseas markets Credit Rating • Optimize channels Cambodia Ho Chi Minh • Secure competitiveness of the • Secure the highest competency • Increase competitiveness of • Enhance capacity for multiple on/ SME sector for arrears management among wealth management(WM) off-line channels * January 2014 credit card companies channel • Improve the organizational • P reoccupy silver/annuity market A A1 constitution to regain customer • Increase competitiveness of Branch Local subsidiary trust insurance channel Office Branch under local subsidiary 6 7 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Board of Directors The mission of the Board of Directors of KB Financial Group is to provide the support that is necessary for all executives Nomination Criteria for Nonexecutive Directors The nonexecutive directors of KB Financial Group are trusted experts of finance, accounting, law, risk management, Governance Group-wide to pursue stable and responsible courses of management. The Board also ensures rationality in management decisions throughout the Group with its check-and-balance function, requiring and advising executives to address, correct, HR, and other related business areas requiring expert judgment. In an effort to ensure the fairness and transparency of the appointment, the Group has established explicit rules and procedures on the nomination of nonexecutive directors including the Rules on the Nonexecutive Director Nominating Committee. The Rules require that the Group make use of and improve any standards, procedures, and practices of management that are found to be faulty. The Board consists of recommendations and nominations from outside sources, including major shareholders and external advising agencies one executive director, one nonstanding director, and seven nonexecutive directors. The Board makes final decisions not as much as possible to find and appoint experts of diverse backgrounds to the Group’s Board. The Rules, moreover, only regarding important business matters but also the corporate social responsibilities of the Group. The Chairman of the require the Group to update its pool of possible candidates twice a year and report the details of the management Board is one of the nonexecutive directors on the Board elected by his or her associates on the Board. thereof to the Board. The Group is also obligated to evaluate the performance of each nonexecutive director every Board of Directors Composition year and compile review reports, reappointing nonexecutive directors who are found by the Nonexecutive Director *As of March 27, 2015 Nominating Committee to have excellent records. After the Nonexecutive Director Nominating Committee makes official Name Duty Experience nominations and reports to the Board, new candidates for directorship and nonexecutive directors to be reappointed to BoD Chairman the Board are vetted thoroughly in terms of qualifications and the matter of whether or not to appoint them to the Board Member of the Audit Committee President/CEO(former) is discussed at the Shareholders’ General Assembly. The Committee is required to nominate candidates on the basis of Young-Hwi Choi Member of the Nonexecutive Director Nominating Committee Shinhan Financial Group Co., Ltd. considerations of their expertise, reputation for fairness and integrity in office, ethics and responsibility, loyalty, and other Member of the Governance Committee such key criteria demanded by the Financial Holding Companies Act and other applicable laws. Chairman of the Governance Committee Chairman and CEO Jong Kyoo Yoon Member of the Nonexecutive Director Nominating Committee KB Financial Group Board of Directors Activities and Performance Chairman of the Audit Committee Professor at Sogang University Key Resolutions Woon-Youl Choi Member of the Nonexecutive Director Nominating Committee Management Department The Board of Directors met 17 times in total in 2014, with the attendance rate averaging 95.9%. The major issues Member of the Governance Committee Chairman of the Nonexecutive Director Nominating Committee were matters pertaining to operating the emergency management system and minimizing the impact of the vacancy in Suk-Ryul Yoo Member of the Risk Management Committee Samsung Electronics Advisor leadership after the then president and Chairman of the Group was suspended and eventually dismissed from his office. Member of the Remuneration Committee With Young-Rok Lim suspended from his Chairman and President posts in September 2014, the directors convened their Chairman of the Remuneration Committee CEO of LG Academy, the corporate Michael Byungnam Lee ninth meeting of the year and resolved to appoint Vice-President Woong-Won Yun as Acting President and to launch the Member of the Governance Committee university for LG Group Chairman of Risk Management Committee Senior Fellow at Korea Institute of Board-led emergency management system. In September 2014, the Board also assembled the President Nomination Board of Directors Activities Jae-Ha Park Member of Remuneration Committee Finance Committee, which met six times in total to nominate and appoint Jong Kyoo Yoon, who was officially appointed as the new Member of Remuneration Committee Professor at Ewha Womans Univerity Chairman and President of the Group at the general shareholders’ meeting on November 21, 2014. No. of Meetings Held Eunice Kyonghee Kim 17 cases Member of Risk Management Committee Law School Board Competency Development and Communication Activities Member of the Audit Committee Professor of Accounting at the School of 2014 Jong Soo Han Member of the Remuneration Committee Business, Ewha Womans University KB Financial Group held two training sessions for nonexecutive directors in 2014. The Group provides orientations for 2013 20 cases Senior Executive Vice President of the newly appointed nonexecutive directors every year and regularly updates Board members on the progresses of the Member of the Risk Management Committee 2012 14 cases Hong Lee Sales Group, and Board Director of Group’s business activities, investor trends, and other such key topics. The Group also organizes Board workshops to Member of the Governance Committee Kookmin Bank promote active communication between executives and the Board. No. of Resolutions Made KB Holdings is made up of seven subcommittees that are in charge of specific responsibilities to enhance Directors’ expertise. *As of March 27, 2015 Evaluation and Remuneration 2014 35 cases The evaluation consists of four categories. Nonexecutive directors are subjected to self-evaluations, peer evaluations, and 2013 20 cases Subcommittee Major Responsibility Evaluation evaluations by employees. The key criteria of evaluation include the degrees of interest and engagement in the Board meetings, 2012 28 cases Nonexecutive Director Nominating Committee Recommendation of nonexecutive director the extents of their experience and knowledge, their fulfillment of Board obligations, and their integrity and personality. Audit Committee General task-related audit Establishment of policy for remuneration and The maximum compensation limit for Board members is determined at a general shareholders’ meeting that decides the Remuneration Committee Average Attendance Rate decision-making Remuneration ceiling on the remuneration for Board members. Long-term incentives for the standing director are to be paid in the form of Risk Management Committee Establishment of policy for risk management and decision-making restricted stock three years after his or her retirement, in true reflection of his or her contribution to the Group’s performance. 2014 95.9% BoD Operation Committee Corporate governance; committee operation efficiency 2013 96.9% Under the board rules, the Chairman of the Board reports board evaluation results at an annual shareholders’ Management Strategy Committee Preliminary review for important management matters Disclosures meeting. Compensation for directors is disclosed in the annual business report. Audit Committee Member Nomination Committee Recommendation of audit committee member 8 9 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainable Sustainable Business Strategy To become an international leader of finance in Asia, KB Financial Group has established and been systematically Sustainability Performance Management Using a set of performance indicators, KB Financial Group continues to monitor and update its sustainable Business implementing a sustainable business strategy. Under the three keywords, i.e., Wise for enhancing values for customers and achieving change and innovation; Smart for increasing the efficiency of management and management performance on a regular basis. There are 14 such performance indicators in total across five categories: customer, product and service, employee, community, and environmental management. These items Strategy strengthening future prospects; and Sustainable for identifying and fulfilling corporate social responsibilities, the Group continues to pursue sustainability in five major areas of activities including customer, product and service, provide quantitative indicators that make year-to-year comparisons possible. The number of cases of predeliberation upon public disclosure of information and advertising increased by 867 operations(ethics and environment management), human resources, and community. For each area of these activities, in a year, from 4,705 in 2013 to 5,572 in 2014. In 2014, the Group also provided KRW 16.9 billion for KB the Group has identified specific goals to be met and tasks to be completed. With continuous monitoring and feedback Microfinancing—KRW 4.6 billion more than the amount of support it provided the previous year. In 2014, there were from stakeholders, the Group strives to improve its performance under the said sustainable strategy. 69 grievance reports filed by employees and executives in total, 30 of which have been addressed and resolved successfully. Employees and executives Group-wide spent 352,420 hours in total on volunteerism and other activities of social contributions, which translate into 14 hours per person on average. In 2014, KB Kookmin Bank generated Global Financial Group Leading the Asian Financial Industry 120,524tCO²eq of greenhouse gas emissions in total, which is 5,783tCO²eq down from the previous year’s record Vision Asia Top 10, Global Top 50 thanks to the ongoing efforts to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. Item Unit 2012 2013 2014 Slogan Together for Your Life Customer1 Direction Wise Smart Sustainable Customer satisfaction from external institutions(card) Rank First/First First/First Second/Fourth NCSI/KCSI First/First First/First Third/Third Increase Customer Value Secure Future Growth Engines Increase Social Responsibilities Challenge, Change and Innovation Gain Management Efficiency Responsibilities as a Corporate Citizen Predeliberation on product development Deliberations 289 301 234 Amounts of Value Promotion Method We consider customer satisfaction our foremost priority and strive to protect customers by Information disclosures and predeliberation on advertisements Deliberations 3,630 4,705 5,572 Distribution Customer providing them with the right services and information. Products and Services Yearly amount of KB Smile Microcredit Bank loans(Bank) KRW 100 million 165 123 169 We fulfill our social responsibilities with products and services that contribute to green growth Customer Product&Service Green loans(Bank) KRW 100 million 14,246 8,900 8,988 (deposit interest) and the public good while also creating new value. KB Hidden Star 500 support for outstanding small and medium Operation We endeavor to minimize social and environmental risks through green management, and also to enterprises(Bank) KRW 100 million 14,785 19,035 16,800 KRW 3845.5 billion increase transparency and ethics through ethical management. Employee Shareholders and Investors Ratio of full-time employees(Group) % 74.8 79.9 94.6 (interest and dividends) We nurture financial specialists by providing continuous educational and career developmental HR opportunities while trying to build a robust organizational culture and labor-management relations. Total employee training hours(Group) Hour 3,756,439 2,875,868 3,284,341 No. of grievance KRW 11635.3 billion As a financial group of the people, we do our best to provide donations and participate in Community resolved 26 19 30 voluntary work and social services for the public good. Case of employee grievances resolved(Group) Employee (no. of grievance (47) (64) (69) (pay and benefits) reported) KB Philosophy Community KRW 2593.5 billion Hours per person KB Financial Group aspires to become a financial company that is loved by the people. To this end, the Group carries (cumulative 13.8 13.6 14.0 Local Community Social contribution activities(Group) number of (79,481) (76,242) (80,934) (contributions) out its business activities around five core values. volunteers) Amount of social contribution expenses(Group) KRW 100 million 711 598 521 KRW 52.1 billion Number of recipients of economic and financial education(Group) – No. of persons 44,952 88,534 111,161 Business Partner including visiting and invitational education (procurement and services) Environmental Management Customerorientedness Expertise Secure top-level Innovativeness Provide customers Speed Meet the customer’s Performanceorientedness Greenhouse gas emissions(Bank) tCO²eq 129,643 126,307 120,524 KRW 82.7 billion expertise in each with optimal solutions ever-changing needs Amount of paper used(Group) Box 143,583 130,814 143,722 The highest code Build a system and Government of conduct for KB field to meet the based on creative through speedy and organization where the (income taxes) customers’ financial ideas that are free from accurate decision¹Scope of data collected: KB Kookmin Bank, KB Kookmin Card, KB Savings Bank, and KB Asset Management. members, who put the employees with the 486.3 customers’ interests needs conventions making that adapts best performance are first to changes in the treated accordingly KRW billion financial environment 10 11 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholder Stakeholders Definition and Communication KB Financial Group listens attentively to the opinions of its stakeholders and exerts efforts in reinforcing its Reflecting Stakeholder Opinions in Business Management The KB Financial Group is not only open to the feedback of stakeholders, but also persists in implementing suggestions and continuously reflecting improvement in its Engagement communication with them. On a group level, it transparently discloses its business management direction and achievements made by publicly announcing its business management plans, shareholders’ meetings, and business actual business operations. Each department, which is a point of contact for work with the Group’s stakeholders, is working hard to reflect to the maximum the opinions collected throughout the year through a variety of communication channels that it manages. The department responsible for communicating with the shareholders reports on its Web site. Each subsidiary has built channels to communicate with its stakeholders and continuously gathers opinions from them and transparently relays their feedback through the annual Sustainability Report. KB Financial Group gives importance to the feedback of monitors activities thereof to respond quickly and in a timely manner to stakeholder needs and changes to the its stakeholders. If the suggestions and feedback were not implemented or integrated into the operations, it checks and strictly manages the reasons for such with a business environment. KB Financial Group defines major stakeholders as customers, shareholders and investors, disclosure through the Sustainability Report. employees, local communities, business partners, the Korean government, and supervisory agencies. KB announces Communication its major roles and communication channels for each stakeholder group. Channel Method of Collecting Opinions Reflecting Opinions in Business Management Customers Customers Business Partner KB Customer Advisory • Conducted customer satisfaction surveys on additional product services • L aunched a social contribution product that involves the participation of the customer to (4 times a year targeting the third KB Customer Advisory Panel that consists KB employees, sales agencies, Business partner Panel contribute to the spread of a sharing culture(KB Love Sharing Installment Savings) of 4,607 customers) advertisements and press releases, KB satisfaction surveys, KB Campus Star and • Operated communication channels targeting young customers and continuously Story, Web site, call center, customer Business partner • Demanded networking and communication utilizing SNS Blog Reporters Group exchanged ideas with them service center, product pamphlets, tribunal meetings • Launched  the Foreign Customer Advisory Panel and conducted service • P rovided departure guarantee insurance claim settlement services to foreign workers KB Foreign Customer system, and customer panels preference surveys(twice a year, targeting a panel that consists of 225 • Supported Internet banking in multiple languages and expanded contents Advisory Panel foreign customers from 29 countries) • Supported ATM services in 10 languages • As a part of the efforts made to settle customer relations–centered business •C  ollected opinions on how to improve products/services/systems/processes KB Tribunal management, adopted 57 improvement tasks upon review by supervisory agencies and through face-to-face and non–face-to-face channels(total of 62 cases) Shareholders and completed the execution of 35 tasks as of February 2015 investors Local Community Shareholders and Investors IR road shows, Meetings with IR Presentaion • Quarterly earnings presentation and Q & A sessions • Collected opinions from Koreans and foreigners IR presentations, local communities, • S hared records semiannually shareholders’ meetings, IR Conference • Grasped opinions of major Korean and global institutional investors and their trends Social contribution activities, • P articipated in focus group meetings business reports, and interviews Creation of local employment Employees with institutional investors Labor-management • Exchanged opinions between labor and management on employees’ rights • Made decisions related to human resources based on deliberation Council and welfare Collecting internal • A variety of stakeholders participated, their experiences were posted, and best practices • Shared opinions using the internal intranet(KB Wise-net) opinions were shared to reflect them in each department’s work Employees Government and Supervisory Agencies • Collected opinions using the internal intranet(KB Wise-net) Labor-management council, meetings (Conversation with CEO; participation of employees in forums; disclosure of • R eflected the accumulated opinions when establishing business management tasks On-site business with employees, and on-site business Public hearings, the CEO’s e-mail account address) • Responsible departments reviewed the opinions, drew up tasks for improvements, and management management consultative bodies, and symposium • Held meetings with employees, Jump-up course for branch office heads, reflected them in the work of each department(at all times) and Lunch TalkTalk Local communities • Theme Volunteer Group, Talent Dream, and Speed Dream Volunteer Group Communication Channels KB Star Dream Volunteer engaged in activities by region and branch office connected to local • Grasped each region’s needs, as well as planned and pursued timely social contribution Group activities community groups For communication channels, KB Financial Group endeavors to meet customer needs by gathering opinions submitted • Provided a forum for small and medium enterprises(SMEs) who are having difficulty in through various communication such as KB employees, branch offices, advertisements and press releases, KB Story, • Held employment expositions to solve the problem of unemployment and recruiting and managing employees, to meet with job seekers from the youth and retirees KB Good Job Web site, call center, and customer service center, and then reviewing through each subsidiary. KB Financial Group provided information on employment in real time using the Web site • Supported employment funds for the employment of regular full-time employees through KB Good Job communicates with its shareholders and investors through IR road shows, IR presentations, shareholders’ meetings, Business partners and interviews with institutional investors. As for business partners, we conduct business partner satisfaction surveys • Encouraged business partners to be socially responsible, and annually to continuously discover areas in need of improvement and support. In addition, there are regular meetings with local CSR evaluation conducted CSR evaluation to reinforce loan risk management • Reflected nonfinancial criteria to the business partner credit evaluation communities and engagement through social contribution activities. To come into contact with the Korean government Signing of agreements • Signed agreements for providing financial support to excellent eco-friendly • Provided preferential interest rates and KB Wise financial consulting to excellent ecoand supervisory agencies, we hold public hearings, consultative bodies, and symposiums. To communicate with for financial support companies designated by the Korean Ministry of Environment friendly companies to reinforce their market competitiveness employees and listen to their opinions as internal stakeholders, each subsidiary holds labor-management councils, Government and supervisory agencies staff meetings, and on-site business management. KB Financial Group manages the needs gathered at all times Enrolling in associations • B uilt cooperative relations with Korea Federation of Banks, Federation of Korean •C  ollaborated with supervisory agencies and improved financing through various stakeholder channels, provides feedback to the stakeholders, and actively reflects the opinions in the and groups Industries, and Korea Financial Investment Association, among others • Consolidated fair trade and protected investors Group’s business management strategies. 12 13 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Materiality Materiality Test Process Through KB Financial Group’s materiality test, key issues for this Sustainability Report were identified. The materiality Materiality Test Result After the material test process, 20 major issues were selected as listed below. Each issue is covered in detail throughout this report. Of the issues selected, the following Test test was conducted to verify the elements of the economy, the environment, and social activities that are of vital importance to the business and in which stakeholders are greatly interested. four issues were set aside as top-priority issues: reinforcing customer information security, enhancement of ethical management and anticorruption activities, brand value management, and advancement of risk management. These issues are discussed in detail, along with the disclosure on management approach(DMA). Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 HIGH Identifying issues Stakeholder survey Determining and Defining report reviewing priority issues A B · Media analysis Survey Determine priority Derive related aspects · Related companies analysis D · External stakeholders · Business importance · GRI G4 criteria; determine main F · Trend and Impact analysis · Executives and employees · Level of interest of the contents of the report G C Significance · National tasks analysis stakeholders · Finance CSR analysis E · Sustainability analysis Review priority M H · SR Evaluation result analysis · Review by external experts I · Review by the management P O Q K J R Issue pool Materiality Determine key K review aspect T S L LOW N LOW Impact HIGH Step 1 Identifying issues Media Analysis A total of 480 media materials from January 1 to December 31, 2014 were analyzed. Stakeholder Impact by Major Issues Related Companies Analysis Similar companies, companies with excellent sustainable management performance, and other related companies were analyzed. Trend and Impact Analysis Major issues and debates related to sustainable management were identified through media, journals, and research articles. Government Shareholders Business Local National Tasks Analysis Issues related to social responsibility were identified from the government’s national tasks. KBFG Sustainability Major Issues Impact Employees and Supervisory Customers and Investors Partners Communities Finance CSR Analysis Issues were derived from seminars and research reports on the social responsibility of the finance sector in and outside South Korea. Agencies Sustainable Management Status Analysis The major challenges for KB Financial Group in 2014 and its future directions were reviewed. A Reinforcing customer information security 86.6 SR Evaluation Result Analysis Evaluation results in and outside South Korea, including DJSI and KoBEX, were analyzed to identify the issues requiring supplementation B Ethical Management Anticorruption 85.7 C Brand value management 81.7 D Advancement of risk management 80.7 Step 2 Stakeholder survey E Governance improvement 77.0 Survey Based on the 188 issues verified and derived in and outside South Korea, surveys were conducted on 1,015 stakeholders of KB Financial Group for Social contribution activities based on the characteristics of F the relevant business 77.0 11 days from March 10 to 20 in 2015. The respondents were divided into an internal group and an external group through KB Financial Group’s intranet and home page, and requested to assess the importance of each issue. The importance of each issue as assessed by the respondents was converted into a score on a 0–100 scale, and reflected into the selection of the major issues. G Revitalization of socially responsible investment 76.3 H Expansion of small/medium-scale business enterprises 75.1 I Expansion of participation by stakeholders 72.4 Step 3 Determining and reviewing priority Diversification of sources of profit through expansion of the ratio J of non-banking businesses 70.7 Determine Priority By comprehensively considering the importance of each issue from the stakeholders’ perspective identified in the course of opinion gathering, and its importance from the perspective of KB Financial Group’s business, 20 major issues were derived in terms of priority. K Work-life balance 70.3 Fostering of a labor-management culture based on Review Priority The priority was reviewed by external experts and the management, which included verification of whether opinions had been properly L communication and mutual support 69.9 considered and gathered from external experts along the value chain. M Support for financially underprivileged classes 69.6 N Reinforcement of talent recruitment and fostering system 69.1 Step 4 Defining report issues O Financial risk management 68.7 Derive Related Aspects Of the final 20 major issues selected, the top 11 issues were selected as the key issues for the report. The aspects related to P Improvement of the rate of return from asset management 67.3 each issue were selected based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. The major areas surrounding the key issues were concisely summarized for this report. These areas include: protection of customer information, anticorruption, marketing communication, local communities, indirect economic effect, evaluation of social impact Q Development of nature-friendly products and services 66.5 of suppliers, and economic outcomes. R Resource/energy saving 65.7 S Entry into new global markets 65.4 T Establishment of environmental policies 63.9 14 15 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Please uphold 01 KB’s Way Today With the increasing complexity and sophistication of financial crimes targeting financial institutions, customer information security has become a matter not only of customers’ rights and interests your principles. but also of the prospects of sustainability for financial institutions themselves. The value of fnancial institutions, including KB, have been traditionally evaluated in terms of their protability, financial Reinforcing stability, growth and other fnancial values. Strong performances were all that these companies That is all I ask. needed to give credence to their continued existence and growth in the future. The recent scandal Customer over the leakages of credit card information in Korea, however, has awakened financial companies to the possibility that they may indeed go bankrupt over matters of information security. The draft for Information the amendment of the Use and Protection of Credit Information Act, which was passed the National Security Assembly in January 2015, includes a punitive clause that allows victims of credit card information leakages to claim up to three times the amount of their financial losses in damages from financial companies. Customer information security is now a central matter that may decide the fate of financial companies and therefore requires thoroughgoing and effective plans. Seeking the Right Way KB Financial Group asked 1,015 stakeholders to assess the importance of issues regarding sustainable management. Reinforcing customer information security was selected as the most important issue among the top 11 issues selected through materiality test, with the issue scored an average of 86.6 points. Internal stakeholders 88.0 Establishing and reinforcing a proactive system to prevent financial crimes Customer points Enhancing the range and quality of protection for financial consumers information External stakeholders 85.2 security Reinforcing the security awareness of executives and employees points KB’s Way Tomorrow The recent incident involving the leakage of information of KB Kookmin Card customers and KB’s subsequent suspension did lead to temporary drops in the service charge revenue and a decrease in the number of customers. These events, however, served to reawaken the entire Group, compelling it to reinforce its customer information security systems. The Group gathered all its resources and capabilities to solve the problem and prevent its recurrence, thus establishing a reinforced customer information security system, organizing specialized taskforces in the subsidiary companies, and greatly increasing the personnel and budgets assigned to these purposes. KB has also developed an integrated system for managing customer information security and a new system for detecting suspicious financial transactions, while also enhancing the Group-wide ability to handle similar crises in the future according to a new security manual. So-Yeon Park(42, Housewife) Key Performance Index Last year’s scandal over customer information leakages from credit card companies in Korea instantly sent me into shock and panic. I was Nature of 2015 Objectives KPIs 2012 2013 2014 Index Target worried that my personal information might have already been leaked and used for illegal purposes, and asked myself whether I should Achieve zero sanctions related to Sanctions under the laws related to customer information Management 0 0 1 0 withdraw all the money I had in my bank accounts. Fortunately, the worst-case scenario I imagined has not happened to me yet, but I keep customer information security security(no. of sanctions) worrying every time I use my credit card or do online financial transactions, and wonder whether I should switch to a new card company. 1. Developing the Customer Promulgate a Group charter dedicated to customer information security(%) Infrastructure 18.1 27.3 54.5 70 up Information Security Infrastructure Nevertheless, I continue to use a KB Kookmin Card. This is not because I was reassured by the company’s announcement of a plan to Ratio of companies with CISO(Chief Information Security Officer) 2. Strengthening Governance over Infrastructure 81.8 90.9 90.9 100 reinforce customer information security. Nor is it because I have done thorough research of available card companies and decided that KB within the Group(%) Customer Information Security was indeed more secure than others. This is because I have been a customer of KB ever since graduating from college, and because I still Ratio of companies with dedicated organizations within the Group(%) Infrastructure 18.1 18.1 63.6 80 up have some faith that KB is at least a little bit more trustworthy than other companies and that, having suffered so much from the scandal, 3. Reinforcing the Customer Carry out inspections on customer information security status(no. of inspections) Management 120 140 186 200 Information Security Procedure the company would make its best efforts to avoid committing the same mistake. Having paid such a high price, KB must know by now: No Designate the Information Security Day for the whole Group Infrastructure 45.5 54.5 81.8 100 4. Establishing a New Culture of matter how much you perfect your system or technology, people are what truly matter in the end. That is why I have decided to place my Customer Information Security Participation of employees in specialized courses on customer information Management 91.5 95.6 96.2 98 faith in the employees of KB. Please uphold your principles. Work hard and right. There is no other way. That is all I ask. security(%) 16 17 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 1. Developing the customer information Minimizing the range of required customer information 2. Strengthening governance over customer 3. Reinforcing the customer information security infrastructure In all the forms to be filled out by customers and Bank employees, KB Kookmin Bank information security security procedure now requires customers’ dates of birth instead of resident registration numbers. Various Developing a counteraction system in case of customer transaction request forms have been redesigned so that only a minimum possible Korea’s first financial company to appoint a CISO All subsidiaries of KB Financial Group strictly forbid the transfer of customer information leakages range of customer information can be collected. Today, customers can perform financial At KB Financial Group, the CIO is an executive officer who develops business information using mobile storage devices. No one in the Group may print out, KB Financial Group has also established a new counteraction system in case of transactions at KB Kookmin Bank by providing only six items of information, including strategies using information and technology. The CISO, on the other hand, is the e-mail, or otherwise transfer customer information without the administrator’ customer information leakages. When a leakage is detected, an internal report is their names and contact information. The new Personal Content Form now leaves more executive officer who is responsible for ensuring information security. Having s authorization. Any and all transferred customer information files are reviewed immediately filed, and a series of predefined security measures are launched into sections of information as optional than required. Customers can block the bank from recognized the distinctive natures of the two tasks and the need to eliminate any and monitored regularly in terms of the purposes for which they were action. These include: deleting the leaked information files; re-collecting leaked calling for marketing purpose by requesting the block service at www.donotcall.or.kr. and all possible blind spots of information security, the Group decided to create transferred and the channels of transfer. All these companies also implement documents and other related materials to determine the extent of leakage; two separate offices for these tasks and became the first financial company in their own information security policies, thus blocking the access of unauthorized blocking the routes of access to the customer information processing systems Reinforcing security of online transactions overseas Korea to appoint a CISO. With Jong-Hyeon Kim, former employee of IBM Korea, parties to the company networks, monitoring and treating viruses and malignant and managing their security risks; and monitoring and fixing suspected channels newly appointed as the CISO and a standing director of the Group, KB Kookmin codes in real time, blocking access to hazardous Web sites, and encoding As more and more Korean consumers choose to buy goods directly from dealers of leakage. In addition, the victims are notified within five days of detecting the Bank and KB Kookmin Card also came to appoint their own CISOs, overseeing documents. These companies also review the outcomes of these policies abroad, the convenience and security of credit card transactions have become leakage, and the details of notification are shared with the Customer Protection their respective independent organizations and responsibilities. regularly to identify and implement improvements. vital issues for many. In partnership with MasterCard, KB Kookmin Card became Officer(CPO). In case of an event involving the leakage of the information of the first credit card company in Korea to adopt SecurePay, authorizing credit card 10,000 or more customers, the victims are notified within 5 days of detecting transactions involving affiliated distributors overseas using virtual card numbers Strengthening monitoring and inspection the leakage, and the details of the notification and its outcomes are reported and expiry dates instead of actual ones. Here, the virtual card numbers become KB Kookmin Card regularly monitors its information security procedures and to the Financial Supervisory Service and other authorities(e.g., the Ministry of automatically invalidated past certain numbers of transactions or expiry dates tasks to ensure that all the requirements of its information security policy are Security and Public Administration, the Korea Internet and Security Agency, and that customers themselves define. SecurePay thus helps to minimize risks of complied with. The company also plans to perform on-site security checks at all the National Information Society Agency). Information regarding such reports is hacking and other high-tech financial crimes. departments to ensure compliance with information security laws and rules. then displayed on the Group’s Web site. Leakage Counteraction Process Reinforcing the information security monitoring system Reinforcing internal control and computer security systems All the subsidiaries of KB Financial Group have adopted network access control(NAC) At KB Kookmin Card, a visitor must go through five security posts, including those Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 systems, anti-leakage systems, customer information search systems, and at the first and second gates, the X-ray security post, and the metal detector, Customer Internal reports shared and Victims notified Leakage reported to the authorities antivirus(V3) systems. These systems allow KB Financial Group and its subsidiaries before reaching the company’s IT Development Office. The camera on the visitor’ information leaked emergency and announced on to determine the presence or absence of required security software programs in Reforming and expanding the information security actions Web site s smartphone will be automatically turned off once the visitor enters the office so given computers, the presence or absence of required customer information in the organization that he or she would not be able to take photographs of internal documents. The Containing and preventing Within five days of detecting If involving more than given databases, whether or not information files have been retrieved for appropriate In an effort to ensure customer information security, each subsidiary of KB personnel working in this office also work with computers without main units. The recurrence of leakage the leakage 10,000 victims. purposes, and whether or not customer information files have been decoded for Financial Group has set out to reform and enhance supervision over its information zero-computer system in this office, requiring the personnel to work only with appropriate purposes. KB Kookmin Card, for its part, has launched a whole new security organization. KB Kookmin Card, formerly running a single department computer screens without any storage units or devices, works by transmitting all Encoding key customer information using personal integrated system of information security control, involving a new internal control (divided into 2 teams) of information security, expanded the department into a the data generated in the office to the secure servers in the centralized computer identification numbers(KB-PINs) procedure and concerning all activities from the creation to the retrieval of system 4-team organization, with the number of full-time employees working in the center via the cloud. As part of its campaign for encoding customer information, KB Kookmin Bank decided to require the use of KB-PINs in all financial transactions access accounts. Other subsidiaries also block customers’ access to risky Web sites. department also multiplying from 13 to 28. KB Kookmin Card will also encode its databases in the future and expand its cloud of customers to further protect customer information. KB-PINs are unique sets of Major subsidiaries, such as KB Kookmin Bank, have also separated their intranets KB Credit Information also launched the new Information Security Team in July system throughout the network of its branches and offices. numbers that the Bank assigns to all its customers so that they can be used instead from the Internet networks to block all risks of cybercrimes involving hacking and 2014 to ensure the professional, independent, and centralized management of of the government-issued(and much important) resident registration numbers. When malignant codes. customer information and security. The new team has performed four quarterly Internal document control system a customer presents his or her ID to the Bank and his or her resident registration inspections of information security software programs and of whether customer number is entered into the Bank’s electronic system, the number is automatically Improving other security systems information is stored in employees’ computers throughout all the departments and Turns off cameras on smartphones converted into a unique KB-PIN applicable only to that particular customer. The KB Kookmin Card adopted a Webshell-based solution for blocking all attempts branches of the Group so far. switch from resident registration numbers to KB-PINs helps to minimize the to crack through the company’s public Web site. The company, moreover, has KB Investment and Securities likewise created a new independent information Runs on the zero-computer system exposure of important customer information on computer screens and documents. established a system for preventing wireless invasions to block attempted attacks security department in July 2014 and appointed its own CISO. The company’s Even the resident registration numbers, telephone numbers, and other key features and leakages involving the use of unauthorized and illegal access points and wireless new Information Security Department oversees all matters of information security, of customer information displayed on computer screens are now masked to ensure devices. In an effort to prevent the leakage of customer information via smartphones, develops related policies, and performs the required verification tasks to prevent Transmits and saves data via the cloud maximum security of customer information. KB Kookmin Card has also introduced a system that blocks unauthorized recording possible leakages and ensure security of information. of images. To encode the company databases 18 19 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 4. Establishing a new culture of customer information security the protection of customers’ assets; the security of customer information; the prompt handling and resolution of customer complaints; and social responsibility toward the underprivileged. Special Report Response to Customer Information Leakage from KB Kookmin Card Financial companies operate business networks nationwide(or even worldwide), and customer information is often their most prized asset. In Korea alone, there Expanding the range of information security training are approximately four million Internet banking transactions taking place daily. KB Financial Group plans to transparently disclose the course of events that January 18 News of customer information leakage spreads All the subsidiaries of KB Financial Group regularly update and train their resulted in the customer information leakage from KB Kookmin Card in 2014, All employees were called in to the office through the It is therefore of paramount importance for financial companies to prevent executives, employees, and contractors on the issue of customer information emergency contact network all possible attempts at hacking. Employees and executives throughout KB KB’s response thereto, and proactive countermeasures taken, as a step forward Established a guideline for customer inquiries security. in using this incident as an opportunity for change. The Group will also disclose Expanded customer consultation personnel(780 → 874) Financial Group therefore strive to establish a new culture that puts customer Pursuant to Article 19.2 of the Rules of Electronic Finance Supervision, KB information security first and encourages the development of innovative its annual progress through its reports until the Group enhances its protection for January 19 Held an emergency meeting presided by the President Financial Group subjected its executives, CISO, IT personnel, and IT security solutions. customer information and until the customers are fully reassured. personnel to at least 3, 6, 9, and 12 hours of IT security training in 2014, January 20 Set up an all-source situation team(19 headquarters, 48 personnel) respectively. The Group intends to raise the information security awareness of all Details of Information Leakage Posted letter of apology to the customers at all branch offices e-Cleansing Day employees and executives to a new level in 2015 by organizing joint information Distributed customer reception scripts and information In January 2014, customer information was leaked from multiple credit card guide for customers All the subsidiaries of KB Financial Group organize e-Cleansing Day events security training sessions with the help of external information security experts. The companies including KB Kookmin Card. It was confirmed that an employee of Included a new message on the prevention of customer on a monthly basis, checking their information security systems and training Group, moreover, will produce and train the industry’s finest information security an external credit information company tasked with system development illegally damage in the telephone ARS messages employees. The e-Cleansing Day events allow the Group to promptly identify experts capable of taking systematic responses to the increasingly advanced and obtained customer information by utilizing a weak point in the security program, January 21 Selected 981 employees of headquarters to be dispatched to and solve issues with information security. The Group enforces the e-Cleansing innovative security risks from outside sources via the short-term information branch offices for support resulting in the leakage of the data of approximately 53 million customers. Day on the third Wednesday of every month by running the computer safeguard security specialist courses at a specialized training agency. By the latter half of Secondary damage was found to be unlikely, because card numbers, expiration January 22 Extended working hours at all branches (to until 6:00 p.m.; to until 9:00 p.m. at 250 major branches) programs and the Internet security software(V3). The Group also keeps the 2015, the Group will also provide support for employees and executives enrolled dates, passwords, and CVC numbers were not part of the leaked data; as of Sent e-mails to customers whose personal information had third Friday of each month as the Security Day, requiring all departments and in the master’s-level courses for information security experts. 2015, there is no reported case of secondary damage. been leaked branches to undergo security training and inspect the status of information January 25 Opened branches on weekends, for the first time security using their own checklists. Information Security Training Performance of KB Kookmin Card Speedy Response January 27 Once again extended working hours at all branches KB Investment and Securities also keeps the 21st day of each month as Immediately following the incident, KB Kookmin Card set up a customer response Training Title(Topic) Date Trainees (to until 6:00 p.m.; to until 9:00 p.m. at 250 major branches) the Day of Financial Consumers, actively gathering consumers’ feedback team to ensure a speedy response to the incident. The company reassured the Temporarily suspended customer marketing activities using Online training for information security November 1 ~ December 7, All employees nonencounter channels and complaints via its branches nationwide in an effort to identify and solve enhancement(provided by Financial 2014 customers through speedy processing of credit card tasks, to the point of even (until the end of March) customer information issues. Security Institute) extending the working hours at its branches to until 6:00 p.m. With this, the working January 30~ Implemented emergency duty during the New Year season, Collective training and dissemination October 24 ~ October 29, Personal information hours were extended to until 9:00 p.m. in 250 major branches. A total of 43 million and operated an emergency on-call team within the allFebruary 2 source situation team KB Charter of Customer Information Security training on protection of customer 2014 protection manager customers were individually informed of the details of personal information leakage information (collective training) pursuant to the Personal Information Protection Act. Requests for card reissuance In June 2014, KB Kookmin Bank declared the KB Charter of Customer All employees February 2 President Jae-Oh Shim resigns from his office Information Security, proclaiming customer information security as the first were processed as rapidly as possible, and the company offered free SMS (dissemination) Financial Supervisory Commission announces its decision to notification of credit card transactions for a certain period. In addition, the company February 3 and foremost concern of the Bank and defining the code of conduct regarding suspend KB Kookmin Card from conducting its businesses customer information with which all employees and executives must comply. allowed each customer to verify whether their personal information was leaked Extension of working hours at branch offices ended; KB Investment & Securities, for its part, declared its own Charter of Financial through its home page, and it operated the Personal Information Damage Prevention February 4 emergency consultations at customer service centers maintained Consumer Protection in 2013. The company’s charter emphasizes six Center(1899–2900) around the clock to quickly respond to any incident. February 7 Emergency consultations at customer service centers principles: the transparency of information on financial products and services; Prevention of Recurrence discontinued; ARS consultation related to customer information leakage maintained Following the incident, KB Financial Group reinforced its information security KB Kookmin Card suspended from conducting its businesses system by building a virtual PC environment, separating the Internet network, February 17 (~ May 16) employing fingerprint authentication, and carrying out other measures. As for March 24 Duk-Soo Kim takes office as president of KB Kookmin Card provision and use of customer information between subsidiaries, the Group set up the procedures for approval, inspection, and report of the relevant matters, April 1 Launched the second information leakage search service(for member stores) and built an approval system to process requests and provisions of such information, all in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. In addition, April 18 Rearranged the customer information security organization the Group has continued to improve its customer information management and operation procedures. 20 21 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Helps us take pride in KB’s name. 02 KB’s Way Today Changes must begin with the people. Corporate ethics based on mutual trust between a company and a customer are much more important in the financial industry than in any other industrial fields. When a corruption incident occurs, the relevant financial company shall suffer direct economic losses because of a fall in customer The system comes later. Ethical confidence and its weakened sales capacity. The Tokyo and Osaka brances of Kookmin Bank faced a sanction-business suspension for four months-after an illegal loan of KRW 500 billion and the submission of false data were identified. The loss caused by the prohibition of new business activities Management for four months was serious. Moreover, the loss was more serious after business activities restarted. The number of customers rapidly decreased because of its falling reputation in Japan. The disposal Anticorruption of the nonperforming loan(NPL), which resulted from the said illegal loan, also caused losses in the relevant branches. As seen in this case, the corruption risk has a much more serious and bigger effect on financial companies than the worsening international financial environment, investment loss, and foreign exchange risk. In other words, the ethical management in a financial company is not only the safest form of investment with the highest rate of return but also the most obvious way to cope with future risks. Seeking the Right Way KB Financial Group asked 1,015 stakeholders to assess the importance of issues regarding sustainable management. Ethical management and anticorruption was selected as the second most important issue among the top 11 issues selected through materiality test, with the issue scored an average of 85.7 points. Internal stakeholders 86.8 Strengthening internal control and the watchdog system Ethical points Securing an advanced system for preventing financial incidents management and anticorruption External stakeholders Internalization of ethical management 84.6 points KB’s Way Tomorrow The recent KB Kookmin Bank incident awakened KB Financial Group to the true importance of ethical management. Ethical management is important not only from the perspective of legal compliance and corporate social responsibility, but indispensable for the financial sustainability and risk management of the company. The Group has thus begun to raise a Group-wide awareness of the significance of ethical management, providing objective evidence on how corruption undermines company Woo-Jong Seo(30, office worker) performance and prospects, and buttressing the internal control systems at the subsidiaries. The Group will continue to pursue ethical management in the future, We realize, often too late, an important truth about corruption: the code of conduct and the institutions and systems designed to strengthening Group-wide management strategies and control systems and also deepening individual executives’ and employees’ commitment to preventing corruption. enforce certain ethics are only minimal means to safety. There are always loopholes in the system that people intent on doing wrong can use all too easily. What really matter are people. The latest credit card information leakage incident must have offended the majority Key Performance Index of employees and executives at KB who have done their work with integrity until now. It made me remember the lesson I learned from Nature of 2015 Objectives KPIs 2012 2013 2014 my first boss. One day, one of the contractors under my supervision offered to treat me to lunch. I went ahead and ate lunch with the Index Target contractor and returned to my desk afterward. My boss found out what I had been up to and instantly burst in anger. He yelled at me, Acheive zero cases of corruption and violation Management 0 0 1 0 Are you so poor that you couldn’t even afford your own lunch? Doesn’t this company pay you enough to get your own lunch? The lunch 1. Expanding the Infrastructure for Ethical Reinforcing Implementation of the ethical contract system(%) Infrastructure 100 100 100 Management objective I was treated to was a simple meal, probably costing less than KRW 10,000. But my boss’s anger taught me that what truly mattered 2. Strengthening Internal Control Compliance Monitoring Council(event) Management 4 4 3 12 was not whether or not I followed the rules to the letter, but how steadfastly I held onto my own sense of self-esteem, which, at the end Corruption report(case) Management 0 2 6 0 3. Encouraging Reports on Noncompliance and of the day, was the only safeguard that kept me from caving into temptations. If everyone had as strong a sense of integrity as my first Corruption Bribery report(case) Management 0 0 0 0 boss, we would see and hear much less of corruption scandals than we do now. Please do not let the few rotten apples contaminate the 4. Enhancing the Capability for Practicing Ethical Ethical management training time per person(hours) Management 8.7 10.9 11.1 12.0 entire basket. KB has been the leader of finance in Korea. Remember this history, and recover your self -esteem. Management 22 23 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 1. Expanding the infrastructure for ethical short-term performance records, and thereby caused disturbance to the financial the company. The company’s employees and executives who are invited to seminars using either the Group Web site or the smart device application. The Group has order will suffer penalties in their performance evaluations. Any individual can be or other such events with the expenses covered by outside parties can attend such also opened a new hotline that allows those who wish to place a report to contact management suspended from his or her position for just one major offense he or she commits. events only when those events bear demonstrable relations to their jobs and when the Compliance Officer directly on the Officer’s personal mobile phone or via Ethics Charter those events involve no unfair gains or other possible conflicts of interests that may instant messenger apps: Viber and Telegram. affect decision-making by the employees or executives on behalf of the company in Code of Ethics the future. Protecting whistle-blowers 2. Strengthening internal control To protect whistle-blowers against any possible disadvantages and also to deter Anticorruption Pledges possible acts of noncompliance or corruption, KB Financial Group requires its Standards of Ethical creeds for Decision guidelines In an effort to strengthen and ensure internal control on unfair and corrupt ethical conduct KB members for legal and ethical KB Kookmin Card strictly forbids its employees and executives from investing subsidiaries to operate whistle-blower protection systems, rewarding them with for KB employees business practices, KB Financial Group requires its subsidiaries to establish and operate in marketable securities on the basis of the information they gain while serving incentives of up to KRW 1 billion per company, for protection programs that are channels via which reports on any violations can be filed. The Group also in the capacity of their offices. Employees or executives working in areas or proven to be effective in preventing corruption. New Ethical Management Declaration requires subsidiaries to submit written reports on the state of compliance positions designated by law or the Compliance Officers must sign and submit monitoring and exemplary cases every quarter for thorough Group-wide In an effort to overcome the limits of the existing framework of ethical the Anticorruption Pledges to the Compliance Officers upon taking their jobs. Group-wide whistle-blowing program monitoring and review. Since the latter half of 2013, the Group has also been management, KB Kookmin Bank launched a series of new programs in 2014 In an effort to ensure strict internal control and minimize the effect and scope of auditing the subsidiaries at random dates without prior notice. In 2014, the Compliance Manager under its New Ethical Management Policy. The New Ethical Management Policy possible acts of noncompliance and corruption at the subsidiaries, KB Financial Group also increased its personnel for monitoring compliance at the subsidiaries redefines the code of conduct and the principles of ethical management to regain KB Investment and Securities appoints Compliance Managers as part of Group has instituted the Group-wide Whistle-blowing Program. Under this and also launched compliance auditing at bank branches combining multiple trust from diverse stakeholders and pursue mutual growth and benefits with its compliance system. The Compliance Managers, appointed to various program, executives and employees of all subsidiaries and the Group can file services. In 2015, the Group also began to organize its Compliance Monitoring partners. The kick-off meeting at the beginning of 2014 involved broadcasting a departments by the Compliance Officer, supervise and monitor the members their reports via mail, telephone, or the Internet. The department in charge then Council meetings with delegates of the subsidiaries on a monthly basis instead special video clip on the New Ethical Management Policy and also the recitation of their respective departments to ensure ongoing compliance with laws and investigates the claims and facts of the reports. As a result, such departments of a quarterly basis. and the administration of the oath, by the male and female representatives of rules at all times. These managers devise and regularly update the compliance may require the accused parties to make corrections or improvements and the company, to the Code of Ethics for KB Executives and Employees, to all the checklists for their respective departments and prevent possible acts of seek penalties for the wrongdoing of parties and rewards for whistle-blowers. departments and branches nationwide. Compliance monitoring program noncompliance. The Compliance Support Officer also regularly meets with these All the subsidiaries of KB Financial Group implement compliance monitoring managers to discuss various issues and possible solutions, and also provides Reporting Process programs to establish ethical management and prevent financial losses, the group training for all compliance managers. Receipt of a report Mail, phone, Correction and decline of its reputation, and any possible legal sanctions that may result from or Internet improvement Mandatory self-inspection employees’ and executives’ violations of law. These compliance monitoring Punishment programs form the basis of predeliberations on important matters in terms KB Kookmin Bank requires all branches to perform self-inspection on a regular and reward of ethical management and compliance; provide examples of short-swing basis to prevent possible issues of noncompliance amid rapid changes in the whistle-blower Competent department/Investigation The head of the relevant profits to be returned and other matters of concern regarding possibly unfair business environment and the makeup of risks. To ensure the independence and department department/the manager of the relevant branch/the wrongdoer transactions of financial investment products; supports compliance monitoring professionalism of such self-inspections, the branches are required to organize and management at each department according to the compliance checklist; task forces specializing in such inspections. With this, periodic training is provided for these task forces to enhance their capability for inspection. The Bank also Clean Reporting Center and provides for the compliance training and education of each department’s Integrity Contract Policy compliance officer. performs issue-specific monitoring and random branch auditing projects to KB Capital strives to drive out any and all forms of ethical violations and Before deciding on its contractors and suppliers, KB Financial Group discloses survey the state of compliance by employees and executives at the main office corruption. Its efforts in this regard include the Clean Reporting Center to which and various branches and identify possible vulnerabilities. employees and executives who have been involved in wrongful practices or acts lists of possible conflicts of interests at stake and informs the chosen candidates Internal control meetings of the Group’s Integrity Contract Policy, requiring the integrity clause to be of corruption may report themselves voluntarily. KB Kookmin Bank organizes internal control meetings on a monthly basis, inserted into the final contracts to be signed. The Integrity Contract Policy forbids which are attended by all executives and chaired by the President of the Bank Number of Public Interest Infringement Cases KB and its contractors from exchanging any gifts, treats, or other forms of unfair himself. The participants discuss various issues of internal control and reaffirm Category Detailed Item 2012 2013 2014 gains before or upon signing any contracts of construction, service, or material their commitment to ethical management. They also share the results of these Corruption report No. of corruption reports － 2 6 supplies ordered by the Group and its subsidiaries. Any violation of this restriction meetings with their respective departments and branches. 3. Encouraging reports on noncompliance and Bribery report No. of reports － － － may limit the involved contractor’s ability to participate in bidding or even lead to corruption Dismissal 2* the termination of the contract. Developing standards and procedures for external relations Follow-up action Pay cut Encouraging reports on corruption KB Kookmin Card requires its employees and executives to obtain the company’s Others 1 7** Implementation of the One-Strike Out System In an effort to encourage and protect whistle-blowers and reports on corruption, approval first before engaging in any external relations, such as lectures, contributions * Dismissal of insurance solicitors Any executives or employees at KB Kookmin Bank who have engaged in unfair to publications, and interviews, and reserves the right to require employees and KB Financial Group launched an independent and external channel of reporting ** As a result of investigating relevant reports, five(5) people were cleared of the charges and two(2) or corrupt business practices, either out of habit or for the purpose of boosting executives to return the financial gains they have made on such external events to in 2015 so that reporters could file their reports with ease at any time of the day people received a warning notice. 24 25 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 4. Enhancing the capability for practicing ethical management Ethical Management Handbook KB Capital publishes its Ethical Management Handbook each year, providing Special Report the manual on matters of ethics and compliance to improve executives’ and KB’s Efforts to Eliminate the Root Causes of Financial Incidents A company may have instituted a perfect system of ethical management, employees’ understanding of ethical management. The company is currently complete with declarations of principles and detailed rules and guidelines. Such working on updating its Handbook before its release in 2015. a system, however, will never work unless all the executives and employees are Prevention of mis-selling and reward system four times per year(once per quarter) and provides them to firmly committed to implementing that system and have internalized the values Encouraging employees’ participation KB Kookmin Card conducts self-inspection on areas with a high probability of branch offices as solicitor training materials. and principles of ethical management. KB Financial Group provides diverse mis-selling every month. The head(the manager of the branch office/director forms of support to encourage executives and employees to internalize KB’ KB Capital regularly distributes survey asking executives and employees of the center) of the department in charge of a product and marketing event Status of KB Anti-money Laundering Training in 2014 about their perceptions on the status of ethical management. These surveys s ethical principles and to participate actively in the Group’s efforts for ethical Ethics surveys and the frontline service department(including branch offices) directly register help the company measure the ethical awareness of individuals and the Category Target Trainees Number management on their own initiatives. organization and also check the progress of ethical practices. the occurrence of any mis-selling related to relevant departmental tasks in the All employees 2 compliance support system of the company to protect financial consumers and Promoted employees, PB, local employees of Managing changes in laws and the regulatory environment the socially disadvantaged group, and prevent disputes between a customer Collective overseas branches, internal control officers, and 43 Encouraging KB Kookmin Bank regularly holds company-wide campaigns, asking executives KB Financial Group organizes the Internal Control Council meetings regularly to innovative and employees on possible solutions to improve ethical practices and compliance. and the company. KB Kookmin Card checks whether telemarketers perform others prompt discussions of pressing issues and share information on the current and ideas for ethical These campaigns increase employees’ interest in issues of ethical management their tasks according to the standard script previously deliberated and approved Management 3 management and compliance by providing incentives and rewards for innovative solutions. likely changes in laws and regulations. Whenever new legislations are enacted by the department, and advises the relevant department to take measures All employees(including in -company broadcast 3 or existing ones are amended, the Group sends out written notifications thereof when a matter that requires improvement is found. Cyber training) to executives. The Group also updates executives on a monthly basis on various KB Kookmin Bank also surveys its customers on the status of ethical KB Real Estate Trust has set up investment recommendation principles to Internal control officers 1 Customer legal or regulatory developments. management, seeking to learn and identify which issues capture the prevent the occurrence of any mis-selling related to trust contracts in its All employees 39 surveys attention of customers. internal control guidelines. With this, it also conducts investment advertising L0-converted employees 1 Document Increasing ethics education for employees through the compliance officer’s predeliberation and the review of the Korea Department heads, branch managers, and Financial Investment Association. It provides accurate product information 7 KB Kookmin Bank requires vice-managers of its branches to hold at least one internal control officers session of compliance and ethics training for all employees at their respective through the compliance officer’s predeliberation on product guidebooks and branches each month. The Bank distributes necessary textbooks and materials product presentation materials to prevent incomplete explanation and data Prevention of money laundering for such ethics training, and also includes compliance and ethics into the errors related to the provision of product information. KB Capital obtains the report for the prevention of unfair trade practices and Korea Financial Intelligence Unit(KoFIU) evaluates the implementation status of job-related training courses on offer at its Training Center. The company also the transaction statement of financial investment products from executives and the anti-money laundering system in financial institutions every year. As a result provides online ethics training programs that all executives and employees staff members every quarter to prevent the return of short-swing profits and of the 2014 comprehensive assessment, KB Kookmin Bank was able to obtain must complete each year. The branches are also required to organize periodic the illegal use of important undisclosed information. It also conducts one or an excellent grade. This system prevents the money laundering of criminal funds workshops on the illegal and unethical business practices that employees have more training sessions per year. and terrorism financing through the thorough implementation of anti-money experienced or committed, thus encouraging free debates among employees laundering operations on financial transactions such as customer identification on the issues at hand. Management of the Illegal Customer Solicitation Reporting obligations(CDD/EDD), suspicious transaction reports(STRs), and even large Status of KB Ethics and Compliance Training in 2014 currency transaction reports(CTRs). Aside from its development, the Antiand Reward System (Training hours per person: 9.2 hours) money Laundering Work Implementation Indicator is managed to allow selfKB Kookmin Card manages an illegal customer solicitation reporting and reward Category Count inspection on the implementation level of anti-money laundering operations. system to prevent touting, the provision of excessive giveaways, customer Collective training by job grade(L0,L1,L2,L3, branch office 29 KB Investment & Securities carries out the transaction monitoring system(TMS) managers) solicitation of another card company, unregistered customer solicitation, using the suspicious money-laundering transaction analysis system. It detects the Collective training by job grade(internal control officers, PB·VM, customer solicitation for comprehensive cards, etc. It lists the detailed contents accounts considered to have suspicious money-laundering transactions based corporate financial services representatives, local employees of 66 related to illegal customer solicitation on its Web site, and also reports the cases on about 50 relevant regulations. In this process, a reporting officer in a branch overseas branches, and others) that are reported according to the reporting and reward system and resolved as office is to carry out the first inspection, and then it is to be further examined Training for all employees(cyber training and others) 14 illegal practices by the Reward Payment Deliberation Committee of the Financial by a dedicated staff member in the office of compliance support. Moreover, KB Mobile personalized training by department/branch 557 Supervisory Service according to the relevant procedure. Investment & Securities had respectively conducted collective training for the Moreover, it conducts direct-visit training for all branch offices to prevent a employees of the branch office and online training for all executives and staff fall in the reputation of the company resulting from solicitors’ illegal customer members to further reinforce against anti-money laundering. solicitation. It collects illegal customer solicitation cases related to the reporting 26 27 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 03 KB’s Way Today Given the arrival of the information society, ongoing globalization, and the liberalization of financial markets worldwide, we can hardly overemphasize the importance of financial companies and their brands. The emergence of a new type of financial holdings companies thanks to the loosening of government intervention and the accelerated pace of liberalization under the Capital Market Integration Brand Value Act now provide newfound opportunities for financial companies. Financial companies in Korea have thus begun to shed their conservative practices and customs and set out to amass new brand Management assets to attract an ever-increasing number of customers. KB has long been the undisputed leader of financial brands in Korea. The series of recent events, however, has hit the brand severely, causing KB Kookmin Card to lose its first place to Shinhan Card and occupy the second on Brand Stock’s Top Index(BSTI) survey in the first quarter of 2015. In a recent survey by Interbrand on the top 50 brands of Korea, KB barely managed to rise to the third place in the financial category. Striving to fulfill its aspirations toward becoming an international leader of finance, KB Financial Group has much effort to make before regaining its position as the undisputed leader of finance in Korea. Seeking the Right Way KB Financial Group asked 1,015 stakeholders to assess the importance of issues regarding sustainable management. Brand value management’ was selected as the third most important issue among the top 11 issues selected through materiality test, with the issue scored an average of 81.7 points. Internal stakeholders 86.4 A need to enhance KB’s brand image and maintain KB’s brand consistency Brand value Be a friendly and points Integrated brand management at the Group level management External stakeholders Reinforcement of brand value promotion activities 76.9 points warmhearted neighbor. KB’s Way Tomorrow That is what befits KB. Financial companies in Korea are making diverse efforts to innovate their brands and attract consumers’ confidence. Brand marketing may appear to be a short-sighted and lavish tool of captivating consumers. Few, however, can doubt the importance of the brand as a core asset for increasing a given company’s long-term value. Now that its brand has suffered an unprecedented decline in value and stature, KB Financial Group seeks to enhance the healthy and stable image of its brand, rather than resorting to attempts at tricking consumers and capturing their immediate attention with high-profile and sophisticated advertising campaigns. Sang-Gu Ahn(62, self-employed) Key Performance Index Nature of 2015 I run a small shop in Seoul and work hard to raise my family. I have long been a customer and neighbor of KB Kookmin Bank. There is Objectives KPIs 2012 2013 2014 Index Target a branch just around the corner from my house. I carry a KB credit card in my wallet. As a matter of fact, I just recently took out a small Interbrand Best Korea Brand 1st of financial Group sector. Management 1st 2nd 3rd 2nd loan. For me, the brand of a company reveals what that company does and what it sells instantly. It is something that immediately KB Brand Competitiveness Index(%) Management 54.4 54.9 55.5 56 1. Advanced Brand Management Strategy comes to our mind when we think of that company. The yellow in KB’s logotype and brand instantly sets the company apart from other Top-of-mind awareness(%) Management 37.3 26.1 27.1 28 banks that use darker and cooler colors, not because the yellow is anything lavish, but because it strikes me as warm and friendly. The 2. Brand Image Enhancement through Brand value(KRW) Management 2,669 billion 2,615 billion 2,473 billion 2,700 billion Advertising fact that KB Kookmin Bank has been supporting Yuna Kim and other players of unpopular sports for so long even before Yuna Kim 3. Promotion of Long-term Sports Marketing Brand-related external award history(case) Management 225 180 115 150 became the queen of world figure skating, and the fact that the Bank also allowed loans that restricted illegal debt collection practices No.1 in the No.1 in the No.1 in the in today's economic downturn, show me that KB Kookmin Bank is indeed a trustworthy and warmhearted company. Fina nce is not a 4. Promoting the Image of Supporting the A survey on the awareness of the future generation/ Management Best Companies Best Companies Best Companies Maintenance Growth of the Future Generation award winner to Work For list to Work For list to Work For list disposable product. A financial company should be an indispensable and friendly neighbor. 28 29 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 1. Advanced Brand Management Strategy Integrated and Group-wide brand management 2. Brand Image Enhancement through delivery of a consistent brand message to improve the brand image. Under this, it has largely supported rookies with potential, who cry out for support, and refuses Under its brand slogan, Enriching the future of customers, KB Financial Group In an effort to enhance the image of the Group as a specialist of finance and also Advertising to ensure consistency among the brand campaigns of subsidiaries, KB Financial to carry out Star marketing or investment sponsorship in popular sports events has devised a unique system of values, complete with a map of missions, core Group oversees and manages the Group-wide corporate identity(CI) system. With Continuously Running Group Image Advertising that show immediate effects. This policy exemplifies the management philosophy values, and brand identity. the addition of new subsidiaries, including KB Capital, the Group has updated its CI KB Financial Group produced and aired two sports-related TV ad: TV ad with Yuna of KB, You can make your dreams come true if you make an effort to pursue Enriched Future (Brand essence) management guidelines and corrected misuse of CI elements, thus ensuring greater Kim, which carries the message that hope and love are returned to the people them. Yuna Kim, In-Bee Park, and Yeon-Jae Son are the very same rookies that Enriching the future of customers this philosophy has led to discover. In 2006, KB Financial Group decided to provide coherence of brand messages from all its subsidiaries. The Group also makes diverse under the theme Closer to the People, and TV ad with Yeon-jae Son, which With a trustworthy attitude and a respectful heart, we will continue to be your wise partner other efforts to maintain the distinctive elements of its brand, reviewing all the design carries the message that KB will face new challenges for the people with great a long-term sponsorship for Yuna Kim who wanted to make her dream come for finance, introducing you to advanced products and services that will enrich your future. and advertising projects of the subsidiaries and distributing paraphernalia containing hope under the theme A New Challenge. true in spite of the poor training environment she was exposed to and the measly Trust, Respect(Emotional Values) Leadership, Wisdom(Functional Values) consistent brand images such as calendars. Moreover, the Group also released advertisements on papers related to the support she received when she was in high school. The Group has been her cheering campaign of the Korea’s accomplishments at the Sochi 2014 Winter reliable supporter that continues to encourage her in her journey in becoming the Category Content Olympic Games as a way of celebrating their success and establishing its brand figure skating queen over the past ten years. Since then, the Group has succeeded Operation and • Development and distribution of the CI management guide for the image continuously at the same time. It placed a timely print ad related to sports in the internalization of its image on the ice, by supporting So-Youn Park, HaeTrustworthy Confident Friendly Simple Wise management of the transfer of a new subsidiary Group CI system • Collection of CI application error cases at the Group level and their marketing such as an ad for the celebration of the Asian Games and Inbee Park’ Jin Kim, and many members of the national sports team. KB Financial Group’s distribution to subsidiaries efforts in long-term sports marketing can also be found in the case of Yeon-Jae s championship. It has continuously showed the various aspects of the people Establishing a midto long-term strategy for enhancing the Design • Production,  support, and inspection of the design materials of brand through the product ads of subsidiaries. As a result of continuously carrying Son, a rhythmic gymnast. Son has also experienced great difficulties in her sports subsidiaries brand value • Support and inspection of main eventrelated designs in the forward with these group image ads, KB Financial Group received advertising career, especially in 2010—the year that she distinguished herself in the rhythmic Under its slogan, Enriching the future of customers, KB Financial Group strives Group awards such as the grand prize in the Asian Economy Advertising Awards and a gymnastics world—because she could not gather enough funding for her training • Status inspection, planning, production, and management of expenses. Realizing her potential for growth, the Group began to support her in to reestablish its image as the financial institution for the people by exerting various advertisement in the Group bronze prize in the People Advertising Awards in 2014. leadership over the Korean financial market with dedication to the realization her development as an athlete. She then rose beyond expectations by winning the Calendar • Production of consistent 2015 calendars that reflect the differential of people’s dreams and hopes. Under its umbrella strategy of enhancing the gold medal at the 2014 Incheon Asian Games, thus making a great contribution to identity of KB Financial Group brand value of the Group and the Bank first and letting it trickle down to other the enhancement of the brand image pursued by KB. subsidiaries, and also its individual brand strategy of emphasizing the name, KB Brand Competitiveness Index Kookmin, in the names and activities of all the subsidiaries, KB is effectively KB Financial Group continues to perform and manage its KB Brand being reborn into an international leader of Asian finance. Competitiveness Index(BCI) evaluations. The BCI, developed to gauge customers’ perceptions of the brand images and performances of KB 2011~ 2014~ Financial Group and its subsidiaries, helps the Group identify and evaluate its 2017~ competitiveness, fluctuations in transaction rates, changes in financial products 2013 2016 traded, statistics on transactions by channel, and major needs for financial products and services. In 2014, KB Financial Group scored 55.5% on the BCI Preoccupation and Establishment of a A global financial brand formulation of the image of a representative financial leading Asian finance evaluation, 0.6 percentage points up from the previous year and retaining its leading financial group image based on people first place position among financial groups in Korea. KB Financial Group will Hosting a College Student Advertising Competition With the birth of the new leadership and the anticipated changes in the continue to perform the BCI evaluations and monitor their outcomes as part of Since 2008, KB Kookmin Bank has hosted a college student advertising business environment resulting from the merger and acquisition of LIG its systematic efforts to enhance the competitiveness of its brand. competition as an avenue for college students to apply their distinctive ideas Insurance and other such developments, KB Financial Group has decided that it to creative ads. All students attending or taking a temporary leave of absence needed to redesign its brand strategy. The reconstruction and internalization of from twoor four-year colleges(including graduate schools) can participate in the brand and its values will therefore be a major objective of the management No. 1 Bank in the Best Korea Brands 2015 this competition, selecting the sector that they want among print, TV, and storyIn the Best Korea Brands 2015, a survey launched by the international brand in 2015 and also the center of the Group’s brand refinement project. The telling. With this, it hosted the 7th KB Kookmin Bank College Student Advertising evaluation agency, Interbrand, KB Kookmin Bank was named the no. 1 bank and Group continues to advertise and share its core values through consistent also the 10th best brand across all industries, with a brand value of KRW 2.4731 trillion. Competition under the theme Corporate PR, music star, and all products and Intensive Support for Winter Sports image marketing campaigns. In true commitment to the cause of enriching the services of KB Kookmin Bank and selected a total of 28 teams. KB Financial Group intensively supports players in winter sports events, which are future of customers, the Group supports diverse public interest campaigns and thought of as unpopular sports in Korea. Public interest and financial investment No. 1 Financial Company in the Top-of-Mind Survey also talented professional and aspiring athletes. The Group, moreover, continues in winter sports are lacking in Korea. Thus, it is quite important to provide players to broadcast its core management strategy and diverse activities via various KB Kookmin Bank emerged as the undisputed No.1 in the Top-of-Mind Survey on 3. Promotion of Long-term Sports Marketing Financial Companies in 2014. with the opportunity and environment in which they can be devoted to exercises online and off-line channels, thus consolidating its image as a genuine and * A top-of-mind brand is the first brand that consumers associate with a given category of products KB Financial Group has set up a long-term sponsorship scheme as its basic for their development in such sports. KB Financial Group began sponsoring winter or services. trustworthy leader of finance in Korea. direction to provide substantial support through sports marketing. It focuses on the sports by first supporting Yuna Kim, a rising figure skating star in 2006. To show 30 31 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 strong support to Yuna Kim in her journey over the past ten years to become the Curling Championship in just the first year of KB’s sponsorship. It won a silver 4. Promoting the Image of Supporting the and the restoration of the national independence on the Korea Peninsula in 2015. figure skating queen, KB Financial Group has presented her with a sponsorship medal at the 2013 Winter Universiade and fought well at the 2014 Sochi Winter KB Kookmin Bank will provide support for all travel expenses. Growth of the Future Generation contract together with an advertising model contract. Kim created history when Olympic Games. she received the first gold medal in the Korean figure skating world at the In addition, KB Financial Group has recently made the decision to support the KB Financial Group regards adolescents and college students, people leading Creative Children’s Story Competition Vancouver 2010 Olympic Games. She also made a great finale in her figure national bobsled—skeleton national team to promote the bobsled—skeleton the next generation, as the main potential customers of KB, and supports them KB Kookmin Bank hosted The 6th KB Creative Children’s Story Competition skating career, showing a perfect performance befitting her fame as the figure event as a way to help players succeed at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympic through various programs so that they can properly grow and pursue their in March 2015. The KB Creative Children’s Story Competition has been held skating queen at the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympic Games—her retirement stage. Games. This includes supporting their participation in international competitions, dreams. since 2010 to select stories that will be included in Children’s Stories Are My Accordingly, KB Financial Group was able to secure its image as a supporter of domestic and international off-season training, hiring of foreign professional Friends, a creative children’s storybook with a 24-year history. Prize money, the growth of the next generation. In addition to Yuna Kim, So-Youn Park and leaders, the purchase and management of equipment, and so on up to 2018— KB Rock Star Talk Concert a total of KRW 20 million, is given to prize winners with a certificate of award: Hae-Jin Kim have come together with KB Financial Group. In particular, Haethe year in which the Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games is to be held. KB Kookmin Bank held the KB Rock Star Talk Concert for young people in their a grand prize(1 person): KRW 5 million; Best Award(1 person): KRW 3 million; Jin Kim, who is younger than Yuna Kim, is expected to be with KB at the moment 20s and 30s in the Grand Theater, COEX Auditorium, in September 2014. Yuna Excellence Award(2 people): KRW 1.5 million each; Participation Award(4 people): she wins a medal at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games based on her An Increase in the Effects of PR Activities through Golf Kim, an advertising model for KB Financial Group, Seung-Gi Lee, a singer, and KRW 1 million each; and Honorable Mentions(10 people): KRW 0.5 million each. performance at the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympic Games. Furthermore, Sang-Hwa Sponsorship Richard Yongjae O’Neill, a violist, appeared in the event, which was held to deliver Stories awarded the Participation Award or higher will be featured in Children's Lee, in speed skating, and Suk-Hee Shim, in short track speed skating, won gold KB Financial Group has pursued golf marketing in earnest by sponsoring Inthe right values of the financial institution and fulfill its social responsibility as KB Stories Are My Friends, and this will be distributed to elementary schools, medals at the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympic Games with the support of KB. Bee Park since 2013. It hosts the KB Financial Group STAR Championship and Financial Group. They delivered financial messages under three themes: hope, libraries, and village libraries free of charge. Beyond the world of figure skating and short track speed skating, KB Financial Women’s Amateur Golf Tournament anually and has supported domestic and sharing, and sympathy. Group has supported the members of the national curling team, which has a international players, such as Song-Yi Ahn, Ji-Hyun Oh, and Sandra Gal, as well relatively low public awareness. It has officially supported the national curling as In-Bee Park, the representative golfer of Korea. team and the Korea Curling Championship, a selection contest for the national In particular, In-Bee Park was able to win three championship tournaments on team since 2012. Curling is highly favored as a popular sport enjoyed by men the LPGA tour, such as the Wegmans LPGA Championship in 2014, and had and women of all ages in foreign countries. However, it is an unpopular event in already conquered two tournaments in the first half of 2015. With this, the name Korea because of its unfamiliar game method and Korea’s shortage of fields. The of KB Financial Group spread around the world via TV, newspapers, magazines, number of registered players is less than 700, which is 0.0004% of 2 million and Internet media whenever In-Bee Park lifted the trophy. Her impact on KB’s registered players in Canada where curling is a national sport. KB Financial Group public relations was estimated to be worth billions of won. entered the sponsorship contract with the women’s national curling team in February 2012. The team has rapidly achieved good results following the signing of the sponsorship contract. It reached the semifinals at the World Women’s KB Rock Star Challenge No. 1 in the Best Companies to Work For list produced by KB Kookmin Bank runs the KB Rock Star Challenge in which customers in college students their 20s and 30s can cultivate their spirit of challenge through a global cultural KB Kookmin Bank was selected as the best bank/financial institution on the experience and share their passions through encounters with different people. Best Companies to Work For list made as a result of the 2014 College Students Awareness Survey for 1,906 college students. A total of 22.7% of respondents Since its establishment, the program has supported young Koreans traveling selected KB Kookmin Bank as the bank with the highest job preference, the highest around the world and informing others about Korean culture(first period: Mongolia social contribution, and the highest customer satisfaction, winning a triple crown for four and Nepal; second: Kenya and New Zealand; third: Eastern Europe: fourth: India consecutive years. and Antarctica; fifth: Switzerland and Australia; and sixth: Turkey and Greece). The team plans to leave for Germany, the country where the history of the division and No. 1 on the list of the Best CEO to Be Emulated by College Students Foster Various Unpopular Sports and Players reunification is preserved, in celebration of the 70th anniversary of the division Jong Kyoo Yoon of KB Financial Group was jointly selected for first place in the list of the KB Financial Group supports various sports and athletes beyond winter Best CEOs to Be Emulated by College Students in the financial business sector, released sports, golf, and tournaments. Since 2009, the Group has supported rhythmic as a result of the survey Campus Job and Joy for 1,000 college students in April 2015. gymnastics athletes like Yeon-Jae Son in her growth and the Korea Rhythmic CEO Yoon has attracted attention through his field-oriented customer management such as meetings with customers as his first order of business, and the creation of an online Gymnastics Association. As a result, she won a gold medal at the 2014 Asian communication channel, A Conversation with the CEO, since he took office in November Games, which was a first for a Korean national. In addition, KB Kookmin Bank has 2014. Through this management policy, KB Financial Group increased its performance and been a supporter of the Baduk League, the Women’s Korean Basketball League, was able to redraw its positive image in five months since KB Financial Scandal that was and Anyang FC, and has finalized a sponsorship contract with swimmer Ho-Joon internal dispute over a computer system change. Lee, who dreams of becoming as successful as Tae-Hwan Park.. 32 33 Please tell us the truth. 04 KB’s Way Today Honesty is the foundation Since 2000, there has been growing demand for an integrated, Group-wide risk management system at KB Financial Group in response to the changing factors of risks and the growing need to ensure more efficient management of capital. With the Financial Supervision Service releasing its Guidelines of a good partnership. on Integrated Risks Management in 2012, requiring the Boards of Directors at financial holding Advancement companies to assemble risk management committees and appoint chief officers of risk management, financial companies in Korea have been making various efforts to establish and expand their integrated of risk risk management systems and capabilities. In particular, as the Third Basel Accord(Basel III), a new regulatory framework that enforces risk management not only at banks and credit card companies, management but also at other related financial companies providing stock trading, insurance, savings banking, and capital services, is to take effect in January 2016, an increasing number of financial holding companies worldwide are making preparations for the new regulatory regime. Risk management is increasingly perceived as an issue rife with not only economic implications, but also social and environmental ones. Seeking the Right Way KB Financial Group asked 1,015 stakeholders to assess the importance of issues regarding sustainable management. Advancement of risk management’ was selected as the fourth most important issue among the top 11 issues selected through materiality test: the issue scored an average of 80.7 points. Internal stakeholders 82.5 Need for Group-wide Comprehensive Risk Management System Advancement points Basel III to be launched in January 2016 of risk External stakeholders 78.8 management Risk perspective expanded to society and environment points KB’s Way Tomorrow According to the Guidelines on Integrated Risk Management, KB Financial Group has reorganized its Group-wide integrated risk management system. The Group has organized a new team specializing in risk management and appointed chief officers responsible for Group-wide risk management at individual subsidiaries to ensure effective management and analysis of various risk factors. The Group, moreover, strives to establish a new culture of risk management, developing and updating related strategies, running monitoring and inspection systems, and providing education and incentives. Approaching risk management from five main perspectives—Policy/ Limits, Regulations, Institutions/Processes, Asset Quality, and Management System—the Group continues to identify and prepare against all the possible risks that may affect the Group and the individual subsidiaries. The success or failure of risk management, however, is ultimately a matter of specific crises and incidents rather than of day-to-day efforts. That is why we stay on guard 24/7, anticipating and preventing all imaginable risks. Jeong-Yeon Kim(21, student) With less experience, I am not much aware of the business world, so I wondered for days whether I had any qualifications to speak Key Performance Index about the risks facing KB today. After days of thinking and wondering, however, I came to the conclusion that the risks of KB are my Nature of 2015 risks. If I buy a product and it came to me broken, I can request a refund or exchange. If I go to a restaurant and the food I got tast es Objectives KPIs 2012 2013 2014 Index Target funny, I can also request that the restaurant cook another dish for me. With financial products and services, things are not that simple. Number of risk management meetings across the Group Management 6 5 5 6 Eventually, we consumers may receive damages for the losses we suffer, but we are forced to undergo immediate financial losses and 1. Expansion of Risk Management Infrastructure Ratio of subsidiaries with teams dedicated to risk Infrastructure 81.8 81.8 81.8 Over 90% confusion along with financial institutions themselves, and even to bear part of the responsibility for the consequences. I think KB management(%) should take this fact into account and manage its risks differently. When a crisis occurs, the company should think of customers not Ratio of subsidiaries with complete risk management 2. Enhancement of Preemptive Risk Management Infrastructure 72.7 81.8 100 as objects to be controlled, but as partners to be consulted. KB should inform its customers first of any crisis that has occurred and guidelines(%) honestly tell them the amount of burden they are to share. Customers will respond to this as partners, and the partnership between 3. Spreding the Risk Management Culture Number of employees who completed the risk expert training Infrastructure 18 4 126 150 course(employees) KB and customers will have grown firmer and stronger after the crisis is solved. 34 35 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 1. Expansion of Risk Management the adequacy of the risk management policies and systems. The Committee by implementing the project to reconstruct the strategic operation solution. 5 Risk Management Activities consists of two external directors and one internal director for independent risk Since 2009, KB Investment & Securities has been operating the Risk Management Infrastructure Policy/Limit • Set risk limits for each subsidiary to ensure balanced growth of its management. The chairman of the committee is appointed among the external Computer System to ensure effective risk management. The System consists of assets Building Risk Management Systems at Subsidiaries directors with expertise in relevant areas. The Committee operates the Risk the Market, Credit, Liquidity, and Operation Risk Management Systems, capable • Determine the risk appetite(RA) that matches the Group’s management strategies to manage its capital adequacy Recovery of the global economy and the government’s efforts to boost Management Council presided by the CRO as a working-level organization. In of measuring the volume of risks across the enterprise and within each book on Response to •R  espond to the Financial Supervisory Service’s Basel II·III capital domestic demand are expected to result in a somewhat improved management addition, Risk Management Councils are set up and operated for each type of a daily basis, and monitoring limit management. The Risk Management Team Regulations regulation environment both in and outside South Korea. Potential risks inherent in the South risk management to promote and improve expertise in the relevant areas. In employs computer system experts to operate its Risk Management System, and Stage 1: Build the Group RDM and RWA calculation system addition, the CRO supervises the Risk Management Department, the Credit Risk Stage 2: Build the management system for the Group’s internal model Korean economy and others, and the side effects from the relevant policies, may improves the system on a regular basis to test the valuation of various financial Stage 3: Build the Group-wide corporate credit rating system(in progress) threaten the soundness of financial institutions, which puts more significance to Management, and the Credit Supervision Department, which employ 120 experts products, measure risks, and carry out limit management. Recent efforts include System/ • Improve the credit rating model and refine the population parameters risk management as a means of minimizing such threats. With this, KB Financial to carry out their duties. improvement of the Risk Management System and acquisition of the full license Process for risk measurement Group built an enterprise-wise risk management system to create a workingSubsidiary Risk Group Risk Mgmt. for external derivative investment and sales from the Financial Supervisory • Improve the measurement criteria for insolvency rate related to bank Subsidiary CEO Group CEO retail exposure level risk management culture that upholds fundamentals and principles, and Mgmt. team Committee Commission. • Improve the individual card user credit rating model implements comprehensive risk management monitoring across the Group. Asset Group Risk Mgmt. •D  efine/manage the target ratio of asset integrity Group BoD Through preemptive operation of this risk management system to prepare itself Committee Integrity • Optimize the postmanagement process for nonperforming debts against the inflow of subprime assets during economic recovery and asset • Reestablish the credit policies for household portfolios and manage industrial portfolios refinement policies growth, as well as growth concentrated around high-risk sectors, the Group will Management • Build and consolidate risk management systems in new subsidiaries continue to improve the quality of its group portfolios. Improvement of Risk Management System 2. Enhancement of Preemptive Risk system • Standardize and specialize risk management in each financial region KB Kookmin Bank promoted the preemptive management of increased Creating a Working-level Risk Management Culture that operational risk and meaningful support for management activities focused Management Upholds Fundamentals and Principles on actual businesses through its projects aimed at improving its operational Expansion of Group-level Risk Management Establish the Group’s Risk Management Guidelines for Each Enhance risk risk management system. The Bank derived potential operational risks and Subsidiary management Sophisticate risk Systematically respond Build a Group-wide KB Financial Group defined the types of risks that it faces and set up the Group’s established a plan to manage the risks, redefined the requirements under capabilities to management for the to stronger financial corporate credit rating five risk management activities, mainly Policy/Limit, Response to Regulations, KB Financial Group established risk management guidelines for each subsidiary, consolidate a foundation high-risk asset group regulations system(in progress) the Korean Risk Index(KRI), and improved the module for operational risk for future growth System/Process, Asset Integrity, and Management System, establishing and which is managed by a specific team, based on the subsidiary’s characteristics. management. The computer system will begin in 2015, and actual application implementing detailed plans for each activity per year. In 2014, the Group · Build a preemptive risk · Improve the risk · Build a management · Preemptively respond to is scheduled in 2016. A series of financial incidents, including the information management system management system system for Basel Ⅲ additional regulations of established risk management policies and limits, stabilized the Group’s asset for the new growth of for high-risk asset internal model of the Basel Ⅲ leakage from credit card companies in 2014, showed us that financial incidents Group's Risk Management Guidelines of 2015 for Each Subsidiary subsidiaries management Group integrity indicators, refined its risk management system, and built a management · Improve the are capable of destroying a company’s value. Under this recognition, the Bank · Enhance the risk · Enhance the credit loss management system system for the internal model in preparation for capital regulation under Basel II/ management system management system for regulation rates in enhanced its full-time monitoring system against increased reputation risk, Subsidiary Guideline Risk Type for overseas/substitute investment for the Group’s loan portfolios each business sector, and improve the III. In particular, in response to the extension of the current low growth and the including the development of a uniform reputation risk index and reporting to the KB Kookmin • Enhanced loan management considering Credit Risk · Expand the risk · Carry out extensive infrastructure increased instability within the global financial market, the Group made efforts management culture, management to Risk Management Council in case of an issue. Furthermore, with the need for Bank the borrowers’ ability to repay management and improve the ensure healthier to improve the quality of the Group’s portfolio and consolidate its enterprise risk system for system/credit loss expertise of risk small/medium-sized system improvement increased by the changes in the regulatory environment management experts corporations management system. These activities improved the overall level of the Group’s KB Kookmin • Enhanced management of financial asset Credit Risk · Improve the and the criteria for approval by the supervising agencies after the launch of the Card organizational risk management, while improving the Group’s overall management quality. integrity, and improvement of the recovery constitution to regain Basel System in 2006, the Bank improved its insolvency and recovery data and rate of delinquent debts the trust of our customers constructed the process for reviewing the recovery sources, thereby reestimating • Reinforced standard for handling of card Definition of Risk Types financial assets LGD/CCF and carrying out projects to assist with Group Basel II/III adoption. Credit Risk The risk of loss from the asset portfolio because of the other party’s failure KB Investment & • Enhanced preemptive risk management to Market/Credit Risk The Bank is currently making efforts to have the related models approved to perform its obligations or the contract or undermined credit rating Securities/ prepare the Group for a diversified business Enhancement of Risk Management Organization by the supervision agencies. In addition, the Bank completed the project for KB Life Insurance Market Risk The risk of loss from the trading position because of changes in market structure and expanded substitute investment KB Financial Group ensured that all subsidiaries implement consistent risk measurement of assets with aggravated risks to reconstruct the systems related factors such as interest rates, stock prices, and exchange rates KB Asset • Enhanced risk management system related Operational Risk management policies by expanding the authorities of KB Financial Group’s chief to the improved measurement of assets with aggravated risks. Interest Rate The risk of possible decrease in net interest income or net asset value Management to management of substitute fund risk officer(CRO) on the risk management performance of each subsidiary. Risk caused by adverse changes in the market interest rate KB Capital/ • Establishment of asset management system Credit Risk KB Kookmin Card constructed the system and management structure for the Liquidity The risk of loss because of fund insufficiency caused by the discrepancy KB Savings Bank Enhanced preemptive management system KB Kookmin Bank operates the Risk Management Committee, a subcommittee adoption of the Group Basel II/III Capital Regulation System. In relation to the Risk between the procurement and operation of funds or unexpected KB Real Estate • Enhanced management system for Credit/Concentration under the Board of Directors. The Committee is delegated by the Board of adoption, the company constructed a credit and operational risk management Trust Risk expenditure, or the procurement at a higher interest rate or unfavorable concentration risk to distribute business Directors to control the risks incidental to the Bank’s business activities. To be system, developed its own corporate credit rating model, and validated the said sales of assets to resolve fund insufficiency risks specific, the Committee’s duties include: policy establishment, determination model. In addition, the company built the dashboard for major indicators to Operational The risk of loss caused by an inappropriate or wrong internal procedure, KB Investment • Distinguished risk management suited to the Operational Risk of the level of risk taking, determination of the risk limit, and supervision of Risk personnel, system, or accident outside the organization purpose of investment ensure timely risk monitoring, while reducing costs and improving work efficiency 36 37 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 3. Spreading the Risk Management Culture Increase of Risk Management Training Special Report KB’s Emerging Risk Management Risk management departments of KB Financial Group’s subsidiaries establish and implement annual training plans on risk management contents and major issues for managers and executives/employees of relevant departments. The What Is an Emerging Risk? that the concern regarding the insolvency of housing loans is more likely revolving Group operates voluntary collective learning and workshops under the Community An emerging risk is a long-term potential risk that could have a material around the high-risk group(high-LTV, person with low credit, multiple debtor, of Practice(CoP) program for credit/market risk managers in each subsidiary. In influence on the company’s future business, and is defined as a risk that does etc.), which sensitively reacts to the persisting economic conditions rather than addition, each subsidiary trains all of its employees with focus on the principles of not currently exist according to the definition of Standard & Poor’s(S&P). This is the general problem in the housing sector, the risk in the high-risk group in the risk management. a different concept from the emerging risk usually managed in the investment housing sector is anticipatively being managed through restraining new influx sector. Companies are managing this type of risk from five perspectives, which or soft landing, monitoring, and risk management reinforcement measures. Reflection in Performance Evaluation includes geopolitical, social, economic, technical, and environmental. Examples Moreover, since 2011, an intensive analysis of potential risks in the housing The Group’s Risk Management Department identifies risk management of emerging risks in the geopolitical aspect include increasing international sector and anticipative risk management measures were carried out through improvements through annual subsidiary risk management evaluation, terrorism, increased weapons of mass destruction, instability in the Middle East, the operation of the Group Housing Portfolio Risk Management Council, and and requires each subsidiary to create and implement improvement plans. etc. The emerging risks in the social field include infectious diseases, economic related issues, such as key risk index in the housing sector, etc., are being shared Performance of these duties are evaluated, and the results are reflected in inequality, a rapid change in demographic patterns, etc. The risks in the technical through this council that was held for a total of six times in 2014. Feedback on evaluation of the subsidiary’s chief risk officer evaluation. field include a blackout situation of telecommunications—infra and Internet, plans are also being sought. In addition, through the crisis scenario test assuming weakness of cloud computing, cyber war and issues on industrial espionage, the sharp decline of domestic housing prices, the expected loss size by each risk emergence of new technology and related risks, etc. Environmental risks, on the type and the influence of the profits and losses for the term are analyzed, the Incorporation of Risk Areas into Business Tasks other hand, refer to climate change, natural disasters, depletion of oil reserves, results thereof are being reported to the risk management committee, and the KB Financial Group incorporates risk areas into performance of tasks, such as industrial pollution, loss of biological diversity, etc. management decision is being supported. product development, to spread the culture of risk management to everyday duties. Each subsidiary preemptively controls the risks pertaining to product Emerging Risk 2 Low Growth Risk The Emerging Risks in Finance development and approval process by acquiring approval from the Risk As the low economic growth rate continues, high-risk assets, such as marginal The emerging risks that influence the financial industry mostly pertain to the risks companies, etc., are increasing, which hence increases the credit cost and has a Management Committee, etc., or exercise of the powers of the CRO or the head in terms of an economic perspective and includes oil price shock, suspension negative influence on the capital adequacy of the bank. To this end, KB Financial of the Risk Management Department at the Product Committee. In addition, of energy supply, instability of the world economy, financial risks caused by Group established an action plan that involves setting up a timely response as for significant new products and businesses, the Group insures consistent demographic changes, variability of asset pricing and commodity market, system for high-risk issue industries and setting the industrial risk stage for highimplementation of its asset management policies through prior consultation with fluctuations in the exchange rate, etc. Specifically, the management of emerging risk assets through the Credit Risk Management Executive Council(team leader, the Risk Management Department of the holding company. Approval of new risks includes the management of loans by companies who experienced the US new) and confirmed an action plan through an Industry Portfolio Management products and new businesses are determined based on the quantifiability of risks subprime mortgage situation in 2008 by being prepared for the fact that the real Council(head of the department). KB Bank is also comprehensively managing the thereof. New products or businesses expected to cause unquantifiable risks are estate market could yield an unexpected result in an unforeseen way. industry portfolio risks, and has established Credit Portfolio Management(CPM) and not approved. the management limit of total exposure that reflects the credit policy. It has also set KB Financial Group’s Efforts in Management the sublimit of high-risk industries and implemented the new handling standard. KB Financial Group is strengthening its anticipative risk management by identifying the emerging risk that could have the most material influence on future businesses, and responding to it immediately. Emerging Risk of Influencing the Potential Business Plans to Reduce the Risk Risk Emerging Risk 1 Possibility of Insolvency of Housing Loans Possible Expansion of KB’s major business • Restraining  a new influx of highThe risk stipulated as the most material risk that could influence the entire Group insolvency sectors, such as housing mortgage loan, risk group and monitoring the softof housing credit loan, SOHO loan, card financing, landing by KB Financial Group is the possible insolvency of housing loans and the risk loans car financing, in the housing sector, etc., • Operating  a Group Housing Portfolio of low growth. As the economic recession continues, much attention is given because of the domestic and foreign Risk Management Council toward the possible insolvency of housing loans, and the insolvency of KB’s recession of the real economy • Crisis  scenario test such as sharp decline of domestic housing prices, etc. major business sectors, such as housing mortgage loan, credit loan, SOHO loan, Low growth High-risk assets, such as marginal • Establishing  a timely response card financing, car financing, etc., are expected to expand with the potential risk companies, etc, increase the credit cost system for high-risk industries recession of the domestic and foreign real economy, etc. As it has been judged and negatively influence the capital • Comprehensive  management of adequacy of the Bank industry portfolio risks 38 39 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 05 1. Expanding Financial Consumer Protection has taken the measure of the competent department monitoring in advance the areas in need of improvement by selectively forging agreements when it needs to make important rulings on items related to consumers. Operating an organization dedicated to consumer protection With the newly established Financial Consumer Protection Center of KB Kookmin Bank, it has created a process to Operating a Complaint e-System strengthen financial consumer protection. In addition to the enhancement of advance surveillance and monitoring KB Capital has built and is operating a complaint e-system to speedily process complaints in addition to regularly through collaboration on tasks with the relevant departments, it has also consolidated consumer protection Strengththroughout the entire process of product development–sales–follow-up management. Furthermore, it operates providing training on how to prevent complaints. It has established complaints evaluation standards for the follow-up monitoring and assessments. By assigning KPI points with it, it is to actively reflect in its sales activities. In 2014, 112 ening the Financial Consumer Protection Council, which was held a total of three times in 2014, to provide unbiased external complaints and 226 internal were submitted, recording 20% and 36% drop year-on-year, respectively. processing and prevention of consumer complaints as well as unobstructed decision-making. Similarly, the Customer Consumer Damage Compensation Committee has been established and is operated to furnish fair processing of financial inquiries submitted for fixed-value damage compensations and to make reasonable reimbursements. 2. Providing Customer-centric Products and Services Satisfaction Improving Consumer Protection System Participation of External Stakeholders in Product Development ManageKB Kookmin Card is identifying tasks for improvement through various channels, such as complaints submitted to the Financial Supervisory Service, Customer Support Center/Internet VOC, employees’ ideas, and monitoring. KB Kookmin Bank has external stakeholders, such as external experts, as well as representatives of government ment Accordingly, it files official written requests to the relevant departments to improve the system on a monthly basis. agencies and local communities, personally participate in its product development in order to launch products These departments then draw up a plan and deliver it to the Consumer Protection Department. Thereafter, the that meet customer needs. On August 2014, it launched the TCB Credit Loan based on the KB Technology progress status is regularly checked once a month to allot additional key performance indicator(KPI) points, and Guarantee Fund Agreement forged with the Korea Technology Finance Corporation to support SMEs with superior rewards are given when remarkable improvements are shown in the applicable tasks. technologies. Then, in February 2015, it launched the Micro-Enterprise Market Promotion Fund(policy fund) in order to support micro-enterprises and mom-and-pop shopping districts. Workflow for Improving the Consumer Protection System External Stakeholder participation project for product development Selecting the target to Requesting Checking and improve and drawing Classification Stakeholders Product for participation and development Submission path improvement review confirming up measures for and feedback improvement improvement External experts Professor Nan-Do Kim, Literature Village KB Love Your Wife account Government/ National Pension Service 1. KB National Pension Security Account Complaints from external Checking the process made for Selecting the department to (complaints submitted to the Financial Analyzing root causes implement improvement each task Local community Korea Workers’ Compensation and Welfare Service 2. KB Kookmin Keep Hope Account Supervisory Service) (once a month) Ministry of Health and Welfare 3. KB Kookmin Keep Happiness Account Analyzing whether the reason for Complaints submitted to the Reviewing the validity of Sending action copies for suspending the pursuit of a task is Teacher’s Pension 4. KB Private School Pension Lifetime Security Account Consumer Protection Department (e-complaints, visits, written, etc.) improvement improvement review valid when the pursuit of the task Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning 5. KB Creative Finance Savings/Deposit has been suspended. When the improvement is not The Armed Forces Financial Management Corps 6. KB Kookmin Premium Savings(for Narasarang Complaints submitted to the Selecting the target for Deliberating in advance when sufficiently valid, requesting cardholders or enlisted soldiers) Customer Support Center improvement necessary again of recommendation for improvement 7. KB Army Preferential Savings(for officers) Replying back on whether the 8. KB Army Hope Preparation Savings Consulting for establishing Drawing up items to request/ improvements have been pursued Encouraging the pursuit of tasks customer satisfaction strategies measures for improvement and establishing a plan for their not fully pursued The Special Tax Treatment Control Law 9. KB Kookmin Asset Building Savings/with a fixed interest pursuit(relevant department) rate(Deposits Dept.) Reports of external customer satisfaction evaluation results, Analyzing whether reasons Consolidating basic materials on Korea Technology Finance Corporation 10. TCB Credit Loan based on the KB Technology such as the National Customer for not having pursued completed tasks Satisfaction Index(NCSI) certain projects are valid Guarantee Fund Agreement Endowing additional KPI points Small Enterprise and Market Service 11. Small traders and enterprisers promotion fund Consumer Protection Department’s Requesting and and rewarding when excellent own monitoring recommending again improvement tasks have been improvements when the reasons for not having completed Convenient Financial Transactions for Expats pursued certain projects are Opinions on improving the system submitted by branch offices not sufficiently valid (When necessary)Developing additional tasks for improvement KB Kookmin Bank operates special branch offices for expats that provide a variety of convenient facilities, are equipped with employees fluent in non-Korean languages, have a special window layout, and operate at flexible hours on (When necessary)Internally sharing Others(error clear, etc.) of excellent improvement task weekdays and on holidays, so that expats residing for an extended period in Korea or employed in Korea may conveniently best practices use its financial services, such as foreign exchange/wiring and currency exchange. It has operated three such offices in Wongok-dong, Ojang-dong, and Gimhae since December 2011, and it plans to enhance its support for expats. Executing System of Advance Agreement for Consumer Protection KB Kookmin Bank introduced the Advance Agreement for Consumer Protection system in July 2013 according to Operating After Bank the Model Criteria for Financial Consumer Protection. The system entails each headquarters department checking As a branch office that operates after working hours in order to expand customer access to financial services, After in advance all kinds of tasks, such as the establishment of marketing policies and development of new products Bank provides specialized services through its customer convenience enhancing facilities such as its consultationinside the bank from a financial consumer protection viewpoint and correcting problematic areas. In addition, it KB starbaning mini main screen based design layout. As of the end of 2014, it operated five such offices, including the one in Gasan Lions Bells. 40 41 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Launching the KB Star Banking Mini The panels deliberate with relevant departments in the headquarters, thereby providing the customers with the KB Kookmin Bank launched KB Star Banking Mini on October 21, 2014, whose focus is to provide fast opportunity to participate in the bank’s management. KB Kookmin Bank checks its products/services/programs and simple transactions such as balance checks and wire transfers. Designed to actively increase customer from a customer’s viewpoint by making use of the KB Tribunal System. convenience, KB Star Banking Mini consists of optimized menus such as a certifying center, a security center, Operating the KB Customer Advisory Panel an information center, and a banking setting function.In addition, it enables smooth and safe banking transactions KB Kookmin Bank gathered 4,607 customers for the third KB Customer Advisory Panel in 2014 and conducted a survey and its UIis app-accessible so that even people with disabilities may easily use its services. In particular, it has a for a total of 4 times on measures to reinforce product competitiveness. After conducting the survey, it reflected the shortcut transfer service that saves information on frequent wire transfers, enabling fast and convenient transfers. results(contributions linked to products) of customer reactions to additional service and launched a social contribution Also, it checks all images and statements that customers have personally designated on all transaction screens product that involves the customers(KB Love Sharing Installment Savings) to promulgate the sharing culture. for personalized phishing preventing image feature that can distinguish phishing apps. It thus ensures both convenient and secure banking services. Operating the Expat Customer Advisory Panel Number of Online Users KB Kookmin Bank conducts a survey twice a year on the themes of reasons for selecting a bank for wage transfer (Unit: person) and preferred additional service and preferred services for foreign exchange use in 2014, targeting the KB Expat Sector 2012 2013 2014 Customer Advisory Panel, which consisted of 225 customers from 29 countries. During the process of gathering Internet Banking 16,632,244 18,058,223 19,065,495 customers panels for 2015, 30% of expat customer panels in 2014 joined again that showed high customer Mobile Banking 4,116,281 3,928,672 3,868,572 satisfaction from them. In addition, the Bank was able to grasp the need for a departure guarantee insurance claim Smartphone Banking 5,460,955 8,002,176 9,484,234 settlement service for foreign workers through the survey question asking the use of foreign exchange services. Phone Banking 4,766,251 4,870,204 4,914,616 It thus successfully launched the relevant service. The Bank now provides Internet banking services in multiple languages so that expat customers may conveniently use the bank’s services. In addition, it expanded the contents Opening of KB Portable Branch and form types in multiple languages, as well as now supports ATM services in 10 languages, thereby enhancing KB Kookmin Bank launched Portable Branch in August 2014, which will open a new chapter of outbound sales. the financial transaction convenience of expat customers. If Internet banking or mobile banking services mutually supplemented the existing off-line tasks, then the KB Portable Branch is highly meaningful in that it perfectly provides the hitherto off-line banking services in spaces outside its branch offices. It means the KB Portable Branch has terminals that bank employees used to operate while working at a bank.Therefore, regardless the place where customers are, they canexperience real-time 4. Achievements of Customer Satisfaction Activities banking services, such as opening a bank account, e-finance, and creating debit cards. In 2015, it plans to adopt more devices. Improved the Customer Satisfaction Survey KB Kookmin Bank improved the Customer Satisfaction Index(CSI) survey into an evaluation(setting targets and relatively evaluating branch offices) and compensation-centered survey(rewarding, experience-based training, 3. Enhancement of Customer Communication etc.). The switch into an on-the-spot/autonomous customer satisfaction index has enabled efficient analysis, and 4th RockStar Blogger iits results are now used for preparing guidelines to improve customer satisfaction. Expanding Channels for the Submission of Customer Dissatisfaction Complaints and The Branch CSI Survey Result Expediting Their Processing KB Kookmin Bank improved its telephone/Internet complaint e-system and process for proactive and speedy 2012 2013 2014 responses to complaints submitted through various channels. It has increased employees responsible for the The Branch CSI Survey point 93.76 points 94.56 points telephone submission channel and provided regular training for job competency. Also, it had the competent [2014 new] Suitability(Full 4 points) departments connected to complaints directly investigate and register the results for real-time analyses of comprehensive evaluation for deputy Deputy branch manager’s VOC gathering branch managers and fulfillment(Full 6 points) complaints and system improvement. In the case of Internet VOC, the bank is taking measures so that it may PR supporters Campus Star the 9th Start-up →10 points assigned → Total full 10 points speedily provide replies to customers within 18 working hours. KB Kookmin Card also operates the Customer Counseling Center on its Web site so that customers may submit their complaints in real time. Replies to the Selected as an Outstanding Call Center for 10 Consecutive Years complaints are provided within 72 hours. KB Life Insurance has been selected as an Outstanding Call Center in the industry sector of the 2015 at 12th Korea Introducing the KB Tribunal System Service Quality Index(KSQI), which has been organized by the Korea Management Association Consultants(KMAC) KB Kookmin Bank selected 10 tribunes in April 2014, and operates the KB Tribunal System to check the bank’s for 10 consecutive years.(KB 94 points, business average 91 points). This could be achieved by immense efforts to products/services/systems/processes from a customer viewpoint and improve them together with its customers. enhance customer satisfaction through the diagnosis from review of their call recordings by call center counselors, The system has customer panels directly express their opinions on how to improve problems that they have drawn draw-up improvement by evaluation, enhancing the provision of 1:1 feedback to counselors, and improving individual 2nd Customer panel Startup up based on their personal experiences using a variety of bank channels that come into contact with customers. KB Life Insurance KSQI Best Call Center for ten consecutive years counselors’ service quality based on follow-up checking of results. 42 43 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 06 Social Contribution Vision and Future Direction The KB Financial Group is committed to becoming a financial group of the people that returns the love it receives · KB Youth Music College · KB Hope Bicycle from the people with hope for the people. The Group is therefore sharing love and hope with the underprivileged · KB Hope Camp · KB Dajeong Dagam through all corners of society. · KB Hope Study Group Hope and Dream Together The Joy of Living Together · KB Volunteer Group RaonAtti · KB Small Library (Youth Support Activity) (Multiculture Support Activity) · Migrant Women Self-reliance Support In particular, it continuously supports the education and cultural activities of the youth so that they may realize Specialized their dreams with hope as the future protagonists of our society. It is thus contributing to their growth into healthy Social Contribution members of society. In addition, it is intensively pursuing social contribution projects for multiculturalism to create a Area Social Con· Social Welfare Facility Vehicle Support · Microfinance support beautiful society that respects diversity. It helps multicultural families and expats create a base for self-reliance and Sharing Love Together Society Growing Together · KB Public Health Campaign (Public Good Activity) · KB Good Job supports developing countries as well. (Utilizing the characteristics of tribution financial business) · Volunteer Activity for Hope Box Delivery · KBFG Talent Donation Social Contribution System Map · Place of Sharing Bread with Love · Initiative for Education of the Whole Nation Activities · Donation for the Unprivileged Neighborhood The Most Respected Corporate Citizen, KB Financial Group Win-win growth with Spreading a Taking social responsibility local communities culture of sharing 1. Hope and Dream Together(Youth) · Built KB social contribution models · Engaged in local community-focused · Bolstered the participation of KB Financial Group supports various educational and cultural projects for children and the youth, who will lead social contribution activities employees in volunteering activities · Each subsidiary discovered representative our future, to help them grow up with dreams and hope into healthy members of society. The projects consist projects · Provided practical support to beneficiaries (over 10 hours annually per person) · Operated a social contribution practicing of programs that practically help the growth of the youth, such as KB Youth Music College, which helps · Engaged in joint group projects period underprivileged children nourish their musical talent, and KB Hope Camp, which provides young people with disabilities, who have less opportunity to realize their dream, with counseling for career exploration and advice for building social skills. Operating Social Contribution Volunteer Groups The KB Financial Group operates the KB Star Dream Volunteer Group, which delivers hope to the marginalized. The KB Youth Music College group consists of the Theme Volunteer Group, Talent Dream Volunteer Group, and Speed Dream Volunteer Group. KB Financial Group continuously offers 120 underprivileged young people with passion and talent in music a higher level First, the Theme Volunteer Group intensively supports the youth and multicultural families, which are key social of music education program, such as one-on-one tutoring and local and joint recitals, in cooperation with six music contribution areas of KB Financial Group. The Talent Dream Volunteer Group is a pro bono volunteer group involving colleges(Ewha Womans’ University, Sangmyung University, Korea Nazarene University, Chosun University, Gyeongsang the Group’s employees to help society by sharing their talents. It consists of employees with special talents in the University, and Kangwon National University). The programs provide music aspirants with great opportunities, and many fields of culture, arts, physical education, and also in in-house lectures and training on economics and finance. The of the program beneficiaries succeeded in obtaining admissions to high schools of art or won in national competitions. volunteers in this group share their talents with those in need. The Speed Dream Volunteer Group is an emergency relief volunteer group that operates at all times whenever emergency relief is demanded. Whenever flood damages, KB Hope Camp typhoons, and other calamities occur, we operate an emergency contact system to deliver relief goods to victims and support their initial emergency relief. KB Hope Camp provides 120 young people with disabilities with programs of professional career counseling, field experience with college student mentors, and a two nights and three days’ career camp to help them have opportunities to design their specific career path. In a survey of the participants, more than 94% want to attend again, which shows that the camp has established itself as one of the leading social contribution programs that support young people with disabilities to achieve their dream. KB Financial Group’s Major Social Contribution Program for the Youth Theme Volunteer Group Talent Dream Volunteer Group Speed Dream Volunteer Group KB 1:1 music lesson Program Content Activities in key areas Employees volunteer to donate Providing speedy relief aid for recovery from (Youth, Multi-culture, etc.) their talents damage caused by typhoons, floods, and KB Hope Camp Camp and mentoring for the youth from midteen to college student levels for exploring career path other disasters KB Youth Music College Support for underprivileged youth with music talent(Cooperation with six music colleges in the nation) Invitational events for helping the cultural and emotional growth of the children and youth of Dream Activity Performance of KB Star Dream Volunteer Group Building a Dream Tree Village with Love Tree Village Medical support for the youth with facial deformation and dental care for the youth living in areas with 2012 2013 2014 Medical Support for underprivileged Youth poor medical services Annual cumulative number of volunteers(unit: person) 79,481 76,242 80,934 Youth Culture Café and Learning Support Establishing spaces for learning and culture events for the underprivileged youth Average hours of participation per person(unit: hour) 13.8 13.6 14.0 Local Children Center Environment Improvement Promoting children’s health by improving meal provisions of children center across the country Mock interview at career camp 44 45 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 KB Hope Study Group KB Hope Bicycle Since 2007, KB Kookmin Bank has run the KB Hope Study Group that offers after-school classes for 250 KB Hope Bicycle is a program designed to make contributions to improving the learning environment for children children and youth from 45 local children centers across the country. The program provides children in the centers in underdeveloped countries in connection with overseas volunteering activities. In this program, KB has provided with customized tutoring through learning ability analysis with the help of volunteering college student mentors and 6,000 bicycles to children in Vietnam and Cambodia by 2014. A survey of beneficiary children and relevant offers cultural experiences, such as going to movies, to support their emotional well-being. workers showed that the program had a positive impact in securing children’s right to education and health by increasing mobility and convenience in children’s commuting to school and as a result, offering more chances for KB Small Library realizing their dream through expanding the opportunity to receive school education. In particular, KB employees KB Kookmin Bank has supported six small village libraries that can serve as a community information center for themselves volunteered to assemble and deliver the bicycles to local children and to help improve the education people of culturally alienated areas every year since 2007. With six new small libraries in Sinjeong-dong, Yeongwol, environment in each local country, which had a positive response from the local communities. Gimhae, Chilgok, Gimpo, and Dobong in 2014, the program has established 46 libraries in total. KB Small Library KB Multicultural Children Mentoring—Dajeong Dagam is built for the purpose of serving as a life-friendly reading and cultural activity space where children can read books at any time and where families can enjoy cultural events. It plays the role of a community culture center for citizens. KB Kookmin Bank runs project Dajeong Dagam, which supports multicultural children to learn the Korean language and to adapt well to the Korean society. Dajeong Dagam provides the youth from multicultural families with one-onMaking a Place of Hope one tutoring and cultural experiences over at least one year or more with the help of volunteering college students. It helps the youth increase academic achievement and have healthy growth, both physically and mentally. KB Kookmin Bank supports the program of Making a Place of Hope, which provides underprivileged children and teenagers and young adults with study rooms at their home. It has supported 280 families in total by 2014, having Hangeul Learning Center created 100 Places of Hope every year. The program includes activities of changing old linoleums and wallpapers KB Kookmin Bank has carried out projects of running Hangeul Learning Center since 2008 to make contributions of homes, furnishing customized furniture, and providing dehumidifiers and PCs to help children nurture their to improving child care services and giving more learning opportunities to preschool children from multicultural dreams and hopes in better and cleaner homes. We plan to check old electric wirings and gas pipes in 2015 to families in areas of poor education infrastructure. Hangeul Learning Center contributes to strengthening ties Kimpo Woonyang KB Small library established ensure the safety of the environment of their homes. KB Hope Bicycle donation event between parents and children in multicultural families by teaching the parents various parenting skills and knowledge to promote their infants’ language learning in everyday family life. Programs for Fine Arts and Physical Education for the Youth with Disabilities KB Kookmin Card has spared no efforts to provide support for the youth with disabilities with talents in sports and Dream Day Camp fine arts to help them to grow into healthy members of society. The program makes a true social contribution by Since 2012, KB Kookmin Card has invited children from multicultural families to a career exploration theme park to help sponsoring 30 talented young people with disabilities for educational spending and sporting goods to encourage them adapt well to Korea and have opportunities to dream of a bright future. In 2014, 279 children were invited to 6 them to achieve their dream and to overcome their disability. The program will last also in 2015 with detailed plans sessions in which the KB employees and executives participated to give the children happy memories and dreams. of giving practically helpful educational support. 100th Hope space making Multicultural Children Mentoring Dajeong Dagam KB Overseas Volunteer Group of College Students RaonAtti 2. The Joy of Living Together(Multicultural Community Support KB Kookmin Bank’s overseas volunteer group of college students known as RaonAtti helps the youth in seven countries suffering from poverty, starvation, and natural disasters. RaonAtti, whose overseas volunteer group of 60 Activity) college students is dispatched to countries, including Cambodia and Vietnam, to serve in systematic volunteering KB Financial Group focuses on Multicultural Community Support programs that create bases on which activities for more than 5 months, represents a model project of global social contribution. multicultural families and migrant workers can build self-supporting lives and support underdeveloped Asian countries. We make contributions to support local communities’ development in Asian countries, where KB KB Korean Language Classes in Yangon, Myanmar Financial Group has a major foreign presence, and to help multicultural families in Korea and their children establish KB Kookmin Bank opened Yangon KB Korean Language Class in Myanmar in 2013, which is contributing to the nurturing Support for fine arts and physical Education for the youth with disabilities themselves as qualified members of our society. of global talents by teaching the local youth the Korean language and propagating the Korean culture. In 2014, 397 local Volunteer Group of College Students RaonAtti 11th launch students were registered in the class and events propagating the Korean culture were greatly received by the attendees. KB Rainbow Love Camp We started a new social contribution campaign KB Rainbow Love Camp to support 200 children from Education Support for Underdeveloped Countries multicultural families with economics and financial education and various cultural experiences. In a two-day camp KB Kookmin Card donated the fund raised in matching grants in proportion to the hours spent by KB employees at the amusement park Everland, children had fun learning basic economics and financial knowledge in the fiand executives in the Intensive Social Contribution Period to education support projects in underdeveloped areas rst day and enjoyed rides and safari exploration with their respective partners from KB employees and executive in the Philippines. With this, KB Investment & Securities expanded the Rainbow Class program to overseas volunteers in the second day. The camp combined a useful educational session and cultural experience, which was countries to build an elementary school in Chum Kari, Cambodia, where children had suffered difficulties in learning Culture experience at KB Rainbow Love Camp greatly received by relevant muticulture welfare workers as well as the participating children. KB Korean Language Classes in Yangon because of the absence of schools. An employee volunteer group also visited the village for on-site activities. 46 47 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 3. Sharing Love Together(Public Good Activities) 4. Society Growing Together(Utilizing the characteristics of financial business) KB Financial Group leads various public interest activities, including support for underprivileged group, to make a As a leading financial institution, KB Financial Group has set the initiative of Economics and Financial Education as better society and to promote sharing. its major social contribution goal, for which it can use of the characteristics of financial business. Since 2012, KB Financial Group and its affiliates in cooperation with KB Foundation have run economics and financial education KB Public Health Campaign—Keeping Brightness programs of the best quality in the industry. The project includes on-site, invitational, and online education Keeping Brightness is a dementia prevention program, which is the first of its kind staged in cooperation between a programs and is implemented systematically with detailed plans of building infrastructure for trainer training and business and a private expert group(Korea Association of Senior Welfare Centers) to prevent and moderate symptoms education contents development, program operation, and searching for attendees’ pool. of dementia of seniors who have the possibility of having the disease. A survey of 800 seniors who have completed the program in 2014 showed that the campaign has led a positive impact on them as they achieved better mini mental Enhancement of Education Effectiveness through Talent Donation state examination(simple dementia screening test) scores and built good habits in everyday life such as more time spent The education project developed eight kinds of education programs for students from elementary to high school working out or in social activities. We plan to improve and standardize the existing program, to run a dementia expert and conducted on-site sessions at schools and local children centers. The number of students who received KB Public Health Campaign: Keeping Brightness Education training school for the workers of senior welfare centers, to recruit supporters of the youth to enhance the culture of economics and financial lectures through this project reached to 245,000 in 2014, and the project established observing respect toward the elderly, and to launch campaigns of dementia prevention. itself as one of the major educational campaigns for economics and financials. The KB Economics and Financial Education project reaches beyond the existing education frame of unilateral lectures and helps students understand Volunteer Activity for Hope Box Delivery difficult content with easy and fun games. For the project, KB Financial Group fully mobilizes its own core ability and In the KB Kookmin Bank Hope Box program, our employees and executives deliver Hope Boxes containing daily hires former and current employees as lecturers to prompt the financial workers to donate their talent. necessities and food to neighbors in need of local communities. KB Kookmin Bank Hope Box is a nationwide-scale Also, we recruit college student volunteering groups for this project, particularly from students who take out student volunteer activity carried out at the same time in 33 local head offices once a quarter. The program also received loans because of financial difficulties, to give them opportunities to donate their talent and receive financial aid for a great response from the employees as not only KB employees and executives, but also their families, can lend a their school expenses. The number of lecturers from former and current KB employees and college students now Volunteer Activity for Hope Box Delivery hand in making the Hope Box. In 2014, 8,300 employees and their families attended the program to deliver Hope reaches 900 a year, leading to the highest-level infrastructure in the size and quality of education. Boxes to 18,000 households of low income or multicultural families. Initiative for Education of the Whole Nation Sharing Love with Traditional Markets The recipients of the education project has expended to various groups in the blind spots of economics and KB Kookmin Bank has carried out campaign of Sharing Love with Traditional Markets since 2011 to revitalize financial education, such as adults in their 20s(those in military service and college students), seniors, housewives, traditional markets and support underprivileged groups. In the program, aid supplies to be delivered to neighbors North Korean defectors, people with disabilities, and people in remote islands and isolated areas. Also, we continue in need are bought at traditional markets, which led to a win-win effect of revitalizing traditional markets and to enhance the collaboration with 11 Local Economy Education Councils and seek for cooperative connections with supporting underprivileged class. local community education bases, including senior welfare centers, social welfare centers, Mokdong Youth Training Sharing Love with Traditional Markets KB Silver Economics and Financial Education Center, Koreanness Awakening Movement Union, and Geoje Youth Culture Center, to support the reasonable and Place of Sharing Bread with Love expansive economic activity of the nation. KB Kookmin Bank’s Place of Sharing Bread with Love project based on KB employees and executives’ donation KB Economics and Financial Education (Unit: person) opened its first presence at National Red Cross’s Yongsan Branch in 2013 and second at Majang Branch in 2014. Area 2012 2013 2014 A total of 246 KB employees and their families participated in this project in 2014 to offer bread of love with their Off-line learner 44,952 88,534 111,161 warm hearts to 1,000 households in need. Online site visitors 27,599 30,739 31,988 KB Economics and Financial Education satisfies both learners and lecturers with high extent. For the part of the KB Joseon Royal Tombs Keeper Place of Sharing Bread with Love Opening KB Star Economics and Financial Education learners, they show an evenly high level of satisfaction at all sections including degree of comprehension, quality of To protect the royal tombs of the Joseon dynasty, which are considered as precious cultural heritage listed as lecturers and textbook, and usefulness in real life, and 98% of them expressed their desire to attend a retraining a UNESCO site, we concluded the Joseon Royal Tombs’ Historic and Cultural Environment Preservation and session. Lecturers also agree with them, marking high satisfaction scores at the sections of quality of textbook, Management Agreement with the Cultural Heritage Administration in 2013. Joseon Royal Tombs Keeper is presentation material, gaming tools, teaching plan, and degree of learners’ comprehension and engagement. To a program in which KB employees and executives and their families participate to protect our precious cultural expand the base of Economics and Financial Education, KB Financial Group has been operating an online education heritage for enhancing our historical awareness and caring for our cultural assets. On Arbor Day last 2014, each program, which consists of 150 kinds of learning contents for 6 levels of learners from elementary school to participating family planted a pine tree at Seo-oreung(Historic Site No.198), and in August, we implemented young adults, and most of them are created in the form of animated video clips to help easy and fun learning. environment protection activities at Dong-gureung(Historic Site No.193). KB employees and executives and their KB Economics and Financial Education’s online learning content is available on KB Foundation’s Web site www. families of 260 in total participated in the campaign in the year. KB Joseon Royal Tombs Tree Planting Multicultural children Economics and Financial Camp kbfoundation.or.kr for free. 48 49 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 07 1. Social Responsibility Finance Infra Establishment 2. Expanded Financial Support for Social Responsibility Financial business, with their fundamentals based on customers’ confidence unlike other industries, can earn greater trust when you seek to grow together with customers. Because of this, the financial products developed KRW 1.3 trillion Free Services for Low-income Group KB Kookmin Bank waives service charges for underprivileged and near-poverty groups. Underprivileged Social Conby KB Financial Group are designed with its social and environmental impact in consideration for the promotion of its longer-term sales. In designing financial products, KB Financial Group accepts various opinions from major Support for low-income group groups who are eligible for this service include recipients of basic living subsidies, people with disabilities, child breadwinners, North Korean defectors, and migrant wives; near-poverty groups include those who are not eligible tributions stakeholders and experts to seek not only profitability but also public interest in a balanced way. Thus, the Group enforces restrictions on products if they are harmful to society even if when they are highly profitable, and prefers KRW 592.1 billion for basic living subsidy but whose actual income is 1 to 1.2 times the basic living expense. Electronic financial through service charges for online, mobile, and telephone remittance and automated teller machine charges for remittance to participate in business activities that pursue public interest. Loan balance for new hope seed and after-hours withdrawal are waived for these groups. support Finance Deliberation and Evaluation before Product Launch 21.7 Financial Products for Low-income and Underprivileged Group Before launching any new credit card product, KB Kookmin Card ensures a thorough review and assessment KRW billion KB Kookmin Bank sells various customized financial products for low-income and underprivileged groups. of the product appeal, profitability, potential risks, consumer protection, compliance issues, and other matters of Support for the disabled importance concerning the new product via the review and decision-making procedure of the Product Committee. Supportive Financial Products of KB Kookmin Bank for Low-income and Underprivileged Group The Product Committee, in particular, focuses on assessing the consumer protection and sustainability risks of the new product so as to determine whether and how the new credit card, once launched, will provide and increase values for customers in a sustainable manner. The Product Committee, moreover, regularly monitors customers’ KRW 7.2 billion Product KB National Pension Description An account devoted to preventing the seizure of national pension payments to secure basic living expense and Investment support for youth Security Account waiving all sorts of bank transaction fees for the account holder with record of receiving pension reaction to and the sales performance of new products on a regular basis, analyzing obstacles to sales and making venture An account devoted to preventing the seizure of industrial accident insurance compensation payments to the necessary improvements accordingly. KB Hope Keeper secure living expenses and waiving all sorts of bank transaction fees for the account holder with record of Account receiving insurance payment Product Development Process KB Keep Happiness An account devoted to preventing the seizure of basic living subsidy, basic senior pension, disability pension, or Account child disability allowances to secure basic living expense for the subsidies’ original purpose Customer Needs Product Concept Submission to Product Launching Trend Analysis KB Private School Identification Determination Product Committee and Monitoring Teacher Pension An account devoted to preventing the seizure of private school teacher pension payments to secure living Lifetime Securer expenses and waiving all sorts of bank transaction fees for the account holder with record of receiving pension Account In selecting product, KB Investment & Securities focuses rather on decisions as to whether the product or the service is the best solution to fully serve the investment purpose of customers during the planned period than A plan that pays high interest rates to the socially disadvantaged, such as child breadwinners, North Korean KB National defectors, basic living subsidy recipients, single-parent subsidy recipient, work incentive recipients, or migrant on short-term performance or issue-making. For this end, from the phase of selecting the candidate product Happiness Savings wives group, it takes the process of data analysis from various sources and have prebriefing and opinion-gathering KB Love Sharing A plan that pays premium interest to the customers who participate in donations and volunteer activities sessions with the sales field workers. Also, we check for possibilities of mis-selling and every risk factor until the Installment Saving and makes donations in matching grant to help low-income groups save money and make contribution to Product Deliberation Committee reaches unanimous consent on them and have the compliance officer take final Account propagating social sharing deliberation on the adequacy of product sales. Even after sales, it continues to have monitoring on whether the A long-term installment saving account designed to help low-income groups build assets and exempt from KB Worker’s Asset the income tax on the interest incurring during the term of contract under the Tax Reduction and Exemption product or the service offered is keeping with the promises made to customers through continuous follow-up Building Savings Control Act checks and adequacy management. KB Worker’s Asset A long-term installment saving account that designed to help low-income groups build assets and exempt Building Savings at from the income tax on the interest incurring during the term of contract under the Tax Reduction and Fixed Rate Exemption Control Act Compliance Officer’s Predeliberation Family Love Free KB Asset Management has a compliance officer preexamine the product catalog and promotion brochures to Installment Saving A plan designed on the theme of family love that provides premium interest and supplementary services and KB Love sharing installment savings offers higher interest for disabled customers take the lead in protecting an investor’s right and interest by providing objective and correct information. As the Account deliberation period is strictly limited on collective investment products and their advertisement, it coordinates in A plan designed for long-term asset building for children. The product provides annual compound interest and KB Junior Star advance with the sellers not to publish an advertisement with an expired deliberation period. indexed special interest to preserve the saving’s asset value and offers supplementary customized services Installment Saving such as free child security insurance and discount for online English lessons. The product offers higher interest KB Savings Bank has conducted four predeliberations of a compliance officer regarding the development of new Account for customers with disabilities, child breadwinners, and basic living subsidy recipients products in 2014. Also, in preparing or amending terms and conditions, it confirms their adequacy though a checklist and report to supervisory authorities to protect consumers’ right. KB Kookmin Bank provides low-interest loan products to poor credit and low-income groups who use highinterest loans from nonmonetary institutions. Also, the Bank prepared an extra judgmental guideline for those who have difficulties in using banks’ loan products because of their low income or poor credit records. KB Seed of KB Kookmin worker’s asset building savings Hope Loan, launched in November 2010, is designed to provide relief fund via loans for the low-income workers 50 51 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 or small self-employers who are alienated from existing financial services. Those who have an annual income of Operating Environmentand Climate Change–related Products KRW 30 million or less are eligible for this loan product in the credit line of KRW 2 million to 20 million. KB Kookmin Bank operates green financial products, such as the KG Green Growth Loan and KB Green Esco KB Savings Bank runs the government-secured Sunshine Loan for poor credit or low income customers. The Company Loan, to support green industries in accordance with the Korean government’s Low Carbon, Green product offers loans at a maximum amount of KRW 30 million with 8%–9% annual interest rate. Growth policy. The relevant products support companies specializing in new, renewable energy(solar energy, KB Capital offers loan products for low-income female breadwinning workers or self-employers. The Capital also wind power, etc.), and bioenergy, as well as companies certified as possessing green technology, by offering them operates personal loan products for private taxi business belonged to Federation of Private Taxi Transportation preferential interest rates compared to general corporate loans. The Bank thus contributes to alleviating the financial Union. The product provides loans at annual interest rates of 9.9%–13.9%, which is lower than those of the burden of green growth companies. products of nonmonetary institution, for those who failed to raise the full amount of purchasing fund to buy vehicles KB Kookmin Bank’s green loans scale in 2014 with loans from other financial institutions such as community credit fund. Also, the Capital released Breezy Parcel (KB Green Growth Loan, KB Green Esco Corporate Loan, and KB Solar Biz loan) (unit: KRW 100 million) Truck Loan for small self-employers with interest rates of more than 1% lower than the average. This product is designed for the purpose of supporting the parcel delivery business owners to raise purchasing fund to buy Year 2012 2013 2014 commercial vehicles. Balance 14,246 8,900 8,988 KB Capital’s Special Loan Products for Low-income Female Breadwinners Service Description State of KB Kookmin Bank’s Products Related to the Environment and Climate Change (Total of five types: four funds types and one banking type Bancassurance) · Jobs with low stability such as workers of restaurants, convenient stores, and cloth (Unit: account, KRW 100 million) Products for female workers with low shops 2012 2013 2014 availability of personal loans · Female breadwinners among self-employers running business for make a living Products No. of No. of No. of Balance Balance Balance Products for low-income female workers · The lowest annual income criteria aligned considering basic living expense accounts accounts accounts through income recognition criteria mitigation · Extra criteria for job tenure considering workers with low stability [ Fund products ] · Interest rates of 6.9%–15.9%, lower than loans from nonmonetary institutions Allianz GI Global Eco Tech Securities Investment Trust Equity(stocks) 4,735 362 3,085 243 2,097 174 Low interest rate and more convenient loans · More convenient application of loans through visit, online, and telephone Samsung Global Water Securities Feeder Investment Trust 1 Equity 4,110 265 3,115 170 2,546 82 (stocks) KB Kookmin Card has been selling KB Kookmin Pointree Card through which credit card rewards are turned into KB Global Warming Theme Securities Master Investment Trust Equity 814 25 504 19 260 7 donation funds to help underprivileged groups since September 2006. Funds are raised by collecting KRW 1,000 (stocks) from each customer of the product and are sent to Good Neighbors, UNICEF, and Community Chest of Korea at the KB Green Focus Securities Feeder Investment Trust Equity(stocks) 37 0.4 1884 79 932 61 end of the year. It also sells KB Kookmin Love Card in partnership with the Home Love Campaign to donate some [ Bancassurance products ] part of the revenue from the product for supporting poorly fed children and seniors living alone in each local area. Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance’s Samsung Premium Healthy Body! Healthy 3,219 1.5 4,779 2.1 2,721 1.1 Heart! Green Bicycle Insurance Support the Disabled and the Seniors’ Access to Financial Service * Fund: as of end-of-year principal balance / Bancassurance: as of new value by year KB Kookmin Bank provides low-interest rate car loans and living expense loans for people with disabilities in partnership with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. KB Financial Group has distributed Universal Counter for easy Furthermore, KB Kookmin Bank plans to involve itself more in solar energy, wind power, wastewater processing, and access of wheelchair-bound customers to 562 branches in total as of the end of 2014. The Group also installed waste processing projects related to eco-responsible investments that KB Financial Group is actively pursuing at a 8,295 ATM equipped with Braille displays, screen magnifiers, and voice guidance, and 2,670 among them are Group level.. designed to fit in wheelchair-accessible booths. It plans to expand the number of counters and ATMs that are friendly to people with disabilities and the elderly and infirm people. Achievements of KB Kookmin Bank’s Eco-responsible Investment Achievements of KB (Offshore, wind power, and solar energy power PF) Asset Management Unit 2012 2013 2014 Investment in Young Entrepreneurs Funds No. of new brokerages No. 1 2 2 High unemployment and missing hope among young people come up as a great loss to the whole nation. KB Value of new brokerages KRW 100 million 50 1,600 1,391 Financial Group attempts to play a role of laying the financial foundation for the young people to dream of and challenge for a better future. Set value KRW 6.6 billion Balance KRW 100 million 606 696 914 KB Green Focus Fund: invested in green companies KB Kookmin Bank boosts up start-ups by young entrepreneurs with KB Creative Finance Saving. With the KB Kookmin Card sells the KB Kookmin Green Growth Card and KB Kookmin Green Card made of eco-friendly product, the Bank provides financial benefits for young people to open windows to realize their ideas into business with enhanced understanding of the creative economy. Customers can apply for it with a hard copy of coupons Set value KRW 60.5 billion materials to help protect the natural environment and encourage people to practice an eco-friendly lifestyle. The cards provide investment points for bolstering youth business start-ups, whenever energy-saving and green New and Renewable Energy downloadable at MYPAGE of HYPERLINK http://www.creativekorea.or.kr www.creativekorea.or.kr. Fund: solar energy power project products are purchased or public transportation is used, to encourage people to incorporate environmental protection Start-up for KB Creative Finance Saving into their daily lives. 52 53 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 08 1. Practicing Fair Trade and Enhancing SME Cooperation Sharing Dream Installment Financial Service KB Capital provides loan services for installment sales to help the revenue growth of SMEs and middle-grade Enhancing Communication with Business Partners enterprises. The Sharing Dream installment financial service provides customers the benefit of dividing the KB Kookmin Bank is committed to making various efforts for the consolidation of a fair trade foundation. Each year, repayment period of the goods procurement funds, among others. It thus supports the long-term(interest-free) Expanding it sends letters to business partners to implement a win-win, as well as an ethical and right business management style. It has a channel open for reporting inappropriate work practices. In addition, it conducts a satisfaction survey installment financing for durable goods of SMEs and middle-grade enterprises. After being launched in 2013, the product has since offered installment financial services to 15 motorcycle manufacturers, 12 mobile virtual network Support for targeting business partners for convenient and fair transactions, as well as for actively gathering opinions on areas in operators(MVNO), 5 furniture businesses, and other agriculture machines, bicycles, and home shopping vendors, adding up to a total of 58 affiliates as of March 2015. Small and need of improvement. It then makes improvements accordingly. Actively procuring SME products and services Sharing Dream Installment Financial Service’s Characteristics and Strengths Medium The bank actively procures SME products as part of its efforts to practice socially responsible business management and promote win-win growth with SMEs and middle-grade enterprises. To guarantee fairness and transparency SMEs and middle-grade enterprises Customer Enterprises • Reduced interest rate burden with the use of long-term interestin biddings, it holds open tenders so that any company fulfilling certain conditions, regardless of its capital scale • Diversified means of paying for goods procurement and free or low interest installment payment(vis-à-vis credit card or market dominance, may participate. In addition, it shortened the payment date to within 14 days to support the divided payment for expanded revenue installment) smooth cash liquidity of its business partners. • Has the effect of promoting sales such as upselling* • Alleviated burden of goods procurement funds through divided payment in the long term. 2. Expanding goods and services for SMEs *Upselling: sales strategy of selling a more items to customers who have purchased a good or proposing a higher-end product than the item a customer initially intended to purchase Launching New Products that Support SMEs Providing Financial Services to Microenterprises and Business Start-ups at their Initial Stage KB Kookmin Bank launched KB The Dream that offers additional preferential interest rates and loan ceiling to KB Kind CEO Loan (launched in June 2014) and KB Kind Affiliate Loan (launched in November 2014) are credit Small Office/Home Office(SOHO) private businesses in June 2014. It additionally launched the KB Microenterprise loan products launched with the purpose of fulfilling KB Capital’s social responsibility and role of supporting the Story Loan in August 2014, as a special product to support the growth of business startups and other ownerfinancing of the low-income sector. The products alleviate the high interest rate burden of microenterprises and run businesses, as well as their growth at each stage of their life cycle to actively practice the Korean government’ reduce damages incurred from illegal financing and private loans. KB Capital is further working hard to provide the Satisfaction survey of s policy of supporting microenterprises and contribute to alleviating the financial burden of small private businesses. foundation for the future growth of microenterprises. business partners In addition, it launched its new products, the KB Preferential Loan for Technology-Based Creative Companies and KB TCB Credit Loan for Excellent Technology-based Companies, as part of its efforts to support SMEs to be State of Handled Credit Loan Products for Microenterprises 98.5 % more technologically capable. The products focus on supporting the growth of promising SMEs in possession of Item Cases of Handled (Period: June 2014 – March 2015) Amount Handled 104 companies participated in technological capacity, which is key for the realization of a creative economy that the Korean government is pursuing, Content 101 75.5 the survey by supporting their liquidity. The products are for companies lacking the ability to provide collateral among companies in possession of technological capacity. The bank provides funds to companies based on a loan examination Records of supporting reflecting their technology credit evaluations conducted by a technology evaluating institution. Venture Capital and New Private Equity Funding(PEF) SME products and State of KB Kookmin Bank’s Newly Launched Products to Support SMEs KB Investment & Securities is expanding its new investment mainly in new growth engine industries, such as services (Unit: KRW 100 million) the next generation IT, green growth, and bioengineering industries, in tandem with changes to the investment 53.3 Balance as of the Product Comment End of 2014 environment and leading industries. For this, it invested in 27 companies working in the above fields and new KRW billion KB Microenterprise Story Loan 5,671 ventures worth KRW 29.7 billion as of end of December 2014. Four PEFs and investments worth KRW 47 billion Supported owner-run businesses in the region were made. KB the Dream SOHO Loan 3,195 • Future  Creative KB Business Startup Supporting Investment Association(KRW 15 billion, completed increase in April) KB Preferential Loan for Technology-based Creative Companies 8,745 Creative finance supporting Added KRW 15 billion to the Future Creative Funds(expanded fund scale: KRW 25 billion → KRW 40 billion) KB Preferential Loan for Technology-based Creative Companies 359 product Venture  Intellectual Property Investment Association(KRW 50 billion, completed establishment in February 2015) • KB Funds to Support the Commercialization of Intellectual Property(IP), and SMEs and Middle-grade Enterprises in Possession of Excellent IPs Pursuing a Win-win Growth with Small and Medium Affiliates The KB Kookmin Card provides a variety of benefits for a win-win growth with small and medium affiliates. The KB  for Economic Cooperation between Korea and the Golf Cooperation Council(GCC)(USD 1 million, • PEF Owner’s Club, a product for owners of small and medium affiliates, provides discounts of up to 10% to affiliate completed in October of the following year) PEF • Blind PEF of Investing in Korean Companies That Have Advanced into the Golf Cooperation Council(GCC) fees in accordance with the used amount. It also issues e-tax invoices for free, as well as provides value-added tax Launching of four types of loan products that support SMEs Region, and Relevant Projects and microenterprises refunds and refunds for other tax and financial services necessary for running a business. KB Good Loan 54 55 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 3. Expanding Support Focused on SME Growth seekers and employers, focused on enhancing the quality of employment. Furthermore, it supports KRW 500,000 for each employment of a regular full-time staff to companies participating in KB Financial Group provides a variety of corporate services to support SMEs that play a pivotal role in the Korean its job fairs. The bank is thus spearheading efforts to provide differentiated services. As a result, KB Good Job made economy’s growth. KB Wise Consulting proposes solutions tailored to problems faced by SMEs, while the Export, the achievement of consolidating 44,000 individual jobseeking members and the registration of 12,500 companies Import Financial Service provides services for the exports and imports of companies, as their firm partner. In as employers, within 4 years of its launching. Based on this pool and about 17,500 job vacancy announcement addition KB Hidden Star 500 provides services tailored to SMEs and middle-grade enterprises that it discovers as registrations, it has provided about 50,000 sets of job information as of the end of December 2014. The scale of being outstanding, for their sustainable growth. Other than these representative services, KB Good Job is settling people who were supported employment funds has reached about 6,000 within about 3 years and 6 months since as Korea’s representative employment forum that links job seekers with SMEs and middle-grade enterprises to the launching of the system. It is thus developing as a clearly representative job linking project of Korea. solve the recent unemployment problem in Korea. The bank plans to strengthen its social responsibility and contribute to the development of local economies by holding the 2015 KB Good Job Excellent Companies’ Job Fair in COEX from May 13 to 14, 2015, followed by job KB Hidden Star 500 fairs linked with local governments during the second half of the year. KB Hidden Star 500 is KB Financial Group’s project supporting enterprise growth that provides systemic and differentiated services tailored to outstanding SMEs and middle-grade enterprises that have great potential to grow into global firms for their excellent business value, financial stability, and superior technology. Starting with the selection of 38 companies in March 2011, the Group has supported KRW 34.2 billion worth of equity investment and KRW 1.6 trillion worth of loans to a total of 297 companies selected for KB Hidden Star 500 as of the end of 2014. The Group additionally provides KB Business Matching Service to help selected companies and overseas markets, and continues to strengthen its collaborative relationships with related agencies such as the Korean International Trade Association and Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency(KOTRA). In 2015 also, it is continuously pursuing KB Creative Leaders Forum and KB Wise Consulting for the shared growth of excellent SMEs and middle-grade enterprises that transact with the Group. The Group is equally continuously managing Hidden Star enterprises. It is thus devoted to creating social sharing value wherein companies, KB, and the national economy grow together. Achievements of KB Hidden Star 500 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Selected companies No. 244 304 297 Supporting loan(balance as of the end of the year) KRW 100 million 14,785 19,035 16,800 Supporting foreign exchange USD 100 million 33 41 39 Equity investment KRW 100 million 569 379 342 Supporting the discovery of overseas markets No. of cases 53 68 63 Business management consulting No. of companies 13 9 5 Supporting employment No. of companies 20 46 27 No. of companies Employees’ practical training on trade 55(90) 57(110) 34(52) (employees) (Unit : person, number) KB Good Job Area 2012 2013 2014 KB Good Job is KB Kookmin Bank’s project launched in January 2011 providing job information and linking KB Good Job personal membership(total sum) 30,969 38,085 44,144 jobseekers to SMEs and middle-grade enterprises to solve the unemployment problem, which is a recent hot social KB Good Job company membership(total sum) 12,099 12,389 12,513 issue in Korea. Through its exclusive Web site(www.kbgoodjob.co.kr), job information is provided in real time and a total of eight job fairs, wherein excellent SMEs and middle-grade enterprises participate, have been held until the end of 2014. In addition, KB Kookmin Bank works in partnership with not only its about 1,200 branch offices, but also the Korean Ministry of Education, Ministry of National Defense, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Support for discovering overseas new customers Association of High Potential Enterprises of Korea, and other organizations to consolidate a pool of excellent job 56 57 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 09 10 1. Changing the Group Business Portfolio 1. Securing and Maintaining the Creation of Jobs KB Financial Group is continuously enhancing its non-banking business to diversify its business portfolio, which was Leading the Creation of Jobs KB Financial Group is leading the creation of jobs by recruiting a total of hitherto focused on banking services. As a result, it launched KB Capital(former Woori Financial) in March 2014 and 745 employees in 2014 and is reinforcing job security by gradually increasing the ratio of full-time employees. KB Expanding Enhancing the non-banking share of the Group as of non-banking subsidiary, including Assets under Management(AUM), has Financial Group treats its employees fairly without gender discrimination in all labor conditions and makes an effort grown to 32.2%(1.1% growth year-on-year from 2013). In addition, acquired LIG Insurance in 2015 is going to to protect the human rights of officers and employees by complying with the guidelines suggested by the contract the Share increase the non-banking share of the Group to 35.9%(as of assets at the end of 2014). The expansion of the nonbanking share of the Group is expected to further grow in the future. the Satisemployee protection laws and protection law for temporarily employed workers. of Nonfaction of Employees (Unit: person) The Share of Non-banking Businesses in the Group 2012 2013 2014 banking 33.3 32.2 35.9 Officers and Total sum 25,381 25,153 25,398 Businesses Employees % % % Recruitment 538 506 745 2013 2014 2015(estimated) Employees by contract type (Unit: person) 2012 2013 2014 2. Launching of KB Capital Full-time employee 19,353 19,633 25,310 Temporary employee 5,957 5,423 1,284 KB Capital was newly launched in March 2014 as the 11th subsidiary of KB Financial Group. KB Capital, which possesses a competitive national retail sales network, is a financial company whose assets have steadily grown in the personal financing field, including automobile financing. This sales direction of the company is strategically in Aiming for Diversity of Employment Aiming for Diversity of Employment KB Financial Group aims for line with that of KB Financial Group, which is focusing its key competitiveness on retail finance.Therefore, KB Capital an Open Recruitment Policy, which does not put restrictions on academic ability, educational background, and expects to have a second leap forward of the Group, by it looks promising through the cross-utilization of sales age, based on the principle of diversity and equal opportunity, except for a small percentage of jobs that requires channels with other subsidiaries of the Group and active linking of complex product sales, etc. professional techniques and skills. The launching of KB Capital was pursued as part of KB Financial Group’s efforts to enhance non-bank subsidiaries. In Employees ratio by gender (Unit: %) particular, the launching has enabled the Group’s new advancement into the installment financing business, which the 2012 2013 2014 Group did not possess, and is largely contributing to diversifying the Group’s business portfolio. As a result, the Group Male 55 55 54 can now provide more diverse financial services to its customers thanks to having added new financial products, such Female 45 45 46 as automobile installment financing to the bank, card, insurance, and other existing retail financial services. 3. Taking over of LIG Insurance Some of its affiliates, including KB Life Insurance, are running a recruitment system that protects the minorities by preferentially giving an opportunity for interview to minorities such as people with disabilities, etc. As of the end of KB Financial Group participated in the takeover of LIG Insurance in early 2014 and was later selected as a priority 2014, there are 207 employees who have a disability and were war veterans working at KB Financial Group. negotiator. Then, in June of the same year, it signed share purchase agreement with major shareholders of LIG Insurance. KB also became a Federal Reserve Board-recognized financial holding company in the United States in Recruitment of People with disabilities and war veterans (Unit: person) June 2015. Having thus completed the merger and acquisition of LIG Insurance, KB Financial Group finally launched 2012 2013 2014 KB Insurance on June 24, 2015. After taking over LIG Insurance, the Group will get to consolidate a new business People with disabilities 34 33 34 field related to insurance, which other financial holding companies do not possess, and provide further differentiated War veterans 163 162 173 and comprehensive financial solutions to its customers. As a result, the Group will be able to diversify its product portfolio reflecting customer needs with complex automobile Local Recruitment and Nurturing of the Local Manager KB Kookmin Bank has recruited local staff financing products of KB Capital, as well as complex life and non-life KB Life Insurance in terms of product services.In at its overseas branches and trained them as managers. addition, it will be able to utilize the national outbound channel network of LIG Insurance to proactively respond to the recent financial business trend of fewer customers visiting branch offices as well as more actively pursuing customer oriented marketing. KB Financial Group plans to speedily turn LIG Insurance into one of KB subsidiaries and actively develop it to create synergistic effects with other subsidiaries so that indemnity insurance into a key non-banking business field of the Group. KB Capital Launching Ceremony 58 59 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 2. Strengthening the Talent Development System 3. Expansion of an Organization Culture That Promotes Communication Strengthens the Competency of the Officers and Employees One of the biggest assets of KB Operation of the Labor-management Council KB Financial Group has been operating a joint laborFinancial Group is its excellent human resources. KB Financial Group puts the strengthening of the competency management permanent council when making a major policy decision by complying with the overall agreement such of the officers and employees at the top priority, and is cultivating financial experts focusing on work competency, as collective agreement and rules on labor-management council, etc. By holding a regular council each quarter, it is global competency, leadership competency, etc. making efforts to communicate with the employees by gathering information on the management status, employee grievances and suggestions, and with the participation of the person in charge of labor and management in various Permanent Learning Program KB Kookmin Bank regularly provides training materials employees can activities such as training, etc. The labor union is established in KB Kookmin Bank, KB Kookmin Card, KB Capital, KB access anytime and with which they read about their desired fields in their own time to develop a company culture of Real Estate Trust, and KB Credit Information, and the rest of the affiliates are operating a labor-management council. continuous learning. This also helps enhance sales and customer service in every area of operations. A Permanent Labor Union Membership Rate Learning Program is regularly conducted. Through the operation of the Permanent Learning Program, the consulting (Unit: %) competency of the employees at the counter has greatly increased(first among four major banks), and it is expected Subsidiary 2012 2013 2014 that this will lead to a better financial performance in the long term. KB Kookmin Bank 92.5 93.2 98.0 KB Kookmin Card 92.5 94.3 93.9 Operation Status of the Permanent Learning Program in 2014 KB Capital 92.6 93.9 95.4 Program Name Field of Learning Number of People Learning KB Real Estate Trust 79.5 78.3 78.2 Product Knowledge Charging Center Product Selling Competency 2,706 KB Credit Information 93.2 94.0 Case Study Letter Corporate Credit, Foreign Exchange 1,299 * The application scope of the collective agreement includes all employees except for officers and contract employees. KB Asset Management Vitamin Asset Management 910 Total 4,915 Protecting Rights and Interests of Workers When it comes to an important business change, KB Financial Group is making efforts to protect the workers’ rights by designating a minimum notification period, etc, pursuant to the agreement on job security, and agreement of the company development council. Pursuant to the Implementation of Self-diagnosis of Competency Level To efficiently support the achievement agreement on job security, the Group will notify the concerned employee at least 60 days prior to termination and of strategy/management goals from the standpoint of HRD, KB Kookmin Bank is providing an opportunity for every layoff, and 7 days prior to the holding of the personnel committee for the right to explain oneself. employee to reinforce his/her competency level necessary to perform the work at hand(or desired work) through a Competency Development Supporting System(CDSS) before applying for training. Accordingly, it helps employees to check which type of competency they lack and to preferentially undergo the training process necessary to Operation of a Grievance Center KB Financial Group operates various channels and systems for solving supplement it. the grievances of officers and employees including complaints on personnel, conflicts between employees, sexual harassment, discrimination, etc. A secret corner was established recently within the Grievance Center separate from the Training Hours and Investment Amounts (Unit: hours; KRW million) grievance handling process where one’s name must be registered. This secret corner allowed KB Kookmin Bank to create 2012 2013 2014 an environment where employees could talk about their grievances without the pressure of identity exposure. Subsidiary Total Training Total Training Total Training Total Training Total Training Total Training Hours Cost Hours Cost Hours Cost 2012 2013 2014 Grievance reported 47 64 69 KB Kookmin Bank 3,581,808 23,527 2,698,207 20,866 3,093,955 20,972 KB Kookmin Card 118,812 1,427 119,437 1,399 117,644 1,610 Grievance resolved 26 19 30 KB Investment&Securities 6,684 332 3,460 83 3,420 148 KB Life Insurance 15,231 176 12,952 141 9,804 186 Education on Human Rights KB Financial Group promotes a working environment where all the employees KB Asset Management 2,358 38 2,362 39 2,411 50 are not under any discrimination. It aims for a company culture that welcomes diversity and carries out a preventive KB Capital 1,138 18 678 10 12,960 207 education for sexual harassment and etiquette training, etc., among its employees to protect the human rights of KB Savings Bank 4,500 85 3,600 79 6,071 123 everyone and to prevent any unfortunate incidents related to human rights violations. KB Real Estate Trust 11,620 64 10,009 41 12,600 21 KB Investment 324 55 436 35 496 24 (Unit : hours, person) KB Credit Information 6,705 15 6,660 27 1,932 5 Name Area 2012 2013 2014 KB Data systems 17,712 173 23,212 371 23,048 355 Sexual harassment Total amount of training hours 24,936 25,540 26,193 Total 3,766,892 25,876 2,881,013 23,056 3,284,341 23,656 prevention Graduates number 24,936 25,303 25,473 Lunch TalkTalk with CEO 60 61 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 4. Creating a Happy Workplace Vitalization of Family-friendly Management Special Report KB and Tax KB Financial Group encourages childbirth and protection of maternity through a before-and-after-childbirth leave, spousal maternity leave, and child care leave, and is supporting the education of employees’ children in multiple angles. Also, KB Kookmin Bank is making efforts to vitalize the family-loving culture by designating every first, second, and third Wednesday and Friday as a Family Loving Day and encourages the employees to leave on time, KB Financial Group is fully focusing on faithfully decrease in net profit during the term because of the global financial crisis in do something to celebrate the birthday of their spouse. 2010, the corporate tax was largely reduced to KRW 203.9 billion; however, with carrying out the tax obligation in Korea and abroad the recovery of sales by major affiliates, such as Kookmin Bank and Card, etc., an Performance Management for the Enhancement of Working Conditions held by the corporation. At the same time, we have average of around KRW 654 billion of corporate tax was paid between 2011 and 2014. Other than the corporate tax, around KRW 150 billion of local taxes, such The KB Financial Group operates a KPI to enhance the working conditions. the responsibility to reduce the tax liability as much as property tax, local income tax, residence tax, etc., and national taxes, such as Rating as possible within the scope allowed by the law for VAT, education tax, stamp tax, etc., are paid annually. Category Evaluation Items Goal Branch Headquarters the company’s stakeholders. Setting time of security system(average Complete setting within 8:00 p.m. Payment Policy Abroad 10 time) (full score within 8:01 p.m.) KB Kookmin Bank has a branch or a local entity in the USA, Japan, Hong Kong, PC-OFF within 19:30 Working hours etc., and performs its tax obligation in accordance with the each country’s tax PC-OFF time(average time) (calculated average time after 5 1 KB’s Belief normalization index excluding the Family Loving Day) law, and submits detailed documents to the taxing authorities of each country KB Financial Group believes that the increase in the company’s profit and the Complying with Family Loving Day Setting within 6:30 p.m. regarding the calculation of corporate tax. Information regarding the cost of (1st–3rd week Wed/Fri, 4th Wed) (full score only if within 6:40 p.m.) 10 faithful performance of its tax obligation contributes to a healthy cycle of increase in tax payment, increase in the government’s tax revenue collection and public corporate tax as calculated under the K-IFRS is stated on the audit report and is Personal leave usage Usage rate of self-improvement leave Over 90% of usage rate 5 2 rate index service, enhancement of citizen’s security, maximization of stakeholder’s interest, being reported in Korea, and is also disclosed at the New York Stock Exchange Controlling working A total of 0.5 points of normalization index are reduced every time setting for one holiday etc., and intends to faithfully carry out this responsibility as a socially responsible through Form 20-F. during holidays dissolved. However, no reduction if resetting is completed within 30 minutes. company. Total 30 3 Group’s Tax Policy KB Financial Group is focused on carrying out its tax obligations faithfully, and at 5. Supporting Benefits for Officers and Employees the same time, has the responsibility to reduce the tax obligation within the scope allowed by the law for the company’s stakeholders as much as possible, and is Cost of Corporate Tax in 2014 (Unit: KRW million) Medical Health Support complying with the law and paying correct taxes under any system. Category Cost KB Financial Group supports a regular health checkup program for its officers and employees and covers medical For the faithful payment of tax and stakeholder’s protection, KB Financial Group Payment of corporate tax 500,815 fees to discover possible health risk factors at an early stage. Also, in case of sickness or injury, various types of has established the principles for compliance procedure for legal tax obligation Cost of corporate tax during the term 512,536 support is given, such as coverage of medical fees, leaves, rest, etc., and provision of wellness facilities, such as a and tax risk prevention by enacting internal rules, such as tax processing guide, Adjustment matters recognized at the term regarding the corporate tax during the fitness center, resort facilities, etc., to help the employees to destress and live healthy lives. consolidated tax operation rules, consolidated tax process manual, etc., and has (11,721) term occurred prior to the previous term clearly set the matters regarding the processes such as roles and responsibilities Changes in deferred corporate tax asset(debt) because of temporary of tax filing and payment. Despite the clear internal process guidelines and 31,255 Leisure Life Support difference processes as above, a tax appeal case is pending in court. However, the fact that Cost of corporate tax directly reflected in the capital (45,276) KB Kookmin Bank implements the Beautiful Peninsula program, which is a rejuvenation program exclusive for there is a 90% winning chance in the said tax appeal case that occurred because its officers and employees. It aims to enhance the leisure and recreation quality of its officers and employees by Recalibration factor for net vested benefit obligation 31,386 of the difference in interpretation of the tax law with the taxing authorities shows providing resort accommodations in popular tourist attractions domestically and other facilities by themes. Moreover, Valuation of profit and loss of financial asset available for sale (79,473) that the tax-related process at KB Financial Group is working. by establishing a culture to use personal leaves throughout the year, it encourages employees not to take their Valuation of profit and loss of financial asset to be held up to maturity 198 holiday leave simultaneously, which is usually concentrated during the summer time. In 2014, a total 2,475 ofShare on other comprehensive income of related company’s investment asset (6) Status of Tax Payment by Affiliates ficers and employees went for an R&R trip during winter and spring. Other than that, other support measures for Avoidance profit and loss of cash flow risk 2,619 KB Financial Group considers its wholly owned subsidiary as an equal single employees R&R include summer life training, condominium use support, provision of bus for holiday use, etc. entity, and is carrying out a consolidated taxation in corporate tax. With the Others (480) KB Investment & Securities operates and supports the clubs for the officers and employees’ sports activities, such as Cost of corporate tax 486,314 baseball, golf, hiking, etc., and leisure life such as flower arrangement, playing of musical instruments, etc. KB Kookmin bank healing café 62 63 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 We aim to become a sincere bank by practicing customerTotal Assets Operating Income centered management with providing best financial service. 2,754,536 13,767 We at KB Kookmin Bank would like to express our gratitude toward our customers, shareholders, and our fellow citizens for their unchanging affection and support. KB Kookmin Bank has defined the three core directions for management: regain customers’ trust, improve self-esteem of employees, and improve competitiveness through differentiation. This is to concentrate the Bank’s efforts into restoring the status of the Bank as a leading bank that leads the South Korean financial industry. In particular, the Bank intends to Equity Net Income continue to remind itself that without our customers, there is no KB, and solidify the trust of our customers toward the bank through customer-centered management. KB Kookmin Bank will continue to walk with our fellow citizens as a bank that deserves your trust and that shares your hope for the future by fulfilling its 219,404 10,290 responsibilities toward its customers and society. KB Kookmin Bank CEO Jong Kyoo Yoon (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, Consolidated statements) COMPANY OVERVIEW KB Kookmin Bank has the largest customer basis in South Korea, and one of its greatest strengths is its HISTORY Major Achievements customer-centered management that makes use of a sophisticated CRM system. Such business capacity Date of Establishment November 1, 2001 KB Kookmin Bank founded through consolidation Provided distinguished products and services KB Kookmin Bank has consolidated its status enables the Bank to maintain the largest market share among banks in terms of asset size, amount of 2001. 11 between Kookmin Bank/Housing Bank, and listed as a leading bank that leads the financial market by providing diverse financial products that meet customer Chairman & CEO Jong Kyoo Yoon credits received, loans provided in Korean won, and sales of bancassuarance. Furthermore, the Bank in the New York Stock Exchange demands, changing its channels, and utilizing its asset management know-how unparalleled in South Korea. Capital Stock KRW 2021.9 billion secured 9 million customers in its smartphone banking sector, the most prominent channel for the future, Created and announced the new CI of KB 2002. 10 Kookmin Bank As of the end of December 2014, Kookmin Bank operates a massive network of 1,161 branches and serves 84, Namdaemun-ro, thereby consolidating the basis for the Bank’s profits in the future. Headquarters Address Jung-gu, Seoul 28.65 million individual customers, which exceeds half of the entire South Korean population. The Bank holds 2003. 12 Completed privatization of KB Kookmin Bank the top-level competitiveness in the retail finance sector. In addition, the Bank provided distinguished financial No. of Branches(total) 1,173 Management Framework and Business Strategy Launched MyStar, the system for the next 2010. 02 services that meet the diverse asset management needs of our customers by completing the comprehensive No.of Branches(domestic) 1,161 generation KB Kookmin Bank intends to develop and present a new model of financial business that generates sizable asset management chain consisting of the Bank’s asset management service(Star Table), retirement Separated the card business sector from KB No.of Branches(abroad) 12 values for local businesses and individuals in Asia, and become a paragon of that model itself. In pursuit 2011. 02 Kookmin Bank planning(Golden Life), and real estate management(R-easy Aliage). In addition, the Bank provides support for No. of Customers 28,659,386 of its vision of becoming a global bank that leads finance in Asia, KB Kookmin Bank has established a Ranked first place in the Bank Section of the corporate customers through its Creative Finance Deposit/Saving and Technological Finance Support. No. of Employees 21,622 strategy involving two major tactics—the Biz Portfolio and the Competition Programs—and identified 16 2013. 12 National Customer Satisfaction Index(NCSI) for eight consecutive years(Korea Productivity Center) Enhanced Competitiveness in the Retail Finance Section KB Kookmin Bank establishes and Home Page www.kbstar.com specific management tasks to be achieved to that end. KB Kookmin Bank may have its operations in Asia, Selected as best Korea import and export bank operates various specialized branches to satisfy our customers by securing a diverse and flexible branch but its internal organization and business system are indeed of world-class quality on a par with those of 2014. 05 for three consecutive years(Asian banker) network, which constitutes the core of the Bank’s future channel strategies. Afterbank is a specialized branch multinational banks around the world. targeting office workers in their 30~40s, with its working hours adjusted to ensure convenient banking for Global Bank that Leads the Asian Financial Industry office workers. KB Portable Branch is a specialized branch that finds its way into the customer’s lives. Through these specialized branches, the Bank seeks to communicate with the customers, and brings itself closer to them. Biz Portfolio Strategies Competition Strategies Led the Trends of the Financial Market KB Kookmin Bank launched its mobile banking services 16 Management Tasks for the first time among South Korean banks. Since the launch of KB Star Banking based on smartphone banking, the Bank’s new engine for future growth and the hottest issue of the financial industry these days, the Bank solicited 9 million customers as of September 2014, securing the largest market share in Securities/ Business/ Company the smartphone banking market. KB Star Banking 3.0, under the slogan My Finance Story on the Palm Channel WM Foreign Loans Overseas Organization Finance Exchange of My Hand, Breathing Together with Customers, provides simple and convenient user experience highly Improve employee pride Revive customer trust Improve competitiveness by differentiation accessible for various customer types. As smartphone-based financial products continued to grow in terms Employee respect management Customer-centered management Field-oriented management of popularity, KB Kookmin Bank became an undisputed leading bank in the smart finance market. 64 65 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Major Products and Services Compliance Officers’ Extended Deliberation Each department of Kookmin Bank needs to have the compliance officer’s prior review from an aspect of regulatory compliance for its important tasks, such as a new Sector Product Sector Product product, among the matters requiring the consultation with and the approval from the director of the headquarters Kookmin Super Time Deposit Selling insurance products on behalf of Savings Creative Banking Savings and Installment Savings Bancassurance insurance companies before getting approval from the final approving authority. The main matters checked in the process of the prior My House Preparation Stepping-stone Loan review are the unsound business practices related to new products, unreasonable discrimination, compliance with Loan Asset management KB Golden Life StarTable KB WISE Worker Loan regulations on sales activities, and conformity with the code of ethics. SOC Project Finance Trust KB Golden Life Pension and Savings Trust Investment finance M&A Finance Compliance Officers’ Extended Deliberation Currency derivative (Unit: event) Investment KB Gross & Value Securities Investment Trust Derivative Interest rate derivative Section Product Development Deliberation Advertisement Deliberation trust Stock derivative 2012 170 774 Foreign Firm banking Foreign currency exchange, remittance, etc. Electronic finance 2013 191 714 exchange Internet banking 2014 112 836 Major Awards Improved Customer Protection System Under the CEO’s motto, VOC is not a nuisance; it is the voice of our precious customers, KB Kookmin Bank considers VOC as the fundamental basis for customer protection. The Award Name Awarding Organization Bank analyzed the causes for VOC to identify improvements, resulting in the improvement of 32 systems in 2014(11 Received the grand prize in the banking sector in Korea Best Brand Awards 2014 for three Forbes Korea loan cases, 10 deposits, 4 e-banking, and 7 others). Major system improvements include: promotion of the interest consecutive year. Selected as one of the best according to the result of A Survey of Sustainable Management The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, rate reduction request system and inclusion of a cautionary message when depositing into a housing subscription for five consecutive years Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy savings account through an automated machine. Awarded『Smart MyHR System』in the sector of the HR System Project for the first time among Korean financial institutions from 'Technology Implementation Awards(TIA)2014' The Asian Banker Adopted Self-compliances Check To ensure ethical and legal compliance by its executives and employees, Selected as the 2014 Best Trade Bank in Korea for four consecutive years Trade Finance magazine KB Kookmin Bank requires all employees to run Compliances Check when starting their computers every Monday Awarded the Smart Web Award 2014 『KB Corporate Banking』 for the banking category to begin their tasks, to reflect on their compliance with the ethical codes and relevant laws/regulations when carrying Korea Internet Professional Association for two consecutive years out their tasks. Association/Organization Membership KB Kookmin Bank promotes social engagement and development Sustainable Management Activities by joining the Korea Federation of Banks, the Federation of Korean Industries, and other organizations. Improved Customer Convenience System Kookmin Bank enforced the Required Customer Document Name Purpose Simplification system in which the requirement for the submission of documents necessary for a loan application, such Korea Federation of Promote the development of the financial industry through mutual cooperation between institutions and as a certificate for the full payment of national and local taxes and a business license, is omitted for small business Banks improvement of the bank businesses owners with a corporate loan of KRW 1 billion or less to minimize inconvenience in document submission on October Federation of Korean Solidify relationships with various areas within the society, and build a healthy economic/social climate 2014. It also implemented the Simple Term Extension system so that customers with good credit rating and Industries Korean Employer’s Ensure industrial peace and promote economic development by setting the labor-management relations into a security can extend the loan that reaches its date of maturity without a credit rating in November 2014. Accordingly, Federation reasonable direction customers can extend the loan term by presenting only simple documents, without the need to submit documents Korea Financial Maintain the business order between members, ensure fair trade, protect investors, and contribute to sound necessary for credit rating. Investment Association development of the financial investment industry Product Sales Survey Kookmin Bank has regularly conducted a product sales survey on financial investment Korea International Promote international trade, carry out collaborative activities within the private sector, and build the Trade Association infrastructure for international trade products to protect investors from incomplete sales and establish a sound complete-selling culture. It has made a key Korea Management Lead the industrial society with knowledge to contribute to the development of the national economy and to the performance indicator(KPI) evaluation for branch offices using survey results. The branch offices with poor survey results Association self-realization of South Korean citizens Creation Financial Package Launch as a first in the Korea Grand Sourcing Fair 2014 financial sector have made an effort to establish a complete-selling culture on the sales scene through separate training programs. Kookmin Bank had conducted a product, sales survey on a variety of financial products such as ELF, ELT, credit cards, variable life insurances, and personal credit loans, nine times since its first survey on fund products on March 3, 2014. It provided a feedback report for each branch office to improve poor matters found in the survey immediately. Strengthened Deliberation and Evaluation before Launching a Product Kookmin Bank strengthens the deliberation and evaluation process for the sustainability of products and services before launching a new product. The main matters subject to deliberation are all risks related to the product, the pricing policy, task procedures, and infringement of customer rights and interests. The sustainability of a product is evaluated in the following process: the Customer-customized service enforcement collection of customer reviews, the verification of the Product Committee, the evaluation of Financial Strategy Council, (Star Banking 3.0) the review of the New Product Sales Council, and postlaunch monitoring. 66 67 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 We aim to become Korea’s best everyday service and solution Total Assets Operating Income provider in support of people’s lives. 158,868 4,385 Clearly understanding people’s everyday lives, KB Kookmin Card suggests smart ways of consumption aligned with individual lifestyles, and focuses on differentiating its services, emphasizing customer values as its top priority. In addition, the company is committed to adopting technology that will lead the future market and developing convenient goods and services for its customers to offer the best everyday service solutions that Amount of will enrich people’s lives. In addition, the company will devise ways to grow in symbiosis with the people and Equity Net Income Card Usage enhance social contribution activities so that it would truly become the power for people’s lives. We promise to thus become the best reliable partner of the people. 34,805 3,327 920,414 CEO Duk-Soo Kim (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, Consolidated statements) Founded as Kookmin Credit Card in 1987, KB Kookmin Card was established as a spin-off company of KB Major Achievements COMPANY OVERVIEW HISTORY Kookmin Bank in March 2011 after the merger of Kookmin Credit Card with Kookmin Bank in September Date of Establishment March 2, 2011 1980. 09 Kookmin Bank launched its credit card business To fulfill its central task of enhancing customer trust, KB Kookmin Card carried out its business activities 2003 to enhance its business capability and competitiveness. It aims to become a New Leader in Duk-Soo Kim 1987. 09 Kookmin Credit Card Co., Ltd. is founded spanning across six areas including protection of customer information, efficient marketing, systematic cost Chairman & CEO the credit card market with its long-term customer relations of over 10 years and innovative product management, and corporate culture enhancement for new growth. Capital Stock KRW 460 billion development capabilities. The company has launched credit, check, and prepaid cards that meet customers’ Became the first credit card company to reach 1996. 12 credit card transactions of KRW 10 trillion 30, Saemunan-ro 3-gil, Jongnogu, needs, and has enhanced its products and services utilizing big data. It is also building a cutting-edge Headquarters Address Seoul 1998. 12 Merged with KLB Credit Card Corp. Major Awards payment infrastructure headed by K-motion, a mobile app card. No. of Branches(total) 33(branch: 25, Sales office: 8) Listed in KOSDAQ(for the first time among credit Title Awarding Organization 2000. 06 No. of Customers 19,010,105 Management Framework and Business Strategy card companies) 2014 Customer Satisfaction Management Award, Finance/Card Section Korea Economics Daily (seven consecutive years) 2003. 09 Merged with Kookmin Bank No. of Employees 1,475 Best Life Service Solutions Provider in Korea 2014 The most trsuted brand chosen by consumers Digital Chosun Ilbo 2011. 03 Founded KB Kookmin Card Home Page www.kbcard.com Strategy and Finance Ranked No. 1 by the NCSI(National Customer 2014 Grand Prize, Financial Education Section, Social Contribution Award Committee, National Assembly Systemically Discovering next-generation Optimizing Strengthening corporate 2013. 12 Satisfaction Index), credit card section(for two managing costs future growth engines risk management social responsibility 2014 Hit product for the 2nd half of 2014 Hangeul Brand Card by KB Kookmin Card Seoul Shinmun consecutive years) · Achievements/profitability by · Expanding the basis of future · Building a balanced risk · Improving the corporate strengthening management revenue generation management system image by practicing win-win by customer segment · Planning to make forays into · Maximizing return through growth management Sustainability Activities · Focusing internal capacity to international markets for advanced late payment · Leading management enhancement sustainable growth management centered on the protection of Talent Development KB Kookmin Card is fostering big data and risk analysis experts through our customer rights phased expert training courses. In addition, the company operates mandatory courses for each rank, indepth courses dedicated to specific areas, such as sales and marketing, and long-term training programs. Main Products and Service These programs and courses are the cradles for our finance/business experts. Product Feature Environmental Management KB Kookmin Card has been using environment-friendly recycled Hun-MinProvides benefits tailored to each individual customer’s lifestyle based on the scientific Credit/ Jeong-Eum Card principles and practical spirit of the Korean alphabet(Hun-Min-Jeong-Eum) paper for all printed materials since 2012, to help preserve the environment. We published around 190 check card Gaonnuri All branch offices provide benefits with the sentiment of caring for the family, which types of printed materials using environment-friendly recycled paper, saving 1,816 MW of electricity and Card is considered the center of the world(Gaonnuri) 21,030 tons of water. Electronic KB Wise Enables checking discounts and points accumulation by inserting app cards, membership, wallet Wallet and coupons, among others, into a smartphone Can insert several cards into a smartphone, providing the convenience of easy and App card K-motion safe payments 68 69 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 We will share our growth and development with our Total Assets Operating Income customers. As a member of KB Financial Group, KB Investment & Securities is growing as Korea’s leading total financial investment company. KB Investment & Securities strives to become a trustworthy financial investment 41,312 396 partner, which considers customers’ successful investments and happiness as its foremost value. Through an organic collaborative network with other subsidiaries, KB Investment & Securities provides more advanced financial products and services and makes every effort to protect customer assets through strict internal control and protection of customer information. In addition, the company became the first in the industry to Equity Net Income Management Asset develop a MTS stock trade for smartphone financial services and, at the same time, to be set to contribute to the economic development as a company’s faithful financing partner. KB Investment & Securities will continue to become a financial investment company that shares its growth and development with customers, 5,765 258 142,667 and we promise to become a model company that shares great relationships with the communities. (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, CEO Byoung-Jo Chun Consolidated statements) COMPANY OVERVIEW KB Investment & Securities is a leader in the issuance of corporate bond/asset-backed securities, and its HISTORY Major Performance capability in the IB sector continues to expand as the competitiveness of the equity capital market(ECM)Date of Establishment August 16, 1995 Established Yonhap SB Securities, Co., Ltd. 1995. The company set a record of No. 1 in the corporate bond and ABS-managed sector(15.4% of market managed-managed sector has been secured. In addition, despite the continued depression of the stock 1995. 08 11; company name changed to Hannuri Salomon share as of 2014 according to Bloomberg) until the end of 2014 for four consecutive years. In addition, Chairman & CEO Byoung-Jo Chun industries, KB Investment & Securities continues to generate revenue from corporate stock, bond brokerage, Securities, Co., Ltd. the company has achieved diversification of profit structure in the IB sector currently as of 2014(the bell Capital Stock KRW 157.9 billion etc., by maintaining its competitiveness in the upper ranks of the industry’s wholesale sector. To strengthen Company name changed to Hannuri Salomon 1995. 11 Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. League Table as the standard, KRW 700.2 billion of performance of leading conductor) by reaching No. 2 22nd floor, Shinhan Investment Corp., the role of a future growth engine within KB Financial Group, we promise to grow into a total financial Headquarters Address Yeoeui Avenue, Yeongdeungpo-gu, in the ECM-managed sector. Also, the company is expanding the business area through newly establishing investment company by expanding the WM sector growth, such as retail brokerage and wealth brokerage 1997. 10 Company name changed to Hannuri Investment Seoul & Securities Co., Ltd. investment financial headquarters and receiving an approval for DLS business. It has also accomplished a with the synergy with KB Kookmin Bank product capability, reinforcing online service, such as mobile, etc. No. of Branches(total) 11 2002. 10 Established Hannuri Hong Kong local subsidiary turnaround in the WM business in which a foundation has been secured through constant investment. No. of Employees 489 Management Framework and Business Strategy 2008. 03 Changed major shareholder and changed name Sector Products Home Page www.kbsec.co.kr to KB Investment & Securities · Corporate financial work through acquisition such as stock/bond(corporate bond, ABS, bond Strengthening the Role of Future Growth Engine of the Capital Market Reapproval of financial investment business, Corporate finance/ denominated in foreign currency, IPO, etc.) 2009. 02 Investment finance · Structuralization of real estate project financing(PF), securitization, and arrangement within KB Financial Group registration for investment entrustment business · M&A Advisory, Principal Investment(investing equity capital), PEF/SPAC Received an approval for investment sales · Providing financial service for domestic and foreign institutional investors such as entrusted Strengthening the Power in the Key Solidification of Surplus at Securing a New Profit Through 2010. 12 business of OTC derivatives 2011. 03 KB Merger Corporate sale brokerage of stock and derivatives, sales of financial products, investment consulting, etc. Business Market WM Sector Improving Product Competitiveness with Futures Co., Ltd. Bond sale · Brokerage and operating bonds(bond-related securities, derivatives, etc.) · Improving the capability of a · Strengthening a high value-added · Securing professional personnel 2011. 03 Merged with KB Future · Providing financial service for individual investors such as entrusted brokerage of stock and comprehensive solution provider Online Biz(MTS) through improving who develop product, operate, and Opened KB Star Campsite, a premium stock WM sale derivatives, sales of financial products, investment consulting, etc. through a balanced growth in the online system competitiveness establish organization 2013. 08 · Customer-tailored service through various channels(sales branch, HTS, Web, mobile, etc.) entire IB sector consulting service · Stabilization of profit basis through · Developing IB-connected product Asset management · Operating intrinsic assets such as stock, bond, derivatives, etc. · Improving the share rate of wholesale expanding noncommission related to corporate deals (sales & trading) · Providing financial products, such as ELS, ELW, etc., for individual and corporate customers such as corporate/bond/futures profit(credit offering and asset · Expanding customer-centered through business cooperation with management) service for wholesale, retail, and bank Sustainability Activities other sales division, and subsidiaries. · Securing a WM foundation through a customers complex branch of bank-securities KB Investment & Securities focuses on investment-type product development peculiar that is specific securities. In 2014, the supply of various structures of ELS/DLS became available through receiving an approval for DLS, and KB Investment & Securities has made efforts to expand the middle-risk, middleprofit product lineup such as sourcing foreign bond investment products, etc. In addition, the WM financial product asset has increased by 241% as a result of strengthening the consulting capabilities of tax-saving investment products and asset management. 70 71 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 We will consider customer trust as our top priority. Total Assets Operating Income We would like to express our sincere gratitude to our customers for their steady love toward KB Life 76,802 136 Insurance. Through our vision Life Partner with No. 1 Customer Trust and our strategic direction of establishing a foundation for profitable growth, we are making efforts to become a trustworthy life insurance company. For this, first, we are enhancing the customer value and trust by providing products and services based on customers’ needs and improving customer value-oriented business process. Second, we are making efforts to strengthen the sales competitiveness by enhancing capabilities of distribution channels and Equity Net Income developing a synergy effect within the Group. Third, we are consolidating a foundation for continuous growth as a going-concern by improving profitability and soundness through enhanced product portfolio and asset 5,837 65 management capabilities. CEO Yong-Kil Shin (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, Consolidated statements) Since its founding in 2004, with the beginning of the establishment of the bancassurance channel, KB Life Major Performance COMPANY OVERVIEW HISTORY Insurance has gradually established the GA and FC channels and has been providing the best financial KB Life Insurance Customer Satisfaction Center has been selected as Korea’s excellent call center in Date of Establishment April 29, 2004 2004. 04 Established KB Life Insurance services that meet customer needs through diversified sales channels. The company reached KRW 15,600 the category of life insurance industry for nine consecutive years at the Korea Customer Satisfaction Chairman & CEO Yong-Kil Shin billion in business in-force and KRW 7,700 billion in total assets, laying its foundation. 2004. 06 Started banacassurance marketing Index(KSQI) evaluation hosted by Korea Management Association Consulting(KMAC). Under KSQI, the KRW 456 billion 2005. 01 Equity participation(49%) by ING Capital Stock quality of call center service of the public institutes and companies is categorized into 16 items, including (As of December 31, 2014) Management Framework and Business Strategy 2008. 02 Started agency marketing and telemarketing reception condition, customer greeting, consulting attitude, processing, closing attitude, etc., by KMAC, and Headquarters Address 40 Cheongpa-ro,Yongsan-gu, Seoul Life Partner with No. 1 Customer Trust 2009. 06 Started financial consultant(FC) channel can be recognized as the excellent call center only when the score of 90 or above is obtained. No. of Branches(total) 20 Received a Top Excellence Award in the category No. of Customers 362,785 Growing to be the top 10 life insurance company through change and innovation 2011. 03 of infra establishment/internal control at the 2010-2011 The bell Risk Manager Awards Sustainability Activities No. of Employees 303 Laying the foundation for risk Selected as the certified family-friendly company Improving customer value-centered business process With the enhancement of financial Home Page www.kbli.co.kr Improving customer value Strengthening sales Expanding a long-term, 2013. 11 based by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family consumers’ awareness of their rights and the rising importance of protecting financial consumers, the existing and trust capabilities stable revenue base qualitative growth 2014. 02 Reached KRW 7 trillion in total assets financial paradigm is transforming rapidly to protect financial consumers. In line with this trend, KB Life Insurance Strong and vigorous organization culture filled with challenge and passion, 2014.04 Korea’s excellent call center for nine consecutive is taking various measures to improve customers’ trust by establishing the company-wide perfect sales years at KSQI process and running customer complaint prevent campaigns such as distribution channels having ownership for Major Products and Service handling its respective complaints and conducting customer complaint prevention training. Establishing Footing for Value-focused Sustainable Growth To establish a footing for Sector Products *KB Golden Life Platinum Annuity II sustainable growth focused on value, KB Life Insurance is making efforts to create a balanced channel Annuity *KB Golden Life Annuity portfolio and product portfolio and to set a trust-based sales culture. It is also promoting a sustainable and *KB Wise 100 Years Old Annuity and two other products profitable growth strategy focused on value in the medium and longer term. *KB Star Variable Annuity II Variable insurance *KB Golden Life ELS Variable Insurance and two other products Expansion of New Growth Engine To respond to the environmental change and to develop a Health/personal *KB National Cancer Insurance foundation for a sustainable growth, KB Life Insurance is in the process of developing various new growth *KB National Wise Accident Insurance accident insurance *KB Family Love Cancer Whole Life Insurance and two other products engines. It is currently running a project to develop an online insurance system to enter the online insurance *KB Power Plus Savings Insurance market and is continuously making efforts to catch and commercialize market opportunities through Savings insurance *KB Wise Large-amount Savings Insurance and two other products promoting and discovering areas with various synergies within the Group. *KB Family Love VIP Whole Life Insurance Whole life insurance *KB Family Love Whole Life Insurance and two other products 72 73 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 KB Asset Management aims to manage customer’s assets Total Assets Operating Income through management and risk management based on the principle of long-term investment. 2,545 658 As a total asset management company, KB Asset Management manages assets worth a total of KRW 40 trillion across various fields, such as stock-bond-raw material-SOC-real estate, etc. The company took a leadership position in the long-term fund market where its management capabilities are devoted, and has been suggesting optimized investment portfolios to customers through providing various products. Equity Net Income Management Asset In addition, in the alternative investment sector, with years of management experience and expertise, the company manages a variety of domestic and international infrastructure funds(around KRW 5 trillion) including capital restructuring project, power generation project, energy project, etc. 2,019 496 361,044 CEO Hee-Kwon Lee * Management Asset: based on amount of trust at Korea Financial Investment Association as of the end of 2014 (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2013, Consolidated statements) COMPANY OVERVIEW With the long-term profit rate of the managed asset as the management philosophy, KB Asset Management HISTORY Major Products and Service aims to be one of the top ten asset management companies in Asia by 2020; its major services include Products Description Date of Establishment April 28, 1988 1988. 04 Established Kookmin Investment Consulting management and sales of investment trust assets and investment-entrusted assets. With this, KB Asset Company’s asset of profit value or long-term investment in stocks that are Chairman & CEO Hee-Kwon Lee Management is focusing on the sustainability and stability of the management profit rate by adopting Company name changed to Joo Eun Investment KB Value Focus Fund(equity) 1992. 12 undervalued compared to blue-chip business models. Consulting Co., Ltd. Capital Stock KRW 38.3 billion fund manager performance evaluation system centered on a long-term profit rate for the first time in the KB Retirement Pension Started investment trust management business; A leading retirement pension fund investing in treasury bond and high-dividend blue25 th floor, Shinhan Financial industry. Especially in 2014, even with the decrease in the market size of the domestic stock fund, the main 1997. 08 changed company name to Joo Eun Investment Dividend 40 fund chip stocks(below 40%) Headquarters Address Investment Building, 70 Yeoeui(fixed income balanced) field, KB Asset Management took a top position in the long-and short-term profit rate. In the competitive Trust Management Co., Ltd. daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seou Concentrated investment in strong SME’s with high growth potential and stable profit area of domestic stock fund, the company provides the KB Value Focus Fund(setting amount of KRW 1.7254 2002. 06 Company name changed to Kookmin Investment KB SME Focus Fund(equity) generation. No. of Employees 159 Trust Management Co., Ltd. trillion, profit rate of 137.79% after the setting), KB Retirement Pension Dividend 40 Fund(KRW 981.3 KB Star Korea Index(equity) Index fund following KOSPI200, a leading Korean stock index www.kbam.co.kr Company name changed to KB Asset Home Page ETF: www.kstaretf.com billion, 127.384%), KB Small and Medium Stock Focus Fund(KRW 673 billion, 79.02%), etc. In particular, 2004. 04 KB Star Euro Index(equity) Index fund following Euro Stoxx 50, a leading European stock index Management Co., Ltd. in the category of long-term fund, which is an essential product for sustainable growth(Retirement Pension KB Korea Long-shot Fund Pursuing bond interest rate + a through bond investment + long-shot domestic 2008. 09 Major shareholder changed to KB Financial Group (equity balanced) stock strategy Fund, Infra Fund), KB Asset Management achieved No. 1 in the amount of trust deposits as a result of 2012. 03 Reached KRW 5 trillion in domestic stock fund implementing a Right Asset Management. 2013. 01 Reached KRW 30 trillion in total amount of assets Sustainability Activities under management Management Framework and Business Strategy Implementing Internal Control Compliance and Pledge All the officers and employees at Dream Invest, Value Invest KB Asset Management are drafting a compliance undertaking based on the internal control rules when joining the company. With the drafting of the compliance undertaking, they promise not only to abide by the Management Process that Considers the Research Consistent Management Philosophy that Focuses on the relevant laws and internal control rules and guidelines, etc., but also to faithfully cooperate to the request to as the Top Priority Market’s Long-term Trend provide information made by the compliance officer. Strengthening Chinese Wall/Establishing System Preventing Conflicts of Interest As the importance Promoting core Solidification of (Stock-type)-Satellite Strengthening passive position within the oversea sales Strengthening risk of information protection has been increased, Request Form for Providing Information is being drafted capabilities and (mixed, entrusted) fund market power alternative investment promoting overseas management where a prior approval on matters regarding the provision of information, etc., must be obtained from the strategy market development compliance officer. Not only that, internal control is being strengthened by the enactment(amendment) and implementation of the internal control rules and internal control manuals. 74 75 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 KB Capital will contribute to the customers’ happy future. Total Assets Operating Income All the officers and employees of KB Capital are exerting efforts for the customers’ happy future as its foremost value and to always be a close and reliable partner. Despite the difficult domestic and international 40,474 432 management environment, KB Capital has accomplished significant growth. In particular, in 2014, KB Capital was incorporated into KB Financial Group and was able to establish footing for its second leap to the future. We will solidify KB Capital for automobile finance as a corporate brand by focusing our capabilities in the more competitive field of car finance, connecting subsidiaries in the field of personal finance, etc. In addition, we will establish footing in order to grow into a global company by realizing system advancement and Equity Net Income Credit Status actively seeking overseas market development. KB Capital promises to be the No. 1 credit financial company in Korea by maximizing profits based on substantial and crisis management. 4,278 326 39,139 CEO Ji-Woo Park (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, Consolidated statements) COMPANY OVERVIEW KB Capital is a specialized credit financial company that mainly engages in installment loans, lease, personal HISTORY Major Performance and corporate credit, and mortgage loans. It provides various automobile finances such as installment– Strengthening Automobile Finance Capabilities We are promoting a strategy to expand the Date of Establishment September 19, 1989 1989. 09 Establishment of Hanmi Lease Co., Ltd. lease-rent, etc. through 19 nationwide networks, domestic/imported carmakers, and dealer networks. Also, market share in and out of automobile-related financial services, which is our key business area. In the Chairman & CEO Ji-Woo Park through such expertise and exclusive review, KB Capital became the first company to successfully deploy a 1999. 06 Name changed to Hanmi Capital Co., Ltd. imported car sector, we strengthened our role as an exclusive financial company for Jaguar–Land Rover, Capital Stock KRW 107.5 billion credit loan model linked to banks. It is leading the vitalization of low-income groups’ finance by providing a Change of major shareholder Korea City Bank 2006. 06 to Osage and have solidified our position as the No.1 in the M/S imported car sector by expanding partnerships 295, Hyowon-ro, Paldal-gu, Suwon, credit loan through around 1,200 sales branches of Kookmin Bank. In 2014, while solidifying its relationship Headquarters Address with imported car dealers such as Benz, BMW, etc. In the domestic car sector, we have reached KRW Gyeonggi-do(Ingye-dong) 2006. 12 Hanmi Capital and Ssangyong Capital merged with existing domestic car sellers, KB Capital reached a performance of KRW 1.5050 trillion-a 12% 1.5050 trillion in the imported car and new domestic cars category, a 12% increase compared to that of No. of Branches(total) 19 branch(6 office) increase compared to that of last year-by expanding its partnership with imported car dealers. Thus, it is 2007. 10 Name changed to Woori Financial Co., Ltd. last year. This was achieved through strengthened reinforcement of the relationship with existing domestic No. of Customers 350,000 growing into a non-bank key subsidiary within the Group through its rental car expansion, which has been Joint venture capital establishment with Mahindra 2013. 09 Finance/Business cooperation car sellers. In the used car sector, we are implementing a sales strategy that secures sales at the relevant No. of Employees 459 two years since its release, and the sales of durable goods. complex by partnering with the used-car sales complex. With regard to rental cars that have been released 2014. 03 Name changed to KB Capital Co., Ltd. Home Page www.kbcapital.co.kr 2 years ago, we handled 1,903 new cars, which is a 244% increase compared to that of last year. Management Framework and Business Strategy Becoming a Key Non-Bank Subsidiary within the Group Sustainability Activities Securing a Competitive Advantage for Key Businesses Strengthening the Communication Culture among Officers and Employees KB Capital operates various systems to strengthen the communication among officers and employees and to boost Maximization of Portfolio Discovering Strengthening Risk Efficiency of morale. By making and providing an in-house newsletter, KB Talk Talk, which provides and shares various New Growth Engine Management Information System news on the status of the company and its subsidiaries, as well as to create a shared corporate culture, KB Capital has strengthened its communication efficiency among employees. In particular, the articles posted Expanding Revenue-generating Capability Improving Risk Management Capabilities and Cost Efficiency were directly written by the employees and aimed to enhance company loyalty. It is regularly implementing a monthly event that develops a bond between employees, such as the creation of the Compliment Relay Major products and service System, where an admirable person is selected among its officers and employees. In addition, KB Capital Sector Products attempts to overcome the difficult market situation by strengthening the communication among officers New car finance, used car finance, imported car finance, commercial vehicle finance, lease and Automobile Finance and employees and by boosting the morale through bonding events among officers and employees such as car rental finance, direct finance service by celebrating Hof Day, which offers a free communication forum among officers and employees, a special Credit loans, mortgage loans, installment of durable goods, loans for stock-purchasing, direct Personal Finance finance service event that gives vital power to its employees(Chobok, Jungbok, Malbok, etc.), and tracking. Corporate Finance Corporate mortgage loans, corporate operation loans, medical device lease, facilities lease 76 77 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 KB Savings Bank considers the creation of customer value as Total Assets Operating Income its top priority goal. At KB Savings Bank, all employees exert their efforts to grow into the best savings bank through the 7,651 -17 enhancement of its status as Korea’s leading savings bank by giving low-interest financial support for lowincome groups, stabilizing the economy of low-income groups, and vitalizing the related finance of small and medium enterprises. In addition, to fulfill its social responsibilities, the company regularly carries out various social contribution activities each year and leads the realization of ethical management. As Equity Net Income Asset based Loan a subsidiary of KB Financial Group, KB Savings Bank will continue to be with its customers by providing optimized products that takes in consideration the local development and creation of customer value as its top priority goal, etc. 1,526 -207 5,119 CEO Yeong-Man Kim (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, Consolidated statements) COMPANY OVERVIEW As one of the subsidiaries of KB Financial Group, KB Savings Bank is an exclusive bank that provides financing HISTORY Major Products and Service for low-income groups. Also, it is exerting efforts to be a savings bank that shares its growth with lowDate of Establishment January 13, 2012 2012. 01 Establishment of KB Seomin Co., Ltd. Product Name Target Characteristics income groups and local small and medium enterprises, based on the fact that it has the largest financial Chairman & CEO Yeong-Man Kim KB Seomin Co., Ltd. received approval for A leading credit loan with below mid-interest for financial support to low-income network in Korea with stable asset management. The company prepares to gain footing for long-term growth KB Good Loan groups mutual savings bank and a capital increase Capital Stock KRW 40 billion by recovering the trust of its customers and revamping its internal setting to strengthen the finance for low2012. 01 of 22 billion(KRW 34 billion of paid-in capital KB Good and Credit loan for salaried workers such as employees, government employees, teachers, Individual 260, Songpa-daero, Songpa-gu, income groups, which is its top priority. As the first step, the company does its best to grow as a blue-chip after the capital increase) Speedy Loan soldiers, professionals, etc. Headquarters Address Name changed to KB Savings Bank Co., Ltd. Seoul KB Good Credit loan conversion for customers who took out a credit loan from other financial savings bank that leads the economic stabilization of low-income groups by focusing on on-site sales such Approval to establish branches(JangchoongConversion Loan institutes 11 branch including headquarters as strengthened contact-type business relationship with locals, small business owners, etc. No. of Branches(total) 2012. 01 Dong, Yeouido, Nonhyun-dong, Pyeongchon, Loan for individual business owners where up to 80% of the card sales amount can be sales division KB Good CEO Loan Bundang) Individual loaned No. of Customers 272,647(register based) business 2012. 01 Started business KB Good Franchise owners Loans that support start-ups and operational funds for excellent franchise members No. of Employees 158 Management Framework and Business Strategy Loan Merger with(former) Yehansol Savings Bank(KRW Home Page www.kbsavings.com 2014. 01 40 billion of paid-in capital after the capital Giving Hope and Happiness through Good Finance increase) Sustainability Activities The Savings Bank Star that Leads to Financial Support for Low-income Groups in Korea launched KB Good Loan to stabilize financial 2013. 09 support for low-income groups Talent Development The company trains the Financial Risk Manager(FRM) and masters in credit review analysis through a professional training program for efficient marketing and proactive risk Compliance and Ethics Communications and Dedication and Support Challenge and Innovation Pride and Passion management. It is also making efforts to strengthen its expertise by implementing a training program Harmony tailored for each position, in-house group training, etc. Strengthening Local Social Contribution Activities The company continuously carries out Major Awards community-based social contribution activities such as volunteering activities for free meal service(Hasan Title Awarding Organization Paul’s House), supporting juveniles of multicultural families, supporting household items for senior citizens Received an award from the Good Loan Awards in the savings bank sector Dong-A Ilbo who live alone, etc. As part of its social responsibility, the company also participates in the Sharing Hope: Received the Excellence Award at the Excellent New Financial Product(Product Name: KB Good Anybody Loan) Financial Supervisory Service KRW 1 for 1 m Charity Walking Event, which is annually hosted by the Korea National Red Cross. In addition, the company also participates in the project for the improvement of the residential environment of low-income groups and provides support in projects for juveniles with rare and obstinate diseases. 78 79 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 We will consider customer satisfaction and the fulfillment of Total Assets Operating Income social responsibility as our top priorities. 2,048 200 KB Real Estate Trust always strives to deliver trust and satisfaction to its customers. KB Real Estate Trust attempts to fulfill its customers’ needs by creating a steady and stable financial company, amidst market insecurity, through faithful and precise management based on fundamental and continuous growth that is based on business diversification. In addition, the company is developing new business areas based on its knowledge on real estate-related laws and programs, including the Trust Act. With a highly ethical mind-set, Equity Net Income all the officers and employees at KB Real Estate Trust will continue its commitment to building a company that prioritizes customer satisfaction, fulfills its social responsibilities, and achieves healthier growth. 1,839 148 CEO Sun-il Chung (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, Consolidated statements) COMPANY OVERVIEW Within KB Financial Group, KB Real Estate Trust consists of a group of experts responsible for real estate HISTORY Major Performance development, management, disposal, and REITs services. The company plays a role as a full realIn 2014, KB Real Estate Trust modified its rules and improved its systems. Also, it enhanced its efficiency Date of Establishment December 3, 1996 1996. 12 Founded Joo Eun Real Estate Trust Co., Ltd. estate trust company that returns profits after managing and operating the real estate entrusted by the and reasonable organizational operations by establishing and implementing its reengineering plans. Based Chairman & CEO Sun-il Chung customer. The company strives for stable business operations and consumer protection by reinforcing risk Company name changed to KB Real Estate 2002. 09 on this, the company had achieved KRW 39.9 billion in commission revenue, which is a 16% increase Trust Capital Stock KRW 80 billion management, management efficiency, and ethical management. Moreover, it maintains the largest amount 2002. 12 Approval for REITs Asset Management Company compared to that of the last year. As of the end of 2014, the total amount of trust deposits had reached 15/16th Floors, Samwon Tower, 124, of trust deposits in the industry based on its high credit rating and strong funding power. Headquarters Address Relocation of headquarters(124 Teheran-ro, KRW 17.8 trillion, thus becoming the No. 1 in the industry. In the REITs sector, the company released Tehran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 2005. 03 Gangnam-gu, Seoul) REITs for rental houses-a first in Korea-and successfully purchased the YTN Tower. It also successfully 3 domestic branches including its No. of Branches(total) headquarters Management Framework and Business Strategy purchased the Ssangyong Building at Dongja-dong with the cooperation of KB Asset Management. On the No. of Employees 146 other hand, by winning lot-solid hotel projects, which is a profitable real-estate product based on its low Under KB Real Estate Trust's aim to be Korea’s No.1 Real Estate Trust Company, it implemented four Home Page www.kbret.co.kr interest in a form of leveraged land trust, the company completed the early parceling-out of the Ramada business strategies in 2014. First, the company exerted efforts for Strengthening Market Power by Encore East Hotel at Seogwipo. In addition, the company won a contract for agency tasks and a special reinforcing the competitiveness in winning a contract, increasing REITs performance, and creating a structure project of a local housing association in Haeundae-gu, Busan by engaging in market-tailored new source of revenue. Second, the company exerted efforts in Strengthening Risk Management by sales activities, and thus developed the niche market by constructing duplex homes in the Yoingin area, etc. establishing a proactive risk management system. Third, the company attempted to achieve an Increase in Management Efficiency through the improvement of sales productivity, organization alignment, reinforced Sustainability Activities personnel capabilities, and cost reduction. Fourth, the company carried out efforts in Practicing Ethical Strengthening Human Capabilities KB Real Estate Trust implements its training programs each year Management by reinforcing consumer protection, etc. to strengthen expertise. In 2014, the company strived to strengthen the expertise of its officers and employees by performing in-house group training, providing outsourced training to foster professionals, carrying out Best Real-Estate Trust Company telecommunication training through a financial training center, inviting professionals for lectures, etc. Aiming for the Best Leading the Market Total Real Estate Service Strengthening Risk Management KB Real Estate Trust continuously makes improvements to riskStrengthening Market Power Strengthening Risk Increase in Management Practicing Ethical related programs. In 2014, to reinforce the risk management system, the company implemented Operating Management Efficiency Management standard of limit for each project cost for the proactive risk management reinforcement of leveraged land • Reinforcing competitiveness • Establishing a proactive risk • Improving sales productivity • Reinforcing consumer in winning a contract management system · Organization alignment protection, etc. trust and to resolve concentrated risk. It also carried out a risk evaluation manual for each development type, · Increase in REITs · Reinforcing personnel an accident prevention program regarding the project cost payment, improvement of the internal control performance · Creating new capabilities and reducing process, reinforcement of the IT sector, regular checkup on customer information protection·internal control source of revenue costs task compliance, and reinforcement of the management method of important documents. 80 81 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 We support the sustainable growth of small and mediumTotal Assets Operating Income sized venture firms and medium-sized companies. 2,253 12 KB Investment aims enable the company to become the best through the innovation of investment (consolidated) companies and the improvement of corporate value and shared investment on small-and medium-sized venture firms, including medium-sized companies, which will be the next-generation growth industry that will lead Korea’s future industry. KB Investment is continuously bringing out the sustainable growth of companies through the provision of a comprehensive management support service, along with the Equity Net Income Management Asset investment on small-and medium-sized venture firms, including medium-sized companies, in order to find the growth engine within the rapidly changing management environment. As the top leading investment firm in the industry, KB Investment will always exert its best efforts to be an investment partner that will have 1,348 14 13,450 shared growth with the companies. CEO Choong-Sun Park (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, Consolidated statements) Founded in 1990, KB Investment is mainly responsible for Venture Investment intended for domestic and Major Performance COMPANY OVERVIEW HISTORY foreign unlisted small and medium-sized venture firms, Growth Capital Investment to support the growth KB Investment has invested in about 770 companies and has 115 corporate results. It had 133 companies Date of Establishment March 27, 1990 1990. 03 Founded KLB Venture Capital medium-sized companies, and Buyout Investment for corporate management. Since its founding, the in portfolios and investments in various industries on February 2015. Chairman & CEO Choong-Sun Park firm has invested in about 700 companies and listed over 100 companies, fulfilling its role as an investment 1999. 01 Changed trade name to Kookmin Venture Capital Sector Product Product Capital Stock KRW 44.8 billion partner that helps small and medium venture firms grow. 2001. 12 Merged with Frontier Investment Radio telecommunications and Companies that need corporate value 9 th floor, 731 , Yeongdong Ave., 2002. 06 Merged with Kookmin Technology Banking semiconductor/next-generation diplays, IT improvement through a secure growth engine Headquarters Address Gangnam-gu, Seou Management Framework and Business Strategy new biodrugs, medicine, medicines, medical and establish practical strategy 2005. 04 Changed trade name to KB Venture Capital devices, and health care devices No. of Branches(total) 1 domestic headquarter 2009. 07 Changed trade name to KB Investment Alternative energy, the second battery, Companies that have an opportunity for No. of Customers 133(fiirms and institution) KB Investment Venture Green environment-friendly new material, increased performance through growth Total amount of assets under management Industry environment-friendly water treatment PE opportunity followed by the reestablishment No. of Employees 36 Top-down Allocation Bottom-up Selection Investment 2012. 08 exceeded KRW 1 trillion(total amount under technology, etc. of the business model management: KRW 1,425 billion) Home Page www.kbic.co.kr Strategy composed of portfolios based on macroeconomic Strategy composed of portfolio that considers the Mobile security/approval/payment system and Companies with damaged corporate value FinTech change, analyzing the industry and trend of growing business characteristics and growth stage of investment companies, service algorithm-based financial technology because of a management dispute or problems types, etc. financial characteristics, etc. Weight reduction, new material, and chemical with corporate governance, and those where Parts corporate governance improvement is available · Economic analysis: Macro and microanalysis · Maturity of industries, perspective for growth, trend for technology · Analyzing industry and business type change · Analyzing demand and supply of venture investment markets · Expected cash flow after investment and major change in Sustainability Activities financial index · Plans for diversified investment: Investment time, business Sustainability Activities KB Investment promotes social responsibility as the important major task by · Relative comparison of major financial ratio at the related type, region, stage having an interest and consideration for local communities, which can be easily neglected. In May 2014, the business company took 30 elderly ladies from the Yongbo Elderly Nursing House to Everland, watched My Love Tarzan, · Management source of the company: Strategy, key products and service, human resource, loyalty of officers and Seal Show, etc., went on simple rides, and had a fun and happy outing. As part of the warm winter sharing, the employees, task concentration level company provided manual labor services, such as meals, laundry, and cleaning, for senior citizens in December. Improving Security Awareness of Employees KB Investment implements information security and Major Awards personal information protection training for officers and employees. In particular, the company is reinforcing the Award Name Awarding Organization security awareness of officers and employees by implementing continuous training on document management, Received a commendation from the President in 2012 President etc., for the information security of companies that are KB Investment’s major customers. With this, the company Received a plaque of appreciation in the job creation category in 2013 Korea Financial Corporation(KoFC) does not fail to abide by legal procedures such as obtaining a consent letter for providing personal information when receiving personal information from major shareholders. 82 83 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 We will provide customers with a touching service that goes Total Assets Operating Income beyond satisfaction. 288 -5.9 As a specialized organization for the postmanagement of credit, KB Credit Information is leading the industry based on its excellent professional staff and systemized bond management system, despite the difficult management environments such as depression of the bond collection market, etc. In particular, the company is also playing a key role in setting a virtuous cycle in the financial transactions and realizing a healthy credit society through an efficient bond collection management. KB Credit Information promises to become Equity Net Income the future No. 1 total credit information company with an aim to provide Market Trust and Customer Satisfaction, and Satisfactory Service by discovering a new growth engine while keeping the highest level of competitiveness in the industry, based on the reinforcement competitiveness in key business areas such as 208 -16.0 bond collection, etc. CEO Hyeon-Cheol Oh (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, Consolidated statements) COMPANY OVERVIEW KB Credit Information is a top-tier credit information company that leads the domestic credit information HISTORY Major Performance industry in terms of credit management size and stability by collecting more than KRW 317.7 billion per Maximizing Credit Collection Performance within the Group There have been several Date of Establishment October 9, 1991 Establishment of Joo Eun Credit Information Co., year and managing KRW 4.3 trillion credits since 2012 within the KB Financial Group. Based on the know1999. 10 Ltd difficulties in 2014, including the shrinking of collection activities caused by the decrease in the credit Chairman & CEO Hyeon-Cheol Oh how, professional and the company’s scientific and systematic credit management system obtained through Merger with KM Credit Information, company collection market and customer information leakage.However, the company maximized its contribution, such Capital Stock KRW 6.26 billion the collection of the financial credits for years, the company provides a distinguished service from other 2002. 05 changed the name to Kook Eun Credit Information as reducing the default rate and creating special profit within the Group by collecting more than KRW 260 22nd/23rd Floors, Gateway Tower, companies and is in charge of one of the mainstays of integral improvement within KB Financial Group. Co., Ltd. Headquarters Address billion credits every year through diverse efforts such as reinforcing the dedicated team system by each credit 107, Huam-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul Company name changed to KB Credit Information, No. of Branches(total) 18 branches, 2 agencies Management Framework and Business Strategy 2002. 12 Co., Ltd. and default rate, strengthening the internal competitive system, implementing various promotions by each 2008.09 implementation purpose and time, and creating a policy that favors an excellent credit manager, etc. In addition, No. of Customers 7,471 KB Credit Information as No.1 Total Credit Information Company Pursuing Incorporated into affiliates of KB Financial Group Services for Market Trust and Customer Satisfaction the company newly accepted and managed, etc. around KRW 48 billion credits from KB Capital and even more No. of Employees 149 Announced mid and long-term vision(No. 1 2009.01 Credit Information that Aims for End-to-End as it expanded its role within the Group. Home Page www.kbci.co.kr Laying a Stable Platform for Growth by Improving Increasing Value within the Group by Securing and Service) Establishing Revenue Base Outside the Group The company secured the volumes for future the Percentage of Collection Implementing Midand Long-term Growth Engines Operations entrustment with Korea Asset 2011.03 Management Corporation Kamco credits by being re-selected as the mandate after participating in the bidding for the entrustment Maximizing Debt Collection within Increasing Productivity Profit-oriented the Group by Strengthening Sales Capabilities Management Streamlining of Kamco credits on February 2014. In addition, the company is making various efforts to diversify a Obtained certification for excellence in web 2013.04 revenue base outside the Group by satisfying the qualifications for asset manager under the Asset· Strengthening management exclusive · Securing and preferring excellent · Vitalizing low-cost and high-return accessibility for credits credit manager businesses Backed Securitization Act, reinforcing management of trade an asset management companies such as · Strengthening the internal competition · Upward leveling of credit manger’s · Strengthening on-site IT KNS, My Asset, Discovery Asset Management, etc., strengthening concentrated management on civil and task capabilities · Strengthening credit analysis commercial credits, etc. and has achieved 199.2% collection rate compared to that of last year, etc. capabilities Sustainability Activities Major Products and Service Minimization of Complaints As KB Credit Information deals with late payment credits, the company Sector Products is always tasked of having to deal with various complaints from the debtors. Therefore, to minimize the Demanding and collecting repayments of debts from creditors on their behalf for the complaints, all the officers and employees at KB Credit Information establishes a triple management system Credit Collection nonperforming loans that occurred during the commercial transaction and by being asked to collect the civil credits where notarized documents has been obtained with a dedicated team for complaint management, business operating team, and the complaints officer Investigation and reporting of usage status, moved-in households, lease status, etc., on the of each sales office Also it is making various efforts such as training more than once per month on how Lease Investigation collateral goods at the time of the loan Agency Service for Providing documents to the entrusted organization after receiving the loan applicant’s identification to prevent illegal debt collection, etc. As a result, for three consecutive years since 2012, the number of Receiving Documents certification(including own writing), loan documents, supplementary documents, etc. complaints has decreased. 84 85 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 KB Data Systems aims to grow through communication. Total Assets Operating Income KB Data Systems realizes customer satisfaction by always providing the best IT quality and services. Furthermore, the company is a professional financial IT company that continuously researches and develops 313 0.9 IT technologies so that the IT sector will contribute to the advancement of the financial industry. Above all else, KB Data Systems cherishes the value of humans based on the idea that humans and technology are the assets. With this, the company, as a member of the society, is contributes to social development by continuously communicating with the social communities through social contribution activities in order Equity Net Income to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. By maintaining an attitude based on the fundamentals and principles, all officers and employees of KB Data Systems will make a concerted effort to play its part in KB Financial Group, to become a leader in financial industry, and also to breathe and grow with the members of 145 3 the society. CEO Yoon-Tae Kim (Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2014, Consolidated statements) COMPANY OVERVIEW As a company with the experience and knowledge that supported the growth of Korea’s top financial HISTORY Major Products and Service institutes through concentrated thinking and research on finance, KB Data Systems provides an optimized In order to establish a top-tier system, KB Data systems provides an optimized system that fits the Date of Establishment September 6, 1991 1991. 09 Establishment of Kookmin Data Systems, Co., Ltd. total IT service from consulting to system setting, and operation by precisely analyzing the customer’s need customer’s needs through the provision of various solutions in core technologies for each sector. Through Chairman & CEO Yoon-Tae Kim within a rapidly changing financial environment, based on its rich understanding in finance and the know2005. 04 Company name changed to KB Data Systems this, we create an advanced financial environment to improve customer competitiveness and service Capital Stock KRW 8 billion how accumulated in hundreds of project experience. The company provides a professional IT service with a Established Kookmin Bank’s next-generation 2008. 12 Internet banking systems reinforcement. 13/14th Floor, Jaram Building, Police systemized organization structure and the best technology. Moreover, the company strives to realize a perfect Headquarters Address Mutual Aid Association, 78, MapoEstablished Kookmin Bank’s next-generation Based on the experience of establishing a next-generation system, we strive to realize the customer system with unerring precision by having the best quality management system in the industry. 2009. 05 daero, Mapo-gu, Seoul management information systems satisfaction and success through enhanced quality management system reinforcemnt, top professional No. of Branches(total) 1 domestic headquarter 2010. 12 Established Kookmin Bank’s card injection systems staff, and rich know-how in order to provide an optimized solution that fits various financial environments, No. of Employees 237 Management Framework and Business Strategy 2011. 07 Re-established Kookmin Bank’s e-HR systems such as securities/insurance system and next-generation system, etc., for a savings bank as well as the Home Page www.kds.co.kr Established Kookmin Bank’s new entrustment establishment of a basic financial infra. Through core values, including the Realize Customer Satisfaction(Customer Trust) with the with Best 2011. 11 operation systems Quality and Service, Secure Top Talent with Expertise and Commitment(Importance of Talent), Pursuing Sustainability Activities Established Kookmin Bank’s Total Real Estate Precision with Righteous Mindset and Actions(Precision Management), Leading Change through Creativity 2012. 03 Information Systems Under the clear business strategy of the SM business expansion, selection, and concentration of SI and Innovation(Creative Innovation), etc., KB Data Systems aims to realize its vision of being Korea’s Top IT 2013. 10 Received THE ASIAN BANKER’s Best project business, KB Data systems makes multi angled efforts to improve the Group’s IT capabilities through Service Designer. prizeHR system, lending platform security improvement of the subsidiaries’ IT system operation and by playing a key role in the establishment of an important IT system within the Group. In terms of the subsidiaries’ IT system operation, we aim Korea’s Top IT Service Designer to proactively prepare for security accidents and, at the same time, fundamentally block the leakage of customer information, technology, and KB’s financial IT know-how by gradually replacing our personnel with outsourced staff. Furthermore, by focusing all capabilities in the sector where there is a need to Customer Trust Importance of Talent Creative Innovation Precision Management minimize technological dependability on outside companies for the systematization of IT capabilities within · Realize Customer Satisfaction · Secure Top Talent with · Leading Change through · Pursuing late payment bonds the Group, and where there is a high possibility of growth like playing the role of the leading subsidiary through the Best Quality and Expertise and Commitment Creativity and Innovation through Righteous Mindset in a total information protection center and the risk management sector, such as an IT solution related to Service and Actions subsidiary smart financing, ALM, and the Basel system, etc. KB Data systems will continue to faithfully perform its role as KB Financial Group’s IT subsidiary. 86 87 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Appendix KB Financial Group Sustainability Data · KB Financial Group Sustainability Data Efforts for Energy Saving and Promotion of Environment-friendliness(KB Kookmin Bank) · UN Global Compact KB Kookmin Bank has been extending various efforts to save energy and promote environment-friendliness. Newly introduced LED, automatic light sensor and · Third Party’s Assurance Statment energy-saving sockets prevent energy waste. Other preemptive activities include the use of low-carbon and high-efficiency fuel for heating and changing the · GRI G4 Index company’s official vehicles into hybrid automobiles. Energy Consumption by Source (Unit: TJ) Classification Energy Source 2012 2013 2014 Diesel 17.87 5.66 5.61 Buildings LNG 114.22 126.34 112.05 Direct Other 19.10 15.78 9.82 Consumption (Scope 1) Gasoline 134.70 128.80 128.12 Vehicles Other 13.85 11.81 8.95 Subtotal 299.75 288.39 264.55 Electricity 2,287.45 2,237.81 2,147.08 Indirect Buildings Consumption Steam 11.70 11.81 12.70 (Scope 2) Total 2,299.16 2,249.61 2,159.78 Total 2,598.91 2,538.00 2,424.33 Cost Reduction Nature friendly Branch Offices. In order to build nature-friendly branch offices, KB Kookmin Bank changed the existing fluorescent lights into LED lamps. 220W fluorescent lamps used in 3,915 flat panel lights of our branch offices were replaced with 80W LED lamps. 52W fluorescent lamps used in 3,136 downlights at front desks were also replaced with 20W LED lamps. In addition, 50W fluorescent lamps used in 388 halogen lights were replaced with 8W LED lamps. The 28W fluorescent lamps used in 3,480 bar-type lights were also replaced with 20W LED lamps. Year Objectives Electricity Reduction GHG Estimation Cost Reduction 2012 97 1,500,826 kWh 700 tCO²eq 187,603,250 won 2013 94 2,505,423 kWh 1,168 tCO²eq 313,177,875 won 2014 93 2,233,162 kWh 1,041 tCO²eq 279,145,250 won * Estimated by assuming 1 KWH = KRW 125 Pilot Introduction of High-efficiency Light Fixtures in the Head Office. KB Kookmin Bank further in its energy consumption efforts by introducing high-efficiency light fixtures in our Head office building. We replaced 32W fluorescent lamps used in 540 ceiling lights on the 9th floor of our Head Office building in Yeoeuido to 22W LED lamps. 32W fluorescent lamps that were used in 224 lights in the cafeteria ceiling of our Head Office building in Myeongdong were replaced with ten15W LED lamps and 214 22W LED lamps. Year Objectives Electricity Reduction GHG Estimation Cost Reduction Head office of Yeouido 9 floor office 17,410 kWh 8 tCO²eq 2,176,250 won Head office of Myung-Dong Employee Reataurant(14 floor) 5,853 kWh 3 tCO²eq 731,625 won * Estimated by assuming 1 KWH = KRW 125 88 89 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 UN Global Compact Proactive Energy Saving KB Kookmin Bank appointed Energy Saving Leaders at each department and branch to save energy. The company also selects and notifies Monthly Energy Saving Activities to all employees. On the first Friday of each month, Energy Saving Activities Checklists are prepared and filed. In addition, each energy Saving Leader reviews the department/branch’s energy use for the previous, and assesses the possibility of additional energy-saving activities. Furthermore, KB Kookmin Bank promulgated and distributed KB Energy Saving Manual in December 2013, and launched its KB Energy Saving Activity/Checkup Day program in August 2014. Through these efforts, KB Kookmin Bank successfully reduced its energy consumption. Electricity consumption decreased by 4% from 233,111 MWh in 2013 to 223,655 MWh in 2014, and LNG(liquefied natural gas) consumption decreased by 11% from 2,898㎦ to 2,570㎦. Efforts for Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Resource Saving KB Financial Group is keenly aware of the importance of our environment. Thus, the Group has been continuously paying close attention to the related issues such as climate change, greenhouse gas emission, and resource waste. KB Kookmin Bank was selected as Company Subject to Greenhouse Gas Control in 2012. Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of After selection, the company has been extending efforts to meet its greenhouse gas emission goal under the relevant laws and regulations, exceeding the target internationally proclaimed human rights; and reduction amount by a large extent in 2014. Human Rights Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. In addition, KB Kookmin Bank became the first bank to be included in the emission permit trading system adopted for the first time in South Korea in 2015. In order to achieve the goals imposed under this new system, the Bank has been bolstering its greenhouse gas monitoring system, and carrying out other activities aimed to reduce greenhouse gas emission. Target Greenhouse Gas Emission for 2014 Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the KB Kookmin Bank calculated its target total amount of greenhouse-gas emission for the year 2014 based on its direct/indirect emission in the preceding year. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Business sites with small emission amount(5% of the total amount) were excluded from calculation, and the target emission amount for 2014 of 117,876 tCO2eq, Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Labour which was determined through a consultation with the government, was converted based on the total amount. The expected emission in 2014 was calculated Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and based on its emission amount from 2009 to 2011 in accordance with the target emission calculation method proposed by the government, and the buildingPrinciple 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and business type reduction rate in 2014 of 7.93% was applied for the calculation of the expected emission amount. occupation. (unit: tCO2eq) Direct emission target Indirect emission target Total target Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 16,878 107,106 123,984 challenges; Environment Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Resource Consumption Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 technologies. Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO²e 18,167 17,194 15,888 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO²e 111,476 109,113 104,636 Energy Consumption MWh 721,789 704,874 673,305 Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Water Use ㎦ 168.447 153.149 158.137 Anti-Corruption extortion and bribery. Paper Use Box 144,131 131,426 144,537 Total Business Trip Distance Km 3,281,564 4,039,693 3,602,169 * The data scope of greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption is applied to the KB Kookmin Bank . * The data scope of water use is applied to six head office buildings of KB Kookmin Bank under operation of ISO 14001. * The paper used refers to A4-sized paper, and one box contains 2,500 sheets. * The data scope of the total business trip distance pertains to KB Kookmin Bank and the amount of expenses related to business trips was converted into distance(KRW1,000 1.34km).. KB Kookmin Bank has joined the UN Global Compact(UNGC), which is an international agreement that stipulates the Waste social responsibilities of the global enterprise, and declared that it will sincerely implement ten principles in four areashuman rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. Affiliate Unit 2012 2013 2014 KB Kookmin Card(recycled) m³ 212 215 100 KB Kookmin Card(landfill) m³ 451 459 481 90 91 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014: Our Approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an Foreword assurance engagement as follows: Korea Management Association Registration Inc.(hereinafter KMAR ) has been requested by of KB Financial Group(hereinafter the Group ) to verify the contents of its Sustainability Report 2014(hereinafter the Report ). The Group is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. • Reviewed overall report KMAR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. • Reviewed materiality test process and methodology • Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets Scope and standard • Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities KB Financial Group describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. KMAR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance • Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report using AA1000AS(2008) as an assurance standard. KMAR’s assurance team(hereinafter the team ) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI G4 indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality Our Conclusion criteria. Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KB Financial Group on the revision of the Report. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the 'Core Option' of GRI G4 which covers the followings. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. • Reporting Principles Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. • General Standard Disclosures • Specific Standard Disclosures • Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. Generic DMA of each of following material aspects KB Financial Group is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for Economic Performance: EC1, EC2 the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder group left out during this procedure. Indirect Economic Impacts: EC7, EC8 Energy: EN3, EN6 • Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue Water: EN8 that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. Emissions: EN15, EN16, EN19 KB Financial Group is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the Effluents and Waste: EN23 assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. Transport: EN30 Employment: LA1 • Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through Training and Education: LA9 decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Investment: HR2 The assurance team could not find any evidence that KB Financial Group’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: HR4 We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the 'Core Option' of GRI G4. Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms: HR12 Local Communities: SO1 Recommendation for Improvement Anti-corruption: SO4, SO5 We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. Compliance: SO8 • The Group needs to set up strategies related on sustainability and more systematic performance management system. Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society: SO11 Product and Service Labeling: PR5 • We suggest that the Group continually improve materiality analysis process and performance management system to minimize the gap between views of Marketing Communications: PR7 the company and its stakeholders in respect of its sustainability performance. Customer Privacy: PR8 Our independence Financial Services Sector Disclosures: FS7, FS8, FS13, FS14 With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other KB Financial Group business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. This Report excludes a data and information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. KB Financial Group, among report July, 1st, 2015 boundaries. 000-129 CEO Ki Ho Park 92 93 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G4 Index(G4 CORE) Classification No. Disclosures Page Classification No. Disclosures page G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 2 Specific Standard Disclosures : Economic Strategy and Analysis G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2 EC1 Direct value generated and distributed 11 Economic Performance G4-3 Organization name 6 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 53, 89~91 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6 Indirect Economic EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 50~53 G4-5 Headquarters location 7 Performance EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 44~49 Number of countries where the organization operates, name of countries with locations of major operations, or with Specific Standard Disclosures : Environment G4-6 7 specific relevance with sustainability issues covered in the report EN3 Energy consumption within theorganization 89 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6~7 Energy EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 89~90 G4-8 Markets served(geographic breakdown, sector served, and customer / beneficiary type 6~7 water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 89 G4-9 Scale of the organization 6~7 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(Scope 1) 89 Organizational Profile 64, 68, 70, 72, 74, G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(Scope 2) 89 76, 78, 80, 82, 84, 86 Emission EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions 89 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 61 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 91 G4-12 Major characteristics of the supply chain related to the organization’s major activities, products and services 6~7 Signi cant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. 6~7 Transport EN30 89 and materials of the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 14~15 Specific Standard Disclosures : Society(Labor Practices and Right) Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization G4-15 91 Employment LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 59 subscribes or endorses Memberships of associations(such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the Training and Education LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category. 60 G4-16 13, 67 organization subscribes or endorses Specific Standard Disclosures : Society(Human Right) G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 6~7 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant Investment HR2 61 G4-18 Process for defining report boundaries and content 14~15 to operations, including the percentage of employees trained G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 14~15 Freedom of Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be and Collective HR4 61 Identified Material Aspects violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-20 Descriptions of material aspect boundaries within the organization 14~15 Bargaining and Boundaries G4-21 Descriptions of material aspect boundaries outside the organization 14~15 Human Rights HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 61 Grievance Mechanisms G4-22 Effect of any re-statements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatement No restatement made. Specific Standard Disclosures : Society(Society) G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Local Community SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 44~49 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 12~13 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 24~25 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 12~13 Anti-Corruption Stakeholoder Engagement SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 24~25 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement approach, including frequency by type and by stakeholder group 12~13 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 21 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to G4-27 12~13 those key topics and concerns Grievance Mechanisms SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 41 G4-28 Reporting period About this reprot Specific Standard Disclosures : Society(Product Responsibility) G4-29 Date of most recent previous report(if any) About this report Product and Service PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 43 Labeling G4-30 Reporting cycle(such as annual, biennial) About this report Report Profile Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, G4-31 Reporting cycle(such as annual, biennial) About this report Marketing PR7 including advertising, promotions, and sponsorship, by type of outcome G4-32 In accordance option, GRI Index and report assurance 94~95 Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 21 G4-33 Policy and current practices regarding external assurances for the report 92~93 Policy for fair design and sales on financial product and service DMA 66 G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 8~9 G4-38 Composition of the board and its committees 8~9 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by FS7 51~52 Product Portfolio purpose G4-39 Details on whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 8~9 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating FS8 down by 53 G4-40 8~9 Governance and selecting highest governance body members. purpose. G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. 8~9 FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 52 Local Community Actions of the highest governance body to develop and enhance knowledge related to economic, environmental, and FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 52 G4-43 8~9 social topics G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the following types of remuneration 8~9 Description of the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of G4-56 24~27 ethics. Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational Ethics and Integrity G4-57 25 integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Internal and external systems of the organization that enable the reporting of unethical or illegal acts and integrity related G4-58 25 issues of the organization 94 95 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2014 2014 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report You can download the PDF version of the Report from the KB Financial Group Web site. If you have any comments or questions about KB Financial Group's sustainability management or this Report, please contact us at: 26 Gukjegeumyungro8-gil, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul KB KB Financial Holding Inc. Public Relations Department Telephone: +82-2-2073-7822 Fax: +82-2-2073-0639 96 Eco-design To minimize environmental pollution and resource wastage throughout the entire life cycle of this eco-design report, KBFG has used soybean oil and avoided the use of spot color printing or coating.
