Sustainability Report 2014 bp.com/sustainability Building a stronger, safer BP Who we are BP is one of the world’s leading integrated oil and gas companies.a We aim to create long-term value for shareholders by helping to meet growing demand for energy in a safe and responsible way. We strive to be a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer. Through our work we provide As a global group, our interests and customers with fuel for transportation, activities are held or operated through energy for heat and light, lubricants subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures or to keep engines moving and the associates established in – and subject petrochemicals products used to make to the laws and regulations of – many everyday items as diverse as paints, different jurisdictions. We have wellclothes and packaging. Our projects established operations in Europe, and operations help to generate North and South America, Australasia, employment, investment and tax Asia and Africa. revenues in countries and communities across the world. We employ around 85,000 people. On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves a and production. Cautionary statement BP Sustainability Report 2014 and bp.com/sustainability contain factors, including the specific factors identified in the discussions Material is used within this document to describe issues for certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial accompanying such forward-looking statements; the receipt of voluntary sustainability reporting that are considered to have the condition, results of operations and businesses of BP and certain relevant approvals; the timing and level of maintenance and/or potential to significantly affect sustainability performance in the of the plans and objectives of BP with respect to these items. turnaround activity; the timing of bringing new fields onstream; view of the company and/or are expected to be important in the In particular, among other statements, BP’s outlook on global the timing, quantum and nature of certain divestments; future eyes of internal or external stakeholders. Material for the purposes energy trends to 2035 and its plans in connection therewith, plans levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing; OPEC of this document should not, therefore, be read as equating to any presented under the heading ‘What we plan to do next’ throughout quota restrictions; PSA effects; operational problems; economic use of the word in other BP p.l.c. reporting or filings. BP Annual this document, expectations regarding BP’s advanced and and financial market conditions generally or in various countries Report and Form 20-F 2014 and BP Strategic Report 2014 may proprietary technologies and techniques, expectations regarding and regions; political stability and economic growth in relevant be downloaded from bp.com/annualreport. No material in this the emissions, water use and commercial viability of BP’s oil areas of the world; changes in laws and governmental regulations; Sustainability Report forms any part of those documents. No part sands projects, expectations regarding the commercialization and regulatory or legal actions; the impact on our reputation following of this Sustainability Report or bp.com/sustainability constitutes, or sustainable production of biofuels, the timing and composition of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill; development and use of new shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in planned and future projects, plans regarding opportunities in the technology; the success or otherwise of partnering; the actions of BP p.l.c. or any other entity and must not be relied upon in any way Arctic and expectations regarding future regulatory developments, competitors, trading partners, creditors, rating agencies and others; in connection with any investment decisions. BP p.l.c. is the parent are forward looking in nature. the actions of contractors; natural disasters and adverse weather company of the BP group of companies. Unless otherwise stated, conditions; changes in public expectations and other changes to the text does not distinguish between the activities and operations By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and business conditions; wars and acts of terrorism, cyber-attacks or of the parent company and those of its subsidiaries. uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on sabotage; and other factors discussed elsewhere in this document circumstances that will or may occur in the future and are outside and under ‘Risk factors’ in our Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 the control of BP. Actual results may differ materially from those as filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of Front cover imagery A driller works on a derrick tower over the Khazzan field in Oman. In this remote desert location, we are applying innovative technology to access gas locked in hot sandstone almost three miles below the earth’s surface. Several hundred wells will be drilled in the field with a combination of horizontal wells and hydraulic fracturing technologies to stimulate production. BP Sustainability Report 2014 Contents Overview Overview 2 Introduction from our group 8 BP in figures chief executive Five-year data on our safety, environment, Bob Dudley discusses the role that BP people, financial and operational plays in the countries where we operate. performance. 4 BP at a glance 10 Our stakeholders What we do as a business and the value Our approach to engaging with our we deliver to society. stakeholders and how we identify key issues facing the business. 6 Our progress in 2014 Where we are today and what we plan 12 Update on the Gulf of Mexico The energy future to do next. Restoring the environment and economy in the region. Focus areas 14 The energy future 32 Safety Our view on climate change, deepwater Managing safety and operational risk, oil and gas, hydraulic fracturing, oil sands, including measures to prevent accidents biofuels and the Arctic. and oil spills. 24 How we operate 40 Environment Our framework for managing our Our approach to greenhouse gas How we operate operations and people, and how we work emissions, energy efficiency, water, oil with contractors and partners. spills, biodiversity and sensitive areas. 46 Society Our socio-economic impacts, including supporting development in the societies where we work and human rights. Our reporting 52 Find more online Our website includes case studies, country reports and health, safety and environmental performance data. Safety Environment Society BP Sustainability Report 2014 1 Introduction from our group chief executive At BP we regularly pass milestones that, for me, However, we tragically suffered three fatalities are important reminders of the sustainability of in the workforce and, after a year of very strong our business. In 2014, for example, we celebrated progress in safety in 2013, we saw a somewhat 50 years in the UK North Sea, 50 years in Egypt higher number of incidents in 2014. and the 20th anniversary of our oil business We know we can never be complacent and are in Azerbaijan. continuing our efforts to learn lessons from In other countries our history goes back much incidents, ensure conformance with our operating further. In the United States, for example, our management system and emphasise the right business can be traced back to the 19th century. personal behaviours, taking great care in everything we do. The value we bring to society can take many forms. We produce and deliver energy for heat, Our relationship with Rosneft continues to attract power and transportation. In doing so, we employ attention, given the tensions in Ukraine. We around 85,000 people across the world, create remain committed to our long-term investment thousands more jobs in supply chains, build – contributing to Rosneft’s strategy through useful infrastructure and pay taxes that fund the sharing of environmental and safety best public services – around $8 billion in 2014. practice. And, of course, we will comply with all relevant sanctions. When I meet people in my job – from heads of government to community leaders – I am always In the US, we continue to support the conscious that it is by delivering real benefits to environmental restoration of areas affected by the countries where we work that we earn our the Gulf of Mexico oil spill – along with research licence to operate. into understanding any potential longer-term impacts. And, through our operations, We align our interests with those of local investments and our 18,000 employees, economies by using local suppliers, building we estimate our positive economic impact at local capacity and supporting local communities. $143 billion a year. As regards to the US legal In Trinidad & Tobago, as one example, we have proceedings, we are seeking fair and just helped to build up the islands’ gas platform outcomes while protecting the best interests construction industry, established globally I am always conscious that it respected programmes in petroleum geosciences of our shareholders. is by delivering real benefits and other disciplines at the University of the Meanwhile we are playing our part in addressing West Indies, and invested in a micro-finance climate change – by investing in natural gas and to the countries where we programme that has distributed more than 3,000 renewables as lower-carbon sources of fuel work that we earn our licence loans and created thousands of jobs. and power, factoring a cost of carbon into our evaluation of proposed projects and advocating to operate. In Iraq, we have worked with local partners and for a global carbon price. PetroChina to renew the super giant Rumaila oil field, in the process raising skill levels among Iraqi Across all of these issues and more, our aim is to Bob Dudley workers – with half a million training hours maintain a business that is resilient in challenging completed last year alone. times and continues to benefit our stakeholders, including society at large. Of course, as a business working in many countries we face challenges and choices. We are Thank you for reading this report. always learning but I believe that we can act as a positive force, aiming to set high standards in safety, employment practices, transparency and human rights. When challenged over our operations in a particular country, my acid test is to ask whether the community or country is likely to be better for our involvement. If the answer is yes, then I believe we are right to be there. Bob Dudley In 2014, we delivered the plan we set out in Group chief executive 2011 to make BP a safer, stronger and better 18 March 2015 performing business – recognizing that we need to remain focused in this pursuit. Compared with 2011, we had fewer safety-related incidents and 50% more operating cash flow in 2014. 2 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Our strategy and sustainability Our values We believe that the best way for BP to operating in politically complex regions and We have five values that express our achieve sustainable success is by acting technically demanding geographies, such as shared understanding of what we believe, in the long-term interests of our deep water and oil sands, requires particular how we aim to behave and what we aspire shareholders, our partners and society. sensitivity to local environments. to be as an organization. We aim to create long-term value for our We can only operate if we maintain the trust investors and benefits for the communities of people inside and outside BP. We must Safety and societies in which we operate. earn people’s trust by being fair and Safety is good business. Everything we do responsible in everything we do. We monitor We are working to become a simpler relies upon the safety of our workforce and our performance closely and aim to report business, focusing on where we can generate the communities around us. We care about in a transparent way. We believe good the most value, and not necessarily the most the safe management of the environment. communication and open dialogue are vital volume, through our production. We are We are committed to safely delivering energy if we are to meet the expectations of our strengthening our portfolio of high-return to the world. employees, customers, shareholders and the and longer-life upstream assets, while local communities in which we operate. Respect building high-quality downstream businesses. All of this is underpinned by our expertise, Strong financial performance is vital, because We respect the world in which we operate. technology and relationships. We strive to it enables us to make the investments It begins with compliance with laws and be a world-class operator, a responsible necessary to produce the energy that society regulations. We hold ourselves to the highest corporate citizen and a good employer. requires, while rewarding and maintaining the ethical standards and behave in ways that support of our shareholders. Keeping a relentless focus on safety is earn the trust of others. We depend on the naturally a top priority for us. Rigorous By supplying energy, we support economic relationships we have and respect each other management of risk helps to protect the development and help to improve quality of and those we work with. We value diversity people at the front line, the places in which life for millions of people. Our activities also of people and thought. We care about the we operate and the value we create. We generate jobs, investment, infrastructure and consequences of our decisions, large and continue to enhance our systems, processes revenues for governments and local small, on those around us. and standards, including how we manage the communities. risks that can be created by the actions of our Excellence contractors and the operators of joint ventures Read  more about our strategy at bp.com/strategy We are in a hazardous business, and are in which we participate. We understand that committed to excellence through the systematic and disciplined management of our operations. We follow and uphold the rules and standards we set for our business. We commit to quality outcomes, have a thirst to learn, and to improve. If something is not right, we correct it. Our Valhall facility in the Norwegian North Sea reduces emissions by using power from shore, Courage rather than on-site gas turbines. What we do is rarely easy. Achieving the best outcomes often requires the courage to face difficulty, to speak up and stand by what we believe. We always strive to do the right thing. We explore new ways of thinking and are unafraid to ask for help. We are honest with ourselves and actively seek feedback from others. We aim for an enduring legacy, despite the short-term priorities of our world. One Team Whatever the strength of the individual, we will accomplish more together. We put the team ahead of our personal success and commit to building its capability. We trust each other to deliver on our respective obligations. See bp.com/values BP Sustainability Report 2014 3 BP at a glance BP delivers energy products Finding Developing and extracting and services to people around oil and gas oil and gas the world. First, we acquire exploration rights, Once we have found then we search for hydrocarbons beneath hydrocarbons, we work to bring Through our two main operating segments, the earth’s surface. them to the surface. Upstream and Downstream, we find, develop and produce essential sources of energy, turning them into products that people need. We also buy and sell at each stage of the hydrocarbon value chain. In renewable energy, our activities are focused on biofuels and wind. We also have a 19.75% shareholding in Rosneft.  Business model For more information on our business model see bp.com/businessmodel Upstream Our Upstream segment manages exploration, development and production activities. The value we deliver E  conomic value E  conomic value to society generated by BP distributed to others We believe that societies and communities where we work should benefit from $359.8bn This includes revenue plus Suppliers This includes our purchases Governments We contribute to our presence. interest and dividend receipts, from suppliers, contractor economies around the and proceeds from divestments. costs, and production, world through the taxes Our projects and operations create jobs, manufacturing and other we pay. We also pay taxes opportunities for local suppliers and tax revenues expenses. that we collect on our for governments. products and services. When we move into a new area we look for opportunities to create a positive impact. This includes supporting communities’ efforts to increase income and improve standards of living. $311.6bn $8.0bn See bp.com/annualreport See page 48. See page 49. 4 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Transporting and trading Manufacturing Marketing oil and gas fuels and products fuels and products We move hydrocarbons using pipelines, We refine, process and blend We supply our customers with fuel for ships, trucks and trains and we capture hydrocarbons to make fuels, lubricants transportation, energy for heat and light, value across the supply chain. and petrochemicals. lubricants to keep engines moving and the petrochemicals required to make a variety of everyday items. Fuels Lubricants Petrochemicals Investing in renewable energy International oil and gas markets We develop and invest in biofuels and operate a wind business. Biofuels Downstream Our Downstream segment operates hydrocarbon value chains covering three main businesses – fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals. Economic value retained by BP Employees We provide direct employment Capital providers This includes $5.9 billion Communities Our social investment includes $14.2bn The majority of this is invested to around 85,000 people in dividends paid to education, enterprise in capital expenditure and across the world. Employee shareholders and $4.8 billion development and infrastructure acquisitions. costs include salaries distributed via our share programmes. This figure is in and benefits. repurchase programme, addition to social bonuses paid as well as finance costs. to governments as part of licence agreements. $13.9bn $12.0bn $0.1bn See page 28. See bp.com/investors See page 48. See bp.com/annualreport BP Sustainability Report 2014 5 Our progress in 2014 We aim to meet the world’s energy needs by creating long-term value for our shareholders and the societies and economies in which we operate. Here we report on where we are today and some of our plans for the future. The energy future How we operate Today’s challenge is to manage and meet We strive to be a world-class operator, growing worldwide demand for energy while a responsible corporate citizen and addressing climate change and other a good employer. environmental and social issues. What we said we would do • Help meet the growing energy demand • Further increase the number of women in through a diverse mix of fuels and leadership positions and build on our work technologies. to encourage other forms of diversity. • Continue to engage with our stakeholders • Evaluate our current screening process to help on climate change. projects identify and assess socio-economic • Further improve fuel efficiency through the sensitivities and impacts. use of our branded fuels and engine oils. • Look for opportunities to continue to support a local supply chain. Where we are today Completed the expansion of our ethanol production $259m+ Created additional guidance for projects capacity at our Tropical in contracts on socio-economic facility, making it one of the awarded to local sensitivities and largest mills in Brazil. Omani companies standard impact since 2013. mitigations. World Bank carbon pricing statement endorsed. 15% reduction in friction through the 18% use of new Castrol EDGE engine oil means of group leaders improved fuel economy. are female. What we plan to do next • Increase the proportion of natural gas in our • Build capability and promote from within our production portfolio over the next decade. existing workforce. • Work with our partners to enhance how • Engage employees and board members in emissions are managed at our oil sands code of conduct certification. facilities. • Continue to pursue deeper, collaborative • Expand the use of technology to monitor relationships with our strategic contractors. conditions in our deepwater wells to more of our rigs worldwide. For more information R  ead our view on meeting the energy  ead about BP’s approach to risk R challenge on page 15. management on page 27. Read about our approach to Find out more about our people on unconventional gas and hydraulic page 28. fracturing on page 20. 6 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Safety Environment Society Everything we do depends on the safety BP is working to avoid, minimize and To BP, working responsibly includes seeking of our operations, our workforce, and the mitigate environmental impacts wherever to have positive impacts on the communities communities around us. we do business. in which we operate. • Continue to use the performance improvement • Investigate water management approaches • Test the new socio-economic risk criteria cycle to align business practices with our taking into account our operations’ life cycle for assessing the impacts of incidents operating management system (OMS). water demand and local water resources. on communities and workforces with • Further develop the self-verification capability • Continue to develop modelling tools to better our businesses. of operations to carry out health, safety, predict the consequences of an oil spill to land. • Update our framework for managing social security and environment checks. • Share lessons learned on energy efficiency investment. • Maintain our progress towards completing at Toledo in the US with our other refineries • Deliver human rights workshops to priority the remaining recommendations from BP’s around the world. businesses and functions. investigation into the Deepwater Horizon accident, the Bly Report. 18 Supporting businesses to apply an onshore oil Our businesses in Australia, Brazil, Enhanced our revised framework sites were part of our ‘exemplar’ continuous spill modelling tool. the US and other to include guidance improvement programme in 2014. locations tested the on evaluating potential socio-economic risk risks when making Handbook issued to site managers in our criteria. social investments. upstream operations to assist them in carrying out self verification. 6 Invested in a of our refineries have specialist water 25 developed energy efficiency plans using treatment company to help manage our 270+ of the 26 recommendations from lessons learned at operations in water employees received the Bly Report completed. Toledo. scarce areas. human rights training. • Enhance our ‘OMS academy’ programmes, • Assess different technology approaches for • Incorporate the new socio-economic risk which support operating leaders in their optimizing water consumption and criteria into our standard risk methodology safety leadership. wastewater treatment performance. for assessing the impacts of incidents. • Execute a planned programme of safety and • Test the use of remote sensing systems for • Prepare for reporting taxes paid to operational risk-based assurance. oil spill planning and response. governments on a country and project basis, • Complete the final Bly Report • Continue to implement actions identified in in line with new UK regulations. recommendation on testing revised the energy efficiency plans at our refineries. • Continue to embed human rights due standards for well control and monitoring. diligence into our supply chain processes.  ead about our approach to preventing R  nderstand how we are developing our U  ead about how we are supporting R incidents through process safety on page 34. oil spill preparedness and response on societies around the world on page 48. page 44. S  ee BP’s approach to transportation safety on S  ee how we are implementing the UN page 39.  ind out more about BP’s greenhouse gas F Guiding Principles on Business and intensity on page 42. Human Rights on page 50. BP Sustainability Report 2014 7 BP in figures Data on our safety, environment, people, financial and operational performance from 2010 to 2014. For the year ended 31 December Safetya 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fatalities – employees 0 1 1 4 0 Fatalities – contractors 14 1 3 2 3 Day away from work cases – workforce 408 168 152 130 145 Day away from work case frequencyb (DAFWCF) – workforce 0.193 0.090 0.076 0.070 0.081 Recordable injuries – workforce 1,284 677 710 578 547 Recordable injury frequencyb (RIF) – workforce 0.61 0.36 0.35 0.31 0.31 Hours worked – employees (million hours) 168 165 182 170 173 Hours worked – contractors (million hours) 255 209 220 203 184 Losses of primary containment (number) 418 361 292 261 286 Tier 1 process safety eventsc (number) 74 74 43 20 28 Tier 2 process safety eventsc (number) 213 241 154 110 95 Oil spillsd (> _ one barrel) 261 228 204 185 156 Volume of oil spilled (million litres) 1.7e 0.6 0.8 0.7 0.4 Environment Oil spills – to land and waterd (number) 142 102 102 74 63 Volume of oil unrecovered (million litres) 0.8e 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 Direct carbon dioxide (CO 2)f (million tonnes (Mte)) 60.2k 57.7 56.4 47.0h 45.5 Direct methanef (Mte) 0.22k 0.20 0.17 0.16i 0.15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG)g (MteCO 2 equivalent (CO 2e)) 64.9k 61.8 59.8 50.3j 48.6 Indirect carbon dioxide (CO 2)fl (Mte) 10.0k 9.0 8.4 6.6 6.6 Customer emissionsm (MteCO 2) 573 539 517 422 406 Flaring (Upstream) (thousand tonnes (kte) of hydrocarbons) 1,671k 1,835 1,548 2,028 2,167 Environmental expenditure ($ million) 18,400 8,521 7,230 4,288 4,024 Environmental and safety fines ($ million) 52.5 77.4 22.4 2.5 1 People Number of employees – group 79,700 84,100 86,400 83,900 84,500 Number of employees – group leadership 482 516 546 530 501 Women in group leadership (%) 14 15 17 18 18 Women at management level n (%) 24 25 25 27 27 People from UK and US racial minorities in group leadership o (%) 7 6 6 6 8 People from beyond the UK and US in group leadership o (%) 19 19 20 22 22 Employee turnover p (%) 15 14 13 15 12 OpenTalk cases q 742 796 1,295 1,121 1,114 Dismissals for non-compliance and unethical behaviour r 552 529 424 113 s 157s Benefits to employees – including wages, salaries, share-based payments, 12,256 12,501 13,448 13,654 13,936 benefits and pensions ($ million) Performance Total hydrocarbons produced (thousand barrels of oil equivalent (mboe) per day) 3,822 3,454 3,331 3,230 3,151 Reserves replacement ratio t (%) 106 103 77 129 63 Total refinery throughputs (thousand barrels per day (mb/d)) 2,426 2,352 2,354 1,791 1,721 Total petrochemicals production u (thousand tonnes (kte)) 15,594 14,866 14,727 13,943 14,014 Replacement cost profit (loss) v ($ million) (5,259) 23,412 11,428 23,681 8,073 Taxes to governments – comprising income taxes and production taxes paid w ($ million) 12,071 16,367 15,064 13,904 7,980 Dividends paid to shareholders ($ million) 2,627 4,072 5,294 5,441 5,850 Contribution to communities ($ million) 115.2 103.7 90.6 103.8 x 85.0 Notes to figures e This data does not include the oil spill volume from the Deepwater k In 2010, we did not report on GHG emissions or flaring associated a This represents reported incidents occurring with BP’s operational HSSE Horizon incident. See BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 with the Deepwater Horizon incident or response. We have since reporting boundary. That boundary includes BP’s own operated facilities page 114 for information about the district court ruling on the volume estimated the gross CO2e emissions from response activities to be and certain other locations or situations. of oil spilled. approximately 481,000 tonnes. We have estimated the gas flared b DAFWCF and RIF are the annual frequency per 200,000 hours worked. f Encompasses all BP’s consolidated entities as well as our share during the response to be approximately 56,000 tonnes. We have of equity-accounted entities other than BP’s share of TNK-BP not restated our 2010 numbers since our practice is only to restate c For tier 1 process safety events see page nine notes to graph three historical emissions for material inaccuracies. for more details. Tier 2 process safety events are those of lesser and Rosneft for the relevant periods. consequence. g See page nine notes to graph four for more details. l Indirect emissions are associated with the purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling into our operations. d Oil spills are defined as any liquid hydrocarbon release of more than, h The reported 2013 figure of 46.0Mte has been amended to 47.0Mte. or equal to, one barrel (159 litres, equivalent to 42 US gallons). m Based on BP’s total reported production of natural gas, natural gas i The reported 2013 figure of 0.15Mte has been amended to 0.16Mte. liquids and refinery throughputs. j The reported 2013 figure of 49.2Mte has been amended to 50.3Mte. 8 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Our key performance indicators  These charts represent data on our non-financial key performance  indicators. See bp.com/kpis for more information. The symbol indicates those measures that are reflected in the annual bonus element of executive directors’ remuneration. 1. Recordable injury frequency 2. Loss of primary containment 3. Tier 1 process safety events 1 Reported recordable injury frequency (RIF) measures the number of reported work-related (number) employee and contractor incidents that result Employees Contractors in a fatality or injury (apart from minor first aid cases) per 200,000 hours worked. 0.84 1.00 500 100 418 2 Loss of primary containment (LOPC) is the 74 74 number of unplanned or uncontrolled releases 400 361 80 0.75 of oil, gas or other hazardous materials, from 292 286 a tank, vessel, pipe, railcar or equipment used 300 261 60 0.43 for containment or transfer. 0.41 43 0.50 0.36 0.34 0.31 We report tier 1 process safety events (PSE), 3 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.27 200 40 28 which are losses of primary containment of 20 greatest consequence – causing harm to a 0.25 20 member of the workforce, costly damage to 100 equipment or exceeding defined quantities. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 4. Greenhouse gas emissions 4 We provide data on greenhouse gas (GHG) 100 emissions material to our businesses on a (million tonnes of CO2 equivalent) carbon dioxide-equivalent basis. This includes CO2 and methane for direct emissions. Our 80 GHG KPI encompasses all BP’s consolidated 64.9 61.8 59.8 entities as well as our share of equity-accounted 50.3 entities other than BP’s share of TNK-BP and 60 48.6 Rosneft for the relevant periods. Emissions data for Rosneft can be found on its website. 40 The reported 2013 figure of 49.2MteCO2e has been amended to 50.3MteCO2e. 20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 5. Diversity and inclusion (%) 6. Group priorities index (%) 5  ach year we report the percentage of women E and individuals from countries other than the UK Women Non UK/US and the US among BP’s group leaders. This 100 helps us track progress in building a diverse 30 and well-balanced leadership team. 25 22 22 72 72 6 W  e track how engaged our employees are with 20 80 71 19 19 67 our strategic priorities for building long-term 20 17 18 18 value. This is derived from survey questions 15 60 about perceptions of BP as a company and 14 15 how it is managed in terms of leadership and standards. See page 29 for more information. 40 10 20 Data not 5 collected 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 63% $32.8bn reserves replacement ratio, in net cash from operating showing our progress in activities. accessing, exploring and extracting resources. n Includes employees who are group leaders, senior level leaders s These figures include employee dismissals and are not directly of sales calculated on the first-in, first-out method, after adjusting or in other management positions. comparable to data from previous years which grouped employee for any changes in provisions where the net realizable value of the o This excludes our share of those employed by joint operations in and contractor dismissals together. inventory is lower than its cost. Inventory holding gains and losses, legal entities. t Combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, for this purpose, are calculated for all inventories of hydrocarbons excluding acquisitions and disposals. except for those that are held as part of a trading position and p These figures relate to non-retail employees only. In 2014 voluntary certain other temporary inventory positions. Replacement cost turnover (resignations and retirements) was 5%. u Petrochemicals production reported within our Downstream segment. profit for the group is a non-GAAP measure. q Any employee, contractor or other third party can contact our v Replacement cost profit or loss reflects the replacement cost of w Minor amendments have been made to 2011 and 2012. confidential helpline OpenTalk. supplies. The replacement cost profit or loss for the year is arrived at by excluding from profit inventory holding gains and losses and their x The reported 2013 figure of 78.8 has been restated to 103.8. r This excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail service stations for incidents such as thefts of small amounts of money. associated tax effect. Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies acquired during the year and the cost BP Sustainability Report 2014 9 Our stakeholders We engage with a wide range of stakeholders to understand society’s expectations of us. Our stakeholders are the many individuals and Contractors and partners organizations who are affected in some way Like our industry peers, BP rarely works in by BP’s activities, whether it is in our role as an isolation. Safe and responsible operations energy provider, an employer, or as a business depend on the capability and performance of our that generates revenues and helps to boost suppliers, contractors and partners. To this end, local economies. we set operational standards through legally Employees binding agreements. Training and dialogue also help build the capability of our contractors. In We keep our employees informed about the Azerbaijan, for example, we are supporting the context within which they work. For example, efforts of companies to achieve international executive team members hold regular meetings standards and to improve their competitiveness. and webcasts with employees around the See pages 30-31 and 48 for more information. world. We have established channels for our employees to raise concerns and we maintain Local communities regular communication with unions at many Our relationships with communities are BP sites. Around 38,000 people in 70 countries important for all our activities, but particularly participated in our employee engagement for major new projects where our presence may survey in 2014. See page 29 for information bring about changes in the local areas, such as Stakeholders discuss their views on BP’s on survey results. jobs and support for community development, sustainability reporting in Baku, Azerbaijan. Shareholders and analysts as well as increased road traffic, changes in the landscape and increased demands for fresh We are focused on generating the most value, water. We engage with local communities not necessarily the most volume, through our through public consultations and meetings with production. We engage with shareholders and local representatives. For example, in planning analysts through our roadshows, annual general the expansion of our LNG plant in Indonesia, meeting, webcasts and one-to-one meetings. we conducted public consultations involving We have presented the BP Energy Outlook and communities from 62 villages. See page 47 held briefings on contractor management and for more information. our progress against safety enhancements recommended in BP’s internal investigation into Non-governmental organizations the Deepwater Horizon accident, the Bly Report. For our new projects, we often consult with Governments and regulators relevant local and international NGOs, who may provide specialized expertise on managing We engage with governments on many fronts impacts. We also engage with NGOs on specific and aim to maintain dialogue with all relevant issues. In 2014, we discussed climate change, government agencies, ministries and regulatory financial transparency, human rights and departments at every stage of our presence in operating in sensitive areas, in these meetings. a country. In many countries where we operate, lobbying activity is strictly regulated. We engage Academic institutions in policy debates that are of concern to us and We collaborate with research institutions and the communities in which we operate, such universities on specific issues such as climate as financial transparency, security and human change, water stewardship and biodiversity. rights, and carbon. We also invest in the development of education Our industry and teaching programmes around the world, particularly in the areas of science, technology, We work through industry groups to help engineering and mathematics. establish standards and address complex energy challenges. For example, as a member of the Customers global oil and gas association for environmental We serve about 8 million customers each day. and social issues, IPIECA, we are working with We seek to understand consumer expectations our peers on topics such as managing human and to deliver quality products to our customers rights risks in the supply chain. We are also throughout our retail network. About 55,000 members of other industry bodies such as the consumers in more than 16 countries International Association of Oil & Gas Producers participated in our global tracking research and the American Petroleum Institute. programmes in 2014, answering questions ranging from how they rate BP on customer satisfaction in relation to its competitors to the degree to which they recognize our brand and use our products. 10 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Key issues Overview The scale of BP’s operations means that we manage a large number of sustainability issues. Our approach to materiality We develop our reporting around the issues that Safety we believe have the highest level of importance • Employee and contractor safety. Internal External priorities concerns for our stakeholders and the greatest potential • Process safety. impact on BP’s ability to deliver its strategy. • Security. The input and feedback we receive from Environment stakeholders throughout the year helps inform • Greenhouse gas emissions. our approach to reporting. Before our reporting • Spills and other environmental performance. is published, BP’s senior leaders review the content to check there are no significant Society omissions. • Our contribution to society. • Geopolitical context. In 2014, the issues assessed as being of high concern to stakeholders and of high significance We have attempted to cover these topics in for BP included: our Sustainability Report 2014 as well as on our website, and to address them within our The Gulf of Mexico • Environmental and economic restoration. Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014. Input from internal experts Audience research • Legal proceedings. See bp.com/sustainability and Risk register External reporting trends  The energy future bp.com/annualreport for more information. Business priorities Industry benchmarking • Climate change, including the energy and peer review challenge and managing carbon risk. International media review • Operating at the frontiers: deepwater oil and gas, oil sands and hydraulic fracturing. Material issues judged as those that represent significant external concerns How we operate that also match internal priorities • Board/executive governance and oversight. • Risk management, including for non-operated joint ventures. • Financial sustainability of BP. What we heard from stakeholders In preparing our 2014 sustainability reporting, What we heard How we’ve responded we talked with stakeholders representing industry associations, government, investors, Explain how you assess Information on how we assess and seek to manage carbon non-governmental organizations, trade unions and carbon risk. and climate change risk. See pages 16 and 17. other types of organizations. These conversations Describe how BP is managing Case studies from around the world to show how our policies took place in one-to-one meetings and roundtable issues at a local level. are working on the ground. See bp.com/casestudies discussions in Azerbaijan, the UK and the US. Include information on how you Explanation of the environmental and social aspects we Issues often vary depending on who we are manage environmental and consider in our screening process for projects and how we speaking to. For example, in 2014, many social impacts. assess impacts throughout the life cycle of our operations. stakeholders continued to express an interest See pages 25 and 41. in the environmental and social impacts of specific technologies, such as hydraulic fracturing Provide information on how Progress update on implementing the recommendations and deepwater drilling, while others were BP is embedding safer drilling from the Bly Report, BP’s investigation into the Deepwater more concerned with global issues such as processes. Horizon accident. We also report findings from the climate change. independent expert appointed to provide an objective assessment of this progress. See page 35. Stakeholders also provided specific feedback on how they would like us to improve our reporting. Report back on what you said Summary of our 2014 actions for our key sustainability issues you would do last year and and direction for 2015 and beyond. See pages 6 and 7. where you see BP going. BP Sustainability Report 2014 11 Update on the Gulf of Mexico We are continuing to see progress in the economic and environmental recovery of areas affected by the 2010 Deepwater Horizon accident. Bird population monitoring in the Gulf is part of the natural resource damage assessment process. Completing the response the wellhead, causing the volume and concentration of oil to decrease as it travelled The US Coast Guard ended the remaining active away from the well. clean-up operations in the Deepwater Horizon area of response in April 2014. If residual oil from Early restoration work has already begun. As the Deepwater Horizon incident is later identified at December 2014, BP and the trustees had and requires removal, BP will take action at the agreed on 54 early restoration projects that are direction of the Coast Guard. expected to cost approximately $700 million, of which BP has funded $629 million to date. Restoring the environment This work includes efforts to restore and Scientists from BP, government agencies, enhance wildlife, habitats and the services academia and other organizations are studying a provided by those habitats, as well as to provide range of species and habitats to understand how additional access for fishing, boating and other wildlife populations and the environment may related recreational uses. have been affected by the accident and oil spill. Restoring the economy Since May 2010, more than 240 initial and Our Gulf Coast economic recovery efforts amended work plans have been developed have focused on paying all legitimate claims by state and federal trustees and BP to study stemming from the accident and supporting two resources and habitat. The study data will of the region’s most vital industries – tourism inform an assessment of injury to natural and seafood. resources in the Gulf of Mexico and the development of a restoration plan. BP has supported regional and national tourism Gulf of Mexico Research Institute campaigns for the Gulf states. Although opinions Environmental data collected by federal and differ on the stage of Gulf recovery, many areas state agencies and BP is being made available BP has committed to pay $500 million over continue to experience strong numbers in at gulfsciencedata.bp.com. The website includes 10 years to support independent research tourism spend and revenue per available room data on fish, birds, shoreline, air monitoring through the Gulf of Mexico Research – measures used by the tourism industry to samples, and oil, sediment and water chemistry, Initiative. As at the end of 2014, the initiative assess success. For example, there were and BP plans to add more data in 2015. had awarded approximately $315 million in increases in revenue per available room in grants for research in areas including the More than four years of environmental January to November 2014 compared to the ecological and human health aspects of assessment data suggests that most of the same period in 2009 for the Gulf coastal counties spills, and the development of new impact on the environment was relatively short in Alabama, Louisiana and Florida panhandle technology for future spill response, in duration and limited in geography. A number (increases of 26%, 64% and 41% respectively). mitigation and restoration. of physical, biological and chemical processes acted upon the oil after it was released from  View the research projects at research.gulfresearchinitiative.org 12 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Payments related to the Gulf Coast recovery According to government data, Gulf seafood is As part of its monitoring of settlement (as at 31 December 2014) safe to eat and available in numbers comparable payments, BP identified and disputed multiple to pre-accident levels. Since May 2010, levels of awards that appeared to result from an incorrect Response and clean-up $14 billion+ residues of oil contamination in seafood have interpretation of the economic and property consistently tested 100 to 1,000 times lower damages settlement agreement by the claims Claims, advances and $13.1 billion than the safety thresholds established by the administrator. BP has also raised issues about settlements US Food and Drug Administration. misconduct and inefficiency in the facility Funding for the natural $1 billion+ administering the settlement. This is an BP has supported the seafood industry by resource damage ongoing situation. funding seafood testing and marketing Early restoration projects $698 milliona programmes in Alabama, Florida, Louisiana Multi-district litigation proceedings and Mississippi. State-led tourism $179 million The multi-district litigation trial relating to liability, campaigns Independent monitors limitation, exoneration and fault allocation began in the federal district court in New Orleans in State-led seafood $48.5 million Two independent monitors – a process safety February 2013. marketing programmes monitor and an ethics monitor – were appointed under the terms of the criminal plea agreement The first phase of the trial focused on the causes State-led seafood testing $25.3 million BP reached with the US government in 2012 of the accident and the allocation of fault among a Approximate cost of approved projects. to resolve all federal criminal claims arising out the defendants. In September 2014, the court of the Deepwater Horizon incident. Under the found that BPXP was grossly negligent in terms of the agreement, BP is taking additional connection with the Deepwater Horizon accident actions, enforceable by the court, to further and is therefore subject to enhanced civil enhance the safety of drilling operations in the penalties. BP does not believe that the evidence Gulf of Mexico. at trial supports a finding of gross negligence and has appealed this ruling. The process safety monitor is reviewing and providing recommendations concerning BP The second phase of the trial focused on efforts Exploration & Production Inc’s (BPXP) process to stop the flow of oil and the volume of oil safety and risk management procedures for spilled. In January 2015, the district court found deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. BPXP is that 3.19 million barrels of oil were discharged the BP group company that conducts exploration into the Gulf of Mexico and therefore subject to and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico. a Clean Water Act penalty. We have appealed this ruling. In addition, the court found that The ethics monitor is reviewing and providing BP was not grossly negligent in its source recommendations concerning BP’s ethics and control efforts. compliance programme. The penalty phase trial finished in February The monitors have interviewed BP employees, 2015, with the ruling to come at a later date. reviewed policies and procedures, and made site In this phase, the district court will determine visits in preparation for their initial reports, which the amount of civil penalties owed to the US will be delivered in 2015. under the Clean Water Act. Claims See quarterly updates on legal proceedings BP began paying compensation for legitimate at bp.com/legalproceedings claims for damages within weeks of the Deepwater Horizon accident. From May 2010 Agreement with EPA to the end of 2014, BP had paid a total of Following the Deepwater Horizon incident, the approximately $11.6 billion to individuals and US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) businesses through various claims processes, suspended various BP companies from entering with $600 million being paid in 2014. BP had 2,000+ into new contracts with the US government paid almost $1.5 billion for claims, advances or renewing existing ones. and settlements with government entities. BP entered into an agreement with the EPA employees in the BP reached settlements in 2012 with the in March 2014, resolving all suspension and Gulf of Mexico. Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee (PSC) to resolve debarment matters. Under this agreement, the substantial majority of legitimate individual which applies for five years, BP has agreed to and business claims, and medical claims safety and operations, ethics and compliance, stemming from the accident and oil spill. and corporate governance requirements. The PSC was established to act on behalf of 10 individual and business plaintiffs in the multidistrict litigation proceedings in New Orleans. Find more information online at bp.com/gulfofmexico offshore rigs in operation. BP Sustainability Report 2014 13 The energy future Today’s challenge is to manage and meet growing worldwide demand for energy while addressing climate change and other environmental and social issues. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Help meet the growing energy Completed the expansion of our Increase the proportion of natural demand through a diverse mix ethanol production capacity at our gas in our production portfolio over of fuels and technologies. Tropical facility, making it one of the the next decade. largest mills in Brazil. Work with our partners to enhance Continue to engage with our World Bank carbon pricing statement how we manage emissions at our stakeholders on climate change. endorsed. oil sands facilities. Expand the use of technology Further improve fuel efficiency 15% reduction in friction through the to monitor conditions in our through the use of our branded use of new Castrol EDGE engine oil deepwater wells to more of fuels and engine oils. means improved fuel economy. our rigs worldwide. 14 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Meeting the energy challenge With population and income projected to rise, the global energy challenge is to manage and meet demand affordably, sustainably and securely. Population and economic growth are the main A diverse mix 37% The energy future drivers of global energy demand. The world’s We believe a diverse mix of fuels and population is projected to increase by 1.6 billion technologies can enhance national and global projected increase in from 2013 to 2035, and the world economy is energy security while supporting the transition demand for energy likely to more than double over the same period. to a lower-carbon economy. between 2013 and 2035. Improvements to energy efficiency, further stimulated by new climate policies and a shift Oil and natural gas towards less energy-intensive activities in Oil and natural gas are likely to play a significant fast-growing economies, will restrain the growth part in meeting demand for several decades. 54% of energy consumption. But we still expect We believe these energy sources will represent world demand for energy to increase by as much about 54% of total energy consumption in 2035. as 37% between 2013 and 2035, with 96% Even under the International Energy Agency’s total energy consumption of the growth from non-OECD countries. most ambitious climate policy scenario (the 450 from oil and gas in 2035. scenarioa), oil and gas would still make up 49% Energy resources are available to meet this of the energy mix in 2030 and 43% in 2040. growing demand, but developing these resources presents a number of challenges: We expect oil to remain the dominant source for transport fuels, accounting for almost 90% Affordability – fossil fuels can become more of demand in 2035. difficult to access, as the easiest and highestquality resources are depleted first, and many Natural gas, in particular, is likely to play an non-fossil fuel resources will remain costly to increasing role in meeting global energy produce at scale. demand. By 2035 gas is expected to provide 26% of global energy, matching the share of Supply security – more than 60% of the world’s coal. Natural gas produces about half as much known reserves of natural gas are in just five CO2 as coal per unit of power generated, so countries, and more than 80% of global oil increasing the share of gas versus coal helps to reserves are located in nine countries, often restrain GHG emissions. Shale gas has already distant from the hubs of energy consumption. had a significant impact on US gas prices and Sustainability – action is needed to limit carbon demand as well as CO2 emissions, which have dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases fallen below what they were 20 years ago. (GHG) emitted through fossil fuel use. Shale gas is expected to contribute 47% of the growth in global natural gas supplies between Continued advances in technology and 2013 and 2035. energy-industry productivity are required to deliver affordable, sustainable and secure New sources of hydrocarbons may be more energy. The shale gas revolution demonstrates difficult to reach, extract and process. BP, the potential impact of such developments. along with others in our industry, is working to improve techniques for maximizing recovery Effective policy from existing and currently inaccessible or We believe governments must set a stable undeveloped fields. In many cases, the framework to encourage private sector extraction of these resources might be more investment and to help consumers to choose energy-intensive, which means operating costs wisely. This includes secure access for the and GHG emissions from operations may exploration and development of energy also increase. resources; mutual benefits for resource owners Renewables and development partners; and an appropriate Renewables will play an increasingly important legal and regulatory environment with an Our projections of future energy trends are taken role in addressing the long-term challenges of economy-wide price on carbon. from the BP Energy Outlook 2035. energy security and climate change. They are Energy efficiency already the fastest-growing energy source, For further details see bp.com/energyoutlook but are starting from a low base. By 2035, we Greater efficiency helps with affordability – estimate renewable energy, excluding largebecause less energy is needed; with security scale hydroelectricity, is likely to meet around – because it reduces dependence on imports; 8% of total global energy demand.a and with sustainability – because it reduces emissions. Innovation can play a key role in For more information on our biofuels improving technology, bringing down cost and business see page 22. increasing efficiency. For example, we believe that energy efficient technologies and biofuels a From World Energy Outlook 2014. © OECD/International could offer the most cost-effective pathway to Energy Agency 2014, page 607. The IEA’s 450 policy scenario Sunrise, an oil sands project in Canada, started a secure, lower-carbon future for transport. assumes governments adopt commitments to limit the long-term concentration of greenhouse gases in the up at the end of 2014 with first oil expected to atmosphere to 450 parts-per-million of CO2 equivalent. be recovered in the first quarter of 2015. BP Sustainability Report 2014 15 Climate change BP believes that climate change is an important long-term issue that justifies global action. The science Initiative, an industry-driven platform for sharing and to identify how best to achieve them. We best practice and technical solutions to address encourage governments to base their discussions The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change climate change and sustainable energy. on sound science and consideration of all relevant (IPCC) states that warming of the climate International climate agreements factors, including energy security, affordability and system is unequivocal, and is in large part due to BP believes it is for governments to set goals, international competitiveness. an increase in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from human activities. The IPCC believes that targets and timetables for limiting GHG emissions warming of the climate will probably lead to extreme weather events becoming more Unburnable carbon frequent and unpredictable. It makes clear that limiting climate change will require substantial We believe action on climate is needed. Valuations are based on proved reserves, and sustained reductions of GHG emissions. But it’s a complex issue – one needs which are not ‘stranded assets’. The value The climate challenge to consider all aspects of this debate in of the upstream part of BP’s business is BP’s Energy Outlook projects that global carbon their totality. mainly based on proved reserves, and less so dioxide (CO2) emissions from fossil fuels may estimates of probable or possible reserves. Access to affordable and secure energy be 25% higher in 2035 than they were in 2013, BP’s proved reserves are produced, and is essential for economic prosperity. partly as a consequence of coal use in rapidly historically replaced, over a 13-year timeframe We project global demand to grow by 37% growing economies. This is a projection of on average. On this wavelength we can adapt between 2013 and 2035, driven by the what looks likely to happen, not what we would our investment strategy to changes in policy, developing world. A diverse mix of energy like to see. market or technology conditions. sources, including fossils fuels, will be required. More ambitious energy policies could lead to To do this, we take a dynamic approach: There are multiple actors and actions. slower growth in CO2 emissions but this would Agriculture and land use emit about a quarter • GHG regulation: We assess how potential probably still not be enough to keep warming to of global GHGs. Slowing deforestation could carbon policy could affect our businesses 2°C, the threshold recognized by governments dramatically reduce CO2 and help protect the now and in the future. We apply a carbon as limiting the worst impacts of climate change. world’s biodiversity. price to our investment decisions, where There are several reasons, in addition to growing relevant. All fossil fuels are not equal. Coal accounts energy demand, why achieving substantial and for about 60% of potential CO2 emissions • Supply and demand: We make regional rapid GHG emissions reductions will be from known fossil reserves and is the most and global assessments of energy supply challenging. Some potentially important carbon intensive fossil fuel. Natural gas is an and demand in our Energy Outlook 2035 lower-carbon technologies – including nuclear, affordable replacement in coal-fired power, and we undertake detailed analysis of the carbon capture and storage, and electric vehicles cutting CO2 emissions in half. The transition transport sector. – still face significant technology, logistical, from coal to natural gas needs to be effected • Fluctuating oil prices: We test our political, infrastructure or cost challenges. And in the evolving energy mix. investments against a range of oil and gas the cost of renewable technologies has led There is a variety of resource holders and prices to check they are profitable over the some governments to reduce their levels of users. National oil companies control about long term. We take into account current support. In the meantime, the GHG intensity of 90% of known oil reserves. Consumers price levels and our long-term outlook. oil and gas extraction and production looks set account for about 90% of CO2 emissions • Evolving technology: We undertake to increase, with the move towards harder-tofrom oil products. periodic and thorough reviews of potential access resources. BP will continue to play its part. We invest innovation out to 2050 and collaborate with Carbon policy in lower-carbon energy, and our current external technology-focused bodies. BP believes that the scale of the climate portfolio is about half gas and half oil, with challenge is such that governments must act by a growing proportion of gas. We focus on setting a clear, stable and effective carbon policy energy efficiency in our operations and our framework if energy companies are to limit products. We support an economy-wide GHGs while providing energy competitively. carbon price. In particular, we believe that putting a price on carbon – one that treats all carbon equally, Comparing fossil fuels whether it comes out of a smokestack or a car Potential CO2 emissions (Gt) Carbon intensity exhaust – will make energy efficiency more from known resources indexed to gas 2.0 attractive and lower-carbon energy sources more competitive. Gas 393 1.5 Oil Within a clear policy framework energy Coal 707 companies have a key role to deploy innovative 1.0 technological and commercial solutions at scale and BP wants to play its part. As such we have 0.5 endorsed the World Bank carbon pricing 1,736 statement and the Carbon Price Communiqué. BP is also a member of the Oil and Gas Climate 16 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Our programme of action to manage climate change risk We take steps to address carbon risk and collaborate with others on climate change issues. Lower-carbon energy Internal carbon price The energy future Natural gas is a plentiful resource that releases We factor a carbon cost into our own less CO2 than other fossil fuels when burned. investments and engineering designs for large Most importantly, the technologies needed to new projects and those for which emissions produce and use it are widely available today. costs would be a material part of the project. Around half of our current Upstream portfolio is In industrialized countries this is $40 per tonne natural gas. We are developing important supply of CO2 equivalent. We use this cost as a basis for chains to Europe, as well as to China and India, assessing the economic value of the investment two countries that are likely to account for more and as one consideration in optimizing the way than half of the growth in global energy demand the project is engineered with respect to GHG between 2013 and 2035. emissions. This helps us to anticipate a future with a potentially higher carbon price and greater We also invest in low-cost, low-carbon biofuels regulatory GHG requirements. that are either financially self-sustaining now or could be in the future. We doubled the Climate change adaptation capacity of our largest sugar cane ethanol facility We use specialized climate models developed in Brazil in 2014. We have interests in 16 wind with Imperial College and Princeton to help us farms, which have a total generating capacity predict possible climate impacts relevant to our Our specially formulated advanced Castrol of 2,600 megawatts of electricity. operations, as well as to better understand how engine oils can improve fuel efficiency and reduce carbon emissions. Energy efficient operations and extreme weather events might impact our products business in the future. We require our operations to incorporate energy We seek to address potential climate change use considerations in their business plans and impacts on our new projects from the start – in to assess, prioritize and implement technologies the design phase. We have guidance for existing and systems that could improve energy usage. operations and projects on how to assess We measure the energy performance of our potential climate risks and impacts – to enable refining business using the Solomon Energy mitigation steps to be incorporated into project Intensity Index (EII), an industry measure that planning, design and operations. benchmarks energy efficiencies. All of our Technology and innovation refineries set and track progress against an EII target. Technological innovation can lead to more efficient production and use of fossil fuels, as We provide increasingly energy-efficient and well as alternatives to fossil fuels. We deepen high-performance products to our customers. our understanding of future energy, technology Our Castrol EDGE with Titanium Fluid Strength and climate change trends through in-house Technology changes the way engine oil behaves research and in partnership with leading under extreme pressure, reducing friction by academics. up to 15%. We work in partnership with vehicle and equipment manufacturers to achieve more Additionally, we invest in start-up companies efficient use of our fuels and engine oils. For to better understand evolving alternative and example, Ford’s ECOnetic cars – including the advanced technologies such as electric vehicles, Fiesta, Focus and Mondeo models – are battery storage and biolubricants. engineered with specially formulated advanced Castrol engine oils, which improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions. 56% of our current Upstream portfolio was natural gas at the end of 2014. BP Sustainability Report 2014 17 Energy and natural resources A BP-funded consortium of experts from leading universities is examining the complex relationships between natural resources and the supply and use of energy. Our Energy Sustainability Challenge (ESC) Key ESC technologies programme looks at the potential effects of Visualising natural resources natural resource scarcities, including land, water, The Foreseer™ tool, developed at the University and minerals, on patterns of energy supply of Cambridge and funded by BP, uses detailed and demand. The programme recognises the data to create a visualization of natural resource increasing socio-economic risks and potential life cycles and their interconnectivity in the business impacts from competing pressures on context of future demand scenarios, technology the natural resources used in the energy sector. improvements and policy choices in a region To date, 15 universities from around the world of interest. have partnered with the ESC. In 2014, The tool, which helps to inform decisions about participating universities included Cambridge managing natural resources by identifying and in the UK; Harvard, MIT, Princeton and Yale quantifying the connections among water, land in the US; and Augsburg in Germany. and energy, from source to end use, was The research is underpinned by peer-reviewed applied to Abu Dhabi and China in 2014. scientific data and analysis. Key projects are focused on developing modelling tools that  See foreseer.org for more information. help policy makers and practitioners better Understanding bioenergy The ESC has published a series of handbooks understand the complexities around natural The Integrated Global System Model is a on biomass, water, and materials critical to the resources and energy. well-respected and widely used suite of global energy industry. The books are available to models that bring together the earth’s download from our website. Key findings environmental and economic systems. The ESC research has found that: See bp.com/energysustainabilitychallenge Developed by MIT, BP is co-funding its upgrade • Globally, there is enough fresh water, land, to improve the representation of biomass in and minerals to support expected increases the model. This will help researchers test the in energy demand from a growing population. future of biomass use under different carbon However, natural resource constraints vary regimes and technology scenarios and will give widely by region. policy makers a more strategic understanding • Energy-related water, land and minerals of bioenergy and its potential impacts. constraints can be managed more sustainably but will require continuing technical advances See mitei.mit.edu for more information. and careful governance decisions. The relationship between natural resources and energy The ESC research highlights the relationship between natural resources and energy production and use.a Atmosphere  round 57% of greenhouse A gas emissions are from fossil Materials fuel use. 28% is from agriculture GHG and land use change. emissions A  pproximately 10% of global primary energy use is for the Energy Land mining and processing of materials. B  iofuels use 2% of global cropland. Water A  round 1% of global water withdrawals is for fossil 15 fuel extraction and refining, compared to about 70% for agriculture. universities from around the world have partnered About 5% of steel is used in the with the ESC. oil and gas industry. a Based on world averages in 2010. 18 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Deepwater oil and gas BP’s expertise and technology are helping to extract deepwater oil and gas safely and efficiently. We have deepwater drilling interests in Angola, Environmental impacts The energy future Brazil, Egypt, India, the UK and the US, and  o you apply the same deepwater Q: D We conduct monitoring of specific deepwater we are pursuing further deepwater growth drilling standards to your operations environments so we can better manage opportunities in Australia, Canada, Morocco, globally? the potential impacts from our operations. Trinidad & Tobago and Uruguay. This helps us in planning drilling activities, A: We have a set of engineering and Producing oil and gas from deepwater reservoirs laying pipelines and building offshore platforms, operating requirements designed to creates engineering and technical challenges: as well as in responding to oil spills. mitigate risks in our drilling, completion reservoirs can be 35,000 feet (10,660 metres) and well intervention operations. They below sea level under hard rock, thick salt and See page 44 for information on oil spill contain a mixture of industry and tightly packed sands. preparedness and response. additional BP-specific requirements. In Angola, for example, we began observing Many of these are applicable across Enhanced techniques can allow safe access to new sources of oil and gas. We are working environmental conditions when we started our worldwide operations, such as seismic and drilling activities at our Greater requirements on cementing in the design, with experts across our industry to develop technology to extract oil and gas from highPlutonio project in 2002. As a result, we construction and decommissioning developed actions intended to manage of a well. pressure undersea reservoirs – a resource that is beyond the reach of current deepwater environmental impacts, including adjusting Others are specific to the type of well we drilling equipment. the use of drilling chemicals to minimize effects are drilling, the type of rig we are using or on seabed fauna. the subsurface conditions that we are Deepwater capability Our monitoring stations in Angolan waters likely to encounter. For example, some Our global wells institute offers courses in areas gather data on ocean currents, temperature, wells need to be designed to withstand such as drilling engineering and well site sound and water chemistry, and take high pressures and temperatures – these leadership. Our applied deepwater well control photographs of marine life. They are designed can be found in deepwater, shallow water course uses simulator facilities to train key to be in place for 25 years. This helps us to or onshore environments. In these cases, members of rig teams, including contractors. understand long-term patterns in the deepwater we have specific requirements that aim to We have conducted more than 35 classes environment and manage any changes that may improve how we manage the risks of that for rig crews from around the world since be due to our operations. particular situation. courses began in October 2012. Scott Sigurdson Results from these monitoring activities Advanced technology are published as scientific papers at onepetro.org Vice president, area wells – deepwater, BP We have monitoring centres in Aberdeen, Baku, Houston, Luanda and Stavanger that enable us See page 34 for information on how we are sharing lessons learned with our industry. to oversee conditions in our offshore wells. Teams at our facility in Houston, for example, can monitor data from our operated rigs in the Dr Daniel Jones Gulf of Mexico 24 hours a day through real-time information feeds and video. Senior researcher, National Oceanography Centre, UK BP Well Advisor We use technology to monitor conditions in our wells, enhance operational safety and improve “The characterization of deepwater drilling efficiency. For example, BP Well Advisor environments prior to exploration and consists of a series of consoles that display drilling is very important, particularly as real-time data from our wells. This technology, there is often very little existing information used on more than 25 rigs worldwide, acts as in these remote areas. BP has carried an early warning system and helps people out major environmental surveys in its working both offshore and onshore to view deepwater areas to better understand and respond to changes in well conditions and these ecosystems and manage the impact safety equipment. of development.” 6,800ft We produce oil and gas from wells in water depths that can be more than six times the height of the Eiffel Tower. BP Sustainability Report 2014 19 Unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing Natural gas has an increasingly important role in supplying lower-carbon fuel to meet the world’s growing energy needs. By our estimates, natural gas is likely to meet We have inventoried and managed methane and the potential impacts of our operations on around 26% of total global energy demand by hydrocarbon emissions from our US onshore the local communities in the early stages of 2035. Shale gas is expected to contribute 47% natural gas operations for more than a decade. development and seek to manage them of the growth in global natural gas supplies throughout the life of the operation. See We aim to minimize air pollutant and GHG between 2013 and 2035. page 47 for more information. emissions, such as methane, at our operating BP is working to responsibly develop and sites. For example, we use a process called green Land use produce natural gas from unconventional completions at the majority of our gas operations To minimize land use and reduce the visibility of resources including shale gas, tight-gas and in the US. This process, which we have been our production facilities, we use techniques such coal bed methane at our operations in Algeria, using since 2001, captures natural gas that as drilling multiple wells from a single well site. Indonesia, Oman and the US. Approximately would otherwise be flared or vented during We also use construction practices that minimize 80% of our onshore natural gas production is the completion and commissioning of wells. the surface footprint of the operations and work from unconventional resources. Seismic activity to restore the land after construction. Some stakeholders have raised concerns about Hydraulic fracturing creates very small earth View our issue briefing on unconventional the potential environmental and community tremors that are almost always too weak to gas and hydraulic fracturing at impacts of hydraulic fracturing. BP seeks to be detected at the surface. Before conducting bp.com/unconventionalgas apply responsible well design and construction, work, BP assesses the potential risks of induced surface operation and fluid handling practices seismicity, including minor earthquakes and to mitigate these risks. US Lower 48 onshore business tremors caused by human activity, resulting Chemicals from our operations. This analysis informs our In 2015, our US Lower 48 onshore business development plans for drilling and hydraulic began operating as a separate business, with Water and sand constitute on average 99.5% of fracturing activity. its own governance, processes and systems. the injection material used in hydraulic fracturing. Some of the chemicals that are added to this, We evaluate industry-recommended guidance This is designed to promote nimble decision when used in certain concentrations, are for avoiding induced seismicity and we apply making and innovation so that BP can be more classified as hazardous by the relevant regulatory these practices to our operations as appropriate. competitive in the US onshore market, while authorities. BP works with service providers We are working with others in the oil and gas maintaining BP’s commitment to safe, reliable to minimize their use where possible. We list industry to share our knowledge and practices. and compliant operations. The business’s the chemicals we use in the fracturing process approach is to operate in line with industry in material safety data sheets at each site. Community impacts standards developed within the context of the We also submit data on chemicals used at our The development of unconventional resources highly regulated US environment. hydraulically fractured wells in the US, to the has moved energy companies into new and extent allowed by our suppliers who own often more populated areas. This may result in the chemical formulas, at fracfocus.org or other increased traffic, noise, dust, air pollution, visual state-designated websites. impacts, disruption of wildlife, and increased pressures on the local infrastructure. We assess Water and other fluids BP wells and facilities are designed, constructed, operated and decommissioned to mitigate the Hydraulic fracturing process risk of natural gas and hydraulic fracturing fluids Recovered water is Wastewater is recovered entering underground aquifers, including drinking stored in lined pits for treatment, reuse and/or tanks or disposal water sources. We test the integrity of our wells before beginning the fracturing process and again when work at the well reaches completion. Water tankers Storage tanks We are trialling a number of water-saving Fracturing fluid is innovations to reduce the amount of fresh water pumped into the well head used in our hydraulic fracturing operations, including new technologies that could make it possible to treat water used in fracturing for reuse in our operations. We sponsored research by Texas A&M University in 2014 to develop guidelines for water treatment companies that Water table supply water for fracturing fluid reuse. Greenhouse gas emissions Well is isolated Natural gas has the lowest greenhouse gas with pipe (GHG) emissions of any fossil fuel when and cement 5,000–10,000ft below the water table burnt. The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that when used in place Fissure Gas flows along well from fractures of coal for power, natural gas can reduce Well CO2 emissions by half. Shale 20 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Oil sands BP is working with our partners to develop Canada’s oil sands responsibly. Devon Energy, was granted regulatory approval Regulatory agencies in the province of Alberta The energy future in November 2014 and is at the design and and the federal government of Canada have set planning stage. Terre de Grace, which is out comprehensive and rigorous requirements BP-operated, is currently under appraisal for the full life cycle of oil sands developments. for development. We are working with our partners to reduce Impact on the landscape emissions. For example, we plan to develop further improvements through additional heat BP and our partners use, or plan to use, integration and recovery techniques. We also a production technology called steam aim to reduce energy use at well sites, for assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) rather instance, through insulating the portion of the than open-cast mining. steam pipe where it first enters the ground and SAGD is a production technique that involves before it reaches the oil sands. pumping steam into the oil sand reservoir through a horizontal well to heat and extract Water the oil. This reduces land disturbance as the Water supply and management are key operations have a smaller physical footprint and, elements in planning a SAGD project. BP is unlike mining, do not require tailings ponds. committed to maintaining a high level of water conservation and our oil sands projects are Sunrise, operated by Husky Energy, utilizes Throughout our exploratory work at the Terre designed to meet or exceed regulatory steam assisted gravity drainage technology de Grace lease area we have promoted the requirements. At Sunrise, we draw the water to minimize land disturbance. regeneration of habitat at sites where we have used to make steam primarily from underground completed our activity. This included planting aquifers and from non-potable water recycled Canada’s oil sands are the third-largest proven around 53,000 trees in 2014. from other operators. crude oil reserve in the world, after Saudi Arabia Greenhouse gas emissions and Venezuela. About half of the world’s total Local communities oil reserves that are open to private sector Well-to-wheels’ studies measure greenhouse BP recognizes that some aboriginal communities investment are contained in Canada’s oil sands. gas (GHG) emissions from producing the oil living in or near Alberta’s oil sands region are (well) through to combustion (wheels). A 2014 concerned about the impacts of oil sands Our projects study by the independent energy consultant, IHS development. We encourage local communities, BP is involved in three oil sands lease areas – Cambridge Energy Research Associates® Inc., such as First Nations and Métis, to provide Sunrise, Pike and Terre de Grace – all of which found that crude produced from Canada’s oil feedback on our activities relating to the are located in Alberta. Sunrise Phase 1, operated sands applying the SAGD technology used in Terre de Grace project. We hold regular by Husky Energy, started up at the end of 2014 BP’s projects, is around 8% more GHG intensive meetings, undertake field site visits and and we expect first oil to be recovered in the first than the average crude refined in the US. support local community events. quarter of 2015. Pike Phase 1, operated by Our partners operating the Sunrise and Pike projects have established consultation processes that have involved, and will continue to involve, local communities and other Steam assisted gravity drainage stakeholders. Commercial viability BP requires oil sands projects, like all of its investments, to be commercially viable over the life of the project. We currently expect the break-even price for oil from Canada’s oil sands to be within the range we require from other types of crude oil investments. Steam injection well 300m View our issue briefing on oil sands at Production well bp.com/oilsands Oil sands layer Steam 100–500m Bitumen 5m 500–1,000m BP Sustainability Report 2014 21 Biofuels We invest in biofuel businesses that complement our core business. We are focused on investing in low-cost, Water Mario Lindenhayn low-carbon biofuels that are either financially The growth of feedstocks for biofuels can Chief executive officer, self-sustaining now or could be in the future. potentially increase pressure on water resources, Biofuels can be blended into gasoline or diesel making the choice of crop and location crucial. Biofuels Brazil, BP without significant engine modifications or major The Goiás region in Brazil where we operate is changes to existing fuel delivery systems. especially well suited to sugar cane agriculture “For us in Brazil, it is important to do biofuels because the rainy and dry seasons match In Brazil, we produce biofuels that transform well and to ensure that we minimize any the needs of the sugar cane’s growing cycle. sugars into liquid fuels. Our three mills have a negative impacts on the communities and The water intensity of our Brazilian biofuels combined annual production capacity of around environments in which we operate. operations averages around 17 kilograms of 640 million litres of ethanol and employ more water per kilogram of sugar and ethanol, which During our early days here, we undertook than 6,000 people. The mills also use sugar cane compares favourably to that of many agricultural a study to evaluate the impacts that could waste to produce renewable power – two have food crops within the region. result from our operations and to understand a yearly capacity of up to 170 gigawatts (GWh) the needs of the local community. This while our newly expanded Tropical mill can We have been assessing water availability in formed the building blocks of our social and produce up to 340 GWh each year. the region where our Tropical sugar cane mill is environmental action plan. The plan has based. The outcomes of this analysis are helping In conjunction with DuPont, we have developed evolved over time but primarily comprises of us plan activities in the area. biobutanol, a second-generation biofuel that can three main themes. Firstly, road safety, with campaigns focusing on education and be blended into gasoline in greater proportions Certification and is more compatible than ethanol with the awareness for our employees, their families As well as producing our own biofuels, BP buys infrastructure used for existing fuel supplies. and the wider community. Secondly, significant quantities of biofuels produced by empowering local people, including How sustainable are biofuels? other operators and puts them into fuels for increasing the number of women in our markets, including Europe and the US, where We believe biofuels can be produced sustainably workforce. And thirdly, promoting the blending biofuels into gasoline and diesel is and can positively affect rural development and importance and value of sustainable sugar required by law. energy security, and reduce carbon emissions. cane production especially at our own sites While the sustainability of biofuels can vary For biofuels that we buy, we seek to comply where around 20% of our sugar cane greatly depending on the raw materials used and with all legal sustainability requirements on plantation is set aside to protect local the agricultural conditions, we are seeking to such fuels in countries where regulations are in biodiversity. We have embarked on a focus on sustainable alternatives. place. Elsewhere, we encourage our suppliers programme of activities to address these to meet sustainability standards, such as those issues. As we forge ahead with our journey, Food security Brazilian sugar cane is one of the most plentiful developed for the International Sustainability and I am proud of what we are doing in Brazil.” Carbon Certification system and the Roundtable and land-efficient feedstocks for producing both ethanol and sugar. Less than 2% of the land on Sustainable Palm Oil. used for crops or pasture in Brazil is for ethanol BP is a member of Bonsucro, a not-for-profit production – totalling around 5.1 million hectares. initiative that aims to reduce the environmental Greenhouse gas emissions and social impacts of sugar cane production. Sugar cane ethanol has life cycle greenhouse The Bonsucro standard certifies sustainable gas emissions that are 70% lower than production of sugar cane, and includes criteria conventional transport fuels. One reason for this that address potential impacts on human rights is that the mills produce renewable energy for – such as providing a safe and healthy working operating the plants, with excess electricity environment in workplace operations, and the exported to the grid. environment – such as preventing the cultivation of sugar cane on land that is legally protected or of critical conservation value. Our Tropical mill is certified to both Bonsucro and SA8000, the international standard for social accountability and human rights. For more information on worker rights in Brazil see bp.com/workforcerights 640 million litres of ethanol can be produced by our three mills in Brazil annually. 22 BP Sustainability Report 2014 The Arctic Our offshore interests in the Arctic are currently limited to exploration. We operate nine onshore fields in Alaska. The Arctic offers opportunities to help meet We are also working with others to deploy The energy future the world’s growing energy needs, but there are consistent safety standards and technologies, also specific challenges due to its unique nature. such as: These range from environmental, social and • The Barents 2020 project, which examines political to operational, technological and standards for safe exploration, production and commercial challenges. transport of oil and gas in the Barents Sea. BP has operated in the US Arctic for several • The International Maritime Organization’s decades. We operate nine onshore fields on development of a draft international code of Alaska’s North Slope. safety for ships operating in polar waters, which is expected to come into force in 2017. In the offshore Arctic, BP has a largely non-operated position. We currently have We aim to minimize the impacts of our investments in areas including the Canadian operations on their surroundings, particularly Beaufort, the Barents Sea and Greenland. in sensitive environments, and invest in For the next few years, activity will focus maintenance to keep our facilities safe and on exploration. reliable. We completed a $100 million maintenance and upgrade programme at three We will continue to assess other opportunities of our North Slope facilities in 2014. in the Arctic, proceeding only where we believe We began working in Alaska in 1959 and have regularly conducted research to understand this we understand and can manage associated risks Working with local communities and impacts. sensitive environment. Arctic communities depend on sensitive Arctic We share our knowledge and experience in natural environments for their subsistence the Arctic with our partners to help deliver safe and cultural heritage. We acknowledge the and responsible operations in this sensitive importance of respecting the unique cultures environment. We invest in developing Arctic and ways of life in Arctic communities. capability within our industry. We work with local communities to understand Rosneft and manage the potential local impacts from our work. Our emphasis is on open and transparent We hold a 19.75% share in Rosneft, Russia’s dialogue, based on sound science and largest oil company, and remain committed to knowledge sharing, and our response plans our strategic investment while complying with are enhanced through considering local and all relevant sanctions. BP does not currently traditional knowledge. For example, we have have operations in the Russian Arctic or directly worked with the North Slope Borough and partner with Rosneft on any of its Arctic licences. the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission to Working safely incorporate local environmental knowledge Our operations in Alaska have governmentinto our mitigation plans for potential impacts approved land, air and water use permits and oil to the local community and subsistence spill response plans that consider the sensitivity whaling activities. of the Arctic. We continue to carry out research We also look for opportunities for local into construction, drilling and oil spill response communities to share in the long-term economic in ice and cold water settings and share our benefits of our presence. For example, we experience and knowledge with our partners. support the Alaska Native in Science and We participate in a number of Arctic research Engineering Program, which provides programmes with our industry peers. Research opportunities for students from secondary areas include the effectiveness of dispersants school and university to engage with science in Arctic waters, oil spill modelling in ice, the use and engineering. There are currently more than of remote sensors above and under water and 1,500 students participating in the programme, 9 a sea ice model designed to be integrated into established oil spill models. which offers paid internships and support during the academic year. BP-operated fields on Alaska’s North Slope. See page 45 for information on ecological monitoring in the Arctic. $100 million maintenance and upgrade programme completed at three of our facilities. BP Sustainability Report 2014 23 How we operate We strive to be a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Further increase the number of 18% of group leaders are female. We Build capability and promote from women in leadership positions and remain committed to our aim that within our existing workforce. build on our work to encourage other women will represent at least 25% forms of diversity. of our group leaders by 2020. Engage employees and board members in code of conduct Evaluate our current screening Created additional guidance certification. process to help projects identify and for projects on socio-economic assess socio-economic sensitivities sensitivities and standard Continue to pursue deeper, and impacts. impact mitigations. collaborative relationships with our strategic contractors. Look for opportunities to continue to More than $259 million in contracts support a local supply chain. awarded to local Omani companies since 2013. 24 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Our operating management system Our operating management system provides the foundation for a safer and stronger BP. BP’s operating management system (OMS) Exemplar programme is a group-wide framework designed to help Our ‘exemplar’ programme helps sites apply our us manage risks in our operating activities. OMS using the expertise of coaches who have It brings together BP requirements on health, up to 30 years of experience in high-hazard safety, security, the environment, social industries. There are 18 sites participating in responsibility and operational reliability, as the programme. Around 185 continuous well as related issues, such as maintenance, improvement projects have been completed to contractor relations and organizational learning, date, in areas such as procedures, training and into a common management system. process safety systems. At our Cherry Point Operating requirements refinery in the US, for example, ‘exemplar’ has resulted in a new procedure to verify that spare The OMS requirements set out what a BP pumps are always available and ready to use in operation needs to do across eight focus areas. case primary equipment fails. How we operate This includes, for example, our principles for measuring our performance, as well as for Environmental and social practices managing facilities that are fit-for-purpose Our OMS includes practices that set out throughout the life cycle of the operation. requirements and guidance for how we identify Any necessary variations in the application of and manage environmental and social impacts. Technicians monitoring activity in the control OMS – in order to meet local regulations or The practices include topics such as our room of the Atlantis platform in the Gulf of circumstances – are subject to a governance management of greenhouse gas emissions, Mexico in the US. process. We review and amend our group water, workforce welfare and cultural heritage. requirements within OMS from time to time to They apply to our major projects, projects that reflect BP’s priorities and experience or changing involve new access, those that could affect an external regulations. international protected area and some BP Continuous improvement acquisition negotiations. OMS also helps us improve the quality of our In the early planning stages of these projects, operating activities. All BP businesses covered we complete a screening process to identify by OMS undertake an annual performance the most significant environmental and social improvement cycle and assess alignment with impacts. In 2014, we evaluated the sociothe OMS framework. Recently acquired economic aspects of the screening process operations need to transition to OMS. and created additional guidance for projects on socio-economic sensitivities and standard We use the performance improvement cycle impact mitigations. to identify and implement opportunities to work more effectively across the business – from See page 41 for more information on individual challenges on sites to how we plan managing environmental and social impacts. and carry out assurance. Operating requirements BP’s OMS includes requirements that address Privi eight focus areas. le sult s oper ge to Re ate formance Per Leade rsh k Ris ip Proc ess People BP O rg a re s edu niz oc a ti Plant Pr on O pt im iz a t i ets Operators conducting an equipment inspection on As s on board the Plutão, Saturno, Venus and Marte fields vessel, off the coast of Angola. BP Sustainability Report 2014 25 Our code of conduct Our code of conduct defines our commitment to high ethical standards throughout the business. OpenTalk cases Our code of conduct is based on our values and In 2014, 1,114 people contacted OpenTalk with (by code chapter) clarifies the principles and expectations for concerns or enquiries (2013 1,121; 2012 1,295). Operating safely, Our assets and everyone who works at BP. It applies to all BP’s 2014 annual ratio of 13 contacts per 1,000 responsibly and reliably financial integrity employees, officers and members of the board. employees (2013 13; 2012 15) is consistent with Governments and communities Our business partners external benchmarks. Our people We expect and encourage our contractors and 1,500 their employees to act in a way that is consistent Our annual employee survey results indicated a with our code. We will take appropriate high level of awareness and confidence in measures where we believe they have not met available channels and means to raise concerns 1,125 our expectations or their contractual obligations. about ethical and safety issues. We have been working to strengthen our ethics The most common concerns raised relate to 750 and compliance presence to provide support the people section of the code. This includes where it is most needed. Also, in our trading treating people fairly, with dignity, and giving 375 function we continued to enhance guidance everyone equal opportunity; creating a related to trading behaviours and conflicts respectful, harassment-free workplace; and of interest. protecting privacy and confidentiality. Possible 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 courses of action following an investigation Certifying to the code of a concern range from coaching up to, We provide employee training and and including, dismissal. communications to explain how the code’s principles apply to our work. New employees Employee dismissals receive training when they join BP and each year In 2014, our businesses dismissed 157 we engage our employees and board members employees for non-conformance with our code in code of conduct certification. This reminds of conduct or unethical behaviour (2013 113). individuals of their duty to uphold BP’s values, to This excludes dismissals of staff employed at do the right thing and to create an environment our retail service stations for incidents such as where people can confidently raise concerns. thefts of small amounts of money. We have enhanced our human resources processes Speaking up resulting in improved identification and recording BP is committed to providing an open of code-related dismissals. environment where our employees, contractors and others with whom we come into contact Human rights are comfortable speaking up whenever they Our code states our commitment to human have a question about our code of conduct or rights and that we seek to conduct our business see something they feel to be unsafe, unethical in a manner that respects the human rights and or potentially harmful. Employees are dignity of people. It also directs employees and encouraged to discuss their questions or other stakeholders to BP’s human rights policy. concerns with their line manager, other See page 50 for more information. managers in their team, relevant supporting functions or BP’s confidential helpline, OpenTalk. Anti-bribery and corruption We operate in some of the world’s highest risk BP has zero tolerance for retaliation against countries from an anti-bribery and corruption anyone who seeks advice, raises a concern, perspective, as measured by Transparency reports misconduct or participates in an International’s Corruption Perceptions Index. investigation. We have a responsibility to our shareholders and to the countries and communities in which we BP launched a shorter Courage and the code do business to be ethical and lawful in all our and simplified code Requests for facilitation payments are a risk in dealings. Our code of conduct explicitly states of conduct in 2014. This several of our operations. Speaking up about that we do not tolerate bribery and corruption is our guide to doing such requests takes courage. In one of our Asia in any of its forms. the right thing in Pacific operations, for example, a member of our Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption business and explains team was repeatedly asked by local officials for policy applies to all BP-operated businesses. the most important cash and other contributions – a direct violation The policy governs areas such as appropriate principles and of our code. The requests were always rejected clauses in contracts, risk assessments and expectations. and brought to the attention of senior training. We target training on a risk basis and management. Advice on managing situations to those employees for whom it is thought to such as these has been developed and shared be most relevant, for example, given specific at employee meetings and the team member incidents or the nature or location of their role. recognized for the courage shown in upholding our ethical standards. See bp.com/codeofconduct 26 BP Sustainability Report 2014 How we manage risk BP’s risk management system is designed to be a consistent and clear framework for managing and reporting risks from the group’s operations to the board. BP manages, monitors and reports on the Members of our group audit team visit certain principal risks and uncertainties that can impact sites, including third-party rigs, to check how our ability to deliver our strategy of meeting the they are managing risks. world’s energy needs responsibly while creating long-term shareholder value. The board We identify certain risks as being a high priority Our management systems, organizational for particular oversight by the board. For 2015, structures, processes, standards, code of this includes risks associated with the Gulf conduct and behaviours together form a system of Mexico oil spill, geopolitical risk, security, of internal control that governs how we conduct ethical misconduct, legal and regulatory the business of BP and manage associated risks. non-compliance, trading non-compliance, Risk management system cybersecurity, major project delivery and Day-to-day risk management incidents associated with the drilling of wells, How we operate Management and staff at our facilities, assets operating facilities and the transportation and functions identify and manage risk, of hydrocarbons. promoting safe, compliant and reliable On 1 January 2015, the board was composed operations. Our operating management system of the chairman, two executive directors and integrates BP requirements on health, safety, 11 non-executive directors. Members of BP’s safety, ethics and environment security, environment, social responsibility, assurance committee visiting our biofuels operational reliability and related issues. Board committees operations in Brazil. The board delegates some of its oversight Business and strategic risk management and monitoring activities to its committees, Our businesses and functions integrate risk composed entirely of non-executive directors. into key business processes such as strategy, One of the six committees – the safety, ethics planning, performance management, resource and environment assurance committee (SEEAC) and capital allocation, and project appraisal. monitors the management of non-financial risk. We do this by using a standard process for The committee met six times in 2014, with all collating risk data, assessing risk management meetings attended by the group chief executive. activities, making further improvements and planning new activities. The committee monitors BP’s global Oversight and governance implementation of the measures recommended Functional leadership, the executive team, in BP’s investigation of the Deepwater Horizon the board and relevant committees provide accident, the Bly Report. Carl Sandlin, the oversight to identify, understand and endorse independent expert appointed to assess management of significant risks to BP. They also progress, provided a report on his findings put in place systems of risk management, in the first quarter of 2015. See page 35 for compliance and control to mitigate these risks. more information. Executive committees set policy and oversee 2014 update the management of significant risks, and SEEAC received specific reports in 2014 on BP’s dedicated board committees review and monitor management of risks in marine, wells, pipelines, certain risks throughout the year. facilities and major security incidents. The committee reviewed these risks, and risk How we manage operational risk management and mitigation, in depth with Our operating businesses are responsible for the relevant executive management. identifying and managing operating risks and In 2014, members of SEEAC visited operations bringing together people with the right skills at the Central Azeri offshore facility and the and competencies to address them. They are Sangachal gas reception facility in Azerbaijan, also required to carry out self verification, and the Whiting refinery in the US and the biofuels are subject to independent scrutiny and business in Brazil. assurance. Our safety and operational risk team works See bp.com/annualreport for board alongside operating businesses to set clear committee reports and risk factors that requirements; maintain an independent view could have an adverse effect on our of operating risk; examine how risks are being business. assessed, prioritized and managed; and to intervene when appropriate to bring about corrective action. BP Sustainability Report 2014 27 Our people BP’s performance depends on a highly skilled, motivated and talented workforce that is representative of the societies in which we operate. Employees undertaking checks in the storage tank farm area at our Toledo refinery in the US. We aim to develop the talents of our workforce We conduct external assessments for people – with a focus on maintaining safe and reliable entering senior managerial roles to help achieve operations, engaging and developing our rigour and objectivity in our hiring and talent employees and increasing the diversity of processes. These provide an in-depth analysis our workforce. of leadership behaviour and whether candidates have the necessary experience and skills for Attracting and retaining our people the role. BP employees The complex projects we work on require a wide range of specialist skills – from the capability to Building enduring capability 5 6 1 1. Europe 33,400 explore for new sources of energy through to Our development opportunities help to build the 2. US and Canada 18,800 transporting and distributing hydrocarbons safely diverse skills and expertise that we need. This is 3. Asia Pacific 15,800 4 4. South and Central across the world. vital in a world where oil and gas companies face America 8,000 an increasing challenge to find and retain skilled We have a bias towards building capability and 5. Middle East and and experienced people. We provide a range North Africa 6,100 promoting from within the organization. Where of opportunities for our employees, with an 3 6. Sub-Saharan Africa 2,400 necessary, we complement this with selective increased focus on on-the-job learning. This can 2 external recruitment. In 2014, 84% of new include mentoring, team development days, senior leaders were recruited from within workshops, seminars, online learning and At the end of December 2014, we had 84,500 employees. the organization. We expect our number of employees to align with BP’s smaller international assignments. footprint in 2015 and 2016 as we right-size the organization A total of 670 graduates joined BP in 2014. as part of our response to a lower oil price. Around 106,000 users have access to our online We target the fields of science, technology, learning management system, including engineering and maths, and run initiatives and employees and selected contractors. This helps awareness days at universities and colleges. to provide consistent and effective development We also run ‘future leader’ programmes to throughout the organization. recruit post-graduates. BP was the highest ranked energy-sector company in The Times A career transition is a critical moment in an Diversity and inclusion – group leadership (%) 100 graduate employers survey in 2014. employee’s professional growth. We have Women Non UK/US moved towards prioritizing learning at these 30 Our graduate programmes attract skilled and points, for example, for those joining BP diverse recruits from around the world. In 2014, 25 22 22 or moving into a new level of management. 19 19 20 37% of our graduate intake were women and 18 18 We also offer in-role development that covers a 20 17 50% were from outside the UK and the US. 14 15 range of levels and subject areas, from effective 15 planning to inclusive leadership and change 10 management. Employees from 51 countries attended leadership training in 2014, delivered 5 in six different languages. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 28 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Through our internal academies, we provide Scores related to development and career Developing petrotechnical leading technical, functional, compliance and opportunities have fallen slightly compared to capabilities leadership learning opportunities. In 2014, we 2013. We have been making changes to how launched five academies including the ‘operating we deliver learning and manage talent and we management system (OMS) academy’ that expect to see benefits in the longer term. In 2014, we opened a new upstream learning provides training to operations personnel on centre in the UK to complement our facility implementing and applying OMS. Diversity and inclusion in the US. At both centres, rig teams As a global business, we aim for a workforce including BP and contractor personnel, Rewarding performance representative of the societies in which we work together in an environment that mirrors We reward our employees for what they deliver operate. We work to attract, motivate, develop the characteristics of their rig and wells. and how they have demonstrated behaviour that and retain the best talent from the diversity the This develops technical skills and helps them reflects our values. As part of their individual world offers – our ability to be competitive and prepare for the challenges involved in drilling performance review, employees set priorities to thrive globally depends on it. Our goal is complex wells. How we operate regarding their contribution to safety, compliance to create an environment of inclusion and See bp.com/learningcentre and risk management; what they will deliver acceptance. For our employees to be motivated for the near and long term; and how they will and to perform to their full potential, and for the do their job. business to excel, our people need to be treated with respect and dignity and without Executive remuneration is directly linked to discrimination. strategy and performance, with particular emphasis on matching rewards to results over We aim for women to represent at least 25% the long term. Performance measures for pay of our group leaders – the most senior managers include safety measures on recordable injury of our businesses and functions – by 2020. We frequency, tier 1 process safety events and are also committed to increasing the national loss of primary containment. This structure diversity of our leaders to reflect the countries in is designed to reflect the long-term nature of which we operate. At the end of 2014 a total of BP’s business and the significance of safety 22% of our group leaders came from countries and environmental risks. See page 34 for more other than the UK and the US. information on how we measure our safety We continue to support the UK government’s performance. review of gender diversity on boards, undertaken Employee engagement by Lord Davies in 2011. Currently we have two women on our board. We are actively seeking Executive team members hold regular meetings qualified candidates and remain committed to and webcasts with employees around the Lord Davies’s goal of a quarter of our board to be world. Team and one-to-one meetings are female by the end of 2015. complemented by formal processes through works councils in parts of Europe. We seek Employees are encouraged to set up networks to maintain constructive relationships with and these have formed around a range of issues labour unions. including gender, sexual orientation and ethnicity. Our UK minority employee network Each year, we conduct a survey to gather was nominated for an award by the Race for employees’ views on a wide range of business Opportunity think tank in 2014. Also, two of our topics and to identify areas where we can group leaders were featured in the Financial improve. Approximately 38,000 people in Times Executive Diversity Report – one on the 70 countries completed our 2014 survey. Top 100 lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender We measure employee engagement with (LGBT) role models list and one on the Top 20 our strategic priorities using questions about 50% perceptions of BP as a business and how it is managed in terms of leadership and standards. LGBT allies list. In our employee survey, we have expanded the of our graduates were This measure remained stable in 2014 at 72% list of countries where we ask demographic recruited from universities (2013 72%, 2012 71%). questions related to disability, gender, age, outside the UK and US nationality, ethnicity and sexual orientation. Business leadership teams review the results in 2014. This will help us to identify any issues and and agree actions to address focus areas. The respond to them accordingly. 2014 survey found that employees remain clear about the safety procedures, standards and A total of 82% of our group and senior level requirements that apply to them and that pride in leaders have attended our diversity, inclusion 84% working at BP has increased steadily since 2011. and ethics learning programme. Our aim is that Understanding and support of BP’s strategy is all new group and senior level leaders receive strong at senior levels, but needs further this training within a year of moving into of new senior leaders were communication and engagement across the their role. recruited from within the organization – this is a focus area for 2015. organization in 2014. BP Sustainability Report 2014 29 Working with our contractors, suppliers and partners Like our industry peers, we rarely work in isolation – we need to work with contractors, suppliers and partners to carry out our operations. Our ability to be a safe and responsible operator Working with drilling and well services depends in part on the capability and contractors performance of those who help us carry out We work with our drilling and well services our operations. We therefore seek to identify contractors to establish clear expectations on and manage risks in the supply chain relating safety performance. We emphasize that while to areas such as safety, corruption and money we provide oversight of their activities, including laundering, and aim to have suitable provisions through regular field visits, they are accountable in our contracts with contractors, suppliers for the development and delivery of their safety and partners. management systems. We measure our contractors’ safety performance through Contractor management a variety of leading and lagging indicators, In 2014, 52% of the 357 million hours worked including data from audits, inspections and by BP were carried out by contractors. Our accident rates. operating management system (OMS) includes We ask these contractors to carry out selfrequirements and practices for working verification of their safety management systems with contractors. in areas such as pipe handling and fluid transfer, To help us manage risks effectively and take and we routinely discuss and review their advantage of economies of scale, we are performance to understand how they are BP safety personnel inspecting a contractor’s focusing on developing deeper, longer-term delivering on safety commitments. We hold safety harness prior to use at our Durango gas relationships with selected upstream safety workshops with senior executives from site in Colorado in the US. contractors. We have established global our major drilling and well services contractors. agreements in areas such as engineered Sharing experience equipment and well services. BP runs deepwater well control training courses We seek to set clear and consistent expectations where BP employees and contractor staff can of our contractors. Our standard model contracts work together to practice their responses to for upstream contractors, for example, include possible scenarios and incidents. health, safety, security, and environmental We are keen to learn from the experience of requirements, as well as new human rights our contractors and share our experiences. provisions. For example, we held safety awareness Bridging documents are necessary in some meetings in 2014 with contractors at our Whiting cases to define how our safety management refinery in the US, where we exchanged ideas, systems and those of our contractors will examined safety data and discussed lessons co-exist to manage risk on a site. learned from past incidents. We have revised and simplified our upstream Targeted intervention procurement and due-diligence processes in Our approach is to work collaboratively with order to standardize the way we work with contractors in a way that seeks to avoid the contractors. We trained more than 500 of around need for intervention. Where contractors do not 1,000 procurement practitioners in these meet our requirements, they may be put on a processes in 2014. performance improvement plan. We may also seek to shut down, pause, or delay contractor In our Downstream business, we conducted a operations until our requirements have been review of contractor management practices in met. In one case in 2014, we put the negotiation 2014. The review identified examples of good of a global agreement with a supplier on hold for practice in contractor management as well as around 90 days until the supplier demonstrated areas for improvement, and we will share the improved performance. 52% lessons learned from this with our refineries around the world. Potentially high-consequence activity Our joint venture partners We seek to work with companies that share of the 357 million hours worked by BP were Contracts that involve potentially highour commitment to ethical, safe and sustainable carried out by contractors. consequence activity – where the work could working practices. Our code of conduct result in the most serious risks, according to states that we seek to clearly communicate their potential impact and probability – demand our relevant expectations to our business our highest scrutiny. Our selection process partners, agreeing contractual obligations includes pre-contract quality, technical and where applicable. 500+ health, safety, security and environmental audits, which are carried out on a risk-prioritized basis. procurement staff trained in revised due-diligence processes in 2014. 30 BP Sustainability Report 2014 42% of our upstream production is from joint ventures where BP is not the operator. How we operate A technician on board our Chirag platform in the Caspian Sea, Azerbaijan. We have a group framework for identifying and Anti-bribery and corruption managing BP’s exposure related to safety, Our anti-bribery and corruption policy governs operational and bribery and corruption risk from areas such as risk-based assessments of our participation in non-operated joint ventures. parties with whom we do business, and the The framework is helping us to assess risks training of personnel in anti-bribery and before making investment decisions and to Sid Walters corruption measures. monitor these on an ongoing basis. Integrity manager, engineering We carry out due diligence in order to make Around 42% of our upstream production and informed decisions on the degree of bribery services, North Sea, BP 13% of our refining capacity in 2014 were from and corruption risk that third parties pose joint ventures where BP is not the operator. before we start doing business with them. “Because contractors work for BP in Typically, our level of influence or control over a This process helps us put mitigation plans in different parts of the world, their processes joint venture is linked to the size of our financial place when needed. may differ geographically. Contractor safety stake. Our OMS applies to the operations of We also conduct checks once contracts are in management is used as a means to drive joint ventures only where we are the operator. place. For example, we carry out commercial improved consistency across the functions In other cases, one of our joint venture partners and anti-bribery and corruption audits of and regions. We have aimed to standardize may be the designated operator. In those cases upstream contractors on a risk-prioritized basis health, safety and environmental our OMS does not apply as the management to confirm whether they are complying with requirements for our contractors and make system to be used by the operator, but is related contractual terms. A total of 72 audit them more systematic.” generally available as a reference point for reports were issued in 2014 (2013 100, engagement with operators and co-venturers. 2012 98). Local suppliers We run programmes to build the skills of local businesses, which can help develop strong local supply chains. For example, since we received approval to develop the Khazzan gas field in Oman in 2013, BP has awarded contracts worth more than $259 million to local Omani companies. See page 48 for more information on local suppliers. BP Sustainability Report 2014 31 Safety Everything we do depends on the safety of our operations, our workforce and the communities around us. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Continue to use the performance 18 sites were part of our ‘exemplar’ Enhance our ‘OMS academy’ improvement cycle to align business continuous improvement programme programmes, which support practices with our operating in 2014. operating leaders in their management system (OMS). safety leadership. Further develop the self-verification Handbook issued to site managers in Execute a planned programme of capability of operations to carry out our upstream operations to assist safety and operational risk-based health, safety, security and them in carrying out self verification. assurance. environment checks. Complete the final Bly Report Maintain our progress towards 25 of 26 recommendations from the recommendation on testing completing the remaining Bly Report completed. revised standards for well recommendations from BP’s control and monitoring. investigation into the Deepwater Horizon accident, the Bly Report. 32 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Managing safety Safety is our top priority – driven by our leadership and applied through our operating management system. We strive to create and maintain a safe operating For example, the academy runs a programme culture at our facilities, and safety is one of the for our operational leaders that includes five values that guide our behaviour. Our code of delivering a continuous improvement project conduct clarifies the principles and expectations and presenting the results to peers. A recent for everyone who works at BP, including project focused on marine safety in Tangguh expectations for operating safely and reliably. in Indonesia and included simplifying and clarifying procedures covering crew changes Our approach to safety and on boats, developing checklists to facilitate operational risk self verification and improving staff training. Our approach to managing safety and operational risk builds on our experience, Learning from incidents including learning from incidents, operations We are committed to improving our safety audits, annual risk reviews and from sharing processes by learning from incidents – not just lessons learned with our industry peers. our own but those of others. For example, after a 2013 fatal derailment in Canada of a train Our operating management system (OMS) sets containing crude oil, we introduced additional out BP’s principles for good operating practice requirements for inspections on freight cars and and requires our businesses to monitor safety and on the number of rail handbrakes used. While BP’s board members visit our Whiting refinery in operations risk performance, risk management not involved in the accident, we considered the US. effectiveness and conformance with group safety these measures were appropriate for our rail requirements. In 2014 we issued a handbook operations worldwide. Our senior leaders to site managers in our upstream operations to reviewed the lessons learned from the Canadian assist them in carrying out such self verification. derailment at our annual risk review. Our ’exemplar’ programme is helping a number of sites to use continuous improvement Product stewardship techniques to apply OMS and improve operating We aim to manage our products throughout activity and reliability. See page 25 for more their life cycle to meet customer and legal Safety information. expectations and intended performance. We assess our products to identify any potential Find out more about how we manage health, safety or environmental aspects and operational risk on page 27. to verify compliance with chemical control, product safety and hazard communication Developing our leaders regulations, monitoring developments in Our ‘OMS academy’ offers learning regulation globally. programmes that are designed to help our people to develop the skills and attributes We work with industry, government, and others needed to deliver safe, reliable and compliant to advance knowledge about the safe use operations. of our products. From self verification to audit – three lines of defence Third line of defence Group audit provides an independent check of the effectiveness of a sample of activities Audit intended to manage risk. Second line of defence Our safety and operational risk team provides businesses with tools, guidance and support Assurance to help them conform with our OMS. First line of defence Sites work continuously to verify conformance with requirements to drive Self verification A safety and compliance engineer carries out safe, reliable and compliant operations. tests at our Castellon refinery in Spain. BP Sustainability Report 2014 33 Preventing incidents through process safety BP works to prevent, mitigate and respond to accidents such as fires, explosions and oil spills. Our process safety efforts are focused on responsible for planning and executing all our preventing major accidents and spills at our wells operations across the world. It is also Q: Why is well control so important? installations, such as drilling rigs and refineries. responsible for establishing standards on Events of this nature are infrequent, but can compliance, risk management, contractor A: Well control is about preventing an result in serious harm to people and the management, performance indicators and unplanned release of oil, gas or other environment. technology for our wells operations. We are fluids from a well – which is one of the focused on building capability both within BP biggest risks for our industry. Managing We seek to avoid this by carrying out inspections and across the wider industry. Our global wells well control is important because it and tests of equipment critical to process safety, institute offers courses in areas such as drilling protects the people that work on our rigs and by applying good design and engineering engineering and well-site leadership. and facilities, and the environment. To do principles, as well as robust operating practices. this we need to design, operate and We work with regulators, and with other complete each well properly and make Measuring our performance companies in our industry, to improve standards sure the team has the right competencies. We measure our performance to help us and regulations on the safety and reliability And finally, we work to make sure that our understand how well our efforts to prevent of subsea blowout preventers – devices that measures to monitor well control are safety incidents are working, to map are used to seal, control and monitor oil and rigorously maintained across our operating inconsistencies or early trends and to help us gas wells. sites at all times. identify and mitigate risks before they occur. As drilling contractors usually own their own Gary Jones As well as at a group level, we track data such subsea blowout preventers, we are establishing Head of global wells organization, BP as the number of inspections and incidents at working groups with contractors and equipment our businesses and sites so that we can learn manufacturers to share information about these and further improve our safety and operational devices and to identify opportunities to enhance performance locally. their long-term reliability. Process safety events We track the number of process safety events See page 30 for more information on how occurring across our upstream facilities and we work with our contractors. downstream process plants, including unplanned Leadership or uncontrolled releases of materials causing Senior leaders inspect sites in all regions with harm to a member of the workforce or the BP-operated rig activity. They monitor, engage environment, costly damage to equipment with, and listen to frontline employees and or exceeding threshold quantities. We take a contractors to assess the quality of operations. long-term view on process safety indicators The board’s safety, ethics and environment because the full benefit of the decisions and assurance committee (SEEAC) also conducts actions in this area is not always immediate. site visits. We also track loss of primary containment, Well-site and team leaders conduct regular which includes unplanned or uncontrolled safety inspections. We piloted the use of a releases from a tank, vessel, pipe, railcar or tool in 2014 to help leaders self-verify safety equipment used for containment or transfer standards in our wells using checklists on Process safety events within our operational boundary, excluding (number of incidents) tablet computers. releases of non-hazardous substances such Tier 1 Tier 2 Loss of primary containment (LOPC) Sharing lessons learned as water. We seek to record all loss of primary 500 We share our expertise and the lessons we have containment events regardless of the volume of the release and to report on losses over a certain learned from incidents, such as the Deepwater 400 severity threshold. Our 2014 data reflects Horizon accident, with industry peers. For increases in part due to the introduction of example, in 2014 we continued to support the 300 enhanced automated monitoring for many development of an incident database by the remote sites in our Lower 48 business. International Association of Oil & Gas Producers, 200 which allows information from our industry on Our performance in these areas over time well control incidents to be shared. We also 100 suggests that our focus on safety is having a continued our work with other organizations positive impact. However, we need to continue to develop joint industry standards in areas 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 to remain vigilant and focused on delivering safe, such as subsea drilling equipment and well reliable and compliant operations. control integrity. Tier 1 74 74 43 20 28 Tier 2 Safer drilling We support and participate in several industry213 241 154 110 95 Our drilling procedures underpin our efforts to led consortia, including the Marine Well LOPC Containment Company in the Gulf of Mexico 418 361 292 261 286 prevent incidents and mitigate impacts should they occur. Our global wells organization is and the more globally focused Subsea Well Tier 1 process safety events are losses of primary containment from a process of greatest consequence – causing harm to a Response Project, which provide equipment member of the workforce or costly damage to equipment, or and technology to respond to a deepwater well exceeding defined quantities. Tier 2 process safety events are control incident. those of lesser consequence than tier 1. 34 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Completing the Bly Report Safety in our Downstream business Danny McHugh recommendations Innovative technology and robust risk BP’s investigation into the Deepwater Project director, global operations Horizon accident, the Bly Report, made 26 management help us to safely store, handle organization, BP recommendations aimed at further reducing and process hydrocarbons in our downstream activities. risk across our global drilling activities. A total “To prevent leaks from tanks, pipelines and of 25 recommendations had been completed We take measures to prevent leaks and spills at other parts of our operations, we engineer by the end of 2014. We expect the final our refineries and other downstream facilities systems that have built-in layers of recommendation to be completed by the end through well-designed, well-maintained and protection – such as detection instruments of 2015, as scheduled. This recommendation properly operated equipment. We also seek to and alarms – that will kick in if something involves verifying the implementation of revised provide safe locations, emergency procedures looks like it is going wrong. well control and monitoring standards to and other mitigation measures in the event BP-owned and BP-contracted offshore rigs. of a release, fire or explosion. Our controls, alarms and safety It takes time to fully implement as it requires instrumented systems project, which we We focus on managing the highest priority risks training a large proportion of our global wells associated with our storage, handling and initiated in 2011, co-ordinates efforts across operating personnel on the revised standards. our global operations to check not only that processing of hydrocarbons. We use technology, these layers are in place, but that they have Our group audit team and independent such as automated systems, which are intended been properly designed, maintained and expert, Carl Sandlin, have verified closure to prevent our gasoline storage tanks from tested. We have a team of engineers that of the recommendations. overfilling, to help manage our operations within oversees this process and develops safe operating and design limits. Independent assessment guidance and best practice examples. The BP board appointed Mr Sandlin as Process safety expert We also help our businesses carry out independent expert in 2012 to provide an The board appointed Duane Wilson as process checks to verify that the layers of protection objective assessment of BP’s global progress safety expert for our downstream activities in are properly in place. in implementing the recommendations from the 2012 for a three-year term and assigned him to Bly Report. Mr Sandlin also provides his views work in a global capacity with the business. Safety It’s an important project – improvements can always be made, and one of the best on the organizational effectiveness and culture Mr Wilson provided an independent perspective ways of identifying them is to continually of the global wells organization, and process on the progress that BP’s fuels, lubricants and examine how our systems can be safety observations. petrochemicals businesses were making toward strengthened.” becoming industry leaders in process safety As part of his activities in 2014, Mr Sandlin performance. He had frequent and direct access conducted his third round of visits to regional not only to the board, but also to BP employees, wells teams with active drilling operations. and visited facilities, conducted interviews and Mr Sandlin visited 10 regions in total. During reviewed relevant documents, such as audit and each visit he conducted reviews with senior incident reports, to fulfil his duties. managers, and held discussions with key wells personnel and drilling contractors on site. As part of his report in January 2015, Mr Sandlin assured SEEAC that the 25 Bly recommendations completed to date have been closed out to his satisfaction. He also reported that the deliverables that support these recommendations are well ingrained in the global wells organization regional teams. Mr Sandlin made some recommendations covering personal accountability for safe working; process simplification and enhancement; and the importance of using key safety metrics effectively. Mr Sandlin is engaged through to June 2016. BP Sustainability Report 2014 35 Safety in action BP is working around the world to deliver safe, reliable and compliant operations. Our website features case studies on how we are putting this into practice. Simulating emergencies in Shetland Using drones to monitor safety Virtual reality simulators at our Sullom Voe oil Until recently the use of unmanned aerial and gas terminal in Shetland in the UK are vehicles – or drones – was mainly associated helping train staff to respond to emergency with the military. These days, however, they situations, from road traffic accidents to serious are increasingly being used for civilian and fires. The 3D software brings classroom commercial purposes. BP received the first US sessions to life, and is designed to adjust chosen commercial authorization from the Federal scenarios according to decisions made by our Aviation Administration to fly drones over land Technological breakthroughs are revolutionizing 60-strong emergency team, showing the at its Prudhoe Bay operations in Alaska. the work of our corrosion and inspection potential consequences of various actions as engineers. We are using three 1.8 metre-long drones to soon as they are taken. carry out safety surveys of our oil and gas See bp.com/pipelinecorrosion The simulator provides flexibility by enabling operations, giving us extra capacity to monitor training to be carried out during day or night-time pipelines and providing new and efficient ways shifts and whatever the weather outside. to inspect infrastructure, such as tanks, bridges and power lines. bp.com/shetlandsimulators bp.com/safetydrones Responding to infectious diseases Driving safely in Oman Diseases such as dengue fever, malaria and Thanks to a BP road safety programme in Oman, ebola can pose a significant threat to our our people have travelled nearly six million employees and operations around the world. kilometres in the country without a single We therefore work to raise awareness among reported lost-time injury since we began employees and contractors about the spread operations there in 2007 – equivalent to travelling of such diseases. to the moon and back nearly eight times. In Brazil, for example, we have issued advice to We have focused our efforts on our drivers, workers in our biofuels business on actions they who are given periodic training and are subject can take to protect themselves and their families to regular road assessments. We track every from the mosquito-borne chikungunya disease, journey using a vehicle monitoring system that and we have also supported wider initiatives gauges speed, braking patterns, distances in the country, such as mosquito control driven, seat belt use and rest periods taken. programmes, that help to combat this disease Strict adherence to our road rules has also – and dengue fever – at a local level. helped reduce fuel consumption by 15-20% bp.com/infectiousdiseases and maintenance costs by 20-30%, so has cut costs too. bp.com/roadsafetyoman 36 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Health and personal safety We take the welfare of our staff seriously and strive to create and maintain safe and healthy working environments. Recordable injury frequency – workforce (per 200,000 hours worked) American Petroleum Institute US benchmarka International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmarka 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Workforce 0.61 0.36 0.35 0.31 0.31 Employees 0.25 0.31 0.26 0.25 0.27 Contractors 0.84 0.41 0.43 0.36 0.34 A safety expert fits breathing apparatus to a Day away from work case colleague during training at our Kwinana refinery frequency – workforce in Australia. (per 200,000 hours worked) American Petroleum Institute US benchmarka Safety International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmarka We are committed to keeping people safe, per 200,000 hours worked. We also measure 0.3 whether they are working on our sites or living our day away from work case frequency, which in communities near to our operations. Each is the number of incidents per 200,000 hours member of the workforce has an obligation worked, that resulted in an injury where a person 0.2 and authority to stop unsafe work. is unable to work for a day (shift) or more. We provide our operations personnel with Our workforce recordable injury frequency, training on identifying hazards and addressing which includes employees and contractors 0.1 risks associated with tasks, and in the US combined, remained steady in 2014, however, we have formal worker safety committees we have seen an increase in our day away from where BP employees can raise health work case frequency. We continue to focus and safety concerns. our efforts on safety and we are reviewing 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 our personal safety programmes. A number Our emphasis on strengthening our safety Workforce of improvement initiatives are under way. 0.193 0.090 0.076 0.070 0.081 systems is leading to some sustainable Employees improvement over time, with three of our sites Health and wellness 0.090 0.101 0.078 0.074 0.091 each recently reaching 15 million hours worked Contractors We work to reduce exposure to occupational without a day away from work case. This has 0.264 0.080 0.074 0.066 0.072 risks such as noise, fatigue, stress and other been achieved by improving our risk assessment health issues. Our health programmes consider a API and IOGP data reports for 2014 are not available until May 2015. procedures, increasing collaboration with local factors affecting people at work, such contractors and encouraging a strong as the existence of hazardous conditions or reporting culture. substances at certain operating sites, as well Personal safety as global concerns such as the possibility of an influenza pandemic or diseases such as ebola. We monitor and report on key workforce personal safety metrics and include both Our businesses carry out local programmes to employees and contractors in our data. In 2014, help improve the health of communities in which BP reported three fatalities: a fall from height they operate, such as education and awareness in the UK, an incident involving a forklift in programmes on HIV and AIDS. In Indonesia, Indonesia, and an incident that occurred while we initiated a programme to help eradicate working inside a process vessel in Germany. malaria in Bintuni Bay, where we have a liquefied We deeply regret the loss of these lives. natural gas plant. The prevalence of malaria in the villages surrounding the plant has fallen to an We measure our workforce recordable injury average of less than 1%, down from an average frequency, which is the number of reported of 12% when we did our baseline survey in 2003. work-related incidents that result in a fatality or injury (apart from minor first aid cases) BP Sustainability Report 2014 37 Security and crisis management The scale and spread of our operations means we must prepare for a range of business disruptions and emergency events. Potential threats to our business come in many that provides 24-hour, seven-day-a-week forms and are not always predictable, but we assistance in anticipating, reacting to, and Q: H ow does BP assess changing political have processes in place to try to anticipate them recovering from crisis situations. and security dynamics? and to be ready if a crisis or incident occurs. We need to prepare for events as wide-ranging as In Amenas, Algeria A: As a long-term investor in countries around the world, we assess changing earthquakes, extreme weather, political In January 2013, the In Amenas gas plant in circumstances in order to protect our conflicts, health alerts and accidents. Algeria, which is run as a joint venture between people, infrastructure and business. We BP, the Algerian state oil and gas company, Security management Sonatrach, and Statoil, came under armed monitor geopolitical developments and trends, as well as issues such as terrorism, We monitor for, and aim to guard against, hostile terrorist attack. Algerian military action regained criminality and civil unrest. This helps us actions that could cause harm to our people or control of the site. Forty people, including four make decisions on our investments and disrupt our operations, including physical and BP employees, and a former employee, lost their on security programmes. We seek digital threats and vulnerabilities. lives in the incident. This was a tragic and perspectives that look ahead years and unprecedented event that impacted many We assess risk in those areas where we operate even decades, while monitoring more employees and their families. BP participated that are affected by political and social unrest, immediate events to which we must react. fully in the UK Coroner’s inquest, which we terrorism, armed conflict and criminal activity, For example, during the Arab Spring considered the most effective means of as well as those that are business-specific. For protests we acted quickly to evacuate providing a greater understanding of what example, we continue to monitor the situation personnel. We monitored the situation happened. The UK Coroner handed down his in Iraq, where our primary operations are in the closely throughout, and were able to return verdicts, conclusions and detailed factual Rumaila field. We have a dedicated security to full operations as soon as it was safe findings in February 2015. team in the country that manages access and prudent to do so. to our key sites and provides oversight Since the attack, BP and Statoil have jointly Derek Porter of security contractors. carried out an extensive review of security Vice president, intelligence, security arrangements in Algeria and have been working We are a signatory to the Voluntary Principles and crisis management, BP with Sonatrach and the Algerian authorities on a on Security and Human Rights, which are programme of security enhancements. The designed to help companies maintain security Coroner accepted the opinion of his independent while promoting respect for human rights. security expert who endorsed the security See page 51 for more information. measures now in place and commented that in Cyber threats his opinion the security enhancements now Cyber attacks present a risk to the security of provide a significantly safer environment for the our information, IT systems and operations. joint venture staff. We maintain a range of defences to help prevent and respond to cyber attacks. We run cyber awareness programmes for our employees to show how they can guard against attacks and manage risks. Crisis management Crisis and continuity management planning is essential if we are to keep our people safe, respond effectively to emergencies and avoid potentially severe disruptions in our operations. In addition to routine monitoring, our businesses are expected to identify potential crisis and continuity risks on an annual basis and we carry out regular exercises to test how prepared our teams are to respond. We provide support to our businesses through a central response team that can be mobilized at short notice and a response information centre We are monitoring conditions in Iraq where our primary operations are in the Rumaila oilfield. 38 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Transportation safety We work hard to minimize the risk associated with transporting our people and equipment to our sites, and delivering fuel to our customers. Total vehicle accident rate Our workforce faces a number of on-the-job Aviation safety (per million kilometres driven) hazards related to travel, such as flying by We use a variety of aircraft, often in challenging 1.5 1.36 1.31 helicopter to rigs or moving equipment and 1.26 conditions. Our safety requirements cover 1.20 0.18 products by road. 1.2 technical approval of aviation operators, Driving safety contracting for aviation services, and the safe management of any aircraft operated on behalf 0.9 Vehicle-related incidents remain one of the of BP. key risks facing our industry, so driving safety 0.6 is a high priority for us. In 2014 alone, BP There have been a number of incidents involving employees and contractors drove more than helicopters in the North Sea over the past few 0.3 600 million kilometres, which is the equivalent years. Oil and gas companies, helicopter of 15,000 journeys around the world. suppliers and regulators have collectively 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Transporting fuel from refineries to petrol analysed these events and as a result, BP is stations, and other downstream activities, using enhanced emergency breathing systems account for most of these kilometres. for offshore helicopter passengers in the UK. Severe vehicle accident rate We are currently evaluating plans for a wider roll We rely on a variety of metrics to monitor our (per million kilometres driven) out of these systems. driving safety performance. For example, we 0.2 track our severe vehicle accident rate, which Shipping safety includes accidents that result in death, injury, a We transport our products across oceans, spill, a vehicle rollover or serious vehicle damage. 0.13 around coastlines and along waterways, using We also track our total vehicle accident rate, a combination of BP-operated and chartered which is the sum of all on-road and off-road 0.1 vessels. All are subject to our health, safety, motor vehicle accidents. security and environmental requirements. In 2014, the number of reported vehicle To prevent spills, all ships in our managed accidents was 708 and there were 10 third-party Safety international fleet are double-hulled. We fatalities reported, all driving related. continue to invest in our fleet, for example, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 We provide guidance on driving safety we have contracted for the construction of LNG covering areas such as providing fit-for-purpose tankers for delivery in 2018 and 2019. We have vehicles and wearing seatbelts. We have been marine assurance requirements for all oil and gas working across BP to apply safety measures. transport vessels that we hire for specific For example, in Turkey our people have driven periods or voyages. around 30 million kilometres without a serious BP seeks to avoid known areas of pirate attack vehicle accident. In Oman, we have focused or armed robbery. Where this is not possible on driver training, including regular road we will continue to trade vessels through these assessments with positive results. areas, adopting heightened security measures. See page 36 for more information. We share learnings from incidents globally, and we have seen a significant global decline over the past 10 years in the number of vehiclerelated fatalities associated with our work. However, two countries where we have seen workforce fatalities in recent years, South Africa and Brazil, are places where we are expanding our presence. To help address this, in South Africa we have been using in-vehicle cameras in various types of vehicles to monitor driving behaviour. These serve as a coaching aid by helping to identify correct driving habits and techniques. In Brazil, we have developed training to increase awareness of the dangers of driving. We transport around 12,000 people to offshore rigs each month from Houma heliport, Louisiana. BP Sustainability Report 2014 39 Environment BP is working to avoid, minimize and mitigate environmental impacts wherever we do business. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Investigate water management We have invested in a specialist Assess different technology approaches taking into account our water treatment company to help approaches for optimizing water operations’ life cycle water demand manage our operations in water consumption and wastewater and local water resources. scarce areas. treatment performance. Continue to develop modelling tools We are supporting businesses to Test the use of remote sensing to better predict the consequences of apply an onshore oil spill modelling systems for oil spill planning an oil spill to land. tool to improve oil spill response and response. planning. Continue to implement actions Share lessons learned on energy 6 of our refineries have developed identified in the energy efficiency efficiency at Toledo in the US with energy efficiency plans using lessons plans at our refineries. our other refineries around the world. learned at Toledo. 40 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Managing our impact on the environment Throughout the life cycle of our projects and operations, we aim to manage environmental impacts and address any related impacts on local communities. 19 We review our management of material issues corals could be present in the project location such as greenhouse gas emissions, water, and we are determining what steps we may sensitive and protected areas and oil spill need to take to mitigate potential impacts. projects completed our response. This includes examining emerging environmental and social Operations risks and actions taken to mitigate them. For Every year, our major operating sites review screening process in 2014. example, water scarcity is a potential risk for their environmental performance and set local some of our operations, and we are working to improvement objectives. These can include improve the tools and processes our businesses measures such as flaring reduction, pollution use to identify and evaluate this risk. prevention, or reducing impact on biodiversity. We also review many other issues, including Impacts on the environment vary from site how we manage our air emissions, opportunities to site, and according to the nature of each to reduce, reuse and recycle waste, and ways operation. We consider local environmental to reduce our use and emissions of ozone sensitivities in determining which issues depleting substances. require the greatest focus for impact reduction. At a site close to communities, for example, the  See bp.com/hsechartingtool for immediate concern may be air quality, whereas environmental performance data. a remote desert site may require greater consideration of water management issues. Managing impacts through the life cycle All our major operating sites, with the exception of recently acquired operations and our US Our operating sites can have a lifespan of several Lower 48 onshore business, were certified decades and our operations are expected to to the environmental management system work to reduce their impacts and risks. This standard ISO 14001 in 2014. The US Lower 48 starts in early project planning and continues onshore business, set up with a more nimble through operations and decommissioning. operating model suited to the US onshore Screening and impact assessment market, works to identify and systematically In the early planning stages, projects that are manage the impact of its activities on the subject to our environmental and social practices environment. complete a screening process to identify Decommissioning and remediation potential impacts associated with the project. BP works to restore the environment when These may include risks to sensitive or remediating or decommissioning a site or in internationally protected areas and species, air response to an unplanned incident. When quality and water availability. We also consider evaluating and selecting the most appropriate social aspects such as prevalence of corruption approach, we take into account environmental and bribery within a host country, local and social considerations, such as potential employment and community health and safety. energy use and the views of local communities. See page 25 for more information on our Environment environmental and social practices. Complying with regulations Following the screening process, we carry out With operations in almost 80 countries, BP faces impact assessments, identify mitigation diverse and complex environmental laws and measures and implement these in project regulations. We manage applicable legal design, construction and operations. For and regulatory health, safety, security and example, as a result of screening for a drilling environmental requirements, through our project in Uruguay, we identified that sensitive operating management system. Managing environmental and social impacts Our operating management system ISO 14001 applies New access projects Major projects and and some acquisition projects that could Operations Decommissioning negotiations affect an international protected area Employees at our purified terephthalic acid plant in Zhuhai, China conduct maintenance inspections Our environmental and Our environmental and that seek to help minimize water losses. social practices apply social practices apply BP Sustainability Report 2014 41 Environmental performance We report on key environmental issues such as greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, flaring and water. Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions The increase in the GHG intensity of our (Mte CO2 equivalent) petrochemicals business was primarily a We aim to manage our greenhouse gas (GHG) 60 result of changes to fuel usage at two facilities emissions through operational energy efficiency, and a small fire at one plant. The overall reductions in flaring and venting, and by factoring 55 downward trend over the past few years reflects a carbon cost into our investment appraisals and +0.8 -3.0 ongoing efficiency gains in our aromatics and 50.3a the engineering design of new projects. 50 +0.6 0.1 48.6 acetyls businesses. We report GHG emissions from all BP’s consolidated entities as well as our share of See bp.com/annualreport for GHG 45 equity-accounted entities other than BP’s share emissions and intensity based on of Rosneft. Rosneft’s emissions data can be operational control. 2013 2014 found on its website. Emissions target Acquisitions Divestments Operational Real sustainable Our direct GHG emissions were 48.6 million A company’s GHG emissions can be influenced changes tonnes (Mte) in 2014 (2013 50.3Mte, 2012 by a variety of factors that may result from reductions 59.8Mte). The decrease is primarily due to the shifts in business activity, production or assets. sale of our Carson and Texas City refineries in This makes it difficult to establish an appropriate the US as part of our divestment programme. GHG target that can be cascaded throughout a The reported 2013 figure of 49.2MteCO2e has been amended to 50.3MteCO2e. the organization with the objective of achieving Actions taken by our businesses to sustainably cost-effective emission reductions. For these reduce their emissions amounted to a reduction reasons, BP – like some of our peers – does of 0.1Mte. We have been measuring such not set enterprise-wide GHG targets and sustainable reductions in our operational GHG instead requires performance management emissions every year since 2002, and the at a local level through our operating running total by the end of 2014 was management system. approximately 8.8Mte. GHG regulation BP is aware of the growing focus on reducing GHG regulation is increasing globally. For emissions of short-lived climate forcers – example, we are seeing the growth of emission substances such as methane that have a strong pricing schemes in Europe, California and China, warming effect on the climate but have relatively additional monitoring regulations in the US and short lifetimes in the atmosphere. We continue increased focus on reducing flaring and methane to increase our understanding of these emissions in many jurisdictions. emissions. We expect that GHG regulation will have an GHG intensity increasing impact on our businesses, operating For each of our major business activities, costs and strategic planning, but may also offer we track GHG intensity, which is the quantity opportunities for the development of lowerof GHG emitted in tonnes (te) per a defined carbon technologies and businesses. unit of measurement. Accordingly, we require larger projects, and The overall increased intensity in our upstream those for which emissions costs would be a operations over the past few years reflects material part of the project, to apply a standard decreasing production in our less GHG-intensive carbon cost to the projected GHG emissions areas and increasing intensity in new areas as we over the life of the project. In industrialized develop resources that are more challenging and countries, our standard cost assumption is commission new assets. Although there may be currently $40 per tonne of CO2 equivalent. GHG intensity annual fluctuations, it is likely that as we work in (TeCO2 equivalent/unit) See page 16 for more information on our internal more technically challenging and potentially more carbon price. energy-intensive areas, the carbon intensity of our 2012 2013 2014 Energy efficiency upstream operations will continue to increase, Upstream 29.2 30.1 a 31.9 while declining production in our mature assets, Reducing the amount of energy we use can (per thousand barrels which requires more energy, also pushes help us to minimize our environmental impacts, of oil equivalent) intensity incrementally higher. including reducing GHG emissions and other Refining 901 995b 978 Following increased emissions in 2013 resulting air emissions, and can also provide economic (per utilized equivalent incentives. distillation capacity) from start-up activities at Whiting refinery in the US, overall GHG emissions have decreased We require our operations to incorporate energy Petrochemicals 293 283 291 in 2014. We expect the GHG intensity of our use considerations into their business plans and (per thousand tonnes) refining portfolio to remain relatively flat or to to assess, prioritize and implement technologies decrease at certain refineries due to efficiency and systems that could improve efficiency. For a The reported 2013 figure of 30.0teCO2e/mboe has been projects in progress even with the trend towards amended to 30.1teCO2e/mboe. example, we measure the energy performance b The reported 2013 figure of 934teCO2e/UEDC has been processing heavier crudes. of our refining business using the Solomon amended to 995teCO2e/UEDC. 42 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Energy Intensity Index (EII), an industry measure Global Water Tool, we estimate that around half that benchmarks energy efficiencies. All of our of our major operating sites withdraw fresh refineries set and track progress against an water in areas where the availability of fresh EII target. Six of our refineries have developed water is considered stressed or scarce. These energy efficiency plans using lessons learned operations account for about 18% of our total at our Toledo refinery in the US, which improved freshwater withdrawal. its EII by 8% between 2011 and 2013. Assessing water risks We are implementing new proprietary We support research into water risks in areas manufacturing processes at our petrochemicals where we work. For example, in Abu Dhabi, we facilities that substantially reduce the energy are working with researchers at the University consumption required to make purified of Cambridge to develop a model of water and terephthalic acid. energy demands in the emirate to 2030, which will form the basis for analysing the impact of Flaring regulatory and other decisions on water, land Our operations seek to minimize flaring, and energy. wherever possible. At some BP operating sites We have invested in a specialist water treatment where there is stranded gas, for example in company to support operations in areas of Alaska, we have re-injected gas into the Our Kwinana refinery in Western Australia uses water scarcity. The company manufactures reservoir, storing it there rather than flaring it. specially treated wastewater as its primary source desalinization and brine management systems In the US, the majority of our gas operations of water. and we aim to trial these technologies at use a process called green completions, which our operations. captures natural gas that would otherwise be flared or vented during the completion and Water withdrawal commissioning of wells. BP withdraws fresh water from rivers, lakes, reservoirs and underground aquifers, obtaining Air quality regulatory permission where required. We also Some of our activities, such as burning fossil purchase water from municipal drinking water fuels for power generation and operating our suppliers. We use treated saline water in many shipping fleet, produce emissions of sulphur areas, including in our unconventional gas oxides, nitrogen oxides and particulates, such operations in Oman. At some locations, such as as smoke, aerosols and dust. Methane and our Kwinana refinery in Australia, we use water non-methane hydrocarbons are sometimes sourced from municipal wastewater treatment released during the production, storage, refining plants after it has been specially treated, as our and handling of hydrocarbons and also come primary source of water for industrial use. from the incomplete combustion of fossil fuels Managing discharges to water in our operations. We seek to manage these Our operations manage significant volumes of emissions to meet accepted standards and wastewater. These waters can be treated and Environment guidelines designed to protect the health of then discharged to the environment, re-injected the environment and local communities. back into the oil or gas reservoir or disposed For example, at our Whiting refinery in the US of through other permitted means. In our we have invested in new equipment to reduce biofuels operations in Brazil, the nutrient-rich air emissions and have implemented a wastewater from the ethanol refineries is reused monitoring system to provide air quality as a source of irrigation water and fertilizer for information to the local community. the sugar cane crops. Water We continue to invest in improving how we manage wastewater and have upgraded our BP uses fresh water in our drilling, hydraulic wastewater treatment plants at our Rotterdam fracturing, biofuels, refining and petrochemicals refinery in the Netherlands and at our Whiting operations. At some of our refineries, we also refinery in the US. use non-fresh water, such as seawater and treated municipal wastewater. We use non-fresh We provide environmental performance water and water from underground aquifers in data, as well as an interactive charting tool, our oil sands operations. at bp.com/environment 18% We recognize the importance of managing fresh water use and water discharges effectively in our operations and evaluate risks, including of freshwater withdrawals water scarcity, wastewater disposal and the by our major operations are long-term social and environmental pressures from areas of water stress on local water resources. Based on the IPIECA or scarcity. BP Sustainability Report 2014 43 Oil spill preparedness and response We are making considerable advances in the way we identify, assess and manage our oil spill risks and are sharing lessons with governments and industry. Our requirements for oil spill preparedness and Environmental monitoring Dr. Joanne Pitt response planning, and crisis management, In the Gulf of Mexico, BP has partnered with our incorporate what we have learned over many Knowledge exchange manager, years of operation, and specifically from the peers to develop an environmental monitoring Scottish Association of Deepwater Horizon accident. Almost three system, which can be rapidly deployed to track Marine Science information on dispersant use in the subsea quarters of our businesses with the potential to marine environment in the case of an oil spill. spill oil have updated oil spill planning scenarios and response strategies, in line with our new Through the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative, “We participated in an oil spill response requirements issued in 2012. We aim to we are supporting research to improve exercise with BP that aimed to test the complete the remaining updates by the end knowledge of the Gulf ecosystem, and to better systems available in the event of an oil spill of 2016. understand and mitigate the potential impacts in the UK. Because of BP’s planning of oil spills in the region and elsewhere. process, we were able to co-ordinate our IT Meeting the requirements is a substantial piece See page 12 for more information. systems and integrate live data from our of work and we believe this has already resulted deep sea underwater gliders into BP’s in a significant increase in our oil spill response Oil spill response exercises environmental sensitivity mapping systems. capability. For example, this includes using In 2014, we conducted oil spill response Gliders, and the data they provide, could specialized modelling techniques that help exercises at locations around the world, provide a key tool in environmental predict the impact of potential spills, the including in the Gulf of Mexico and the North monitoring. provision of stockpiles of dispersants and the Sea. We worked collaboratively with state and Exercises such as this are a lot of work but use of new tools for environmental monitoring, federal regulators in the Gulf of Mexico to are invaluable in improving oil spill such as aerial and underwater robotic vehicles. assess the use of subsea dispersants as a preparedness, helping us to build the critical Sensitivity mapping primary response strategy. In the North Sea, we relationships required ahead of time and tested the use of satellite imagery as a data feed We consider the environmental and socioensure that the tools and data available can for near real-time information as part of an oil economic sensitivities of a region to help inform be used in an integrated way and help spill response. oil spill response planning. Sensitivity mapping inform decision making for response.” helps us to identify the various types of habitats, Working together resources and communities that could be Along with eight other international oil affected by oil spills and develop appropriate companies as part of the Subsea Well Response response strategies. Project, we worked with Oil Spill Response We are implementing a mapping system that Limited (OSRL) to create an international system brings together geographical, operational, of intervention equipment for upstream oil spills, infrastructure, socio-economic, biological and including four capping stacks located in various habitat information to help us identify and better locations around the globe. We are also taking understand potential impacts of an oil spill. The part in a new global response initiative by OSRL tool contains information on coastlines that could that provides participants with access to up potentially be affected by a spill, collected via to 5,000 cubic metres of dispersant that is satellites and helicopter and ground surveys. strategically stationed worldwide. This should This is available for use by BP operations around prove to be a critical resource for first response the world and helps us set priorities for oil spill to oil spills. planning and response. We seek to work collaboratively with New technologies government regulators in planning for oil spill Number of oil spills response, with the aim of improving any We are testing the applicability of a number of (> _ one barrel) potential future response. For example, in 2014 emerging technologies for spill response. In Oil spills to land Oil spills to water Contained oil spills we shared lessons on dispersant use and oil spill 400 collaboration with the Scottish Association of response technologies with governments in Marine Science, we have experimented with Angola, the UK and the US. robotic underwater gliders for environmental 300 monitoring and data collection in the North Sea. S See page 34 for more information on how These systems, which can be piloted from land, we are sharing lessons learned in our 200 could help us to better plan spill responses in drilling operations. marine environments by providing information on currents, temperature and water chemistry. 100 In Alaska, we are testing the use of robotic vehicles with camera sensors to locate spills 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and provide remote visibility for oil spill response To land at sea. 126 88 88 51 49 To water 16 14 14 23 14 Contained 119 126 102 111 93 44 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Biodiversity and sensitive areas We take steps to understand and manage the potential impacts of our operations on protected and sensitive areas. BP operates in diverse environments around the how we manage biodiversity impacts over the world, from the desert to the deep sea. Some of longer term. these areas are particularly sensitive – they may be home to protected or globally threatened Ecological monitoring in the Arctic species or of cultural significance, contain an From the early days of searching for oil on ecosystem with outstanding biological or Alaska’s North Slope, we have sought to geographical value, or within a landscape that understand what potential impacts could result is fragile or unique. from development and how these could be mitigated. Before and after start-up of the Protected areas Prudhoe Bay oil field in 1977, we conducted Some of our operations are situated within or baseline ecological studies to understand close to areas that have national and international pre-development conditions. Since then, protected area status. We report on our major we have regularly conducted research to operations in and around protected areas, further our understanding. For example, we including those designated as protected by the supported research that led to the development International Union for Conservation of Nature of methods to locate polar bear dens, which (IUCN) (categories I-IV, V-VI and unassigned), means we can now establish protective no-go UNESCO World Heritage Sites and sites buffer zones. We are supporting a number of We have been conducting ecological studies in designated under the Ramsar Convention. long-term studies that are gathering information Alaska for more than three decades. on areas such as weather and climate, plant Seven of our major operations, which may communities, permafrost, and snow geese, include more than one operating site, have seals and other wildlife. activities within the boundary of a protected area, and another three have activities within See northslope.org for an annual summary one kilometre of a protected area boundary. In of ecological study results. 2014, no new BP projects sought permission for entry into an international protected area. Marine environments For a list of protected areas in which we BP has a strong focus on deepwater operations operate see bp.com/sensitiveareas and we continue to increase our understanding of how our work may affect marine ecosystems Managing impacts – from monitoring the potential effects of sound Where our screening process indicates that from our offshore activities, such as seismic a proposed project’s planned activities could surveys, on marine life, to working with our affect, or will enter a protected area, we prepare industry to improve our understanding of the a risk assessment and executive approval is potential impacts of oil spills. required before any physical activities take place. In Australia, we are working on a multi-year We then proceed with a more detailed impact study of the biodiversity, marine environment assessment and identify ways to first avoid, Environment and socio-economic importance of the Great or secondly minimize any potential impacts. Australian Bight with the Commonwealth We take steps to assess and manage potential Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, impacts on biodiversity, such as compiling a the South Australian Research and Development wildlife or biodiversity management plan or Institute, Flinders University and the University consulting with relevant experts and agencies of Adelaide. Results from the programme will to assess suitable actions. For example, we are help us to better understand potential impacts working with Fauna & Flora International on from activities and will inform development decisions. Major operations within and around a protected area in 2014a Inside the Adjacent Near (between Close (between Type of protected area boundary (within 1km) 1km and 5km) 5km and 20km) World Heritage Site 2 0 0 0 Ramsar site 1 2 3 3 IUCN category I-IV 4 3 8 16 IUCN category V-VI 3 2 5 10 IUCN not reported 1 2 1 2 (unassigned) a A major operation may have activities within or near more than one protected area. BP Sustainability Report 2014 45 Society To BP, working responsibly includes seeking to have positive impacts on the communities in which we operate. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Test the new socio-economic risk Our businesses in Australia, Brazil, Incorporate the new sociocriteria for assessing the impacts the US and other locations tested economic risk criteria into our of incidents on communities and the socio-economic risk criteria. standard risk methodology for workforces with our businesses. assessing the impacts of incidents. Update our framework for managing Enhanced our revised framework Prepare for reporting taxes paid social investment. to include guidance on evaluating to governments, on a country potential risks when making social and project basis, in line with investments. new UK regulations. Deliver human rights workshops to 270+ employees received human Continue to embed human rights priority businesses and functions. rights training. due diligence into our supply chain processes. 46 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Managing our impact on society Our operations can bring about major changes to societies and communities, which can have significant impacts – both positive and negative. The way our industry manages its sociogrievance mechanisms, which help us to Tangguh Independent Advisory economic impacts has consequences for understand community concerns and seek Panel – May 2014 report people’s health, wellbeing, culture and livelihoods. to address them before they escalate. Oil and gas projects and operations have the We require our businesses to respond to “BP has just completed the public consultation potential to affect local communities in a positive community and stakeholder concerns and to phase for the social and environmental impact way by creating jobs, generating tax revenues, record and act on any external commitments. statement “the AMDAL” that will form the providing opportunities for local suppliers and In 2014 concerns and requests raised by basis for its commitments during the supporting community development initiatives. communities near our major operating sites construction of the Tangguh LNG project’s included noise, odour, access to fishing grounds, Negative impacts may occur if, for example, expansion from 2014-2019 and for the job opportunities for local residents, community a company does not appropriately consider remainder of its operations. investment programmes, acquisition or the concerns of nearby communities, or if reinstatement of land, and maintenance The new AMDAL process has provided by employees lack awareness and training on of roads and fences. far the best opportunity to date for input from anti-bribery and corruption policies. and dialogue among, local affected parties. We have been working with oil and gas industry We screen for possible socio-economic impacts It gauged community views on the impact association IPIECA to develop tools for managing in the early stages of our project planning of Tangguh’s social and environmental community grievances and plan to test these process. We also conduct impact assessments programmes as they have been implemented for use in our own guidance and training. This is to help us to better understand how we can and brought out local feelings toward Tangguh. part of our work to align with the UN Guiding avoid or mitigate negative impacts and identify Principles on Business and Human Rights. The experience of local constituencies opportunities for positive impacts throughout the over the past 10 years has provided them life cycle of our project and operations. For more Understanding socio-economic with specific real life understanding of what information see page 41. implications of incidents works and what does not work, and which programmes should be eliminated and Community engagement BP assesses the risk of unplanned events, such Our ability to operate safely and continuously as spills and security incidents. This currently which need to be changed. Because of its can depend on obtaining the necessary official includes information on possible health, safety, collaborative nature, BP has accepted many of permits from the authorities and on the informal environmental, reputational and business these suggestions and aspirations in shaping permission and support of the communities in impacts. We have tested new socio-economic social management into new Tangguh the surrounding area. risk criteria with several businesses, including Sustainable Development Programmes.” Australia, Brazil and the US. The criteria covers We consult with communities about potential areas such as community stress and disruption, environmental and socio-economic impacts livelihoods, cultural heritage, workforce welfare throughout the life cycle of projects and and the availability and quality of fresh water. operations and develop plans to manage these. We plan to incorporate these into our standard For example, in planning for the expansion of risk methodology in 2015. our Tangguh LNG project in Indonesia, we held public consultation meetings with representatives from 62 local villages to discuss their views, concerns and aspirations in relation to the project and our existing social programmes. In 2014, we used the findings of the consultation process to update our approach to community relations, health, education and livelihoods, including indigenous enterprise development programmes. In Indonesia, we also work with an independent advisory panel to help address long-term socio-economic challenges associated with our presence. Panel members are selected to Society represent a range of views and provide feedback on our activities and offer recommendations on how to navigate the challenges. Community grievances We believe that open dialogue helps to build strong, mutually beneficial working relationships over the long term, and enables all sides to work We are helping to develop local expertise in through any disagreements in a constructive South Africa by investing in a youth development way. We provide guidance to projects on BP employees in Brazil talk to local communities programme with the University of the developing operational-level community about the oil and gas industry. Witwatersrand. BP Sustainability Report 2014 47 Supporting development in societies where we work We believe that societies and communities where we work should benefit from our presence. We contribute to economies through our core We run programmes to help build the skills of business activities, for example by helping to businesses and to develop the local supply develop the national and local supply base, chain in a number of locations. For example, and through community investment, such as in Indonesia, we provide one-on-one business supporting communities’ efforts to increase consultancy and technical assistance to local their incomes and improve standards of living. businesses to assist their participation in tender processes. This helps them to compete to For example, we are Trinidad & Tobago’s largest supply goods and services associated with hydrocarbon producer, accounting for more than the construction and operation of LNG plants. half of the national production of oil and gas. We We held mentoring sessions and workshops for also contribute to the local economy by creating 16 local businesses and enterprises in 2014, jobs – over 90% of our employees are Trinidad with $13 million awarded in BP contracts. & Tobago nationals – and by using local suppliers. For instance, we are helping to build Community investment expertise in the construction of gas platforms, We support development programmes that with a local company beginning work on its sixth meet local needs and are relevant to our offshore platform for BP in 10 years in 2014. business activities. We use information Local workforce from community engagement and impact BP has supported the development of local assessments to shape our approach and businesses in Azerbaijan, such as the Debet Where possible we seek to recruit our work with local partners to deliver programmes Uniform Company, which supplies BP with workforce from the local community or country. that aim to create meaningful and sustainable personal protective uniforms. We do this both to meet host governments’ impacts. In 2014, we revised our social requirements and because we believe it investment framework to include guidance on benefits the local community and BP. evaluating new social investments, such as the A number of our major operating sites are potential risks of conflicts of interest, bribery working to improve local and national and corruption and reputation damage. representation in their workforce. For example, We contribute to the development of training our training programme in Azerbaijan has helped and employment opportunities and help to build petrotechnical graduates to develop the skills capability in institutions and businesses. For needed for a successful professional career. example, in Trinidad & Tobago we developed an A total of 80 trainees have completed the initiative that offers micro-credit to residents in programme and a further 45 have joined, the local community of Mayaro to start their selected from approximately 4,300 applicants. own businesses, along with business planning In Angola, approximately 70% of our total and financial accounting assistance. Since it workforce are Angolan nationals and we are began in 2002, the Mayaro Initiative for Private helping to develop the pool of skilled local Enterprise Development has distributed more labour. In 2014, 29 people joined BP in than 3,000 loans and created thousands of jobs Angola after graduating from our scholarship in a community of almost 15,000 people. It is programme in chemical, electrical, mechanical, now a $10 million self-sustaining fund. structural and petroleum engineering from We often contribute to education initiatives in universities in Turkey, South Africa and the regions where we work. In South Africa, the UK. BP is also helping to train oil and gas for example, we are helping to develop local professionals through masters’ programmes expertise by equipping talented young people in at the Agostinho Neto University in Luanda. underprivileged communities with the skills they Local suppliers need to succeed in their final exams and go on We promote the use of local suppliers where to tertiary education. Of the 200 students who appropriate. For example, in Azerbaijan we began the programme in 2009, 96% passed have supported the efforts of companies to their final exams and 54 are now studying at achieve international standards, to improve university in various fields, including science, their competitiveness, and to increase the commerce, engineering and medicine. Around amount of work they get from BP contractors. 1,000 more students are expected to participate Since 2007 our ‘enterprise development and in the programme over the next three years. training programme’ has helped local companies secure international contracts in excess of $348m $433 million, of which $348 million are with BP in Azerbaijan. in BP contracts secured by local companies in Azerbaijan since 2007. 48 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Contribution to communities Direct spending on community programmes US Dodd-Frank legislation and European by region ($ million) Our direct spending on community programmes, Accounting and Transparency Directives including disaster relief in 2014, was $85 million. Transparency-related issues have gained 1 1. UK 13.7 This is in addition to $13.9 billion for employee momentum in recent years, bolstered by the 2. Rest of Europe 3.4 benefits and wages and $8.0 billion in taxes paid US Dodd-Frank legislation and the enactment 3. US 31.9 2 to governments. of the European Accounting and Transparency 4. Rest of world 36.0 3 Directives. The UK government transposed the The BP Foundation revenue transparency requirements contained The BP Foundation is a charitable organization in the EU Accounting Directive into UK law on working to benefit communities around the 4 1 December 2014. world. It prioritizes donations to charities that support science, technology, engineering and These regulations require companies in the maths education, economic development, extractive industries to publish information on practical approaches to environmental issues, the payments that they make to governments and humanitarian relief. In 2014, the Foundation on a country by country and project by project contributed $4 million to organizations and basis, including taxes, production entitlements, schools around the world that aligned with royalties, signature bonuses, fees and payments these focus areas. for infrastructure improvements. The BP Foundation provided $175,000 in 2014 The UK regulations require the disclosure of to locally based relief organizations in India, the information on payments made in the year Balkans and the US. Organizations supported by ending 31 December 2015. BP is preparing the foundation in 2014 included the United Way to comply with the UK regulations, including of India, Pragya, International Federation of Red participating in the development of industry Cross and the American Red Cross. guidance. The foundation also matches the personal We are awaiting publication of the final rules contributions that BP employees make to for the US Dodd-Frank regime, expected to be the eligible charities of their choice. In 2014, issued before the end of 2015. employees gave around $7 million, volunteered Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative their time and raised funds to benefit charitable As a founding member of the Extractive organizations worldwide, which was matched Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and a with grants of approximately $10 million. member of the initiative’s board, BP works with Governance and financial governments, non-governmental organizations transparency and international agencies to improve transparency and disclosure of payments to We focus on improving transparency in revenue governments. flows from oil and gas activities in resource-rich countries. This helps citizens of those countries We support governments’ efforts towards to access information to hold public authorities EITI certification in countries where we operate to account for the way they use funds received and have worked with many countries on through taxes and other agreements. implementation of their EITI commitments, including Australia, Azerbaijan, Indonesia, Iraq, Tax Norway, Trinidad & Tobago, the UK and the US. The taxes that we pay are a significant part of our economic contribution to the countries We believe that the comprehensive, multiin which we operate. We support the stakeholder approach of EITI is the best Confederation of British Industry’s statement of approach for the extractive industries. The EITI tax principles, which is intended to promote and is an inclusive process that is tailored to fit the affirm responsible business tax management by local fiscal and legal regimes. See eiti.org for UK businesses. more information on our EITI activities. Society In Trinidad & Tobago we are supporting an initiative that offers micro-loans to residents to start their own businesses. BP Sustainability Report 2014 49 Human rights We are committed to conducting our business in a manner that respects the rights and dignity of all people. Potential human rights impact areas We respect internationally recognized human Supply chain within the oil and gas industry rights as set out in the International Bill of Managing human rights performance has Human Rights and the International Labour implications for the way we manage our Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental supply chains. Principles and Rights at Work. We set out our commitments in our human rights policy. Our human rights policy makes a number of Workforce commitments that relate to the supply chain, BP’s code of conduct references the policy, welfare requiring employees to report any human rights including that we will seek to make contractual abuse in our operations or in those of our commitments with suppliers that encourage Livelihoods Health and business partners. Our operating management them to adhere to the principles contained in safety system includes guidance on human rightsthe policy. A number of our standard model related topics for our projects. contracts now include human rights clauses that Key impact require our suppliers to respect internationally areas Potential impact areas recognised human rights in their work for BP. When planning for projects, we consider issues In some locations, we also conduct social Security such as security and human rights, workforce Environment compliance and performance audits that include welfare, community health and safety, water human rights aspects. For example, in Georgia, use, air quality and potential impacts on the we audit contractor performance against the Land livelihoods of local communities. This helps us to acquisition human rights requirements included in manage activities that could impact the rights of contracts. Findings of a recent contractor audit nearby communities and our workforces. included that employees are free to express We are working to integrate human rights opinion, or join unions if interested, and no considerations into our impact assessments, discrimination on any grounds was observed. including providing relevant training to We suggested areas for improvement, such as environmental and social practitioners on developing processes for fair and transparent IPIECA’s new guidance, which we helped recruitment to help promote equal opportunity to develop in 2013. We also worked with among candidates. IPIECA to develop tools for managing In Oman, we have developed minimum community grievances. See page 47 for workforce welfare standards for our Khazzan more information on how we engage with gas project that set requirements for contractors communities and the types of concerns with respect to working and living conditions. they raise. We have discussed these with our contractors 270+ Implementing the UN Guiding Principles and have established a series of forums that will meet regularly to monitor worker welfare people attended human and employee relations activities, and act as We are delivering our human rights policy a channel for escalating and addressing rights training events in by implementing the relevant sections of the grievances raised. 2014. United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and incorporating them into Our Downstream business uses pre-qualification the processes and policies that govern our questionnaires covering human rights business activities. performance when screening for potential new suppliers. In specific locations (identified Our action plan aims to achieve closer on a risk basis), we have begun conducting alignment with the UN Guiding Principles over pre-qualification audits of suppliers that take a number of years using a risk-based approach. into account aspects of human rights and Representatives from key functions, including labour practices. human resources, ethics and compliance, procurement, security, and safety and operational We are working to develop our supplier human risk oversee the plan’s implementation. rights assessment processes further across our businesses, using a systematic and risk-based We continue to develop and implement human approach. rights training for high-priority businesses and functions, working to build awareness of our human rights policy and an understanding of the potential human rights impacts within our industry. For example, this year we held 15 dedicated human rights training events for more than 270 employees, including awareness training for relevant senior leadership teams and representatives from functions such as procurement, shipping, finance and legal. 50 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Security and human rights  ill BP’s human rights policy change Q: W Security management can be complex, the way you do business? especially in locations where there is a higher potential for conflict or violent crime. A: At peak development in 2016, our A company’s security arrangements, if not Khazzan project in Oman will involve managed carefully, can expose it to accusations more than 10,000 people working in the of complicity in human rights abuses. We seek remote desert. In preparation for this, to engage with the security forces that protect we have developed workforce welfare our assets to help them understand the human requirements on aspects such as living rights of our workforce and communities living accommodation, food provision and near our operations and to interact responsibly recreation facilities and are proactively with them. addressing workforce concerns. We have Training public security Voluntary Principles on Security held workshops with our key contractors to discuss our requirements and develop and Human Rights forces in Iraq We are a signatory to the Voluntary Principles a shared understanding of the importance on Security and Human Rights, which provide of delivering a standard of workforce The Iraqi Oil Protection Force is responsible a framework for companies to assess whether welfare that respects our workers and for controlling access to oil fields in Iraq and is human rights issues are likely to arise as a result adheres to our human rights policy. So in critical to deterring, detecting and responding of security activities within local operations, terms of whether the policy has changed to criminal incidents. As lead contractor at and to allow appropriate precautionary steps the way we work, it’s early days for us but Rumaila, Iraq’s largest oilfield, we sought to be taken. our contractors have appreciated our to develop a training programme for the approach and the policy has provided a We are working with governments and other protection force that would help them to strong basis for building shared member companies to share and promote work in a way that meets our expectations expectations and goals. best practice. For example, we shared our to respect human rights. Dave Campbell experiences of implementing the Voluntary Principles with the Angolan government. Our first step was to commission an Chief operating officer and vice president independent assessment to understand operations, BP Oman We asked other signatories, including the tactical and operational needs of the governments and companies, to review our protection force and to identify the best ways work and approach. They concluded that we are to promote adherence to human rights committed to the implementation of the standards. We then worked with the force Voluntary Principles, with strong policies, to develop a training assistance programme procedures and assurance systems. They also using a ‘train the trainer’ approach. We chose identified areas for improvement and further this approach to promote ownership by the assessment, including ways to measure the protection force, who will continue the effectiveness of our training on the principles. training after our initial three-year programme Implementing the Voluntary Principles is delivered. The training focuses on We provide those employees accountable communicating good practices in protection for assessing and managing security risks services and improving practical skills, with guidance explaining BP’s approach to aligned with human rights standards. Each implementing the Voluntary Principles, including year we evaluate the programme to measure the mechanisms we use for identifying and its impact on the performance of the force mitigating risk, interaction with public security and identify further training needs. forces, engagement with private security providers and evaluating progress. We periodically conduct internal assessments to identify areas where we can improve implementation. Society BP reports on its progress in relation to security and human rights issues in an annual report to the Voluntary Principles plenary. BP Sustainability Report 2014 51 Find more online bp.com/sustainability includes a concise, downloadable Sustainability Report, as well as online case studies and performance data. 172 How we operate 134 See how we are using high-tech simulations to 156 help train our wells teams. 152 bp.com/learningcentre Find information on BP’s learning and development programmes, rewards and benefits, and approach to diversity and inclusion. HSE charting tool The energy future bp.com/careers Filter and analyse information on the group’s Read about how technology is helping health, safety and environmental performance. Abu Dhabi in managing water and energy Data for the past decade is available, and can be sustainability. viewed in a variety of chart formats. bp.com/foreseerabudhabi bp.com/hsechartingtool View our energy projections in BP Energy Outlook 2035. Country and site reporting bp.com/energyoutlook We publish country reports on our operations in Angola, Azerbaijan and Georgia. We also maintain a library of site reports. Society Safety bp.com/countryreports Read about how we are supporting enterprise Read about how we are managing road safety development in Trinidad & Tobago. in Oman. bp.com/sitereports bp.com/miped bp.com/roadsafetyoman About our reporting View BP’s business and human rights policy. Filter and analyse health and safety data from the past 10 years. This Sustainability Report and bp.com/ bp.com/humanrightspolicy sustainability concentrate on performance and bp.com/hsechartingtool activities from 1 January to 31 December 2014. We aim to report on all aspects of our business, including joint ventures where we are the Gulf of Mexico operator. Where appropriate, we also seek to provide an overview of joint venture activities Read about our environmental restoration efforts where we are not the operator, but where we following the Deepwater Horizon accident. have significant influence on our partners. bp.com/gulfofmexico We validate the content with our external assurance provider, Ernst and Young, whose View the latest updates on BP’s investigations remit includes commenting on the prominence and legal proceedings. given to each topic and identifying any gaps. Environment bp.com/legalproceedings We apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s View greenhouse gas intensity data, as well as Find the latest BP news, press releases, G3.1 guidelines, and we use guidance from energy use, flaring and water data. statements and factsheets. our industry association IPIECA. We also report against the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles bp.com/environment stateofthegulf.com on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Read about lessons learned from the oil spill response exercises in the North Sea. bp.com/reportingstandards bp.com/spillresponseexercise 52 BP Sustainability Report 2014 Independent assurance statement BP’s Sustainability Report 2014 (the Report) has been Level of assurance • Stakeholders have raised a number of questions prepared by the management of BP p.l.c., who are about the operation of the newly formed US Lower responsible for the collection and presentation of Our evidence gathering procedures were designed 48 onshore business. BP explains that it has its own information within it. Our responsibility, in accordance to obtain a ‘limited level’ of assurance (as set out in governance, systems and processes that have been with BP management’s instructions, is to carry out a ISAE3000) on which to base our conclusions. The tailored to manage the impacts of unconventional ‘limited level’ assurance engagement on the Report. extent of evidence gathering procedures performed is gas development. However, the Report discloses We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any less than that of a reasonable assurance engagement that this business is not currently certified to the other purpose or to any other person or organisation. (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level environmental management system standard (ISO Any reliance any such third party may place on the of assurance is provided. 14001). Given ongoing concerns about hydraulic Report is entirely at its own risk. The limitations of our review fracturing, BP may need to continue to provide updates on how risks are being addressed. What we did to form our conclusions Our work did not include physical inspections of any of BP’s operating assets. • BP has extended its coverage of how it is managing Our assurance engagement has been planned and human rights risk within its supply chain including performed in accordance with ISAE3000.1 Our conclusions the insertion of specific requirements into its The Report has been evaluated against the standard model contracts. This description Based on the scope of our review our conclusions are following criteria: acknowledges that certain parts of the business are outlined below: exposed to higher levels of risk and explains that BP • Whether the Report covers the key sustainability Materiality will continue to embed human rights due diligence issues relevant to BP in 2014 which were raised Has BP provided a balanced representation of material into supply chain processes. Stakeholder interest in in the media, BP’s own review of material issues concerning BP’s sustainability performance? human rights risks within extended supply chains is sustainability issues, and selected internal growing rapidly and BP will need to report future documentation. • We are not aware of any material aspects progress made embedding its policy commitments. concerning BP’s sustainability performance which • Whether the health, safety and environment (HSE) have been excluded from the Report. • BP has sought to report more clearly on the practical data presented in the Report are consistent with application of its approach to sustainability issues BP’s Environmental Performance Group Reporting • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us rather than limiting the description to underlying Requirements and HSE Reporting Definitions. to believe that BP management has not applied its governance and processes. This approach has processes for determining material issues to be • Whether sustainability claims made in the Report helped BP to ‘bring to life’ the approach to managing included in the Report. are consistent with the explanation and evidence sustainability issues more than in previous reporting. provided by relevant BP managers. Completeness and accuracy of performance information Our independence In order to form our conclusions we undertook the How complete and accurate is the HSE data As auditors to BP p.l.c., Ernst & Young are required to steps outlined below: in the Report? comply with the requirements set out in the Auditing 1. Interviewed a selection of BP’s senior managers Practices Board’s (APB) Ethical Standards for Auditors. • With the exception of the limitations identified in to understand the current status of safety, social, Ernst & Young’s independence policies apply to the firm, the Report on pages 8-9, we are not aware of any ethical and environmental activities, and progress partners and professional staff. These policies prohibit material reporting units that have been excluded made during the reporting period. any financial interests in our clients that would or might from the group-wide HSE data. be seen to impair independence. Each year, partners 2. Reviewed selected group level documents relating • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us and staff are required to confirm their compliance with to safety, social, ethical and environmental aspects to believe that the data relating to the above topics the firm’s policies. of BP’s performance to understand progress made has not been collated properly from group-wide across the organisation and test the coverage of We confirm annually to BP whether there have been any systems. topics within the Report. events including the provision of prohibited services that • We are not aware of any errors that would could impair our independence or objectivity. There 3. Carried out the following activities to review health, materially affect the data as presented in were no such events or services in 2014. safety and environment (HSE) data samples and the Report. processes: Our assurance team How plausible are the statements and claims a. Reviewed disaggregated HSE data reported by Our assurance team has been drawn from our global within the Report? a sample of nine businesses to assess whether Climate Change and Sustainability Services Practice, the data had been collected, consolidated and • We have reviewed information or explanation on which undertakes engagements similar to this with a reported accurately. selected statements on BP’s sustainability activities number of significant UK and international businesses. presented in the Report and we are not aware of b. Reviewed and challenged supporting evidence any misstatements in the assertions made. from the sample of businesses. Ernst & Young LLP, London Observations and areas for 18 March 2015 c. Tested whether HSE data had been collected, consolidated and reported appropriately at improvement group level. Our observations and areas for improvement will be 4. Reviewed the coverage of material issues within raised in a report to BP management. Selected the Report against the key sustainability issues observations are provided below. These observations do raised in external media reports and the outputs not affect our conclusions on the Report set out above. from BP’s processes for determining material • BP describes steps that it continues to take to sustainability issues. respond to climate change risk. For example, BP 5. Reviewed information or explanations about describes the role of its natural gas portfolio in selected data, statements and assertions within the delivering lower-carbon energy and the provision Report regarding BP’s sustainability performance. of increasingly energy efficient products. However, BP faces demands for further information and there remains limited explanation of the impact that its multi-pronged approach to climate change risk is delivering across the business in terms of carbon reductions, or how carbon might impact the future direction of the company. 1 International Federation of the Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000). BP’s corporate reporting suite includes information about our financial and operating performance, sustainability performance and also on global energy trends and projections. Annual Report and Strategic Report 2014 Energy Outlook 2035 Form 20-F 2014 A summary of our financial Projections for world energy Details of our financial and operating performance markets, considering the and operating performance in print and online. potential evolution of global in print and online. Published in March. economy, population, policy Published in March. bp.com/annualreport and technology. bp.com/annualreport Published in February. bp.com/energyoutlook Sustainability Report 2014 Financial and Operating Statistical Review of Details of our sustainability Information 2010-2014 World Energy 2015 performance with additional Five-year financial and An objective review of key information online. operating data in PDF global energy trends. Published in March. and Excel format. Published in June. bp.com/sustainability Published in April. bp.com/statisticalreview bp.com/financialandoperating You can order BP’s US and Canada Feedback You can also telephone printed publications free Issuer Direct Your feedback is important to us. +44 (0)20 7496 4000 of charge from: Toll-free: +1 888 301 2505 You can email the corporate reporting bp.com/papercopies bpreports@precisionir.com team at corporatereporting@bp.com or write to: Corporate reporting UK and rest of world or provide your feedback online at BP p.l.c. BP Distribution Services bp.com/sustainabilityfeedback 1 St James’s Square Tel: +44 (0)870 241 3269 London SW1Y 4PD Fax: +44 (0)870 240 5753 UK bpdistributionservices@bp.com Acknowledgements Paper © BP p.l.c. 2015 Design SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP This document is printed on Oxygen paper and board. Oxygen is made using 100% Typesetting SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP recycled pulp, a large percentage of which is de-inked. It is manufactured at a mill with Printing Pureprint Group Limited, UK, ISO 9001 and 14001 accreditation and is FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) certified. ISO 14001, FSC® certified and This document has been printed using vegetable inks. CarbonNeutral® Photography Shahin Abasaliyev, Giles Barnard, Mehmet Binay, Stuart Conway, Emilu Damasceno, Richard Davies, Joshua Drake, Barry Halton, Simon Kreitem, Matt Livey, Bob Masters, Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their and printing technology. Marc Morrison, Mikhail Novitsky, Chingiz Samadzade, Aaron Tait, Graham Trott
