CHEVAL GROUP Communication On Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact CEO Page 2 About Cheval Group Cheval group of companies is Asia's premier designer and manufacturer of 19 enclosures and network infrastructure. The group was established in Thailand in 1987. For over 26 years, the Group has professionally developed its products, people and solutions to support the global IT infrastructure and data center markets. The Group consists of three manufacturing sites. Cheval Electronic Enclosure Co., Ltd located in Samutprakarn province, functions as group headquarters, research, design and development center with substantial manufacturing facilities to support new clients. Aegistek Corporation Ltd., is located in the northern Thailand, Province of Chiangmai. It is the main manufacturing site for the Group's large OEM clients. Located nearby is Cheval Technology Co., Ltd. , which focuses on production of the Group's branded products, plus backup support facilities for the other two sites. Previous Commitment to Ethical Practices. Cheval is no stranger to good corporate and social responsibility. Before joining the UN Global Compact in 2009, our Code of Ethics and Conduct was announced. Communication On Progress (COP) HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 : Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy & Obligations In accordance with Thai Law Labor Act 2008 and UN Global Compact, this obligation is included in our Ethics and Code of conduct. Human rights and freedom are integral part of our business. Implementation & systems Cheval treats our employees, clients, vendors or any entity conducting business with us without discrimination of kind, such as; race, color, sex, language, religion, political status, national or social origin, property, birth and any other status. We announce that everyone has equal right to work with us as long as they are competent. Employee recruitment is conducted without any discrimination in written application form and talks with job interviewee. Employees have the right to file a complaint in the company for any perceived discrimination. Employees can file a complaint to government for any perceived human rights issue any time. Cheval supports Conflict Minerals programs and does not conduct business with any countries involved in it. Outcomes No complaints from employee to the government during 2010 – 2014. Aegistek certified as compliance to Thai Labour Standard 8001 – 2010 from the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare since 16 September 2012 until now. Activities to Corporate social responsibility Children's Day Activities at On-tai Municipal. Gave a newyear gift to Sankamphang Hospital and Center of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation. Blood donated by employee every quarter to Red Cross Foundation. In 2014, the total blood donated was 47,600 cc. Donated blood at Cheval Electronic Enclosure Co., Ltd located in Bangplee, Samutprakarn. Donated consumer product for shelter for the homeless, Chiangmai. Donation support Sankamphaeng School Mini marathon. Cheval Electronic Enclosure Co., Ltd went to The Mirror Foundation, Bangkok Office (191 Vipavadee 62) for Donated second hand books, magazines, clothes, handbags, shoes, computer items, etc that are still in good conditions for supporting projects in March 5, 2014. Electrical equipment donation for The Mirror Foundation. Our company provided specialist knowledge and training to the technical collages in the community . Light bulb donation for On-tai temple and Cheachang village. Public Consciousness activities for Children Ward Nakonping Hospital. Donation support Center of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation. Join local activites for development and participation of villagers through a case study “Pandin-Dham Pandin-Thong Project” at Pong Houy Lan village. CSR activites join with thai health organization “ 5s Wat Sang Sook” At Doy Yaow Temple. Donated wood pallet for On-tai Rice Seed Center at On-tai District. CSR : Cheval Electronic Enclosure Co; Ltd. @ Bang Pakong Home for the Disabled for donation the four necessities of life, and lunch treat for all the disabled person. On May 10, 2014 Our staffs went to Bang Pakong Home for the Disabled for donation the four necessities of life, and lunch treat for all the disabled person. Our CSR programs are team building events designed to boost team spirit and unity while helping less fortunate disabled persons of our community. Cheval Electronic Enclosure Co; Ltd. Staff and IT team went to Wat Lad Wai School for donate our Arion 19 Server Rack for support and organized the computer room for the kids. We have been helping to reinstall all equipments into the rack. After rearrange, we secure all the cables and wires to ensure safeness in rack, well organized and make more space to the computer room. On June 6, 2014 at Wat Lad Wai School, Samutprakarn. LABOUR Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Principle 3 : to collective bargaining. Principle 4 : Business should elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 : Business should effect the abolition of child labour. Business should effect the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 : occupation. Cheval and Aegistek recognizes that our employees are our greatest asset. We have encouraged our employees to learn, study and continuously improve their abilities at all times. We try to assist all of our employees in maintaining a balance between work and personal life and to provide flexibility to employees on an individual basis. Policy & Obligations According to Thai Labor Protection Act. 2008; our obligation to these principles is expressed in our working conditions, our Ethics and Code of Conduct clauses 4, 5 and 6. Implementation & Systems Aegistek has a employee elected 'Welfare Committee'. This committee will look into any idea to improve employee welfare and propose to the company. Outcomes Cheval offers equal employment opportunities to all. The people we recruit are selected solely base on their qualifications for the position. Cheval employees are not discriminated against on basis of gender, race, origin, background, religion, marital status, sex, disability or age. Cheval does not employ child labour, all our employees are over 18 years old. Cheval awards a range of prizes for outstanding employees every year. Cheval awards prizes for employees on their 10th 15th and 20th year service anniversaries. UN Global Compact Project UN Global Compact Awareness Training to employee. Give a knowledge about company support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Congratulations gift newborn children of employees. Labor Day Activities Employees joined Labor Day Activities, to allow employees to show their talents such as; singing contest, most beautiful women of the night, and local food cooking contest. International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. Give a knowledge about dangers of drugs information to employee raise awareness about the global drug problem. Health is the ongoing theme of the world drug campaign. Certificates for employee join smoking cessation project and souvenir for International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. Dual Vocational Training Dual Vocational Training (DVT) is a program in vocational education which puts emphasis on students training in a real workplace. It is a co-operation between colleges and company to produce qualified manpower. Outstanding employee award The company has outstanding employee award projects to encourage employees to perform well. Conducted to evaluate the performance every quarterly to get the best outstanding employee. Certificates and rewards offer for employee those who have been selected. Happy Workplace Program Aegistek has been selected for the Happy Workplace role model award. Happy Workplace Program (HWP) is a comprehensive worksite program for the promotion of employees’ physical and mental health, subsequently leading to better families and society. Happy Tools are tools utilized in the implementation process of happy workplace program are divided into 3 parts as follows, Happy Workplace framework :Happy Model, Happy Workplace Process: HeHa, Happy8 Menu, Organization Evaluation: Happinometer, Happy Workplace Index, Happy Workplace ROI. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 : Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 : technologies. Cheval recognizes the high importance in being a socially and environmentally conscious company. We started from the beginning, with the factory design, buildings, plant layout, working policies and procedures. Cheval continuously seeks to reduce the environmental impact of its operations. We support a proactive approach to environmental challenges and undertake to promote greater environmental responsibility, setting our standards above local requirements. Policy & Obligations Our obligations of this principles are stated in our Environmental policy and in our Corporate ethics and code of conduct, clause no.12. Implementation & Systems Cheval has an internal system to investigate our environment compliance every month and every quarter. Cheval has strictly followed all environmental laws and regulations, including related environment directives such as ROHS, REACH and CONFLICT MINERALS. Outcomes We have dedicated 25,200 sq.m and planted over 1,000 trees since 2008. These trees are now between 2.5 – 7.0 meters high. Aegistek was awarded a certificate for joining the 'Green factory' project of Ministry of Labour. Aegistek hired international surveyor name 'Ecovadis' (www.ecovadis.com) to evaluated the company for 4 parts (Environment, Labor, Fair business practices, Suppliers). Aegistek CSR result rating 2014 from Ecovadis was 'confirmed'. The next target of next year evaluation is Advance. Aegistek setting up many kind of activities to stimulate our employees to care about nature and environmental. Cheval Technology Co; Ltd. Build-A-Dam Project to maintain Build-A-Dam Project to maintain, protect, keep the river flow in the HoiKhunOn Area, Onnuea , Sankhampang, Chiangmai on Mar 22, 2014. We had been build the dam for 3 points around the area. These dams are helping keep the moist for the forest and keep the river slowly flow to the main path for Chaophraya River. CSR program by Growing the mangrove at BANG PU: THAILAND’S FIRST URBAN NATURE EDUCATION CENTRE Natural resources conservation of mangrove forest. The goal is to increase the traditional forest conservation and forest area (wetlands) in the Gulf. CT staff and member of BannNongSea were developed and cleaned of surrounding Wat DoiNoi Hoisai, Sankampang, Chaingmai areas on Feb 8 , 2014 Engineering team from Ratchphruek Co; Ltd. and Ministry Of Energy came to CT for examine and checking the LPG underground system for safety purpose (every 5 yrs). The test included for safety, protecting and prevent for leaking and the strength of the tank. To ensure that our company underground LPG system are safe for our surrounding neighbor and environment and by law (Follow by announced from Ministry of Energy) on Feb 11-12, 2014. Last Saturday on October 25, 2014, Cheval Technology's staff and local people from Ban Dong Kheelek village, participated in the CSR activities by volunteering in cleaning and renovating sport stadium in public park, school playground as well as temple areas in Ban Dong Kheelek School. ANTI-CORRUPTION Business should support work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 10 : bribery. We firmly believe that Cheval's success is dependent upon our reputation for integrity and quality in everything we do. Cheval does not support any form of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Conducting our professional affairs based on responsibility, fairness and integrity is a priority for us. Cheval is committed to working against all forms of corruption and is dedicated to developing clear and precise policies and procedures in this area. Policy & Obligations Our obligations of this principles are strongly stated in our Ethics and code of conduct. (Clauses no. 7 and 11). Implementation & Systems At least quotations from two different suppliers for purchasing. No payments without official company invoices or receipts. Group MD confers with third party consultants and shareholders on key issues. Bidding system to shipping and freight forwarder companies for export business. Bidding system for selling scrap metals. (Our most significant scrap material) Outcomes As a result of the Company’s policy, all employees are made aware of consequences related to corruption and bribery violations. Senior management ensures that junior and mid level employees are not put in situations where they can be tempted into becoming a victim of such violations. Our company publishes and distributes the publication about Transparency in entrepreneurship to our partners. Aegistek was granted “Good Governance” award for the Transparency and honest company for third consecutive year. (three years continues 2012-2014) from Thailand NACC (The National Anti-Corruption Commission). This prestigious award recognizes a firm for Outstanding Corporate Governance including the firms policies on anti-corruption, disclosure, transparency and accountability.
