BOC Kenya Limited Head Office Kitui Road, Industrial Area P.O. Box 18010, 00500 NAIROBI Telephone: +254 20 6944000 Telephone Wireless: +254 20 2325838 Fax No: 6944001, 553382 E-mail: bocinfo@boc.co.ke 12th June, 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT: June 2015 Company Status on Implementation of the UN Ten Principles BOC Kenya is committed to support the UN initiatives within the company’s strategies, guidelines, policies, practices and behaviours which lay the basic fundamental management standards in all its operations and activities. The maxim “I am taking the lead” puts the responsibility on the individual as well as teams to ensure the overall behaviour is in line with the company vision, values and principles. The Group’s fundamental principles are safety, integrity, sustainability and respect. The company is also committed to the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship, continuous improvement for sustainable change and growth and being part of the solution to the global challenges. The company makes a declaration in support of the UN Global initiatives in its Annual Report. The highlight of the company’s strategies and actions in regard to the implementation of the ten core principles is as indicated below: Principles of the UN BOC Status on implementation of the Ten Global Compact UN Principles A) Human rights Group Vision, Values and Principles 1)Support & respect the ▪ Support transparency, trust and protection of internationally accountability through visible leadership, proclaimed human rights information sharing, empowering people, 2)Ensure non complicit in LeadSafe reports, non discrimination and risk human rights abuses management. ▪The leadership does not tolerate and strictly prohibits retaliation against anyone who reports issues or concerns in good faith. The Report is treated with strict confidentiality. BOC Kenya Ltd is a Member of The Linde Group Directors: N. Kiuna (Chairman), M. Msiska** (Managing), W. Coetzee*, R. Mbugua, L. Njoroge, A. Kamau. *South African **Malawian B) Labour standards Conditions of employment 3) Uphold the freedom of ▪The company is compliant with the Kenya association and effective labour laws in regard to all terms and recognition of the right to conditions of employment including non collective bargaining, engagement of child labour, forced and 4) Effective abolition of child compulsory labour. labour ▪The company recognizes The Chemical & 5) Elimination of all forms of Allied workers union and negotiates freely. A forced and compulsory collective bargaining agreement is in place. labour ▪ The company is a member of the Federation 6) Elimination of of Kenya Employers and keeps abreast of new discrimination in respect of developments in labour relations and adheres employment and occupation to any changes in law. ▪The company upholds a non discriminatory policy in employment and occupation and adopts the principle of justice and fairness in all operations and practices. C)The Environment Safety, Health, Environment & Quality ( SHEQ) Management 7) Support a precautionary ▪Uphold The Linde Group standards. Our policy approach to environmental states “ we shall not harm people, society and challenges the environment” and our culture of “ safety is 8) undertake initiatives to 100% of our behaviour 100% of the time” promote greater ▪ We promote safe behaviour through such environmental responsibility initiatives as “near-miss reporting, SHEQ 9) Encourage the Roadmap, continuous training, “LeadSafe development and diffusion of “observations and visible leadership at environmentally friendly executive and functional team level. technologies. ▪ Everyone is involved in and measured on their contribution to the SHEQ program. ▪ To reinforce safe behaviour, a set of Eight Golden Rules were developed, roled out and currently being implemented. ▪ A 2015 HSE & Quality policies that addresses environmental, occupational health and safety issues and quality management respectively. ▪ Maintained ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 accreditation. ▪ SHEQ Road Map ultimate goal is to attain world –class behavioural standards. ▪Managers and employees work together to integrate environmental thinking into all business activities and adopt best environmental and safety practices in order to bring positive benefits to the business, community and other stakeholders. ▪The SHEQ Road Map involves: Resource efficiency, Environmental risk management, awareness and effective two way communication. D) Anti-Corruption Ethics & compliance 10) Work against corruption ▪Code of Ethics Policy and training to all in all its forms, including employees to create awareness. extortions and bribery ▪ Ethics and integrity posters list different methods how to contact the integrity line to make a report regarding any fraud or other violations of our Code of Ethics ▪Availability of Integrity Line-24hrs, 7 days ▪Non retaliation Policy in place ▪Gift & entertainment Policy cascaded to all employees.
