GRANT THORNTON GREECE INTERIM REPORT November 2015 Grant Thornton Greece Interim Report Introduction Grant Thornton recognizes the crucial contribution Corporate Social Responsibility has on achieving Sustainable Growth. In 2013, the company has therefore proceeded in signing and adopting the 10 principles of UN’s Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti – corruption. By adopting these principles, our company shares the belief that corporate practices that are based on global practices, contribute in responsible growth and help built prosperous societies. As a Global Compact member, in 2014 we proceeded in the publication of the first Communication on Progress Report (C.O.P), in which we described the ways our company supports the Global Compact and its principles. Currently, our company is working on launching its second COP report. Delay Explanation As Grant Thornton Greece is an audit firm, every year -end of Aprilpublishes a Transparency Report informing its stakeholders on material corporate issues. The Transparency Report provides, among others issues, information on the activities of the company, the organizational and operational structure of the company, as well as information regarding quality control systems, independence assurance procedures, human resources, training and financial information. As COP also is addressed to all company’s stakeholders and includes additional information to Transparency Report, we have decided to publish it the same period. Therefore we are now developing our next COP in order to be ready until end of April 2016. Reiterate Commitment to Sustainability Grant Thornton S.A., is the first auditing firm in Greece that became a member of the UNGC Greece and is fully committed to the Global Compact principles. We live up to the expectations of Global Compact principles expectations by responsibly treating our employees, clients, suppliers and the natural environment. We continuously work in order to achieve the highest possible standards in sound corporate citizenship and sustainable business practices. As such, integrity and commitment to our stakeholders are our primary focus. In all our business engagements, ethical conduct, honesty, fairness and equality constitute the cornerstone of our doing business. Furthermore we have formulated a customized methodology on raising CSR awareness to our business partners and customers. © 2015 Grant Thornton. All rights reserved. Page 1 Grant Thornton Greece Interim Report We have introduced various informative sessions during which e highlight all benefits and advantages a company may have when developing CSR plan and actions. More information will be included in our next COP report. Summary of the Topics that will be covered in the Final Report Corporate social responsibility is a way of operating for Grant Thornton and a ‘vehicle’ towards sustainable development. Grant Thornton has incorporated the principles of CSR in its culture, seeking to operate in a particular moral framework, in collaboration with the wider community in which it operates. It is important to mention that Grant Thornton seeks to communicate on a regular basis and collaborate with all its stakeholders. Grant Thornton tries to understand each groups’ concerns, expectations and main issues, in order to define specific action plans to respond to them. Besides, a business growing in isolation of social and environmental issues is no more an option. Therefore, we have designed our CSR Strategy based on serious commitment, while we endeavor to accelerate best practices and deliver high performance in the next years. At Grant Thornton, responsibility is expressed in practice through many ways and different areas: • seeks to operate ethically and implements Corporate Governance in line with the international best practices • operates responsibly providing services that add value to clients and selects its suppliers applying not only quantitative but also qualitative criteria • recognise its human capital as one of the most important factors for business growth; by applying modern management systems and providing opportunities for personal and professional development through specialized training programs and other activities that contribute to personnel development • seeks to minimize its environmental footprint by taking relevant actions to save energy, water and raw materials; while applying recycling practices • cooperates and supports various social groups with valuable contribution and voluntary participation of employees. © 2015 Grant Thornton. All rights reserved. Page 2 Grant Thornton Greece Interim Report Our upcoming COP report will highlight the following: Corporate Governance Within the framework of implementing the corporate government principles, our company focuses on:  business perfection  transparency of business operation  control over management and, in particular, control over managerial decision making  observance of the legislation and, in particular, of the obligations foreseen by the legislation as far as audit firms companies are concerned. Personnel and Human Rights The company operates in a way that meets important corporate social responsibility objectives, in relation to its staff and partners as well as in the wider community. To this respect, our Company focuses on the following objectives of social responsibility:  Protecting the human rights of all employees and partners  Promoting health and safety in the workplace  Undertaking environmentally friendly practices while implementing projects  Attracting and retaining specialized human capital  Balancing the interests of all parties involved or affected (employees, partners and suppliers) where organizational or functional Company adjustments take place. Community Our company cooperates and supports various social groups with the valuable contribution and voluntary participation of employees. A range of social actions has been materialized together with our people and will be presented in our next COP report. Environment Our priority is to spread the knowledge on combating climate change and support our cooperators and customers in measuring their environmental impact. Our top Priorities are:  Training on environmental issues  Environmental KPI's development  Recycle During 2015 we have started to measure the most important environmental data. It is an going process and we are planning to have the first results by end of the year. Marketplace We've always believed that running a successful business and providing a valuable service can and should, go hand in hand. So it's part of our heritage and culture to treat our customers fairly and to act with integrity for all our stakeholders in everything we do. That’s why our customers can trust us when it comes to financial and other business management issues and why they can rely on the quality of our services. © 2015 Grant Thornton. All rights reserved. Page 3
