Communication On Progress 2014 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress 2014 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of P1 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: P2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; P3 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; P4 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and P5 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of P6 The UNGC Principles employment and occupation. The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, Environment within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. to environmental challenges; P7 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and P8 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P9 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, P10 including extortion and bribery. The above icons appear in the document to indicate that the relevant principle is addressed by an activity mentioned in the page. As shown above, the colour of the icons indicate the broad area being addressed. Other UN Initiatives MESSAGE OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Caring for Climate Having taken part in the Caring for Climate initiative from With a 27 year tradition of building teams and supporting livelihoods; August 2008, MAS is one of 400 companies from over 65 and nurturing communities in which we operate, MAS Holdings countries to be a part of this movement. The world’s largest is happy to present our 11th Communication on Progress to the global coalition, Caring for Climate is led by the UN Global United Nations Global Compact. Compact, the UNEP, and the UNFCCC. Based on the consensus that climate change will affect business and society in vital ways, consultants 2014 has been a hallmark year for us in the work we are doing from the UNGC, UNEP, and WBCSD prepared a statement titled “Caring for Climate, to standardise human capital management practices across all The Business Leadership Platform”, and it is this statement which offers participants countries in which we operate, maintaining the sanctity of the core an opportunity to demonstrate climate leadership. MAS chooses to endorse and values and culture of the company as we venture into new markets implement the Caring for Climate initiative through CEO support, tactical changes within and adjacencies in the fashion and lifestyle space. the organisation, and on-going public communication. This year our sustainability practices were recognisd by the Ceylon Chamber of Women’s Empowerment Principles Commerce, as MAS Intimates won the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award The Women’s Empowerment Principles are the end result of 2014. The 11th Annual Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards by the Ceylon a collaboration between the UNGC, the United Nations Entity Chamber of Commerce (CCC) recognises the efforts of Sri Lanka’s corporate entities for Gender Equality (UN Women). The principle offer guidance to adopt ‘Best Sustainability Practices’ in their business processes. In addition to to companies on how to empower women in the workplace, winning the overall best Corporate Citizen Sustainability MAS Intimates also won 6 other marketplace, and community. The seven principles are as follows: awards: the Category Winners for both Environmental Management and Community Relations, Sector winner for Manufacturing, and the Triple Bottom-line Awards for Social 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality. Sustainability and Environmental Sustainability. 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and non-discrimination. We have continued to work on our overall sustainability journey with the work on the 3. Ensure the health, safety, and well-being of all women and men workers. formulation of an Integrated Sustainability Strategy across the organisation. 4. Promote education, training, and professional development for women. 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain, and marketing practices that We continue to support the cause of sustainability notably with the Global Compact empower women. where for the second consecutive year our Director of Women’s Empowerment served 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy. on the UN WEPS, Leadership group and was on the Awards Committee for the WEPs 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. CEO Leadership awards. We also continue to serve on the steering committee of the Global Compact Sri Lanka Network. MAS was involved in the consultation process when the seven principles were formulated. In November 2011, the Chairman of MAS signed the CEO Statement of Support for This report highlights our key policies, programmes and initiatives which promote the the Women’s Empowerment Principles. MAS Holdings (Sri Lanka) and Mr. Mahesh mandate of the 10 Principles of the Global Compact and reiterates our continued Amalean, Chairman of MAS Holdings, were awarded the Women’s Empowerment support of the same. Principles Leadership Award 2013 Cultural Change for Empowerment Award 2013 for MAS Women Go Beyond, a distinctive programme established in 2003 that challenges Dian Gomes the accepted norms of garment industry employment for women in Sri Lanka and the Head, Group Branding and CSR South Asia region. MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. Business for Peace After a decade of researching the role of business and its contribution to peace, in September 2013 the UN Global Compact launched the Business for Peace initiative. The platform assists companies in implementing responsible business practices in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. MAS endorsed the initiative in September 2013, and is proud to be one of the founding participants of Business for Peace. MAS AT A GLANCE OUR VALUES 08 LIVING OUR VALUES 09 • The Way We Work • Living Green • Women Matter • Champions by Nature STRENGTHNING COMMUNITIES 10 • Education: Shaping the Future • Community Health: Building a Healthy and Safe Community • Building a Sustainable Future • Embedding a Sporting Culture APPENDICES 83 104 Communication On Progress 2014 8 Communication On Progress 2014 9 Our Values There were a strong set of beliefs which our Leaders shared in common that strengthened our culture, which we defined as the MAS Values. Our core beliefs and ideas became our greatest strength and has bought MAS from a single manufacturing facility to a global fashion and lifestyle brand. Following is a brief description of our values and is our duty to learn and understand these practices and inculcate it in your daily work practices. MAS AT A GLANCE MAS is the region’s leading manufacturer of intimate apparel, performance wear and swimwear, with an annual turnover surpassing USD 1bn. Our world-class apparel facilities spread over ten countries provide employment to over 70,000 people. Our design, innovation and manufacturing excellence inspire the world’s leading fashion and retail brands. Our products and services are enhanced by a vertically integrated supply chain, and supported by a full scale lean enterprise platform. We have broadened our focus beyond apparel, to provide SAP-based IT solutions to the global apparel and footwear industry. MAS also owns Sri Lanka’s first international lingerie brand, amanté, and has diversified through design and manufacturing to encompass lifestyle and fashion solutions. Our people are our pride; a global team distinguished by our passion and drive for excellence. We nurture our people into worldclass champions. We draw strength and support from our community as a responsible corporate, whilst investing in their wellbeing and that of future generations. At root, MAS is not just a business; it is truly a way of life. Communication On Progress 2014 10 Communication On Progress 2014 11 Attracting and Retaining the Best P1 P1 A cloud-based Human Resource platform entitled ‘Talent2o’ is a group-wide talent recruitment strategy, designed to identify and reach qualified candidates with targeted LIVING OUR VALUES messages and custom recruitment campaigns through one seamless process. The P2 development of the strategy was preceded by analysis of the human capital shortage P2 At MAS, our values shape the culture and define the character across the business and will provide equal opportunity to skilled candidates. In addition of our company. They are at the heart of who we are and what to the core process, it also aims to build a talent pipeline by maintaining relationships we do. Together, we share a commitment to safeguard our with both local and international universities and grooming young talent to be employed P3 P3 company’s integrity. Our continued success depends on our at MAS. Subsequent to step-by-step training programmes on the usage of the platform, ability to make decisions that are consistent with our values. the strategy will be launched in 2015. P4 ‘Luminary’, the MAS Performance Management System which was standardised P4 regulations and avoid even the perception across the business, was launched in 2014 as the first module to be rolled out The Way We Work of impropriety or a conflict of interest under the Talent2o strategy. It was developed to create accountability at all levels, stipulated by the Code of Conduct. P5 linking individual performance to organisational performance, thereby linking pay and P5 With the objective of inducting our rewards to performance. The three stages of the system include goal setting, midpeople into the company culture, values year review and year-end review where an employee’s performance is assessed by the In keeping with the principles of the and enabling them to gain a cohesive Senior Management. Luminary aims to eliminate subjectivity and discrimination from Business for Peace initiative, most of our understanding of their rights and duties P6 performance evaluation by providing equal opportunity to every employee based on their P6 third party service providers including within the organisation, MAS compiled performance. We also ventured into “gamification” of the Performance Management security personnel are briefed on the company Code of Conduct in 2014. System as an interactive learning tool that helps employees to comprehend the system MAS standards such as human rights Although the launch of The Code was which is the first time a Business Organisation in the world has done so. compliance with key emphasis given to P9 scheduled for 2014, the extensive and post conflicted areas, where these service comprehensive process shifted it to early providers are predominantly sourced 2015. The compilation was preceded by P9 from the respective region to ensure a comprehensive development process senstitisation. that included an initial phase of research, benchmarking of global companies and interviews with key people across MAS. Engaging Our Workforce The Code guides our associates on dealing “Participative Management” is a key with stakeholders, standardising related The development of the Competency Framework was a key highlight of 2014 under element of our culture. We practice this in policies and procedures, and creating the key Human Resource pillars at MAS. The framework enables our associates to our decision making by engaging people training and communication tools for the identify the competences required for a role and map their suitability and efficiency for at all levels. We conducted extensive different target audiences. In addition, the respective job role. This allows them to assess their skills, knowledge and abilities research with regard to employee salaries we also developed the implementation required for various opportunities, to plan career progression. Assessment of employees to ensure the market competitiveness plan and the governance structure for the based on the identified competencies and feeding these results into training and career of our compensation and benefits initiative. The Code of Conduct and the progression, is scheduled to commence in 2015. standards across MAS. We are also in Supplementary Policies will be officially the process of identifying the “Employee launched and will be rolled out on a Value Proposition” of MAS through a “We do not discriminate based on any distinguishing characteristics that include top-down approach targeting the MAS comprehensive climate survey in order to but are not limited to race, color, nationality, ethnic origin, social standing, religion, Senior Leadership, Executives and Team direct all our initiatives towards providing gender, gender identity and expression, age, marital status, sexual orientation, Members, respectively. physical appearance, disability, political opinion or position held in the company. employees with what they value; whether it be compensation, learning or career All our employment decisions including but not limited to recruitment, grading MAS is committed to doing business with system, performance management, learning and development, career and progression. We are committed to integrity and the highest anti-corruption succession planning, compensation and benefits, termination and retirement promoting equal opportunity and therefore standards. All our associates are expected reflect and promote equal treatment of employees and do not allow for we engage employees, regardless of any to conduct themselves with honesty, discrimination on any grounds. Such employment related decisions will be made distinguishing characteristics they possess solely based on the individual’s merit and company policies and procedures.” fairness and high ethical standards, as that are not related to the job. Quoted from HR01 Equal Opportunity Policywell as abide by all anti-corruption/bribery Communication On Progress 2014 13 P1 P1 P2 P2 Compliance and Risk Management P3 P3 We believe that an ethical, honest management of the business, in addition to being crucial to building trust in the Company, is a non-negotiable path in order for us P4 to fulfil our Vision for 2020. As a key management pillar, P4 compliance is enforced at all company levels, translating into policies, structures, and mechanisms that ensure business continuity, prevent the risks associated with our P5 P5 activities, and streamline communications for handling of any breach of our standards and principles. P6 P6 The initiative to create a disability inclusive work environment has become one of the most successful projects at MAS. Several key MAS Active SBUs have conducted many Audits activities to create an equal opportunity workplace for everyone. These initiatives include P10 As we stated in the 2013 report, P10 introducing experts who are trained to assist differently abled associates, introduce sports and outdoor activities, counselling sessions and parent’s day. MAS is equipped with divisional central compliance audit teams which At present, MAS Active employs over 65 associates with disabilities from hearing conduct audits integrating labour, health, impaired to physically handicapped. The main goal of these disability inclusion projects safety and supply chain security. Apart are to make the workplace a more accessible environment to all our associates. from this, customer audits are also conducted throughout the year. There are also central audit The annual programme for the hearing and speech impaired employees organised by tools shared with strategic business units empowering the MAS Active Sustainable Business team was conducted for the second successive them to conduct self-audits. year under the theme “Hear me out.” The key objective was to provide opportunities to differently abled people in the community to be gainfully employed in the organisation Our fully integrated internal audit tool has been enhanced and to progress in their careers. further to include the monitoring of on-site Service Providers, to align with the evolving requirements of our customers and the need MAS Active has over 45 hearing and speech impaired associates who have not to drive compliance standards in the supply chain. obtained a formal education. Their methods of communication vary from sign language, lip reading and hand gestures. Due to our inability to communicate with them, many of MAS Intimates central Compliance audit team conducts audits integrating them have not received any training outside of their job scope. labour, health, safety, supply chain security, and brand protection biannually. Customer audits were conducted throughout the year, and MAS Intimates has On the 31st of October 2014, a special training programme was organised across an average rate of 94%, sustaining the image we have created over the previous the division at MAS Institute of Management Technology (MIMT) and participants from years. Our transparency, commitment, and the persistent effort to maintain standards seven SBU’s attended this special training. Special sessions on reproductive health and of exceptional performance has convinced the brands to empower us by training our family planning, lean systems, better engagement at work, activity based training to compliance team through joint audits in order to do self-audits on their behalf in the build leadership and teamwork and motivational sessions were conducted. Everyone long-term. This is a landmark achievement for MAS in terms of trust, integrity, and who shared the great experience expressed their heartiest gratitude and joy for being a capacity for self-reliance, as perceived by our customers. part of this programme. A web-based compliance share point is in place and used by the Compliance team as At MAS, we set high workplace standards across our network. That’s why we foster a a platform to share the above information and other compliance related activities and thriving working culture to support growth, health and wellness with our initiatives. best practices. Communication On Progress 2014 15 P1 Key stakeholders who play an important role in the overall management of our social P2 compliance activities include: Brands International Labor Organisation Employer’s Federation of Ceylon Commercial Audit Companies P3 Federation of Chambers of St. John Ambulance Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Red Cross P4 Institute of Engineers, Sri Lanka Fire Department National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health Air Force Personnel P5 Industrial Safety Division of the Department of Labor OSH Experts District Factory Inspecting Engineer P6 National Armed Forces District Labor Department Security Agencies Board of Investment P10 Fair Labor Association, USA Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) Regional Medical Officer / Public Health Inspector Communication On Progress 2014 16 Communication On Progress 2014 17 Some of our Risk and Compliance related activities for 2014: • This also facilitates to take on new customers with ease and build on their confidence. P1 P1 • Selected MAS factories participated as a supplier of the Fair Labor Association. • 21 Intern audits as part of the internal monitoring system utilising the Divisional • 12 SBUs of MAS Active were certified on ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS Compliance Assessment Tool (DCAT). It creates a competitive culture among 18001:2007 standards. P2 the factories to sustain and enhance ethical standards and increase worker P2 awareness. • MAS Active Vaanavil and Mihinthale have applied for certification in 2014 and other facilities underwent re-certification assessments in 2014. • The DCAT scope is far-reaching – encompassing Labour, ESH, Supply Chain P3 P3 Security, Brand Protection, Trade Compliance, and Onsite Contractors. This • 11 SBUs of MAS Active were WRAP certified by end of year 2014. Meanwhile extends to 2nd tier suppliers too. Vaanavil was WRAP certified in 2014 as a Gold rated facility and other SBUs continued with the Platinum rating. P4 • Successful renewal of M&S Plan A Ethical Excellence certification for Unichela, P4 Slimtex. • MAS Active applied for the Global Chemical Stewardship Programme ‘Responsible Care Initiative’. 12 SBUs of MAS Active were certified under this P5 • Capacity Building on ethical practices. P5 initiative. • Annual Brand audits continue to number around 33. • MAS Active Synergy was adjudged winner of National Occupational Safety and Health Excellence Awards 2014 under the local organisations category. P6 • Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) – 10 factories awarded P6 with Platinum status in recognition of sustained compliance standards and best • Linea Intimo piloted a Chemical Leasing Project in collaboration with the National practices. Cleaner Production Center. This is the first application in Sri Lanka with the scope P10 P10 of optimising chemical usage at waste water treatment processes. • Unichela Biyagama (Rapid) was awarded Gold WRAP certification at its first attempt. • 34 Internal Assessments have been conducted for 2014 across MAS Active on Sustainable Business and plats were rated accordingly. • Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) – 8 factories approved. • 05 Compliance forums and 05 ES forums were conducted in 2014 to share • Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) – Three factories approved to meet knowledge and standardise systems. new markets. • Divisionally 12 training programmes were conducted on Compliance and ESH for • Garments Without Guilt (GWG) ethical audit certification. Promoted by the Joint executives and managers. Approximately 480 ESH and Compliance programmes Apparel Association Forum (JAAF), apex body of the local Apparel industry. were conducted at the SBU level. • Silueta (Pvt) Limited was awarded the OHSAS18001 certification at its very first • Contractor Safety Programme of MAS was officially launched with a training attempt. Safety management was further fortified by leveraging on worker’s active programme on Contractor ESH Guidelines of MAS Active covering all forms of involvement and participation in internal assessments, capacity building and contractors. The first phase of Contractor Safety Evaluation was carried out across Health and Safety week. MAS Active in 2014. • Introduced health and safety audits by cross functional teams, thereby promoting • 03 Knowledge sharing programmes were conducted for the groups of a culture of worker empowerment and engagement. undergraduates on safety culture and change management in OSH shown below; 1. Engineering undergraduates of University of Moratuwa 2. Facilities Management undergraduates of University of Moratuwa 3. Human Resource Management undergraduates of University of Kelaniya • A total of 63 Brand and Certification audits, with three top brands waving their audits in exchange for successful certification of WRAP and ETI in 2014. Communication On Progress 2014 18 Communication On Progress 2014 19 P1 P1 P2 P2 P3 P3 Health and Safety at the Workplace P4 P4 The health and safety of our associates, contractors and other stakeholders are of P5 P5 paramount importance to us and are critical to our ability to conduct our business and we continually monitor our safety progress to ensure that our programmes are effective. We exceed all applicable regulatory requirements and implement programmes and P6 Our framework of health and safety management system P6 processes to achieve greater protection and develop innovative programmes that comprehensively covers the following core elements: safeguard the community, the workplace, and the environment. Personal safety of our • Fire prevention training associates have been prioritised with food and domestic water testing being done • Hazardous materials management systems P10 P10 periodically by an internationally accredited testing laboratory. In addition Thermography • Emergency preparedness and response systems survey of electrical installations in all the factories have been conducted by SGS Lanka. • Occupational health systems • Environmental monitoring system We seek a healthy and safe workplace, devoid of occupational injury and illness by • Injury and illness systems, with a “zero accident” vision emphasising individual accountability for safety by all employees and at all levels of • Personal safety and hygiene systems / first aid management. We firmly believe that “we cannot make a quality product with an unsafe • Product safety process.” A high level of emphasis is laid on Ergonomics in order to ensure that the right • Electrical installations and equipment safety systems working conditions provided for the workers. • Training and continuous improvement programmes • Contractor health and safety systems Furthermore, health and safety committees are formed in all of our divisions to ensure • Self audit programme that health and safety standards are not compromised and to enhance the quality of • Internal and independent monitoring systems life at work of employees. All employees are trained on first aid and fire safety to ensure that they are prepared in case of emergencies. Training programmes are conducted on chemical safety and personal protective equipment to ensure that safety awareness levels are raised. To ensure that our health and safety management system is operating effectively and efficiently at all of our sites, we have devised a robust management system and a continuous improvement programme in partnership with the labour department and other interested authorities. We continue to manage occupational safety risks based on OHSAS18001 standards (Organisational Health and Safety Assessment Series) with a view to managing risks efficiently and systematically adding more transparency to improve the company’s long term reputation as an ethical manufacturer, while at the same time providing an accident / injury free environment. Communication On Progress 2014 20 Communication On Progress 2014 21 Employee Wellness and Lifestyle A range of activities/sessions conducted by a pool of professional resource persons include: MAS strongly believes that a positive wellness culture and lifestyle in the workplace contributes to the physical, mental, and emotional well-being of our associates. It is Dental clinic one that is woven into the fabric of the organisation’s culture to ensure that employees Eye clinic at all levels inevitably reap the rewards by following the directions and guidance given. Full body check-up Awareness of work related risks/diseases Our wellness programme includes: Awareness in sexual and reproductive health Documentaries on health related topics • Monthly awareness sessions on sexual and reproductive health, HIV, AIDS, and Promotion of healthy, nutritious, and balanced diet family planning with the assistance of the Employers Federation and Labour Usefulness of hydration Department. An on-site medical facility is held with qualified doctors and nurses; special attention is • Monthly clinics available for pregnant women by a general medical practitioner at given towards pregnancy, AIDS/ HIV programmes. most of our manufactruing facilities. Participants are given a medical check-up and advice on essential vaccinations and nutrition. In addition they are also given A fully equipped gymnasium is available at no cost to employees, and they are also a special meal everyday. given the opportunity to participate in various sports. • Awareness programme on harassment, healthy life-styles, nutritional foods, etc. At MAS we believe in a culture of perpetual improvement; we do not rest on our is conducted monthly for all workers. laurels and strive for excellence in everything we do. • Maintenance of injury, accident, and illness records with an in depth analysis of the same, which is fed back into the system initiate preventive action. Regulatory Compliance • Health and Safety Week on nutrition, hygiene, and hydration. Conflict Minerals Due Diligence conducted among the supply chain to align with the US Dodd Franks Act. The supply chain of all US brands have submitted declarations to assist in the effort to identify the source of conflict minerals, if any. Communication On Progress 2014 22 Communication On Progress 2014 23 LIVING GREEN P7 Environmental sustainability (ES) at MAS is a story about purpose and belief that the P8 obligation of leadership is to lead in ways that maximise human potential. It is also a callto-action for MAS and the apparel industry as a whole that we can and will do better, P9 in ways that help to ensure each consumer receives a product that is developed with care, forethought and with minimal damage to the ecosystem. This is the belief that has led to MAS’s innovative and holistic approach to sustainability within the industry, by rekindling passions which makes us a company that is associated with courage, innovation and pioneering passion. Since 2009, MAS has been working with a clear and consistent corporate vision on environmental sustainability, which has been developed to help lessen the size of our environmental footprint as the size of our business grows bigger. 2014 was a milestone year that bolstered these ideals and has driven us to better integrate sustainability with our corporate, social and economic values and has been a momentous year on all fronts. Communication On Progress 2014 24 Communication On Progress 2014 25 Achievements in 2014 Governance and Strategy • Launched version 1.0 of our internal Calibration Tool P7 “Be and be recognised, as a leading sustainable apparel company” P7 Dedicated to a strong corporate management culture based on the principles of impartiality, • Expanded innovative ETP Sludge Brick Project. transparency, accountability and responsibility MAS is committed to sharing accurate P8 information that can be analysed and digested conveniently with comprehension. Our P8 • Built a dedicated ISO IEC 17025:2005 certified Water Lab expectations of sustainable practices and behaviour by each employee is rooted in our • Over 1/3rd of energy from renewable sources own mindfulness and convictions about the way we must conduct our business on a daily basis. P9 P9 • Achieved ISO 14064:2006 Certification for 34 plants In 2014 we continued to implement our environmental policies across the board and the • Expanded ISO 14001:2004 Certification to 32 plants ES initiative continued to receive representation at the highest level through Shirendra Lawrence, Board Member of MAS Capital. The Environmental Sustainability Steering • Third year on the CDP’s Climate Change Disclosure Committee (ESSC) established in 2011 continues its work with direction from the • Embarked on planning a holistic Integrated Sustainability Strategy Executive Director for Environmental sustainability – Sharika Senanayake – and remains responsible for overseeing the group’s application of precautionary, proactive and • Held the first group-wide Water Forum innovative approaches to ES. • Developed first Restricted Substances List (RSL) for Chemicals The ESSC is further supported by the Central Environmental Sustainability team (EST) which reports to the Director for Environmental sustainability. MAS has consistently strived to reduce emissions, water and energy even as production volumes increase. We are using more renewable energy sources each year, investing in Across MAS, plant level executives work in tandem with group level work RandD that has turned out innovative solutions for waste and chemical management. streams on initiatives which directly enhance our environmental performance. And we are always reinforcing innovative ways to integrate our sustainability performance The Board of Directors guides the overarching vision for MAS as a sustainable into every business operation. apparel company. The Director of Sustainability articulates and implements this vision with a broad agenda to manage the strategy, funding, resources, organisation and execution of each one. The ESSC acts as an advisory body that supports the development and implementation of the above strategies across the group at plant level. The EST acts as a central team that records, facilitates and directs sustainability data, shares and communicates the language of sustainability at MAS and schedules key events and milestones across the group. Communication On Progress 2014 26 Communication On Progress 2014 27 Member of MAS Board of Directors No. of plants with ISO 14001 No. of plants with ISO 14064 P7 Year Certification Certification P7 Director Environmental Sustainability 2010 02 P8 2013 30 34 P8 Central Environmental Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee (ESSC includes 5 divisional 2014 32 Pending verification Sustainability team leaders of the MAS Group and specialist ES work stream Heads) P9 P9 5 Divisional Leaders Work stream Heads MANUFACTURING IN SRI LANKA INTIMATE WEAR ACTIVE WEAR Bodyline 1, Horana Active Operations Centre, Nawala Divisional Representatives Energy Bodyline 2, Mathugama Activeline, Katunayake Bodyline 3, Mathugama Asialine, Middeniya Casualline, Mawathagama Contourline, Kandy Linea Clothing, Kandy DM Lanka, Mihintale Facility Representatives Emissions Linea Intimates, Kandy Leisureline, Katunayake MAS Direct, Dehiwala Linea AITC, Thulhiriya MAS Design, Ratmalana Linea Intimo, Biyagama Silueta, Biyagama Nirmaana, Katunayake Chemicals Slimline/Slenderline, Pannala Shadeline, Mahiyangana Slimtex, Kuliyapitiya Shadowline, Katunayake Thurulie, Thulhiriya Sleekline, Nittambuwa Unichela, Biyagama Synergy, Avisawella Water Unichela, Koggala Vanavil, Killinochchi Unichela, Panadura Vidyal, Killinochchi FABRICS Matrix, Thulhiriya SWIMWEAR Waste Noyon Lanka, Biyagama Linea Aqua, Hanwella Prym Intimates, Biyagama The work streams are responsible for Linea Aqua, Naiwala Stretchline, Biyagama Textprint, Thulhiriya initiating strategic projects and creating Eco product Trischel, Thulhiriya and sharing best practices within MAS for a more holistic approach to our environmental performance. Culture Standards Processes and Systems The MAS Environmental Sustainability Calibration Tool Environment Management System As our mission statement clearly states, we have matched our corporate evolution with The scope and implementation of our Environmental Management processes and principles which protect and sustain our associates, our communities System has been continuously bolstered with the expansion of ISO and the planet as a whole. In 2014 we deployed what we call the MAS Environmental 14001 for 32 plants and ISO 14064 status for all 34 plants and Sustainability Calibration Tool which was developed to assess, benchmark, rate and the development of the MAS Calibration Tool and the continuing subsequently improve existing infrastructure in all MAS facilities. The Calibration Tool is deployment of the Eco Tracker. a key milestone in our sustainability journey. 2014 witnessed the roll out of version 1.0 which has been implemented at all operational facilities across MAS. Standards and Certification ● ISO 14001: 2004 Environment Management System certification See SPOTLIGHT 1: The Journey to Net Zero ● ISO 14064-3:2006 Quantification and reporting of Greenhouse gases Scope 1 and 2 ● All Intimates and Fabric SBU’s have obtained OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certification Communication On Progress 2014 28 Communication On Progress 2014 29 The MAS Eco Tracker Table 1: Intensity Measurements Summary Throughout 2014 we continued to implement the Eco Tracker as a group-wide data P7 P7 gathering system to improve performance and reporting of sustainability data. The MAS Eco Tracker was rolled out in 2010 as a deep and informative measurement system to track all data that relates to sustainability metrics. The Eco Tracker measures P8 P8 monthly data at plant level and is collated and analysed by the Central Environmental Sustainability Team which gathers and collates this data and shares it with each plant to help improve performance. P9 P9 Data Established consolidated by achievements Updated on a Data verified by Eco monthly basis by the divisional the Central shared with the Tracker the Facility managers Sustainability facilities on a team quaterly basis The MAS Integrated Sustainability Strategy KPI Intensity Measurements In 2013 we set out to create a future that will bolster what MAS is doing in the sustainability As the operations of the group differentiate widely, we evaluate data for water, energy arena with the MAS Integrated Sustainability Strategy. In 2014 we further articulated this and emissions using a system of intensities. The Apparel cut and sew sector which vision with several key decision makers and strategy teams from across MAS launching manufactures garments contains the largest number of facilities and has a measurement the implementation planning phase of the ISS. This holistic strategy will be our framework denominator of sewing / work hours. The Fabric division with more energy intensive to ensure that sustainability targets and metrics are merged with our business processes, processes for textile manufacturing has a measurement denominator of fabric output. plans and reviews and that MAS continues to lead the way in how it sustains the Other divisions (See Table 1 for Intensity Measurements per Activity/Division) within environment, society and its business. Implementation planning will enter its final phase the group run specialist operations such as silicone garment, seamless garment and in 2015 with the final vision to establish an integrated sustainability strategy by 2016. accessory manufacturing and are measured accordingly with relevant denominators for intensity. Sustainability Communications Our reputation as an innovative and people-oriented company is based on the fact that all our stakeholders from customers to employees are equipped with accurate information and are sensitive to environmental problems on a constant level. We are always striving to keep this awareness and knowledge fresh. This is why we provide employees with information that raises environmental awareness every week. Monthly internal communiques and regular events and forums keep us informed and up to date on the constant and numerous environmental initiatives and green standards implemented by MAS across all its plants. Communication On Progress 2014 30 Communication On Progress 2014 31 Measurable Outcomes in 2014 Customer and Market Updates Monthly P7 ● We successfully launched version 1.0 of our internal Calibration Tool which aims to P7 Sharing Best Practices assess, benchmark, rate and improve our environmental sustainability practices. All Communiques 34 plants had achieved green zone status by Dec 2014. Version 1.2 will be rolled Update of the current status of our P8 out in 2015. P8 Quarterly carbon footprint ● We grew the capacity of our innovative sludge management solution and Special / AdUpdate on special group initiatives successfully converted more volumes of our ETP sludge into fuel and to eco bricks. Hoc such as Earth Hour etc P9 P9 ● We established a centralised accredited water and waste water quality lab for the Quarterly Energy Forum group as per ISO IEC 17025:2005. Forums ● More than 1/3rd of our energy comes from renewable sources thanks to the Annually Group wide ES Forum installation of one more biogas plant, solar PV projects and biomass boilers throughout 2014. Awareness days such as World Special Events Environment Day etc ● We strengthened our emissions management system with all 34 plants achieving ISO 14064 certification. Twice a Month ESSC meeting ● We marked our 3rd year on the CDP’s Disclosure Project with the last submission in Meetings October 2014. Monthly Workstream meetings ● We embarked on the implementation of an Integrated Sustainability Strategy (ISS) which will guide MAS for the next 10 years in its vision to be and be recognised as Efforts to raise environmental awareness are not limited to MAS associates. We also a leading sustainable apparel company. target the local population in areas of operations with social responsibility projects and educational initiatives that strive to inspire and educate all our stakeholders about ● MAS hosted our first group-wide Water Forum to raise awareness and give greater sustainability. visibility to its water management projects. ● We continued to innovate with more Eco Products across MAS with awareness and Eco Product Innovation training for all divisions. The MAS ECO product work stream was expanded in 2014 to include sustainability ● We completed our first Restricted Substances List (RSL) as part of a vision to designers and members from all clusters across MAS and tasked with the common become free of toxic chemicals by 2020. goal of introducing more sustainable raw materials into our products as part of a vision to make all innovations more sustainable at MAS. While developing new sustainable products with our Fabric cluster and other supplier bases, converting all high volume fabric items to sustainable products has become one of our primary targets. In 2014, MAS Active consumed 3.7 million yards of fabrics made out of PET bottles (recycled Polyester) in our production. The Eco Products work stream also developed 3 sustainable products with the contribution of Trischel and which are yet to be commercialised. The Eco product work stream is are currently working with one of our supplier on commercialising few products done with special dyeing process which uses less amount of water compared to conventional dyeing. Communication On Progress 2014 32 Communication On Progress 2014 33 Awards and Recognition SPOTLIGHT 1: The Journey to Net Zero ● MAS Intimates won the 2014 Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards P7 Calibrating with cause P7 presented by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, being the first non-listed company to win the awards in its 11-year history. Developed by a core team of internal experts and reviewed by plant engineering and maintenance teams over the span of 18 months, the MAS Calibration Tool is a milestone P8 P8 o Winner of Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award 2014 rollout for 2014 and is the reality behind our rationale that all business should be sustainable inside out. o 10 Best Corporate Citizens Award P9 The Approach P9 Category Winners: o Environmental Management Version 1.0 of the Calibration Tool was launched in 2014 and all 34 plants were assessed under a red, amber and green rating. After the completion of the assessments all plants o Community Relations successfully achieved a green rating thereby achieving the minimum benchmark. The assessment tool focused on 5 major pillars of environmental sustainability and also Triple Bottom Line Award Winners incorporated legal / customer requirements and industry best practices. It consists of a o Environmental Sustainability guide document and a detailed self-assessment checklist that lists out the roadmap for each facility to achieve the minimum requirements for the MAS Sustainability benchmark. o Social Sustainability The Results Sector Winners o Manufacturing The deployment of the Calibration Tool helped improve the environmental sustainability performance of all 34 plants in 2014 including improved management commitment, employee participation and community engagement. Facilities also observed a reduction in energy consumption through efficient management of ● MAS Active Synergy won gold award at Geo Responsibility Awards 2014 utilities and also reduced water intensities through mechanisms outlined in the tool. ● MAS Active Asialine won merit award for best green initiatives at Geo Best practices observed Responsibility Awards 2014 during the assessments ● MAS Active Asialine won the apparel sector silver awards at National Green were shared via regular Awards 2013/14 events and sustainability communications and will ● MAS Active Asialine won the gold award in the manufacturing large category be incorporated into future at National Cleaner Production Awards 2013 versions of the Calibration Tool and thus move ● Prym Intimates won National Green Award for 2013 /14 forwards to our goal of a net zero impact facility. “Two things stood out my mind in sharing these lessons learnt; that is the Passion everyone has brought into Sustainability at MAS and the Pioneering things they’ve done.” Shirendra Lawrence – MAS Capital Board Member Communication On Progress 2014 34 Communication On Progress 2014 35 Energy and Emissions Energy Projects P7 P7 Energy Management • Noyon Lanka initiated a roof cooling project, using waste water in order maximise efficiency of air conditioning. Trischel also maximised efficiency of air-conditioning New in 2014 by lowering A/C ducts in the warping and knitting areas. P8 P8 ● Energy Managers’ Forum and 4-day training • Textprint replaced all lights with LEDs, installed motion sensor controlled lighting in ● 30 Energy Reduction Projects administrative areas and installed VSDs – all in order to increase efficiency in lighting systems and thus reduce electricity use. Trischel has installed 17 skylights MAS approaches energy usage and efficiency with the constant application of in an attempt to reduce its electricity use for lighting. new technologies, new methods and fresh ideas. As our business grows we have made significant progress into integrating energy efficiency standards into • Trischel has been able to optimise their chiller performance with the use of all our plants since our first LEED certified plant in 2008. Energy continues to be a device that was developed internally by the Trischel Engineering team. the most challenging and yet most exciting area of sustainability performance for The cost of implementation was LKR 10,000 and since its introduction MAS. In 2014 we increased our renewable energy component to 36.7%, and in early May 2024, the device has been able to save more than 550 kWh bolstered our commitments to: daily, leading to cost savings of over LKR 7,500 per day. The cost for implementation was recovered in less than 2 days. ● Identify and implement energy-efficiency projects throughout our plants • Trischel is currently carrying out initial studies on recovering heat from the dyeing ● Apply ISO 14001:2004 standards for 32 plants process to maintain a hot water reservoir for washing purposes. Since HFO is ● Building sub meters for all major utilities used for water heating purposes, this modification would reduce the use of HFO considerably. Measurements • Stretchline installed a third biomass boiler in 2014. At least 30% of biomass is sourced from wood residue. Moreover, the installation of steam traps have assisted ● Calibration Tool in further reduction of energy use. ENERGY BY SOURCE ● Eco tracker biogas • Prym completed the installation of its first biomass boiler by July 2014, once the REN. Elect 0.02% 0.01% boiler house was expanded and the biomass storage area was also constructed. ● ISO 14064-3: 2006 This has had a considerable impact on Prym’s dependency on HFO as per the Biomass graphs provided. Energy Mix 36.76% Electricity 47.25% All fabric plants now use biomass as a major energy source. Almost all the facilities have a higher biomass energy footprint than from electricity or furnace Kerosene 0.65% oil. HFO 10.22% LPG Diesel 1.82% 3.27% Energy Managers’ Forum The MAS Energy Team continued to enhance the technical competency of the group’s energy management system through the Energy Managers’ Forum and a four day comprehensive energy management training conducted with the collaboration of Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority. A key initiative taken up by this forum is the development of a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for air conditioners and compressors with the support of external consultants. Communication On Progress 2014 36 Communication On Progress 2014 37 Electricity Intensity Non-grid Energy Intensity Targets for 2014 P7 ● 5% Reduction in Non-grid energy intensity P7 5% Reduction in Electricity Intensity Most plants recorded increases in non-grid energy intensities apart from fabrics and apparel cut and sew who recorded reductions over 20142. All divisions recorded marked reductions in their electricity intensity since our baseline P8 P8 year of 2010. While each division measures their intensities differently in 2014 seamlessly Non Grid Energy Intensity knitted garments which is one of the group’s largest consumers of electricity achieved 95.0 100 91.2 considerable reductions in their electricity intensity. Fabrics, garment accessories and 74.0 MJ/ Unit of measurement apparel components all recorded increased electricity intensities since 2013.1 80 54.8 60 40 1A negative value denotes an intensity reduction while a positive 17.0 value means an increase in intensity. See Table 1 for Intensity 20 9.4 Measurements. 0.9 0.6 2.8 2.5 0 APPAREL CUT & SEAMLESSLY GARMENTS APPAREL FABRICS SEW KNITTED ACCESSORIES COMPONENTS PROCESSING Electricity Intensity GARMENTS 18.6 Activity 20 kwh/ Unit of measuremnt 15 2010 2013 2014 11.6 8.8 10 7.2 7.2 6.6 DIVISION / FACILITY 2014/2010 2014/2013 5 2.4 1.1 0.9 1.5 0 APPAREL CUT & SEW -32.2% -0.4% APPAREL CUT & SEAMLESSLY GARMENT APPAREL FABRICS SEW KNITTED ACCESSORIES COMPONENTS PROCESSING SEAMLESSLY KNITTED GARMENTS 4.2% 6.0% GARMENTS Activity GARMENT ACCESSORIES 80.9% 85.5% 2010 2013 2014 APPAREL COMPONENTS -9.7% 45.0% FABRICS PROCESSING -25.9% -11.1% ACTIVITY/DIVISION 2014/2010 2014/2013 2 A negative value denotes an intensity reduction while a positive value means an increase in intensity. See Table 1 for Intensity Measurements. APPAREL CUT & SEW -16.3% -3.8% SEAMLESSLY KNITTED GARMENTS -37.5% -3.0% GARMENT ACCESSORIES -36.3% 17.8% APPAREL COMPONENTS -7.6% 12.8% FABRICS PROCESSING -18.9% 9.3% Communication On Progress 2014 38 Communication On Progress 2014 39 Emissions SPOTLIGHT 2: P7 P7 New in 2014 •• Verification of GHG Inventory under ISO 14064-3: 2006 Going from leaner to greener with purpose. •• MAS Bodyline-3 achieving Carbon Neutral Status P8 P8 One of the first and oldest MAS plants, Bodyline was certified as Sri Lanka’s The Emissions team was able to verify the 2013 emissions database against ISO 14064 first Carbon Conscious Company and now brings to fruition a dream of international standard. These data have also been submitted to the Carbon Disclosure having ‘Carbon Neutral Operations’ in its Bodyline 3 factory in Pimbura. Project (CDP), a public disclosure which was published in October 2014. Our 2013 greenhouse gas inventory report has been certificated with 100% reasonable Bodyline marked World Environment Day in 2014 with this milestone which was assurance for Scope-1 and 100% reasonable assurance for Scope-2. achieved through the Carbon Consulting Company, Sri Lanka’s leading provider of corporate sustainability solutions and The Carbon Neutral Company of the UK. Despite being affected by the increased use of non-renewable energy sources by the National Grid, emissions reduction initiatives continue to move forward with the emissions team focusing on securing a sustainable biomass supply and preparing the group for ISO 14064 certification for 2014. For 2014 MAS is currently in the process of verifying its greenhouse gas emissions according to ISO 14064: Scope 1and2. External audits will be complete by April 2015. Bodyline has independently calculated and verified its Greenhouse Gas emissions over a continuous period of three years with CCC and has successfully implemented a ‘Green Team’ charged with a mission of managing and mitigating this impact. The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) assessment was carried out in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. The assessment took into account data on fuel consumption, electricity consumption and material consumption as well as direct emissions released from sources that are owned or controlled by the company, indirect emissions associated from purchased electricity and other sources including business travel, employee commuting and third party deliveries. “MAS is committed to drive sustainable practices and to balance People – Planet – Profit to create a better tomorrow for future generations. At Bodyline, sustainability has been a key focus area embedded in all strategic decisions. Bodyline being recognised as the first organisation to receive Carbon Conscious certification, Bodyline plant 3 being certified as having carbon neutral operations are key milestones in our sustainability journey. We continue to strive for a sustainable business model to enable us deliver a better tomorrow for our associates and community.” CEO Bodyline Dilan Gooneratne Communication On Progress 2014 40 Communication On Progress 2014 41 Emissions Breakdown EMISSIONS BY SOURCE P7 P7 Electricity 85% P8 The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) P8 The CDP was created in 2000 to collect data and create resources in order to help companies, investors and governments in their fight against climate change. MAS closed its climate change strategy and emissions inventories for the Apparel Sector in Sri Lanka for the year 2013 in the CDP system in October 2014. Emissions Intensity Kerosene 1% Targets for 2014 HFO Renewable Energy 10% LPG Diesel 1% 3% New in 2014 ● 5% Reduction in Emissions Intensity Emissions intensity has been affected by the increasing grid emissions factor % Renewable Energy since 2010.3 Since 2010, the National Electricity Provider has added 300 MW of 40.00% 36.70% coal power which has led to this exponential increase. For facilities where most of the energy requirements are met through electricity, this has been a problem 35.00% 33% 30% throughout the period but for those using stationary and own energy sources, 30.00% there seems to be a way out through fuel switching – from fossil fuels to biomass. 25.00% 20.00% 15.00% 13% 12.00% 10.00% 5.00% 0.00% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2014 Linea Aqua joined the DIVISION / FACILITY 2014/2010 2014/2013 renewable energy users group with the installation of a 55 kW solar PV CUT and SEW 23.0% -3.7% panels. SEAMLESSLY KNITTED GARMENTS -48.8% -5.3% GARMENT ACCESSORIES -15.6% -7.6% APPAREL COMPONENTS 43.0% 14.2% FABRICS PROCESSING -28.5% -5.5% 3 A negative value denotes an intensity reduction while a positive value means an increase in intensity. See Table 1 for Intensity Measurements. Communication On Progress 2014 42 Communication On Progress 2014 43 SPOTLIGHT 3: Re-visioning clean P7 energy at MAS Fabrics P7 A vision for powering a more sustainable industry P8 P8 In December 2014 MAS signed on to build Sri Lanka’s largest roof-mounted Solar PV plant with the capacity to generate 1 MW of power for our MAS Fabrics plant located at the MAS Fabric Park, Thulhiriya. Once complete in mid-2015 the newly installed Solar PV installation will provide 15% of all the plant’s energy needs and serve as a benchmark for MAS to duplicate the same project for all its facilities in the future. The project is a trailblazer, as it provides a fitting case With Prym intimates, Stretchline and MAS Active Synergy commissioning their biomass study for other businesses in the industry as well as other boilers our biomass usage has gone up to 36.7% of our total energy use. Notable energy-intensive industries to consider renewable energy changes in the mix since last quarter are the increase of renewable energy use at Textprint investments with a long-term investment lens. and Stretchline who have contributed to a larger portion of the group’s renewable mix. Intimates share of renewables improved further with the addition of a biogas unit at Unichela Koggala. “Sustainable investments-especially in the renewable sector-need to be viewed for the significant stakeholder returns they create BUILDING A CASE across shareholders, customers, employees and communities. The Project at MAS Fabrics FOR CLEARN is an inspiration for those seeking long term ENERGY energy security and sustainability “ Ivan Brown – CEO, MAS Fabrics Matrix. Communication On Progress 2014 44 Communication On Progress 2014 45 Water Insert rainwater harvesting tanks P7 P7 Water has become a priority issue for many development practitioners who recognise the potentially devastating impact of water stress on companies and communities. Innovative waste water treatment technology Companies that depend on water for their operations such as MAS also recognise that the responsible use of water is a key business issue. As a key consumer of dyes and P8 P8 Grey water gardening colours, the apparel industry also uses significant amounts of water while using these products to process its yarn and fabrics. P9 Efficient water fittings P9 Water Management System New in 2014 Building on these commitments, in 2014: ● 1st Internal Water Forum • We constantly updated plant infrastructure and systems to increase ● Accredited Water Quality Lab our water efficiency. ● 1000 group-wide low flow tap aerators • We tracked and analysed our water usage via the company’s ECOMAS sees both motivation and opportunity to reduce our water consumption in tracker database. our own operations and introducing innovative products and services that help our customers to reduce their water and energy consumption. It also positions MAS • We encouraged employees and water-intensive plants to implement favourably in a market where apparel and textile brands are continuously looking for best practice policies and practices on water. (Linea Aqua is nearing its ways to make their supply chain more sustainable. mission to be water neutral by 2015. (See SPOTLIGHT 4: Driving water stewardship beyond our gates.) Measurements ● Calibration Tool Installation of 1,000 low flow-efficient tap aerators ● Eco Tracker The water work stream introduced 1,000 low flow efficient tap aerators across the group to ensure efficient use of water Across MAS all plants have a total of over 1000 conventional taps with an average flow rate of 9 liters per minute (LPM). The low flow aerators were installed without disposing the whole tap and only changing the nozzle ensuring resource optimisation. Results: ● Average flow rate after fitting new aerators: 4 LPM ● Water Saving per annum : 100 m3/day Saving x 250 days = 25,000 m3 per annum ● Existing taps were made efficient by changing only the nozzle Communication On Progress 2014 46 Communication On Progress 2014 47 Water Intensity New Technologies and Innovations Target for 2014 P7 2014 marked the development of a centralised, accredited P7 Water and Waste Water Quality Lab for the Group (as per • A minimum of 3% reduction in water Intensity YOY ISO IEC 17025) with a vision to ensure environmental and All plants achieved water intensity reductions since 2011 apart from Apparel cut and sew P8 occupational safety related to Water, Waste Water and P8 and Apparel components which started measuring intensities in 2013. YoY all divisions Sludge. The American Public Health Association (APHA) recorded intensity reductions except seamlessly knitted garments which recorded a and other standard methods are used during analysis. 1.4% increase in intensity since 20134. P9 P9 The lab will used to test the following with respect to Advanced Heavy Metallic Parameters, Physical and Chemical Parameters and DIVISION / 2014/2010 2014/2013 Micro-biological Parameters: FACILITY ● Drinking Water APPAREL CUT -1.3% AND SEW ● Process Water SEAMLESSLY -13.9% 1.4% ● Cooling Tower Water KNITTED GARMENTS ● Raw Water GARMENT -26.0% -15.0% ACCESSORIES ● Raw and Treated Waste Water APPAREL -17.5% MAS Trischel is currently testing out water saving COMPONENTS ● Sludge modifications to dyeing machines. A prototype has FABRICS -25.3% -3.3% been developed for this purpose. Many fabric plants PROCESSING have made significant savings by adopting this system to re-use dye machine cooling water and putting it back in processes with close controls. 4 A negative value denotes an intensity reduction while a positive value means an increase in intensity. See Table 1 for Intensity Measurements. Communication On Progress 2014 48 Communication On Progress 2014 49 P7 P7 P8 P8 P9 P9 refreshing yala The Approach national park Linea Aqua based its restoration work on high levels of scientific competence with a Driving water multidisciplinary approach that involved a range of experts from its own teams of engineers and staff to teams of scientists and hand-picked contractors to handle the sensitive task stewardship beyond CSR of construction within the highly regulated park premises. Rebuilding the great lakes of Yala The Purpose The Place While the Yala lake renovation project is an effort to reinforce our commitment to this One of the most visited and second largest national park in Sri Lanka, Yala hosts a objective we also keep fast to the belief that Linea Aqua must continue to make a variety of ecosystems ranging from moist monsoon forests to freshwater and marine business case for nature at every opportunity. wetlands. It is one of 70 Important Bird Areas (IBAs) in Sri Lanka, harbouring 215 bird species including six endemic species of Sri Lanka. The number of mammals that has “I firmly believe there are things we can do for the community around our factory been recorded from the park is 44. Yala also has one of the highest leopard densities in but there are things of national significance and global significance that we should the world for which it has become world famous. do just because it’s the right thing to do and we have the resources to do it” Sarinda Unamboowe MAS Capital Board Member, CEO/MD, Linea Aqua. The Project Linea Aqua could not have chosen a harsher terrain or time to launch this ambitious The Results project. In mid-2014 Yala was experiencing its worst drought in years. Surface water in To ensure the success and continuity of the Yala lake restoration project, Linea Aqua the form of lakes, streams and waterholes had all dried up largely due to the inability of will monitor it throughout 2015 as part of Phase II and for 2015 Linea Aqua will attempt the park’s reservoirs to sustain the water during rainfall. Wildlife enthusiast and Linea to duplicate the project in Wilpattu National Park, the largest park in Sri Lanka, where Aqua CEO/MD Sarinda Unamboowe decided something had to be done despite the team will look to revive old tanks that haven’t been renovated for decades. MAS not having any presence in the immediate area. 10 lakes were identified for reconstruction across Block 1 of Yala. Over 4 months Linea Aqua conducted careful research, chose contractors and initiated construction work in August 2014. By November Phase 1 was complete with Linea Aqua having invested around 10 million Sri Lankan rupees on a project that would be considered the largest water initiative for 2014. Communication On Progress 2014 50 Communication On Progress 2014 51 Chemicals Knowledge Management P7 In 2014, one day knowledge enhancing workshops were carried out at MAS Fabrics and P7 Chemical Management System MAS Intimates to build awareness of toxic chemicals, their impacts and how to reduce Target or eliminate their adverse effects. ● To make MAS and its products free of toxic chemicals by 2020 P8 P8 Hazardous Chemical Audit New in 2014 ● Published our first Restricted Substances List (RSL) P9 P9 ● Hazardous chemical audits and water testing against the ZDHC 11 priority chemical groups conducted within MAS Fabrics Alliance and MAS Intimates in 2014. ● Centralised database for the Chemical work stream The presence of chemicals, dyes and raw materials is an inevitable part of our manufacturing processes. However, their toxicity to humans and to the environment is not always fully known. The MAS Chemical Management Work Stream (CMWS) was initiated in 2013 with the intention of making ‘MAS and its products free of toxic chemicals by 2020’. The work stream’s mission will be to ensure the safety of our people, our consumers and our environment through proactively understanding and prudently selecting every chemical The MAS Chemical Management Work Stream completed the first round of and raw material used within MAS. chemical audits within MAS Fabrics Alliance and MAS Intimates in 2014. These audits closely scrutinise the chemicals /dyes used within each business, cross reference them against our own MAS M-RSL and MAS Restricted Substances List (RSL) classify them as either Red, Amber or Green for use within MAS. Along with these audits we have carried out water testing The MAS Restricted Substances List (RSL) forms a key part of our management (incoming water and dye house raw effluent) against the framework. Our RSL contains two components. ZDHC (Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals) 11 priority chemical groups through Bureau Veritas, • Manufacturing RSL (M-RSL) – Focuses on chemicals that should not be used Sri Lanka. during manufacturing Chemical Risk Assessments • Product RSL (P-RSL) – Focuses on controlling residual quantities of restricted The concept model for the framework, substances on finished products. which concerns the occupational health Three version updates were also and safety aspect was created in 2014 and is published to the MAS RSL currently being calibrated to fit the processes of in April, May and July 2014. the business. A Centralised Database We hope to establish a centralised database for chemical registration and for monitoring the consumption of chemicals. In 2014, an electronic platform was created to store the information of Chemical Management Work Stream. Communication On Progress 2014 52 Communication On Progress 2014 53 Waste SPOTLIGHT 5: The building blocks of Waste Management System P7 responsible waste water disposal P7 The brick that was born from ETP sludge has a solid future New in 2014: •• Reduced Plastic Zone expanded P8 P8 •• ETP Sludge to Eco-Brick project tested and expanded P9 P9 MAS applies a consistent and continuous approach to managing the waste generated in our offices and plant operations. Fabric waste remains a challenging issue for MAS as one of the largest apparel companies in the country. But thanks to its magnitude, fabric waste disposal is now the focus of a collective strategy that seeks to innovate how we manage and dispose our waste more sustainably. The MAS group continued to increase the percentage of waste that is disposed sustainably through a dedicated waste management policy that continues to: ETP sludge disposal remains one of the biggest threats to the environment from the apparel and textile industry. Over the last 2 years MAS has been investing in researching the effects of the volume of ETP sludge generated at its fabric plants. The Eco-brick that is now being manufactured by MAS Fabrics is the result of over 4 years of research and established as a sustainable process for solar drying of ETP sludge. Since 2007 MAS Fabrics dispatched its ETP sludge for co-incineration to third party cement manufacturers. All the while MAS engineers were devising methods to manage its ETP sludge in more sustainable ways. After numerous trials, tests and verifications since 2010, year 2013 proved a landmark year where the water work stream and MAS Fabric Park Teams developed an innovative cycle of dropping the water content of their ETP sludge to 20% using solar radiation energy. Mechanical de-watering converted the wet sludge to a cake which was then solar dried, crushed into small granules, mixed with sawdust and used a fuel in the park’s biomass boilers under controlled conditions. The resulting ash replaced sand in the construction of a highly versatile Eco brick which was fully tested per standards set by the Environmental Authority in 2014 and US EPA guidelines on leachability. Results We produced 18,000 Eco bricks from residual ash in 2014. We solar dried 400 metric tonnes of wet sludge and co-processed 125 metric tonnes of dry output with the aid of low cost low energy greenhouse made in-house. The measurement of waste disposal methods grew more refined in 2014 as we determined to judge the volume of waste that is disposed sustainably across MAS. Communication On Progress 2014 54 Communication On Progress 2014 55 Biodiversity, Community and Culture P7 MAS has a special interest in protecting the resources that sustain our communities but P7 we also constantly seek out projects of national importance simply because there is a passion within from Board member to team member to sustain the ecosystems we all live P8 in. This passion drives us to pioneer projects that seem off the grid for some but makes P8 perfect sense to our collective mindset of protecting the environment just because we should and we can. P9 P9 Earth Hour, UN World Water Day and UN World Environment Day took our environmental commitments beyond the walls of our facilities and raised awareness in the neighboring communities with employee and community engagement projects spanning from Final Eco Product analysis: reforestation, recycling, consumer awareness and education. Compressive Strength (SLS ) : 1.8-4.0 N/sq.mm (PASS) TCLP (US EPA method) : No Toxic Leaching (PASS) In 2014 the theme for 41st World Environment Day (WED) was “Raise Your Voice, Not the Sea Level”, which is very relevant for our island nation. Energy recovery and environmental impact •• Gross Energy Gain was nearly 1,750,000 MJ/annum during co-processing. •• Solar Energy Gain for Drying : 750,000 MJ/annum. •• Electricity use < 6000 kWh/annum (<3% of total energy req.). •• Elimination of 18,200 km of lorry travel /annum. MAS joined •• The drying process uses 95% solar energy and just 5% electricity. the UN and other Government •• The residual ash completely replaces river sand that is dredged organisations in unsustainably from inland rivers across Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka to use the opportunity to spread awareness of the need to preserve and protect Sri Lanka’s rich biodiversity through recognising the problems related to deforestation, pollution and our day to day activities. Below slides highlight a part of our campaign to raise awareness and make a positive impact for a better world. The Environmental Sustainability team thanks you for organizing and taking part in the initiatives and hopes that you would continue to make a positive impact and spread the message on protecting and the serving the environment. Please raise your voice. Not the sea level. Communication On Progress 2014 56 Communication On Progress 2014 57 Progress of Key Projects Thuruwadula (Tree Canopy) P7 P7 In 2013 the MAS Fabric Park conceptualised, designed and implemented a reforestation project on 9.7 acres of land in Thulhiriya with the purpose of restoring P8 P8 a degraded eco system along the lines of “Analog Forestry”. As the first ever analog forest owned by a private company Thuruwadula had several key objectives: • Restoration of a degraded eco system P9 P9 • Creating a replicable model • To create an opportunity for all to reconnect with nature Rejuvenation and Revitalisation of Bundala National Park of • A Space for learning and inspiration Invasive Alien Species Linea Aqua launched Phase I of this project at the Bundala National Park to remove two Throughout 2014, as a growing forest Thuruwadula provided many opportunities for invasive species (Kalapu Andara) Prosopis juliflora, and (Cactus) Opuntia dellenii from students, researchers and institutions to 2008 to 2013 and around 200 hectares have been cleared with the support from multiple collect data and research on restoration. stakeholders. In 2014 Linea Aqua extended the project by cleaning 10 hectares more Currently the MAS team is working with the with support from the Biodiversity Secretariat, Ministry of Environment and Renewable Sabaragamuwa University to collect data on Energy. the growth and species survival rates. After one year, a biodiversity survey carried out in After an initial feasibility study, collaboration with DWC, it was decided that the best December 2014 discovered that the forest method to eradicate the two invasive species is through a combination of machinery and now has 154 types of flora and 96 types of human labour, thus preventing any future reproduction of these species. One of the key fauna, a significant increase from the once species; “Kalapu Andara” (Prosopis juliflora) are shed by utilising a D4D machine and barren eco-system. The fauna ranges from manpower and the branches are chopped and cut into small transportable sizes and the birds, butterflies, dragonflies, mammals, big pieces are supplied as biomass fuel to companies using renewable energy sources, reptiles, land snails to amphibians. 9 out of while some are grouped and allowed to dry and then buried in soil to enrich it. these species are found to be endemic. (See complete bio diversity survey database) Haritha Middeniya Launched as a re-forestry project in Embilipitiya by MAS Asialine, the Haritha Middeniya project began with an idea to convert a landfill into a forest. In 2014 the project was expanded with the planting of 600 new trees and the launch of community projects where MAS has empowered and educated the surrounding community to help build a sustainable city through home-gardening and clean-up projects as well as regular awareness of how it can benefit their future. Communication On Progress 2014 58 Communication On Progress 2014 59 Wewe Kele E-waste E-Waste collection campaigns were organised for the MAS P7 recycling Fabric Park by Linea AITC with the coordination with CEA. It P7 In 2014 MAS Synergy launched the next phase of their Wewe Kele reforestation helped all factories located in MFP dispose E-waste. Nearly project with the Awissawella urban council and community members. Synergy 150kg of E-waste was sent to e-waste collectors and disposed donated mesh to renovate the reserve fence and carried out a polythene collection environmentally friendly manner. P8 P8 campaign on the trail that runs through the 25 acre forest. In Kilinochchi, Vidiyal implemented a long term community e-waste programme with the partnership of Central Environmental Employees were further engaged in reducing the carbon footprint by Authority, where Vidiyal has provided the bins and created participating in tree planting sessions within the facility premises. P9 P9 awareness. CEA has agreed to do the continuous collection and proper disposal of e-waste. Sustainability Monthly sustainability programmes ranging from tree planting to Events guest lectures to raise awareness. E waste and Polythene Collection point on Sustainability Days Monthly Food waste programmes which have been given to respective departments. Dikkale Programme with the eco go beyond schools participation and the involvement of the community to remove garbage from the forest. Practicing what we preach Group-wide projects to raise environmental awareness continued throughout 2014 Community Synergy launched the another step of its “Wana Arana” Project with almost all plants implementing interactive awareness sessions for all stakeholders Support and to renovate the mesh around the reserve which was a flagship Awareness project touched by MAS. Conduct a cleaning campaign to remove plastic polythene form Composting, E-waste recycling, tree planting, home gardening, lectures on a variety of the forest. environmental topics from reducing pollution at home and cutting down on using plastic at work. Trischel Fabrics, conducted a tree planting programme at the Thulhiriya Maha Vidyalaya to plant 100 trees, with the assistance Initiative Details of their employees and the students at Thulhiriya MV. Plastic Unichela Panadura and Thurulie declared a plastic-free zone Reduced Zones subsequent to Rapid initiating same in 2013. Matrix assisted Kohombadeniya Primary School, a rural school in the area with drinking water facilities, and by renovating the Butterfly In order to increase the biodiversity in factory premises, school building. Matrix also donated wooden pallets to Dharmasiri Gardens MAS Intimates started developing butterfly gardens in all Senanayake College, Thulhiriya, for the purpose of partitioning factories. So far, Linea Clothing, Linea Iitimates, Thurulie and and assembling furniture and installed a rainwater harvesting Casualline have successfully grown their own butterfly gardens. project in the school. Nature Kids MAS Design began an environmental educational programme for A tree planting progamme “Rukropana”, was conducted on programme employees’ children (8-12 years) to get them to start connecting World Environment Day 2014, with the participation of Matrix with nature in 2014. One session will be done each holiday employees. Matrix also went a step further this year by providing employees with 10 bicycles to ride to work sustainably. season, travelling to a different eco-system for each workshop. Organic Home Partnering with Dilmah Conservation, MAS Intimates conducted Sustainability Every MAS plant initiated their own lineup of activities, ideas and Gardening a one day workshop on organic home gardening to a team of 15 Calendar environmental awareness events at each milestone on the 2014 employees as a train-the-trainer programme. Events calendar. MAS World Environment Week An Ayurvedic plant garden was introduced to Linea AITC. This MAS World Water Day special project was initiated by security officers. Scientific names and the importance of these herbals are displayed in order to understand about the herbals. Communication On Progress 2014 60 Communication On Progress 2014 61 P7 P7 P8 P8 Most MAS plants have their own sustainability teams, clubs and calendars which proactively drive projects throughout P9 P9 the year. Sustainability events and days are marked across MAS with high visibility via engaging communications and passionate people always on the ground. Everything we do is guided by our focus on the “greening” of management, products, processes, workplace and communities. Our environmental sustainability policy guides and supports the continuous enhancement of a greener environment through our business. Communication On Progress 2014 62 Communication On Progress 2014 63 Women Matter P1 Entering its 12th year in operation, our hallmark women’s empowerment platform Women Go Beyond (WGB) has made a difference in the lives P2 of our female associates by fostering pride in their job as well as an appreciation of their place in the organisation, the community and the country. P6 The programme which officially commenced with the structuring of the four pillars of success; Career Advancement, Work-life Balance, Skills Development and Rewarding Excellence, also continued focusing on promoting knowledge, awareness, leadership skills, attitudinal changes and the ability to achieve a well-rounded and holistic life-experience. Communication On Progress 2014 64 Communication On Progress 2014 65 Global recognition P1 P1 Women Go Beyond has gained global recognition over the years for its significant The Women Go Beyond framework is aligned to the following UNGC Women’s contribution to MAS associates. Shanaaz Preena, Director Women Go Beyond Programme Empowerment Principles (WEP’s); and Women’s Advocacy was selected to sit on the eminent panel of judges for the Women P2 Empowerment Principles (WEP) Leadership Awards for the second consecutive year. The P2 WEP’s CEO Leadership Award of the Women’s Empowerment Principles Equality Means Women Empowerment Principles (WEP); Business (WEPs), a partnership initiative of UN Women and the UN Global Compact, P6 recognises global business leaders for their exceptional championship of gender equality P6 •• Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality and support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles. The Award salutes concrete •• Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and innovative actions taken to advance the 7 Principles and particularly Principle 1: and nondiscrimination Leadership Promotes Gender Equality. The Awards Committee is comprised of members •• Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men workers of the WEPs Leadership Group, a multi-stakeholder volunteer group that provides strategic •• Promote education, training and professional development for women guidance to the UN Women/UN Global Compact WEPs partnership and represented business, academia, civil society, women’s organizations and international institutions. Over the past decade, the WGB programme has recognised and rewarded exceptional female associates at the Empowered Women of the Year Award Ceremony ‘Abhimani ‘. She was also a distinguished panelist at the World Women Leadership Congress Awards The programme has rewarded 254 Empowered Women out which 187 associates are 2014: ‘Lessons Learned Around the World’ panel discussion, held in February 2014, still attached to MAS. This initiative highlights our female associates who have faced and in Mumbai, India. The award honors the strategic and influential role of various women overcome great challenges in order to achieve excellence, while balancing a successful leaders in the development of the modern economy, technology, and administrative career and personal life. methodologies that promotes the advancement of the government and business organisation according to the standards of global competitiveness. She was also adjudged The empowered women of the past decade, who have been supported and developed winner of the prestigious World Women Leadership Achievement Award in February 2014. as role models and ambassadors for progressive empowerment of the organisation, have embarked on creating a platform to network and work together in community Moreover, she attended the Indian Ocean Rim Association Dialoguevevent in Malaysia in projects, share their best practices, and assist each other as resource persons. August, 2014 on the invitation of Australian Ambassador for Women and Girls, sponsored by UNDP. The Dialogue aimed at promoting women’s economic empowerment as a key The Alumni Network was established in 2013 to create an effective, cohesive and element of broader economic growth, through a close examination of the tourism and mutually beneficial network of all MAS empowered women. The objective of the initiative textiles sectors. is to create a network of Empowered Women to serve as the key focal point for the WGB initiative between MAS manufacturing plants and contribute towards the development The streak for our global endorsements continued with MAS winning the Women in of soft skills and other personality development training which they obtained during the Management (WIM) – Genre of Excellence Award for Business Organisation supportive programme, for their fellow associates. towards Women Empowerment and Leadership 2014. The Empowered Women are grouped into chapters based on the locations of the respective business units. Subsequently, the units host a quarterly meeting which is a forum where associates could network and share their learnings and best practices. As part of the programme, each chapter will host various fund raising initiatives, to donate school books and stationary for children. Each chapter is headed by a coordinator, appointed at the annual Empowered Women Alumni Network Meeting, and they are responsible for the development and implementation of the yearly activity plan and hosting of quarterly meetings. Communication On Progress 2014 66 Communication On Progress 2014 67 Career Development P1 P1 We focus on equipping our female associates with knowledge and skills in work related areas.This training reaches beyond the immediate requirements of each associate and therefore prepares them for their next role in the organisation. For instance, equal opportunity will be given to a team member to obtain a cohesive knowledge in English P2 P2 language, IT and leadership skills development, which serves as the core part of the programme. In addition, training is also provided to enhance their knowledge in soft skills, positive thinking, negotiation skills, time management and presentation skills. P6 P6 In 2014, WGB embarked on a new initiative partnering with two reputed institutions from Sri Lanka to develop a curriculum for English and Personality Development for our associates. The Diploma in English will improve the ability to write, speak and understand the English language fluently. This initiative has commenced with 21 associates currently The other significant following the course. Meanwhile the Personality Development course is designed projects for the year to proactively improve skills to set life goals and to enhance self-confidence for our included; associates to make effective life choices and decisions. • A special scholarship Under the career development pillar, two leadership workshops were attended by 52 award given to female executives empowered women all participants are subsequently given problem solving and Kaizen at MAS Active with the objective of project assignments, for which they will be awarded certificates on successful completion. encouraging them to pursue their The workshops provide a cohesive understanding on leadership, communication as a higher studies and progress in tool for leadership, time management, lean leadership etc. their careers. •• In 2014, MAS Active Spotlight Story commenced the process of ‘Aspire’ by MAS Active formally developing female Mechanics and Cutters in an effort “Aspire” Mentoring programme to provide alternative career paths was held for the 2nd consecutive whilst being engaged in the apparel year on the 14th of Nov 2014. industry. Mentees met with their respective mentors and discussed their work plans for the next nine months. Mentors were female managers and above grade employees who have been with MAS for over 3 years. The programme aims to assist our associates with the transition from staff to executive level, enhance skills and obtain expertise from experienced and highly competent staff members, facilitate knowledge transfer and staff retention which is a tangible way to show them that they are valued and the company’s future includes them. Communication On Progress 2014 68 Communication On Progress 2014 69 Skills Development P1 P1 At MAS, skill development is always stretched beyond the immediate job requirements. The primary aim of this pillar is to encourage MAS associates to tap into those skills that they had either not realised thus far or never had the opportunity to pursue them. Skills development in non-work related areas including designing, tie and dye techniques, P2 P2 dressmaking, bridal dressing, beauty culture were instilled. It not only brings out the innate creativity of our empowered women but also opens doors to alternative means of income. P6 P6 Spotlight Story The gala talent show which will be held every two years, gives our associates an opportunity to be groomed and trained as a dancer, singer, compere, musician, designer or model, guided by professionals in these fields. The process of rehearsing and performing clearly builds solidarity within the group, and by and large, grows their confidence. The programme is a 100% homegrown initiative formulated to highlight, recognise and give wings to the innate talents of our empowered associates. The other significant projects for the year included; •• Linea Clothing/Intimates conducted training on ribbon-flower making, bed linen, curtain tailoring, and hand bags, to motivate our associates to seek selfemployment opportunities. •• Casualline conducted dress making classes providing an in-depth knowledge stitching various kinds of garments using the new techniques, while Unichela Koggala carried out lessons on using Tie and Dye and Dip Dye techniques to improve their skills for an extra income. •• Unichela Panadura conducted cookery lessons and dancing lessons for its Abhinandani’, the talent extravaganza, was introduced to engage our people through associates while Silueta, Biyagama organised a creative writing competition to non work related programmes to recognise and bring to the fore, the inherent talents showcase the creativity of our employees. of our associates. By giving them an opportunity to delve into the performing arts they are also given the chance to work with professionals in the specific areas to improve their talent. The semifinals of the talent show hosted 44 teams, out of which 24 teams qualified for the grand finale and five top performances were crowned overall winners. The show rewarded 258 associates across 23 SBUs for their exceptional talent. This was followed by a glamorous fashion show which showcased Tie and Dye and Dip Dye garments created by 60 associates who were trained professionally. Communication On Progress 2014 70 Communication On Progress 2014 71 Harnessing Work-Life Balance P1 P1 Our company is committed to provide greater availability and access to a high standard of benefits and policies that promote work-life balance and advance well in their careers. Moreover they are equipped with a cohesive knowledge of their legal rights and health, primarily in the area of sexual and reproductive health. Emotional Intelligence is another P2 P2 area that our female associates are given knowledge in. By giving them a voice and avenues to gain assistance to overcome their problems, the programme ensures that our female associates are mentally, emotionally and physically healthy. P6 P6 WGB implemented the “Happy Family Life” programme to improve individual wellbeing and to reduce stress, and conflicts both at the workplace and home and to create a conductive working environment for over 779 associates including their spouses across 10 SBUs. Complementing our initiative to empower our associates, the ‘Getting More out of Life’ programme continue to create awareness on health, hygiene and family planning for 719 female associates and 228 male associates. Spotlight Raising Awareness for Breast Cancer As the majority of our workforce is female and breast cancer is curable with early detection, MAS Intimates launched a new breast cancer awareness programme together with WGB. We are working in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Cancer Society and the National Cancer Control Programme. During the first stage, we will hold awareness sessions at each plant, where all female employees are educated about breast cancer by a public health officer from the SLCS. Informational banners will be displayed and leaflets will also be handed out. Employees will be taught what breast cancer is, what the risk factors are, the signs and symptoms, how to get screened regularly, treatment options etc. Additionally, each plant will also set up an ‘Aloka team’, comprising of medical staff / nurses, the WGB and CSR champion, HR personnel, members of the JCC, volunteers etc. This team will be responsible for organising Aloka events and programmes throughout the year, to keep creating awareness. The first awareness programme was held at Unichela Biyagama on the 25th November 2014, for all female employees. The next programmes will be held at Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates in January, and Casualline in February. The rest of the Intimates plants will be covered throughout 2015. During the second phase, we hope to introduce awareness programmes in our local communities and long term, the objective is to create awareness Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer amongst females in Sri Lanka, on a national level. accounting for approximately 22% of all detected cases. Breast cancer is often curable with early detection, but the levels of awareness amongst Sri Lankan women about the causes, signs and symptoms, treatment options and available facilities are low. Many are diagnosed at late stages, due to lack of awareness and the lack of a formal screening programme. There also remains a cultural taboo about open discussion about sensitive issues of this nature. Communication On Progress 2014 72 Communication On Progress 2014 73 The other significant projects for the year included; P1 P1 •• Casualline organised the ‘Go Beyond Pola’ A fair organised for the team members to sell their home made products for an extra income. •• Unichela Koggala conducted a Training Programme on “How to reduce your P2 P2 Energy Bill” to the concept of energy management improving the efficiency of energy usage, benefits to the consumer and the country, energy and the environment. P6 P6 •• Savings Accounts for new born babies were opened to create a habit of saving money while ensuring the child’s future expenses at Unichela Panadura and Slimline Pannala. Endorsing Gender Equality The target audience for this initiative is the Management cadre of MAS ACTIVE. The Objective of this programme was to Mainstreaming gender equality and gender sensitivity was given a company-wide understand and find suitable solutions to address the cultural mandate and in our efforts to elevate this initiative, we engaged our male executives and organisational issues that prevent gender equality. in gender sensitive and capacity building programmes in 2014. The Gender Sensitivity Training programme was conducted for 228 male executives to enhance their This Panel Discussions were held on the 27th of March 2014 at understanding on promoting equality and respecting diversity at work and home. the Operations Centre Auditorium and the Keynote speaker was Shyama Salgado– Senior Programme Officer: ILO (Employment)/ Spotlight Story Open Forums and Panel Discussions on Gender Equality at the Gender Focal Point. Over 70 associates participated in this Workplace programme. Panel Discussions were conducted on the current gender equality practices and trends in the Corporate Sector and Current practices and challenges faced were discussed with the participation of Nadeeja Tambiah: Executive Vice President, Head of Legal, Secretarial and CSRJohn Keells Group, Sandra De Zoysa: Group Chief Customer Officer Dialog Axiata PLC, Neela Marikkar: Chairperson The Grant Group, Shaila Amalean: Patron Women Go Beyond, Shanaaz Preena: Director Women Go Beyond and Women’s Empowerment, Damitha Dharmasena: Director Operations, MAS Active, Eranthi Premaratne: Head of Sustainable Business, MAS Active. We challenged the accepted norm for employment and generated a paradigm shift in a profession that was looked down upon. Our female associates, who form the backbone of the operation, are made aware of their contribution to the nation’s economy, recognised for their untiring efforts and accomplishments, their success is celebrated, and are encouraged to be proud of their job roles and themselves. For more projects under this section – Refer to Appendices: Women Matter The key to this initiative is awareness and open discussions, as all of us are products of social norms and gender roles assigned to us by society. Thus, through our unconscious / conscious behavior at work we may echo gender insensitive practices. Communication On Progress 2014 74 Communication On Progress 2014 75 Champions by Nature P1 MAS is embedded with a resilient sporting culture and are groomed be the competitive sportspeople they are. This culture is not P2 only instilled in its sporting champions, but also in its workforce, never to give in, but to believe in themselves, to live as champions. This level of inclusion in sport has opened up opportunities for the 70,000 plus associates of MAS. The opportunity to work beside these elite sportsmen and sportswomen who have beaten the odds, to be part of various sporting activities and witness champions in the making is an invaluable and unique opportunity that every employee receives at MAS. We ensure our champions and competitors are given the time, space and world class facilities required to enhance their training. It was inspiring to see our associates excel in sports at the mercantile, national and international levels in 2014. Communication On Progress 2014 76 Communication On Progress 2014 77 Cricket P1 P1 • Team A players Sachithra Senanayeka and Kithruwan Vithanage for MAS Active represented the National Cricket Team for P2 P2 the Ireland/ England tour. Boxing: • 4 male and 2 female boxers from MAS represented Sri Lanka at the Commonwealth Games held at Glasgow in Scotland during July August 2014: Anuruddha Ratnayake, Manju Wanniarachchi, P Saparamadu, Asanka Navaratne; Erandi Silva and Keshani Hansika. • Anuruddha Rathnayaka led the Sri Lanka boxing team. • One male and one female boxer represented Sri Lanka at the Asian Games held in Korea – P D Suresh and Erandi Silva. • Three boxers from MAS represented Sri Lanka at the Women’s World ChampionPistol shooting: ship held in Korea November 2014 Anusha Kodituwakku, Anuradha Jayasinghe, Keshani Hansika • Ruwini Abeymanna of Slimline participated in the Commonwealth Games held in • MAS Slimline emerged as champions at the Clifford Cup Boxing Championship in Scotland in 2014. She was placed 11th in the Sport Pistol event and was named the Men’s division and MAS Southern Boxing Club became champions in Women the Best Pistol Shooter at the NSSF Open Meet 2014. Division. • Ruwini Abeymanna, Suranga Fernando and Sagara Wimaladharma won medals at • MAS Slimline emerged as national champions at the Boxing Nationals held in the National Pistol Shooting Championship. December 2014, whilst MAS Southern Boxing Club became champions in the • Ruwini Abeymanna became the Best Pistol Shooter and won 2 gold medals in women’s division. 10m Air Pistol and 25m Pistol women’s category. • MAS Vidiyal facilitated boxers from within the plant and from schools in Kilinochchi • Suranga Fernando secured 2 gold medals in the 10m and 25 m men’s and Mulaitivu to participate in various boxing tournaments throughout 2014. These category boxers have initiated a passion for boxing in the Northern Province, winning med• Sagara Wimaladharma won a bronze medal. als at the National Sports Festival and Junior Nationals. Athletics • Indumathie Karunathilake – awarded silver medal for Long Jump, bronze medal for P6 200m sprint at the 2014 Asian Para Games in Incheon. • Rajiva Wijetunge was adjudged best athlete at the Sri Lanka Masters Athletics Meet 2014, the Best Athlete in the Mercantile Athletics Meet 2014 and is currently ranked number one in Sri Lanka for Shot Putt and Discus in the Senior Age Group. • Sujeewa Malkanthi of Slimtex won gold medal in Long Jump at the Masters Athletic Championship (Thailand), triple gold in 200M, 800M and Long Jump at the National Masters Athletic Championship (Sri Lanka) and silver in 400M at the 18th Asia Masters Athletic Championships (Japan). Communication On Progress 2014 78 Communication On Progress 2014 79 Swimming marathon P1 P1 •• MAS swimming team participated in the International Water Polo matches representing Sri Lanka. •• Carlo Baddeliyanage from MAS Active is the National Team Manager for P2 P2 Water Polo. With 1400 participants, MAS became the largest group representing a corporate at the Colombo Marathon 2014. Basketball •• Sudesh Ahamed represented Sri Lanka and was a silver medalist at the South Asian Basketball Association (SABA Games) held in Bangladesh 2014. •• MAS emerged champions of the Women’s Mercantile Basketball B Division. •• Shanali Weerasooriya was adjudged best player of the tournament. Karate Badminton Anura Bandara of Slimtex won first place at the following: •• MAS emerged champions at the 4th Mercantile Doubles Team Championship •• 4th Indo-Sri Lanka Karate Championships 2014 2014 – Cup Event. •• Open National Karate Championships 2014 •• Shiranthi Chandrasekara from MAS was a team member of the Women’s •• 6th International Goju-ryu Karate and Japan Shotokan Karate Open Veteran Team (A Division) at the 31st MBA Inter Firm Badminton Championship 2014. Championship. •• International Shotokan Karate Do Organisation 2014. Fencing This year, the Slimline Fencing Club performed exceptionally well at the National Fencing Tournament held in Ratmalana and was duly crowned the National Fencing champions. Others •• Farizil Marija led the Sri Lanka National Rugby Team. •• MAS was adjudged Mercantile Rugby champions of 2014. •• Danushka Saram and Yahan Samarajeewa are Captain and Vice-Captain of the Sri Lanka Men’s Waterpolo team. Communication On Progress 2014 80 Communication On Progress 2014 81 Mercantile Events P1 P1 MAS Intimates associates were part of several victorious MAS teams who participated in Mercantile competitions, including Aquatics, Tennis and Hockey. P2 P2 MAS Intimates were also successful in the following: •• Volleyball: The Casualline women’s volleyball team emerged victorious in the Mercantile Volleyball Super League. •• Cricket: Unichela Panadura demonstrated clear dominance at the 2014 Mercantile cricket tournaments, emerging as champions in the Division A League and also the T20 and 6-a-side championships. The Unichela B team also went on to win the 2014 Mercantile “B” Division Limited Overs Cricket Tournament. •• The Slimtex cricket team became the runners up of the CSN Inter Factory Cricket Tournament. •• MAS Active B Operations Centre Cricket team emerged champions of the Mercantile “F” Division Cricket – 2014. •• Table tennis: MAS Intimates won the Mercantile Table Tennis Men’s Knock-Out Tournament for 2014 and were also adjudged runners-up in the Mercantile League Table Tennis tournament 2014 for both men and women. •• Tennis: MAS emerged winners of the Mercantile Tennis Tournament 2014. •• Athletics: P D I Priyanthi was awarded gold medals for 800m and 400mx4 at the Mercantile Athletics Meet 2014. MAS Active secured 12 gold medals, 2 silver medals and 2 bronze medals at the Mercantile Athletic Meet 2014. Other Events •• Linea Intimo Biyagama emerged winners of the Council for Business with Britain Cricket Tournament while Contourline was adjudged runners up. •• MAS Active division A team emerged champions at Singer Knockout Tournament 2014. •• MAS Active was adjudged runners up at the Singer League Tournament 2014. •• Shadeline Volleyball team emerged runners up at the CBB Volleyball Tournament. Communication On Progress 2014 82 Communication On Progress 2014 83 P1 P2 Strengthening Communities With humility and mutual respect instilled in the way we work, giving back to the community is an essential part of our values and culture for over two decades. We leverage our success, scope and resources to make a positive difference in the communities we operate in. Communication On Progress 2014 84 Communication On Progress 2014 85 Education: Shaping the Future P1 P1 MAS believes that education is an indispensable element for achieving sustainable development. Over the years, we have strived to embark on initiatives where our communities have the opportunity to benefit from quality education and learn the P2 values, behaviour and lifestyles required for a sustainable future and for positive societal P2 transformation. Sisu Waruna Best Corporate Citizen Award 2014 In 2014, MAS Intimates won the coveted Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award 2014. The 11th Annual Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards hosted by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC) which recognises the untiring efforts of Sri Lanka’s corporate entities to adopt ‘Best Sustainability Practices’ in their business processes. In addition to winning the overall best Corporate Citizen Sustainability MAS Intimates also won 6 other awards: Category Winners for both Environmental Management and Community Relations, Sector winner for Manufacturing, and the Triple Bottom-line Awards for Social Sustainability and Environmental Sustainability. MAS Intimates was also a Top Ten Category recipient which recognises 10 companies who have adopted best sustainability practices in their businesses. “Winning the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability award is recognition of MAS Intimates’ practices in all three pillars of sustainability. It is a great motivator for the team to consistently elevate the culture we have created, the ethics we have nurtured and the best practices we have pioneered, enabling us to reach this status. For us, corporate citizenship begins by listening and responding to employees, communities, customers and suppliers; and • 2014 saw the continuation of the ‘Sisu Waruna’ social innovation programme, which transforming the dream of a better world into action,” was established in 2012 by MAS Intimates. Its focus lies on capacity building in the -Dian Gomes Managing Director, MAS Intimates. next generation and youth empowerment. This programme is aimed at providing information, skills and expertise to students and youth to meet the challenges of the future, as well as encouraging talented students to become youth leaders. The 4 main programmes conducted through Sisu Waruna are shown below: • Express Learning Programme MAS Intimates embarked on a programme in conjunction with Dr. Priyanga de Zoysa, a renowned Sri Lankan self-development guru and author to teach students how to learn more effectively. Students are taught ‘express learning’ skills, which include a series of simple methods such as speed reading, effective note-taking, memory techniques and successful exam techniques. The programme is primarily targeted at O/L and A/L students in schools in our localities, but also at teachers and parents. Awareness is created through seminars, self-help packs and introductory trainings. Overall, over 5000 students, 250 teachers and 2000 parents have benefited from the programme. Communication On Progress 2014 86 Communication On Progress 2014 87 • Leadership Training for Youth To empower students of the next generation, MAS programme, modelled along the lines of the Environmental Management System. Intimates began a leadership training camp for school prefects. Over 350 prefects This programme is conducted in 30 new schools that have not been a part of Eco Go P1 P1 have already participated in these camps. The programme develops the skills and Beyond before. qualities of students that have already been identified as potential leaders. Students take part in leadership and team-building activities, outbound training, panel discussions and seminars conducted by internal and external professionals. Lectures P2 P2 by external and internal resources cover a variety of topics such as leadership, career opportunities, positive thinking, managing stress, general etiquette and work ethic. • Year 5 Scholarship Programme The programme provides support to students who are about to sit for the Year 5 Scholarship Examination in Sri Lanka. These are optional exams conducted by the Ministry of Education, for students who hope to win eligibility to transfer to prominent national schools. This programme aims to offer support to students for these highly competitive exams, and has done so for over 750 students already. Workshops held consist of activities such as discussion of mock-exam papers and motivational speeches. • Internal Scholarship Programme – Last year, MAS Intimates commenced an internal scholarship scheme for deserving children of our own employees. One student from each plant who had excelled in their recent O/L examinations, demonstrated leadership qualities and was well-rounded was selected. A monthly scholarship of Rs.6,000/= to cover tuition fees, books and stationery for a period of two years will be provided. Upon the successful completion of the A/L exam, the recipient will also be given a sum of Rs. 25,000 to support his or her higher education. In 2014, 15 students were selected in total to receive these scholarships. Expansion of Sustainable Development Education Programme The programme also marked its expansion into three new communities; Mahiyanganaya, Mawathagama and Biyagama under Shadeline, Casualline and Stretchline manufacturing plants respectively. This brings the total localities to 13 with the other 10 in Horana, Hanwella, Pimbura, Pannala, Kuliyapitiya, Pallekelle, Thulhiriya, Awissawella, Koggala and Embilipitiya. The rollout was conducted over 45 days through 30 workshops for 6465 participants including 5399 students, 503 teachers, 563 parents and well-wishers. A total of 5700 handouts were distributed to the participants as well. This brings the total impacts of the programme for students only to almost 35000 from 2006 to present. In addition a one and a half day residential workshop was held for 120 students and 60 teachers at MIMT, Thulhiriya. The project is conducted in partnership with the Ministry of Education, and while their role is to pave access for MAS in relevant schools, it is MAS who has total The ‘Eco Go Beyond’ programme entering its eighth year in operation in 2014, P8 P8 ownership of the project and wholeheartedly executes it. commenced the second cycle of the three year (2014-2016) sustainable school Communication On Progress 2014 88 Communication On Progress 2014 89 Programme methodology includes workshops, audio–visual presentations, activation in schools by projects designed and executed by students, the monitoring of these by the P1 P1 specialists, and finally the rewarding of the best performers annually. The statistical achievements of the schools between April to September 2014 are shown below; P2 P2 Number of new trees planted1374 New grass grown 30945.93 m2 P8 Amount of compost8023.18 Kg Plastic 878.96 Kg Iron 908.625 Kg Paper 1182.27 Kg Glass 2350.975 Kg 96% schools are measuring their electricity consumption 93% schools are measuring their water consumption Number of items removed from the canteen -127 Spotlight Story Siyasavi Community New healthy food item additions 200 Development Centre and Sithula Completed 5S projects -154 Pre-School Nutritious Vegetables and Greens cultivated 412.3 Kg MAS Linea Intimo Biyagama embarked on an empowerment through education initiative Meanwhile an awards ceremony was held in November 2014, for sub categories of Green in 2013 with the establishment of ‘Siyasavi’ Community Development Centre and Sithula Cover, Biodegradable Waste Management, Non-biodegradable Waste Management, Pre-School which has made significant progress, just a year following its inception. The Nutrition, Water Conservation, Energy Conservation, Eco Lifestyle and Productivity. addition of a well-stocked library and commencement of counselling sessions for the community at Siyasavi were key highlights in 2014. Eco Go Beyond also earned international recognition with a paper on the programme being presented at the 6th International Conference on Sustainability and Education Counselling sessions are offered to members of the community twice a week by a Best of Both Worlds in Bertioga, Brazil in May. The paper was one of 65 recipients out qualified counsellor (M.Sc. from University of California). We faced challenges in trying to of 200 submissions, chosen for an oral presentation impart the concept of counselling amongst the community, however with the assistance of the local institutions including the Poilce, Grama Sevaka Secretariats and medical The programme also won a merit award a merit award for Sustainability Projects under clinics, we succeeded in reaching the people in need of this service. the category of Education at the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Best Corporate Citizen Awards 2014. The Sithula Pre-School provides education with highly qualified teachers, and other facilities including uniforms and educational toys for 22 young children whose parents are employees of Linea Intimo. The public also has access to a monthly English lesson which is conducted free of charge. Communication On Progress 2014 90 Communication On Progress 2014 91 The other significant projects for the year included; A Library for Aththaragalla School in Kandy P1 MAS Active Contourline built a well-equipped library complex for Aththaragalla Vidyalaya P1 ‘Future Fund’ to Uplift the Education of Students in Kalutara The ‘Future Fund’ project was incepted in the first quarter of 2014 MAS Intimates, Unichela Panadura with the (Junior School) located in Wattegama, Kandy. The school consists of 180 children who objective of addressing the educational needs of the underprivileged students in the come from low income earning families in the Wattegama area. In addition, we conducted Kalutara district. The project provided over 1 million worth of school books and stationary P2 workshops on the 5S system and sustainability for teachers and students, and additional P2 to 1750 students in need. mathematics tuition classes for the pupils. Meanwhile in parallel to the project, herbal plants were donated to be grown in the school compound, as an environmental initiative. Recognising Young Talent The MAS Awards Ceremony for Best Overall Student is held annually to recognise students representing local universities across the country. Following a series of training programmes and projects, an eminent judging panel selects the Best Overall Student from identified faculties. Best Overall Student Award recipients are given a cash reward, a plaque, their names engraved on the “Wall of Fame” displayed in each university, and possible employment opportunities at MAS. Up to date, over 55 students have been award recipients and 2/3 of the winners are currently employed with MAS. A total of 99 students participated in the programme by the 31st December 2014. 30-35 more students are expected to participate in 2015. MAS Ready to Unleash The Ready to Unleash programme is a competency building programme for interns commencing industrial training at MAS with the hope of providing skills, which would allow them to step out from their educational institutions to the work environment, since there is a lack of exposure to the demands of corporate life. For more projects under this section – Refer to Appendices: Education: Shaping the Future Communication On Progress 2014 92 Communication On Progress 2014 93 E. Establish indicators to measure the base health status of employees and how Community Health: Building a Healthy and this changes post-implementation of the Super 8 programme. P1 P1 Safe Community F. Support the advocacy and research activities of the CCPSL through sponsorship We are committed towards the improvement of the health and wellbeing of our of its annual Scientific Session and Public Health Forum communities and to transform living standards, health infrastructure, facilities and P2 P2 availability. G. Support the advocacy and research activities of the CCPSL through sponsorship of its annual Scientific Session and Public Health Forum Spotlight Story: Super 8 A new programme was introduced by MAS Intimates to promote health and wellbeing amongst our own employees, titled ‘Super 8’. We are working with the College of Community Physicians of Sri Lanka (CCPSL), the foremost professional body for public health in Sri Lanka to promote 8 health targets that will empower individuals, organisations, communities in taking steps to lead healthier lifestyles. The programme also aims to reduce absenteeism rates and increase productivity. This is to address how to reduce the risks of spectrum of diseases known as non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, cancer etc. The CCPSL works with the community within MAS Intimates and suggests appropriate interventions and support through technical guidance for the implementation of such interventions to see a change for adopting healthier lifestyles. Discussions about project implementation began in mid-2013 and the first awareness programme was conducted at MDS in November 2013. The programme was first launched in March 2014 at Casualline (Mawathagama), Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates (Pallekele) as a pilot. It targeted approximately 6100 employees. The programme will be introduced at 2 more Intimates plants soon and at the remaining plants throughout the upcoming year. The initiatives are outlined below: Create increased awareness amongst employees about healthier lifestyles and the 8 key health targets. A core Super 8 conscious team at each plant will be trained. A. Create a ‘Super 8’ environment at each plant e.g. through initiatives in the MAS Intimates is proposing to mainstream Employee Wellness into HR policy, so that cafeteria to promote healthy eating habits and promoting regular physical company encourages all employees to be healthy as well be informed about their own activity and exercise for all. health status. A 2-stage screening protocol has been recommended. During Stage 1, employees will be screened by performing assessments of BMI, blood pressure, B. Increase the demand for healthy food and supporting local suppliers in this cholesterol and fasting blood sugar. Personal health records for each employee can venture be introduced. Employees will be notified of potential health risks and based on risks, C. Provide facilities and access for all employees to be screened by performing further tests can be recommended and performed during Stage 2. There are plans to assessment of BMI, blood pressure, blood sugar etc. also introduce a ‘Girl Friendly Screening Package’, where female employees will be tested for blood haemoglobin levels and taught how to do breast self-examinations. The D. Introduce a personal health record with a lifestyle risk assessment for all mainstreaming into HR policy will also involve creating a Super 8 conscious team in every employees. plant, introducing new recruits to the programme, continuous assessments of attitudes amongst employees towards healthy lifestyles and organising related events. Communication On Progress 2014 94 Communication On Progress 2014 95 Hospital Facilities upgraded P1 P1 P2 P2 The other significant projects for the year included; MAS Akshaya India Promotes Good Health Practices Prym Intimates Sri Lanka upgraded the facilities of the Udupila hospital located in the MAS Akshaya reached out to the poverty Gampaha district in 2014. New developments including a dining area for residential stricken village of Chinthawaram in Andra patients, renovations at the OPD facility and the ETU section, implementation Pradesh to create awareness on good health of 6S in the OPD area and awareness sessions for hospital staff were part of practices and the importance of consuming this project. Meanwhile Linea Aqua constructed a special isolation room at clean water, the first time a programme of the women’s ward at the Dompe Hospital in lieu of World Women Day this nature was carried out by the Indian Celebrations. manufacturing plant. For more projects under this section – Refer to Appendices: Community Health: Building a Health and Safety Community Distribution of water to the community, health camps and community awareness programmes are some of the efforts carried out by MAS Akshaya towards creating a healthy and safe community. Building a Sustainable Future for Our Community We are proud to be good neighbours in the cities, towns and villages we work in, sharing our resources, our time and our expertise. We strive to support community improvement in areas including infrastructure development, reconciliation, healthy and active lifestyles, community recycling and education. We have also been proactively involved in disaster relief efforts in communities facing crisis, diversity and inclusion. Communication On Progress 2014 96 Communication On Progress 2014 97 Supporting the Local Community MAS has been involved in special initiatives focusing on reconciliation and rehabilitation P1 in post-conflict Sri Lanka. MAS Active Vaanavil in collaboration with the Civil Services Department opened a Carpet Sewing Workshop for the rehabilitated Ex LTTE Women Combatants in the North. Vaanavil team actively got involved in renovation of the P2 workshop building, donated sewing machines, fabric off cuts, used threads and technical assistance. The objective of this project is to help the rehabilitated women learn new skills for potential employment opportunities in the future. At present, the carpet sewing centre operates only with two single needle machines and a few females can be trained due to the lack of sewing machines. In 2014 a total of 10 beneficiaries have participated in this project including seven beneficiaries who are now in the skilled category. MAS Intimates began working with the Consortium of Humanitarian Agencies (CHA) and the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, who are establishing a network platform to link all agencies and organisations working on disaster management. This is a national level platform that will Moreover, our associates often go out into the community and conduct workshops or support the Disaster Management Centre, linking seminars to share best practices with community groups. Many employees lecture and civil society and private sector. It is also linked to the teach voluntarily in their free time. We host various open house days within the factory Asia Pacific Alliance Platform in Japan. The platform will premises, so that families of associates and new recruits and other groups can see assist national efforts in disaster management and optimise how we operate and become a part of the organisation. Each plant also hosts a more efficient humanitarian response mechanism, through children’s days, elders’ days and Avurudu celebrations each year. the private-public partnerships forged. Currently, MAS Intimates in involved in the large-scale drought relief and flood relief programmes Employee volunteerism is nurtured and encouraged, and on any given that are being organised through this network. Poya day or public holiday our associates engage in various acts of benefaction and shramadhanas; purely of their own volition. These MAS Intimates also collaborated to donate 400 packs of essential and acts are supported by the organisation wherever possible. We emergency relief items to victims affected by the devastating landslides in also have a leadership team that lives this philosophy. People, Koslanda, together with the assistance of the Sri Lanka Army. Many of those affected who personally sponsor less privileged students through lost their families and properties. The fundraising effort was organised by the MAS school to university, people who are always willing to Intimates Sourcing and Supply Chain Department. Meanwhile other flood and disaster lend a helping hand during illness and employees’ relief efforts included’ dry rations being distributed by Vidiyal to 53 families displaced personal troubles. This is strengthened by a due to floods, Unichela Panadura distributed dry rations and sanitary items to 100 framework in HR which caters to this culture people affected by floods in the Kalutara district and 800 5-litre bottles of drinking water of giving. were given by MDS to 250 community members to drought victims in Gurugodella, Polonnaruwa. P1 P2 Communication On Progress 2014 98 Communication On Progress 2014 99 P1 P2 P1 P2 The Christmas programme and school items donation organised by Lanka Plus for the year 2014 was held on the 22nd December 2014 at the Narahenpita Community Centre Hall, Colombo. This special programme was organised for children affected by HIV/AIDS. MAS Active had the opportunity to be a part of this programme as an entertainment group from Active Operations Centre performed at the event entertaining the children with a sing-along session and providing them Bodyline embarked on an initiative to gift 44 sarongs and shirts worth over Rs.70,000 with musical instruments and gift vouchers to purchase shoes for these children. along with 5 wheelchairs to the disabled soldiers at Abhimansala, a facility that houses injured soldiers from the civil war. Bodyline visited the facility and served lunch to the soldiers while being entertained by a musical group of talented soldiers. Meanwhile Siyane National School located just a few meters away from the Linea Aqua manufacturing plant was in need of fencing the school premises. Linea Aqua not only addressed the need, but also created awareness amongst school teachers and students on sustaining a greener environment. Communication On Progress 2014100 Communication On Progress 2014101 Linea Aqua distributed 250 of 1000 litres of water tanks to aid those affected Embedding a Sporting Culture in Our Communities by the severe drought in the country in 2014. Apart from assisting the drought P1 affected areas, a school located near Linea Aqua, Naiwala also had a shortage Sport is an intrinsic part of our culture. As a company MAS has been consistent in its of water supply with just two taps catering to the entire school. An efficient support of individuals with active sporting careers as well as those who have the potential pipeline system was constructed and donated to the school. to be successful sportspeople. P2 P1 The annual CSR event of Nirmaana Super Fighter – The Search for the Next Generation of Boxers was held in September 2014 to showcase our brotherhood to a former associate of MAS Active P2 Nirmaana, Sampath Dinishka, who was severely injured after a tragic accident. The chosen project was to build a boarding facility to help him overcome his daily struggle to survive with special contributions from Nike Business Division and Strategic Brands Teams in addition to the personal contributions from Nirmaana. We recognise the responsibility our company and our people have in contributing to a thriving, successful society. To fulfill this responsibility, we seek out initiatives that, through our community investments, will make a difference in people’s lives. For more projects under this section – Refer to Appendices: Building a Sustainable Future for Our Community ‘Super Fighter’, Sri Lanka’s first ever reality sports programme directed to scout for hidden boxing talent, was launched in the beginning of 2014. It commenced with the aim of creating opportunities for skilled youth by identifying and nurturing talent to provide elite pathways for the next generation of boxers across the country. The objective is to focus on promising boxing talent among schools, targeting the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. This programme is a method of empowering youth and improving livelihoods through sport. Sirasa Super Fighter is the world’s first reality boxing programme and Sri Lanka’s first ever reality sports programme. The programme was conceptualised by former President of the Boxing Association of Sri Lanka, Dian Gomes, Managing Director of MAS Intimates, renowned for his revival and endorsement of the sport across the country, Chevaan Daniel, Director Capital Maharajah Organisation and is supported by the creative direction of Ruwan Keragala, Finance Director of MAS Intimates. It is a joint partnership of MAS and News First of the Capital Maharajah Organisation. The concept was initiated and worked on by MAS Intimates. Communication On Progress 2014102 Communication On Progress 2014103 The programme covered all 25 districts in Sri Lanka, with 15 two-day training sessions seeing the participation of over 10,000 enthusiastic young boxers aged 16-18 years P1 from across the island. From these 15 training sessions, a pool of 128 promising young boxers were chosen in 4 weight categories – 49kg (Light Flyweight), 52kg (Flyweight), 56kg (Bantamweight) and 60kg (Lightweight), with 32 boxers in each weight category. The training sessions were authorised by the Schools Boxing Association of Sri Lanka P2 under the supervision and guidance of the Boxing Association of Sri Lanka. This pool of boxers then participated in four residential training camps, each spanning the length of 10 days. They were also offered personal development, outbound training, English communication skills, as well as training on personal and business etiquette. The finale, featuring the 8 finalists was held on the 13th of July 2014, at Stein Studios Rathmalana and broadcast live on Sirasa TV. In addition to being crowned “Super Fighter”, the winners in the four weight categories will also be awarded education and sports scholarships to a total value of Rs.36 million, the highest prize money that has been awarded in television in Sri Lanka. Identifying talent had previously been a challenge but through Super Fighter, there is now an opportunity to identify and provide a long-term focused training programme to cultivate champions. The boxers with the greatest potential were awarded scholarships and pooled at an MAS Intimates facility (Linea Clothing) in Kandy. They are trained on a residential basis. All welfare costs, accommodation, education costs and tuition are sponsored for a period of 6 years. This is the first time in the history of the Boxing Association of Sri Lanka that a focused effort is being put into developing boxers from an early age. MAS, the Boxing Association of Sri Lanka and Sirasa are planning on Season 2 for 2016, as another potential pool of talented young boxers plan to step into the ring. For more projects under this section – Refer to Appendices: Embedding a Sporting Culture in Our Communities Communication On Progress 2014104 Communication On Progress 2014105 Appendices •• Go Beyond Pola to sell home products to earn an extra living •• Health camp Women matter •• Health Clinic (Eye clinic) Career Advancement •• Healthy mother and healthy baby programme •• Immunisation camp all staff conducted at Intimates Fashion and Linea •• 5s Lead Assessor training Fashions, India •• A six month Diploma in English Course for Empowered Women only •• Implementation of Happy Family Life Programme prevention of violence •• A six month Personality Development Programme for Empowered Women against women only •• Leave related awareness programme for newcomers •• Basic English lessons to improve written and spoken skills •• Mental health day awareness •• Basic IT classes •• Newcomers motivation programme •• Lady mechanic training •• Parent's day •• Empowered women leadership training •• Personal grooming and hygiene •• Multi skill programme •• General awareness on Personality development programme •• Role model development Course for past winners of the Empowered •• Savings accounts for new born babies Women Programme •• Screening for Anaemia •• Sign language classes for hearing impaired team members •• Session on good practices and labour issues •• Team building •• Sewing project Work Life Balance •• Sponsorship of widow employee child's education – Intimates Fashion, India •• Aloka breast cancer awareness programme •• Stress management and Work Stress management programme •• Awareness for pregnant employees •• Training programme on how to reduce your energy bill •• Awareness on family planning and sexually transmitted diseases •• Women's day celebrations •• Awareness on HIV AIDS •• Zumba lessons to promote fitness •• Awareness on Legal AIDS •• Awareness programme on reproductive health Skills Development •• Ayurvedic clinic •• Child development and safety programme •• Abhinandani Talent show, Talent development and grooming sessions •• Clinic by Vision care mobile optical service eye testing and discount •• Beauty culture course facilities •• Bridal dressing classes •• Counselling programme employee •• Cookery demonstration •• Counselling programme for new comers •• Dancing classes •• Dental programme to educate health and oral hygiene •• Dress making course •• Domestic violence awareness programme •• Empowered Women of the Year Sewing / Pottery and Saree painting •• Eye clinic project •• Family planning awareness programme •• First aid / fire and emergency training •• Finance management awareness programme •• Musical band and singing practices •• Gender sensitivity training for male executives •• Needle craft / Hobby craft •• Getting More Out of Life (GMOL) programme for females and males •• Ribbon embroidery course •• soft toy making and bag making •• Tea time meetings coaching programme •• Tie Dye and Dip Dye training Communication On Progress 2014106 Communication On Progress 2014107 Rewarding Excellence •• Slimline organised a leadership camp for 150 school students as part of the Sisu Waruna initiative. •• Abhinandani talent show recognise and reward exceptional talent •• Art / poster competition winners were recognised rewarded •• Thurulie conducted a Sisu Waruna leadership camp for 75 prefects from the •• Competition on poems, short stories and creating writing Ambepussa Maha Vidyalaya, Mahanaga Maha Vidyalaya and the Ethnawala Maha Vidyalaya. •• Debating competition •• Performance at the Gold Coin ceremony •• Silueta held a Sisu Waruna leadership development camp for 400 O/L and •• Vesak lantern competition A/L students from the Moratuwa Wales College. •• Women's day celebration Inspirational speeches •• Slimtex conducted a Sisu Waruna leadership development camp and OBT training for 80 prefects of the Nakkawaththa School. Students were taught Education: Shaping the Future various skills in various areas such as leadership, self-confidence, team building and dining etiquette. •• The ‘Eco Go Beyond’ programme commenced the second cycle of the three year (2014-2016) sustainable school programme, and is conducted in 30 •• Slimline helps a group of students from the Ambagahena, by organising new schools. free Year 5 Scholarship classes every month. These students are from an extremely rural area near Pannala and cannot cannot afford tuition as they are •• A new library opened by Linea Intimo at Sithula pre-school and counselling from very low-income families. sessions commenced at Siyasavi community development center. •• Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates held a Sisu Waruna Leadership •• Unichela Panadura distributed over 1 million worth of school books and Development Camp for 200 school prefects from Kandy, Wattegama, Kegalle stationary to 1750 students in Kalutara. and Mawathagama. •• A well-equipped library complex opened for students at Aththaragalla •• Slimline presented 20 employee’s children who had passed the Year 5 Vidyalaya (Junior School) located in Wattegama, Kandy. Scholarship exams with gift vouchers. •• The MAS Awards Ceremony for Best Overall Student was held in December •• Slimtex conducted a full day Sisu Waruna leadership development camp for 2014. 60 prefects and 2 teachers from St. Joseph’s College. •• The continuation of the ‘Sisu Waruna’ social innovation programme by MAS •• Thurulie conducted a seminar for 300 Grade 5 scholarship students from Intimates, which was established in 2012. Thulhiriya, as part of the Sisu Waruna programme. Students were taken through mock exam papers. •• MAS Intimates organised a competition where prefects who participated in Sisu Waruna leadership development camps, independently planned and •• Slimtex organised a Sisu Waruna Express Learning programme for 820 carried out projects to solve a certain issue in their school. The best projects O/L and A/L students and 12 teachers from the Paduwasnuwara S W R D were recognised and awarded prizes. Bandaranaike Central College. •• Thurulie conducted an Express Learning programme for 475 O/L students •• Slimtex organised a half day workshop for the 16 winners and 2 teachers of from Galigamuwa Central College and Mahanaga College. This is part of the the Sisu Waruna project competition. The best practices of the winning teams Sisu Waruna initiative to promote youth capacity development, in conjunction were shared, and teams were presented with awards and gifts. with Dr. Priyanga de Zoysa. •• OBT training was given to 160 prefects of the Kuliyapitiya Central College by •• Slimtex conducted a full day leadership development camp for 60 Slimline, as part of the Sisu Waruna programme. school prefects and 8 teachers, together with Dr. Priyanga de Zoysa, Gunasiri Bandara and OBT trainers. This was part of the Sisu Waruna programme and the students were from the Kanadulla Darmara College, Paduwasnuwara Central College, Iriyagolla Central College and the Holy Angels’ College Kuliyapitiya. Communication On Progress 2014108 Communication On Progress 2014109 •• Linea Intimo renovated a library for the students of Siyambalapewatha •• 50 school bags were donated by Linea Aqua to children from Mihidu PreKanishta Vidyalaya. School who started school in 2014. •• MAS Fabric Park offered a scholarship of Rs. 60,000 a year for 4 years to a •• A cash donation was made by Matrix for the Kawudumunna School Art former late employee’s daughter, for her higher education. Exhibition. •• Linea Aqua donated 225 pairs of school shoes to the children of Giridara Sri •• Vidiyal donated stationary and school supplies to children of team members Bodhi Vidayalaya, Kapugoda and Thitharapathara School, Hanwella. who had successfully passed their term exams in school. •• Matrix awarded a cash prize of Rs.15,000 to three associates’ children for •• Unichela Panadura donated books to 30 O/L students of the Wickramaseela obtaining merit results in the year 5 scholarship exam. Pirivena School. •• Trischel Fabrics made a cash donation of Rs.30,000 in aid of the prize giving •• Linea Aqua donated gifts and 4 blackboards to the O/L students of Tarala ceremony at Dhamma School at Mangedara temple. School. •• Trischel Fabrics made a cash donation of Rs.30,000 to the children who •• Vidiyal held a motivational exam preparation seminar for 55 O/L students at excelled at the Year 5 Scholarship Examination. the Akkarayan Maha Vidyalayam in Kilinochchi. •• MAS Fabric Park assisted school leavers to find employment in the Kegalle •• Matrix extended a helping hand to Kohombadeniya primary school, a poverty District under the “Kegalle Tharunodaya” programme. stricken rural school by providing drinking water facilities, renovation of the school building, painting, wiring etc. •• Linea Aqua recognised the service of a former associate with accessories for the children of a pre-school she manages. •• Casualline provided notice boards to the Pothubowa Maha Vidyalaya, as many employees of Casualline are alumni of the school. •• Unichela Panadura distributed school uniforms to 100 pre-school students of the Bandaragama pre-school. •• Small renovations were completed at the Kegalle Primary School by Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates where many employees were past students. •• A cash donation by Matrix was made to the Mainnoluwa School Sinhala Literature Day. •• Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates held an essay competition to commemorate World Children’s Day and to also create awareness about •• Vidiyal held a motivational exam preparation seminar for 77 O/L students at protecting the environment. The essay competition was held for all school the Akkarayan Maha Vidyalayam in Kilinochchi. students in the Kandy educational zone, at the Dharmaraja College Auditorium. •• Linea Aqua constructed and handed over a library for the students of Sidartha Primary School •• Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates donated box files to the educational offices in Wattegama and Kandy, to promote 5S among educational institutes. •• MDS donated gift vouchers to 85 children affected by HIV/AIDS at the Community Centre in Narahenpita. The students were able to purchase all •• Unichela Panadura donated school items to over 250 primary school students school items required for the year using this. of the Rahula Kanita Vidyalaya. •• MAS Fabric Park made a donation of Rs.25,000 to the “All Island •• Matrix donated wooden pallets for partitioning and assembling of school Dahampasal Skill Development programme” organised by Warakapola furniture and implemented the Rainwater Harvesting Project at Dharmasiri Divisional Secretariat. Senanayake College, Thulhiriya. •• A cash donation was made by Matrix to the Dharmasiri Senanayake College School Technology Classroom project and Water Tank project. Communication On Progress 2014110 Communication On Progress 2014111 •• Linea Aqua donated stationary to the children of Peter Weerasekera’s •• A team from Linea Aqua took time of work to spend time at the Indanamulla Children’s Home. Elders Home. •• Unichela Panadura donated a multimedia projector to the Bekkegama Kanitu •• Slimline helped restore and rebuild the broken-down main hall of the Vidyalaya. Waguruwella Kanishta Vidyalaya, which caters to 3 classes on any given day. The hall is also used for community meetings, political gatherings, polling •• A notice board was donated to the Hegalle Primary College by Unichela stations, examination centres etc. A proper ceiling, roof, electricity, floor and Panadura. stage for the main hall were all built successfully at the school in Welpalla. The project was initiated by a team member. The labour costs were borne by the •• Excess chairs from Unichela Koggala were donated to 3 rural schools in the community and parents of students all helped. Habaraduwa area. •• Thurulie organised a lecture by environmentalist Pubudu Weerakoon to •• Unichela Biyagama successfully installed a drinking water tap line at the create better awareness about protecting the environment for 125 students, Yabaraluwa. Kanishta Vidyalaya. Renovations on the main school building teachers and parents of a local school. were also carried out and school books were also donated to 130 students, ranging from Grade 1 – 5. •• Slimtex gifted funds and equipment to provide electricity to the main hall of the Beminigalla Kanishta Vidyalaya. •• Casualline held a campaign to raise awareness about Earth Hour amongst the people of Mawathagama, including schools, police, private companies •• A career guidance programme for 300 students of the Pannala National and government offices. School was organised by Slimline. •• An environmental sustainability awareness programme was conducted by •• Thurulie donated school shoes to 79 students of the Mangedara School. Casualline for 2 students and 2 parents from the Hatharaliyadda Pothubowa School. •• Thurulie provided funds for a Grade 5 scholarship winner to purchase essential school items and requirements. •• Books and equipment were donated by Casualline to 150 students and children in the Mawathagama area to celebrate Children’s Day. •• Thurulie is helping to renovate the Mangedara School, situated close to the plant as an on-going project. •• Linea Aqua gifted books to 57 students who excelled at the Year 5 Scholarship Examination. •• Thurulie donated funds to help uplift and renovate the library facility in the Balathawa Primary College, which can benefit over 400 students. •• A cash donation was made by Matrix to St. Josephs College, Kegalle fund for development. •• Linea Aqua organised group classes for 12 students sitting for their GCE A/L examination. •• Casualline sponsored the donation of the school name board to the Pothubowa Maha Vidyalaya. •• A team from MAS Intimates together with Slimtex conducted a one day Shramadana programme together with a team from HSBC, at the Kaburapolla •• MDS donated 3 sets of uniforms each to 14 students of the Kosala Dullewa School to renovate the water system. This will benefit over 120 students that Foundation in Ratmalana, a school dedicated to educating children with attend the school. special needs and those who are differently-abled. •• Books and stationery for 82 students from the Kutharippuwa Maha Vidyalaya •• Arts and crafts supplies were gifted to the students of the Kosala Dullewa were donated by Slimtex. Foundation, who attended an event conducted by MDS. •• Slimtex donated 20 box files to the Hegava Kanishta Vidyalaya. •• Thurulie donated chairs, a volleyball net and balls and school bags to 110 students at a local school nearby Thurulie. •• 50 students and 5 teachers from the Kubukgeta Central School visited Slimtex for an induction session about 5S practices. Communication On Progress 2014112 Communication On Progress 2014113 •• Slimtex donated a TV and DVD player for the Ilukhen Gunananda Maha •• Donation of stationary/books and past question paper, Awareness on 5S, Vidyalaya. awareness on environment protection, art competition, leadership and team building sessions, logistical support for educational trips, conducting sports •• 25 gifts packs with books to the Sri Sudharshana Pre-School in Mandapola and extra-curricular activities and donation of sports equipment were carried were donated by Slimtex. out by the following manufacturing plants; •• Slimtex donated 20 box files to the Yakarawatta Maha Vidyalaya. •• MAS Active Contourline Athtaragalla School •• MAS Active Leisureline Amandoluwa School •• 150 students from schools in Naiwala were invited to visit Linea Aqua plant •• MAS Active Shadowline Andiambalama Maha Vidyalaya in Naiwala with their parents and were gifted stationary. •• MAS Active Shadeline Medayaya School •• MAS Active Sleekline Dadagamuwa School •• Throughout the year, Slimline supports 3 students in higher education by •• MAS Active Synergy Pohorabawa School, Dehiowita Tamil School, providing scholarships of Rs. 6000/a month each for living expenses and Hewainna Kanda Vidyalaya, Rajasinghe Central, Morawaththa Central accommodation cost. Collage, Bamunugama Central Collage •• Material was donated to the Nadalagamuwa School, to make uniforms for 80 students who performed as part of the marching band and dance group at the school sports meet, by Slimline. Community Health: Building a Healthy and Safe Community •• 2 boards were provided to St. Michael’s Sunday School in the •• A new programme introduced to promote our associates’ health and Ambagahahena area by Slimline, where 300 students gather each week, to wellbeing titled ‘Super 8’ along with the College of Community Physicians of be utilised to help them study better. Sri Lanka. •• Slimline donated 3500 buns to be given as a snack at a ceremony of the •• The maternity ward of the Menikkhinna Hospital was renovated. This benefits Pannala National School. our employees and the wider community as well, since is the closest hospital to Linea Clothing / Linea Intimates. •• Linea Aqua donated utensils for the Home Science Room of Papiliwela Madamaya Maha Vidayalaya. •• Unichela Panadura donated white canes to 12 visually impaired individuals, to aid them to travel with more ease. •• A scholarship was given to a medical student who is the child of a Slimline employee. •• MAS Akshaya created awareness on good health practices and the importance of consuming clean water, in the poverty stricken village of •• Students from Wayamba University were invited to Slimline, for a mentoring Chinthawaram in Andra Pradesh. programme which included an induction to the company, a plant tour, sharing of best practices and activities together with mentors. •• Prym Intimates Sri Lanka upgraded the facilities of the Udupila hospital located in the Gampaha district. •• Slimline held a full-day outbound training session as part of a mentoring programme at Wayamba University. •• Over 600 employees from Unichela Panadura participated in a blood donation campaign to help the Sri Lanka Blood Bank. •• Slimline donated funds towards the construction of the Sanasa Pera Pasala in Kuliyapitiya. •• Linea Aqua donated medicine covers to the Radawana Central Hospital. This project is scheduled to continue till 2015. •• Books were donated by Slimline for the Eeriyagolla Daham Pasala prize giving. •• Bed sheets were donated by Unichela Koggala to the Kalugala Government Hospital in Habaraduwa. Communication On Progress 2014114 Communication On Progress 2014115 •• A blood donation campaign was conducted by Unichela Biyagama, where 101 employees donated blood. Building a Sustainable Future •• MAS Intimates won the coveted Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award •• Unichela Biyagama conducted a free medical eye clinic for all employees and 2014. The 11th Annual Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards hosted their families. by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC). •• Casualline built a medical room for the Pussalla Primary School, which •• Vidiyal conducted a project in collaboration with the District Secretariat in previously had no such facility. The medical room now benefits over 530 Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu and the Central Environment Authority to collect and children from Grades 1 – 5. eliminate e-waste in that region. •• MDS donated a hearing aid to the child of an employee. •• MAS ACTIVE Vaanavil in collaboration with the Civil Services Department opened a Carpet Sewing Workshop for the rehabilitated Ex LTTE Women •• Slimtex donated money for a community member from the Kuliyapitiya area Combatants in the North. to undergo an eye operation. •• MAS Intimates commenced working with the Consortium of Humanitarian •• Linea Aqua conducted the second phase of the Eye Camp where 225 pairs Agencies (CHA) and the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, who are establishing of spectacles were donated to senior citizens of the area. a network platform to link all agencies and organisations working on disaster management. •• Slimtex donated funds and 10 white canes to the Sri Lanka Welfare Organisation of Visually Impaired Women in Kuliyapitiya. •• Linea Aqua constructs the fence around the Siyane National School and creates awareness on environmental sustainability in the area. •• A water mattress was provided to the husband of an employee at Slimline who is bed-ridden, to prevent bed sores. •• Unichela Panadura developed and upgraded the Bulathsinhala Community Centre, where the community gathers to celebrate occasions etc. •• A cash donation was made by Textprint Lanka to Gayashan Kahandawa for his medical expenses due to accident. •• MAS Nirmaana built a boarding facility with special contributions from Nike Business Division and Strategic Brands Teams for an MAS associate who was •• 160 pints of blood were collected during a blood donation campaign injured in a tragic accident. organised by Slimline. The blood was given to the National Blood Transfusion Service. •• Linea Aqua painted the dormitories that belongs to the Sri Lankadhara Society, founded for the welfare of underprivileged and disadvantaged •• 20 white canes were gifted by Slimline to celebrate Annual White Cane Day, members. organised by the Welfare Organisation of the Visually Impaired Women in Kuliyapitiya. •• A team from MAS Active Operations Centre performed for HIV/AIDS diagnosed children at the Narahenpita Community Centre Hall, Colombo and •• Slimline is supporting the travel expenses of an employee who has to receive gifted musical instruments and gift vouchers. very frequent medical treatment for a back condition, over a prolonged period of time. •• Linea Aqua distributed 250 of 1000 litres of water tanks to aid those affected by the severe drought in the country in 2014. •• Prym Intimates Lanka planted 30 Ayurvedic plants in the Udupila Hospital premises. •• Unichela Panadura donated pampers, detergent, sanitary items and hosted a meal at an elders’ home in Panadura, for 75 senior citizens. •• Textprint Lanka made a cash donation towards the recovery of the mother of Jagath (company associate) who was diagnosed with Leukemia. •• A musical show was organised by Unichela Panadura to raise funds to help an employee, who lost her husband, possessions and all assets in the tsunami and faced other issues, to purchase land. Communication On Progress 2014116 Communication On Progress 2014117 •• Unichela Koggala donated tea sets to the Pulinathalaramaya temple, upon •• Thurulie made a donation towards a job fair for 500 people organised at the request. AGA office in Alawwa. •• Unichela Biyagama conducted a voluntary ‘shramadana’ project at the •• Thurulie organised a special motivational day to empower 13 differently-abled Senenawathie Matha Elders’ home, following a suggestion by the JCC. employees at Hotel Ranmal. •• Casualline organised and sponsored the Avurudu Festival in Mawathagama, •• A donation was made to the Madakuburumulla Temple to assist the where over 5000 people participated. The Avurudu Kumari prize gift was renovation process by Slimtex. also sponsored by Casuallline. This is an annual event conducted by the company. •• An almsgiving was held for 20 differently-abled members of the Praja Shakthi Divi Sarana home by Slimtex. •• Construction for a dedicated training centre to teach craftwork skills at the Sandagala Blind and Deaf School was started by Casualline, to promote the •• The transport for a day trip conducted by the Sudarma Day Care Centre in opportunity of self-employment. A water meter was also provided. Ilukhena was provided by Slimtex, free of charge. •• Prym Intimates Lanka donated 100 ceiling sheets to the Dompe temple. •• Slimtex helped renovate the Dageba at the Kandulla temple, benefiting over 1800 people. •• Matrix donated tents (covering material) for the Hunuwala temple. •• Slimtex organised an almsgiving for 350 people from the Nakkawatta area, •• Casualline donated a roof to the Samabodhiya temple in Mawathagama, to who were offering ‘sil’ for Poson Poya day at the Barigoda temple. help protect the Buddha statue. •• MAS Fabric Park donated 700 eco cement blocks for the construction of •• MDS provided funds to purchase fabric and sew uniforms for the children of R.M.R Jayanath, MFP associate’s, house construction. the Sandungama village. •• Slimtex made a charitable donation to the Bohingamuwa Temple to start •• Gift hampers containing dry rations were donated by MDS to the Welfare renovation of the ‘awasa geya’. Over 1000 people regularly attend the temple Society of the Blind. from the area. •• 40 children from a nearby orphanage were presented with a gift of their •• Funds for the ‘atapirikara’ for a puja ceremony at the Angeerasuttarara Maya choice by employees of MDS for Christmas. Temple in Narangoda were donated by Slimtex. Over 1500 people regularly attend the temple from that area. •• MDS donated funds to St. Sebastian’s College in Moratuwa to sponsor their annual Christmas event. •• Slimtex donated 15 garbage bins to the Kuliyapitiya Urban Council which will be placed around the town. •• Silueta distributed gifts and funds to 100 children of the Viharamahadevi Children’s Home in Biyagama. •• Slimline helped repair the broken water system and install a proper distribution system in the Pannala Temple. A new 20 foot water tank was built and new •• MAS Fabric Park supplied drinking water for the Parakramagama villagers plumbing was installed at the temple. Water wastage was reduced, and over who were affected by the drought. 500 people will benefit from this, including our own employees as this is the closest temple to the Slimline premises. •• Thurulie made a charitable donation to the Dedigama Kotawehera Temple in Thulhiriya for renovations. •• Slimline donated a computer to the Corps Ceylon Military Police Camp in Killinochchi, in collaboration with Vidiyal. •• A sound system was donated by Linea Aqua to the elders home located around the plant premises comprising of 25-35 female senior citizens. The •• 7 large informational boards were donated by Slimline to the Nadalagamuwa system was a requirement for the elders to observe daily prayers. Sri Rahual Maha Vidyalaya in the Ambagahena area. Communication On Progress 2014118 Communication On Progress 2014119 •• 1000 bookmarks from a WGB event were donated to the Pannala Public •• A donation was made by Slimline towards the Asela Sadaham Kalapaya at Library by Slimline, to be distributed amongst the community. the Pannala Temple •• Slimline made a monetary contribution towards the Avurudu celebrations •• MAS Fabric Park made a significant contribution to the following projects; organised by the Dankotuwa Divisional secretariat, where the elderly are provided with lunch and take part in events/festivities to celebrate the •• Alawwa Sri Ananda Bhodhiraja Temple to its Poson programme. New Year. •• Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha Cleaning Programme. •• When an employee passed away, certain individuals in Slimline contributed a day’s salary towards helping his family cope with their sudden loss. •• Donation for the improvement of the home gardening project organised by Thulhiriya MV which was placed first in the MAS Sustainable Development •• Slimline provided 150 dinners for the attendees of the Yakwila Pirith Programme. ceremony. •• Donation for “Vishwa Bala Dharma Yanthraya” organised by Warakapola •• Slimline provided 200 dinners and dessert for the Police Station. Pannala Police Avurudu celebration. •• Donation of a carpet for Mainnoluwa Maha Vidyalaya which was selected •• Slimline made a donation to the Rantharu Sports Club Buck Maha Ulela. It under MAS Sustainable Development Programme. is one of the biggest Avurudu festivals in Nadalagamuwa, where over 2000 people attend. •• Donation for construction of the new Chaithya at Hunuwala Temple. •• Slimline made a contribution to help purchase the prizes for the Ranaviru •• Donation for the proposed “Dharma shalawa” in Sumanarama Temple, Sansadaya Avurudu celebrations in Pannala. Thulhiriya. •• Trischel Fabrics assisted a poverty stricken village woman in Thulhiriya by •• Donation of cement blocks for a poor family on request by providing Rs.4,000 worth of equipment to commence her own business. Govijana Seva Center. •• Funds were also donated by Slimline during Avurudu to the Nawodaya •• Computer for Faculty of Science University of Colombo Donation of used Sports Club for the Buck Maha Ulela, Dilenatharu Sports Club Society, ceramic plates for Nangalla “Dansela”. Sithijaya Youth Society, the Kandepola Grama Sewa Samithiya, the Helping Hand Unity Service and the Suhada Welfare Society. •• Donation for purchasing equipment required by the trainees in “Muslim Ladies Study Circle.” •• 60 m of curtain material were donated by Slimline to a local school. •• Donation for the Sinhala / Tamil New Year Festival organised by •• Slimline donated 30 m of material to the Pannala AG office, “Rainbow Sports Club” in Thulhiriya. to be used for dansalas. •• Donation for the construction of “Sangavasaya” in Siriseelawimala •• Slimline donated funds towards renovations at a temple in Narangoda. Pirivena in Dorawaka •• Slimline printed and donated 60 T-shirts to the Sri Pathini Maha Devalaya •• Employees and Slimline together contributed funds for an employee to build a Perahera in Minuwangamuwa. house. •• Textprint Lanka distributed compost bins distribution to 20 villagers in •• A contribution was made by Slimline towards the Literature Festival organised Thulhiriya. by the Pannal Divisional Secretariat. •• 100 box files and A4 rolls were donated to the Kuliyapitiya Ministry of Health •• Matrix made a donation of R.10,000 towards the Award Ceremony by Slimline, to help with their transition into a 5S workplace. and “Guru Upahara Ulela” organised by Sri Mahinda Daham Pasala, Mahawaththa, Mangedara. •• Textprint Lanka made a contribution towards the construction of the Room for “Nenasala” Project at the Thulhiriya Temple. Communication On Progress 2014120 Communication On Progress 2014121 •• Slimline gifted a 19” television to the Saranath Maha Vidyalaya for Children’s Day. Embedding Sports in Our Culture •• ‘Super Fighter’, Sri Lanka’s first ever reality sports programme directed to •• Trischel Fabrics planted 100 trees around the playground at Dharmasiri scout for hidden boxing talent, launched in 2014. Senanayake Vidyalaya, Thulhiriya. •• Casualline donated t-shirts for the football, volleyball, cricket, netball and •• Slimline provided 200 buns and 200 milk packets for the Udubaddawa athletic teams of the Pothubowa Maha Vidyalaya. Many of these teams went Divisional Secretariat’s Literature Festival. on to be placed in Divisional and District level competitions. •• Slimline donated funds for the Udubaddawa Sunday School Christmas prize •• Linea Aqua sponsored the air tickets of the three children from Rajasinghe giving. Central College Hanwella and Kirindiwela Maha Vidyalaya who were selected to participate at the international school Karate Championship held in India. •• Write-off material from Slimline was given to the Narangalla Sasthaloka Pre-Childhood Development Centre. •• Casualline donated T-shirts for the football, volleyball, cricket, netball, dancing and athletic teams and the school band of the Hatharaliyadda National •• Vidiyal donated 10 water tanks to selected villages in Kilinochchi, which were School. The school band was placed in a national competition and the affected by water scarcity. dancing team won 3rd place in an all-island competition. •• During the rainy season in Kilinochchi, many villages were affected by floods. •• MAS Fabric Park provided a swimming coach to students in Thulhiriya MV to Vidiyal provided dry rations to 53 families who were displaced due to floods, enhance school swimming as a sport. helping 167 affected people. •• Silueta continued to provide coaching for the differently-abled Sri Lankan •• Dry rations and sanitary items were donated by Unichela Panadura to 100 women’s volleyball team. The former coach of the Sri Lankan volleyball team people affected by floods in the Kalutara district. works with the women every Sunday and the team was even selected to participate in the Asian Paralympic Games. •• 800 5 litre bottles of drinking water were given by MDS to 250 community members in Gurugodella in Polonnaruwa, who were seriously affected by •• MAS Fabric Park made a contribution to the volleyball tournament organised droughts and had not received much aid. by Sri Lanka Army. •• MAS Fabric Park donated a 200L plastic empty barrel for H M I U Herath, •• The uniforms for the Sri Lankan women’s volleyball team for the Asian an associate of MFP. Paralympic Games were sponsored by Silueta. •• Silueta provided water for 600 drought-affected people in the Polonnaruwa •• Silueta continued to provide boxing coaching for 10 students from selected region. schools in the Biyagama area. •• Slimtex distributed 900 5L water bottles to 150 families affected by the •• A donation was made towards the DRO Sports Meet in Kuliyapitiya by drought at the Puttalam Kuda Meddawachchiya area through the Slimtex, where over 300 athletes participated. ‘Pipasata Diyabindak’ project. •• The gifts to be presented at a volleyball tournament in Kuliyapitiya where 15 teams participated were sponsored by Slimtex. •• Slimtex provided track suits and T-shirts for the football team of the Saranath School. •• A hockey camp was organised by Slimline for over 30 university level hockey players at Wayamba University, to teach new skills and game plays. •• MAS Fabric Park donated medals and trophies for the 40th National Sports Festival organised by Warakapola Divisional secretariat and Sabaragamuwa provincial council.
