CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27 Dear Reader The Global Compact provides KMD with a general framework for its CSR work. This work is coordinated KMD has been an integral part of Denmark’s public by the Company's CSR Board, chaired by the CEO and sector for more than 40 years. Our IT systems bring otherwise comprising the Senior Vice Presidents for us into contact with thousands of Danes every single Citizen Centered Software Solutions, Legal & Business day. Almost one million Danes receive their salaries Support, HR & Facility Management and Communication via KMD’s systems, and our systems pay government & Marketing. The CSR Board issues guidelines for the benefits equivalent to more than 20% of Denmark’s Company’s CSR efforts, and monitors and ensures GDP. At the same time, we are upping the ante for IT progress on the targets set for the various focus areas. and making life easier for thousands of users in the In addition, KMD's works council serves as a reference public and private sectors, schools, home care and group for the development of CSR work. healthcare. KMD considers its overall CSR efforts to be satisfactory. We are in other words a cornerstone of the Danish welfare state, and our commitment to corporate social Best wishes responsibility (CSR) is part of our DNA. Our CSR strategy covers four main areas: digital welfare, Eva Berneke employees, climate & environment and supply chain. CEO, KMD A/S In 2014, we focused on building partnerships and developing projects in these four areas. For us, CSR is about making an active contribution, rather than presenting a barrier, to social, economic and environmental sustainability. This is set out in our CSR policy introduced in 2011 and our CSR strategy launched in 2012. KMD will review its CSR strategy STATUTORY REPORT in 2015 and expects to present a revised strategy in the first half of the year. This report constitutes the statutory report on corporate social responsibility for KMD A/S The starting point is KMD's position as an IT company pursuant to section 99a of the Danish Financial with the vision of creating digital shortcuts for Statements Act. The report provides an customers and society. As regards CSR, this means overview of KMD's work as a socially that KMD will create digital shortcuts that contribute responsible business. Further information about to a richer, safer and more sustainable society. KMD's CSR efforts can be found on its website at www.kmd.dk/csr. However, that additional Our work in these four main areas is described in more information does not form part of the detail below. Company’s reporting pursuant to section 99a. KMD first made a commitment to apply the UN Global Compact's 10 principles in 2011. We are proud and pleased to uphold this commitment and supported the Global Compact with a donation of USD 5,000 in 2014. 28 29 DIGITAL WELFARE RESULTS IN 2014 For many years, KMD’s CSR relating to digital welfare used online educational resource, the much-praised has focused in particular on health and education. Khan Academy. KMD sees real potential for digital solutions to the demographic and economic challenges facing the Danish Khan Academy is a platform that enables students to welfare model and aims to support this process in a improve their skills, particularly in the natural sciences. responsible manner. We are therefore concentrating on At the heart of the platform are a number of exercises, sharing solutions and knowledge, while remaining aware tests and instructional videos, which have previously of the challenges increased digitization may present for been available only in English. KMD and LøkkeFonden some groups in society. are in the process of translating the whole platform so that Danish students and teachers can access the entire EDUCATION public school curriculum via Khan Academy. The digitization of schools and training for young people is a focus area for KMD, and was supported by the As of the end of 2014, a total of 892 mathematics following four initiatives in 2014: videos had been recorded and uploaded to Khan Academy Denmark’s YouTube channel, and a beta HOMEWORK HELP ONLINE version of the entire platform had been launched at KMD partnered with the State and University Library da-dk.khanacademy.org/. KMD expects to launch a full in 2012 to establish three online homework cafés at our version of the platform in the first half of 2015. sites in Ballerup, Odense and Aalborg. The main target group is children and young people from disadvantaged DIGIGUIDES areas, who are typically unable to get help with KMD joined forces with the teacher training programs at homework from their parents. Boys in particular tend University College Copenhagen (UCC) in 2013 to set up not to use the physical homework cafés in their local a corps of DigiGuides – teaching students with a special communities1. interest in IT and digital learning tools who can help teachers and students with digital solutions. In 2014, We were able to provide help on just under 1,200 KMD supplied iPads and enabled DigiGuides to extend occasions in 20142. their subject knowledge by attending conferences. Besides providing help with homework, KMD also KMD EDUCATION AWARD worked with the library on further developing the digital In 2014, KMD established the KMD Education Award, platform for the project. In 2014, KMD and the State presented to an individual or group of teaching students and University Library increased the target group for who has/have taught material based on digital resources homework help by launching Lektier Online Gym, which during their teaching practice. Only teaching students is available to all upper-secondary schools in Denmark, from UCC were eligible to take part in 2014, but from and entering into an agreement with three local 2015 the competition will be open to all seven university governments, which now offer online homework help colleges, enabling all teaching students to take part. to all pupils in their areas. Each university college will nominate its own winner, and the national winner will then be chosen from the Read more at www.statsbiblioteket.dk/lektier-online seven regional entries and announced at the Schools (in Danish). Fair in Aarhus on 23 April 2015. LØKKEFONDEN AND KHAN ACADEMY The competition reflects KMD’s wish to put the use of KMD has been working with LøkkeFonden – a charity digital resources in public schools in focus and to create founded by former prime minister Lars Løkke a positive attitude to this at Denmark’s teacher-training Rasmussen “to bring boys back from the edge to colleges. In this way, we can support the training of the become useful members of society” – since 2012 on teachers of the future using the teaching tools of the creating a Danish version of the world’s most widely future. HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE 1 State and University Library, Study of pupils’ opportunities for KMD views health and social care as an important area help with homework, 2010. 2 KMD’s employees are able to swap their normal working hours of the welfare state where digital solutions have great for shifts as online helpers. All of the helpers are given potential to reduce costs and improve quality of life for introductory training and are then offered further training in homework help on an ongoing basis. both patients and the wider public. 30 DANEAGE Association, alongside 75 lung patients, lung specialists In 2014, KMD and DaneAge – Denmark's largest and Danish celebrities. KMD's employees also had the organization for the elderly – launched a new version of chance to test their lungs at KMD's headquarters in their e-learning program for those with limited computer Ballerup, when the Danish Lung Association carried out literacy as part of the organization’s drive to raise the lung function measurements in August. general level of IT skills among senior citizens. The introduction of digital post from 1 November 2014 KNOWLEDGE-SHARING makes the new digital reality a challenge for many older KMD's analytical unit published two reports in 2014: people. one on digitization of European Parliamentary elections, and one gauging leadership and management conditions The program has been developed jointly by KMD and in the local government sector and the digitization of the volunteer IT teachers from DaneAge and complements two big welfare areas: schools and elderly care. The the thousands of IT courses the organization already latter was carried out in collaboration with the Danish runs each year. KMD and DaneAge’s aim was for at least Association of Local Government Executives and Danish 25,000 users to have used the program in 2014. By associations representing managers in the local the end of 2014, the program had attracted more than government, social, health and labor market areas, and 54,735 unique users since 2012 and 19,833 users for children’s and cultural affairs5. 2014 in isolation3 – a figure largely unchanged from 2013 (19,932 unique users). This meant that we did not In 2014, KMD continued to engage users of the social achieve our target of 25,000 users in 2014. media Facebook, LinkedIn and Tumblr in debate and knowledge-sharing on digitization of the health and KMD and DaneAge also had a target for the program to education sectors in three communities, including one be used by a minimum of 60% of all DaneAge teachers, that seeks to involve parents in their children’s learning. which, at 57%, was almost achieved. This is an increase of 13 percentage points from 2013, when 44% were OTHER MEASURES using it. In 2014, KMD supported the Danish organization FANT (Football for a New Tomorrow), which uses sport as You can find more information on the partnership at a means to heal the wounds left by the long civil war www.aeldresagen.dk/dus-med-pc (in Danish). in Sierra Leone. KMD provided sportswear and other equipment from its stock, as well as old laptops for the DANISH LUNG ASSOCIATION organization to use for its work in Sierra Leone. KMD continued its partnership with the Danish Lung Association in 2014, working specifically on a new online In addition, KMD donated DKK 29,500 to a Danish patient network, snakomlunger.dk (in Danish), which charity that provides PCs to children in care. The money enables lung patients to draw inspiration and strength came from employees, who chose to donate their from one another. The network was launched in May Christmas gifts to this good cause. 2014. KMD considers its CSR work relating to digital welfare As well as the online patient network, in 2014 KMD also to be satisfactory. supported the Danish Lung Association’s “Swim for life and lungs” project, with 29 KMD employees raising DKK 18,000 for the association in a sponsored swim held in conjunction with sea swimmer Henrik Slot Nielsen swimming 18 km from Bornholm to Christiansø to raise money for and awareness of lung issues. In addition, more than 400 KMD employees took part in the KMD 4:18:4 and KMD IRONMAN4 triathlons in Copenhagen in T-shirts supporting the Danish Lung 3 As of 19 December 2014. 4 The KMD IRONMAN consists of a 2.4 mile swim, a 112 mile cycle ride and a 26 mile run. The KMD 4:18:4 is a 10th of the 5 full KMD IRONMAN. The reports can be found at kmd.dk/analyse. 31 GOALS FOR 2015 EDUCATION HEALTH AND ELDERLY CARE Homework help: KMD will continue to offer help with DaneAge: KMD and DaneAge will achieve a minimum homework online. The goal is for KMD's employees of 30,000 unique users for its e-learning program, with to provide help on at least 1,200 occasions. at least 60% of DaneAge’s IT volunteers using the program in their teaching. Khan Academy: Together with LøkkeFonden, KMD will launch a full Danish version of Khan Academy. Danish Lung Association: KMD and the Danish Lung Association will join forces to offer lung function tests DigiGuides: KMD will continue to support the DigiGuides to all KMD employees, as well as raising awareness of project. lung issues by means of joint participation and activities in connection with the KMD 4:18:4 and KMD IRONMAN KMD Education Award: KMD will present KMD Education triathlons. Awards at all seven university colleges across Denmark before selecting a national winner in April. 32 EMPLOYEES RESULTS IN 2014 KMD wants to be an attractive workplace where In addition, KMD has set a target of having a number employees are proud of the contribution we make of female managers proportionate to the number of to society – by virtue of both our products and our female employees. In 2014, 34% of KMD’s employees behavior and knowledge. were women and the share of women at all levels of management was 27%. We believe that we will remain strong as a company if we create clear structures for our employees and give HEALTHY EMPLOYEES them scope for personal and professional development. KMD conducted a workplace assessment in 2014, which showed that the working environment – both KMD operates in a highly competitive market, requiring psychological and physical – is generally good. Some us to manage costs so as to match competitors’ prices, areas require extra focus, however. For example, and in 2014 this meant having to say goodbye to 6.3% of employees reported that they had been signed talented colleagues. A total of 109 job losses were off work with stress or stress-related symptoms. In originally announced in August, but positive and addition, 102 employees (3.6%) stated they have constructive dialogue with employee representatives on experienced workplace bullying. We are very alert to the redundancy process reduced the number of layoffs the need to reduce bullying and protect employees to 66. from stress, and this will be a focus area in 2015, taking as its starting point the existing antibullying policy that New local agreements were negotiated in the spring to forms part of our employee policy. bring KMD’s employment terms in line with the market. The changes, which came into effect on 1 January 2015, Average sickness absence was 6.37 days in 2014, which include employees being transferred to function-based is 12.3% below the national average for private salaries and a standard 37-hour working week companies with office-based activities. This is on a par compared with 34.5 previously. On the other hand, we with KMD's performance in 2013 (6.4 days), and KMD now offer an improved bonus scheme and a new health aims to maintain this level in 2015. insurance agreement for all employees. With this in mind, KMD has established a health As a consequence of the adjustments, satisfaction with insurance scheme for all employees that provides access KMD as an employer has declined, with KMD employees to advice in the case of sickness absence, preventive reporting a level slightly below the average for measures, cross-disciplinary treatment, treatment comparable companies in 2014. insurance guaranteeing quick and efficient treatment, and, not least, initiatives to counter long-term sickness DIVERSITY absence, and the opportunity to obtain confidential In 2014, KMD adopted a diversity policy addressing advice on everything from personal to workplace-related issues such as the representation of women in issues. The entire package is geared toward preventing management and attracting more new graduates. long-term sickness absence, benefiting both individuals and KMD. Our goal is for the most promising prospective employees in the Danish labor market to choose KMD More than 400 employees took part in the KMD 4:18:4 regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, religion or sexual and KMD IRONMAN triathlons in 2014 – both the halforientation. and full-length versions – with training organized at KMD’s sites. In addition, more than 800 employees took In 2015, we will increase the number of graduates part in the DHL 5x5 km relay race. and allocate at least 25% of new appointments to this group. One of the means to achieve this is the KMD KMD considers the overall results of its CSR work in Graduate Program, which started recruitment in October relation to employees to be satisfactory. 2014. A total of 25-30 graduates are expected to join KMD in 2015. KMD launched a policy in 2013 for the representation of women on the Board of Directors, including a target of 17% by the end of 2016. With a share of 14.3%, this target has not yet been achieved. 33 GOALS FOR 2015 DIVERSITY HEALTHY EMPLOYEES KMD wants to maintain a share of female managers that KMD will maintain focus on a healthy workplace based is proportionate to the number of women employees on its already successful sports clubs. Special training (27% as of 31 December 2014). programs for employees wanting to take part in the KMD 4:18:4 and KMD IRONMAN triathlons will continue KMD also wants to increase the proportion of new across the business. KMD expects more than 500 graduates. employees to take part in one of these events. KMD will also seek to maintain low levels of sickness absence and reduce the proportion of employees with stress or stress-related symptoms to below 5%. 34 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT RESULTS IN 2014 As one of Denmark’s largest IT companies with around consumption despite a fall in total energy consumption. 3,000 employees plus large data centers and Denmark’s This is due to an increase in the CO2-equivalent for largest print center, each year KMD uses a similar district heating of more than 26%. amount of electricity to a town of 18,000 people, while our print center and office printers print the equivalent Since 2008, KMD has cut its carbon emissions from of 280 million pages. 17,796 to 10,864 tons, a reduction of 38.9%. We are very aware of our environmental footprint, TRANSPORT and in 2013 we were certified under the international Since 2010, KMD has worked hard to reduce carbon environmental management standard ISO 14001. emissions from transport between its sites. Having In 2014, we conducted an audit of our environmental reduced transport by 5.5% in 2013, carbon emissions management system. Our structured approach to from transport rose by 1.3% in 2014. Among other environmental work, which has been developed over things, this is because KMD’s new organization has many years, and is now certified, proved to have a increased the need for coordination and management positive effect on a wide range of parameters in our of employees at multiple locations – particularly environmental policy, which focuses on energy between headquarters in Ballerup and the site in consumption, transport and waste management. Aalborg – and the result has been an increase in air travel. The goal of reducing internal transport between In 2015, KMD will launch a strategy and policy to ensure sites by 10% by the end of 2014 has thus not been progress in environmental work. achieved. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WASTE KMD's electricity consumption totaled 30,356,802 Another focus area during the year was increasing the million kWh, a slight increase of just under 1 million recycling rate and gaining a picture of the carbon kWh compared with 2013 (3.4%). This was mainly emissions associated with waste collection as a first step because KMD gained a whole series of major in mapping our carbon footprint from cradle to grave. outsourcing customers in 2014, which has increased production in our data centers. KMD increased the proportion of waste recycled at its print and data centers from 72.2% in 2013 to 84% in Since 2009, KMD has identified 97 different energy2014. This means we have increased the proportion of saving projects and realized 86% of their potential. As waste recycled from 68.8% in 2012 and are therefore a result, since 2008 we have made savings of 8.6 far above the target of a 5% increase in the recycling million kWh, equivalent to the annual consumption of rate by the end of 2014. Focus has now shifted to more than 1,600 detached houses6 or 28.1% of our overall recycling at all sites, with a recycling rate of total energy consumption in 2008. In addition, our total 62.9% achieved in 2014. KMD will increase this by 5% consumption of heating fell by 612.4 MWh in 2014. by the end of 20167. As part of KMD's climate partnership with energy Together with our waste management supplier, Henrik supplier DONG Energy, since 2009 we have purchased Tofteng A/S, we have launched a project to build a renewable energy certificates from DONG Energy’s picture of the total environmental impact from the Horns Rev 2 wind farm equivalent to our total carbon collection and disposal of the waste we generate. emissions from direct energy consumption. KMD also purchases CO2 quotas to compensate for heating KMD considers the overall results of its environmental consumption. efforts to be satisfactory. KMD's total carbon emissions from direct energy consumption totaled 12,354 tons in 2014, up 13.7% on 2013. The majority of this increase was due to a less green overall energy mix in Denmark. There was also a slight increase in carbon emissions from heating 7 The recycling rate excludes waste from the sites in Aalborg and Odense, which is measured by collection and not by weight. The bulk of KMD’s waste is generated at the site in Ballerup, 6 An average detached home with four inhabitants consumes Copenhagen, which is home to KMD’s print center and more 5,181 kWh per year. Source: DONG Energy. than 50% of its employees. 35 GOALS FOR 2015 CARBON EMISSIONS WASTE KMD will continue to focus on energy savings in both There will be continued focus on KMD's print data centers and offices, but still anticipates a slight consumption in office buildings. The breakthrough of increase in energy consumption due to an ever larger follow-me printing will be followed up with campaigns customer base. directly targeting employees’ print consumption as well as sorting waste at source. KMD's target is still to KMD will continue to focus on reducing employees' increase the total proportion of waste recycled by 5% transport between sites. We expect to be able to reduce by the end of 2016. our carbon footprint from transport by 10% by the end of 2016. Further action will be needed to achieve this. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT KMD will continue work on the ISO 14001 standard. We will introduce a common system of environmental accounting across the Company and focus on continual improvements in terms of our environmental data so that we can continue to improve in general terms the environmental work that has characterized the last five years, and reassure our customers and partners of KMD's unwavering commitment to climate and environment issues. 36 SUPPLY CHAIN RESULTS IN 2014 Signing the UN Global Compact has committed KMD We also maintained focus on our work on regulatory to 10 fundamental principles relating to protection of compliance, especially with UK and US anticorruption human and labor rights, climate and environmental rules in light of KMD’s ownership. issues, and anticorruption measures. This provides KMD with a concrete framework for the requirements the With assistance from external consultants, KMD has Company makes of itself and its suppliers. produced a gap analysis and a risk analysis based on Transparency International’s recommendations to At the same time, KMD wants to keep tight control of optimize the prioritization of future compliance its own processes to ensure that the Company complies measures. with relevant legislation and its commitments under the Global Compact, and sets requirements for its own As KMD does business mainly with the public sector, suppliers that support these commitments. however, we have decided to strengthen the training of customer-facing employees in anticorruption. Besides Accordingly, in 2014 KMD entered into an agreement the general introduction to compliance given to all with the internationally renowned EcoVadis SAS, which new employees, in 2014 KMD therefore developed carries out online screenings of suppliers. This work will and implemented a specific e-learning program on be anchored in KMD's new central procurement anticorruption for customer-facing employees. department under KMD's first Senior Vice President, Completion of the program is compulsory, and at yearProcurement. This step will strengthen KMD’s control end 2014 more than 1,700 employees had completed it. of its supplier portfolio and ensure a more uniform approach to suppliers in general and high-risk suppliers The introduction of a whistleblower program in 2012 in particular. has given all employees and members of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors an alternative to the PARTNERSHIPS regular reporting pathways when reporting breaches In 2014, KMD implemented a new screening tool from of legislation and KMD's internal rules. EcoVadis SAS. Over the next few years, KMD will screen all high-risk suppliers on an annual basis. Suppliers are The whistleblower program covers the seven key identified on the basis of criteria such as revenue, compliance areas at KMD: anticorruption, IT security, geography and industry. The screening facilitates factauthorizations, competition law, intellectual property based dialogue with our suppliers about their CSR work, rights, contractual risk management and document while placing our Supplier Code of Conduct in a concrete management/storage. Two cases were reported and context. This will help us reach our goal of all key dealt with through the program in 2014. suppliers working in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact by the end of 2015. KMD considers its work on CSR in the supply chain to be satisfactory. KMD intends to work with suppliers to draw up action plans to help them improve their work in selected areas. KMD has also started working with its waste management supplier, Henrik Tofteng A/S, on mapping the environmental impact of the collection and disposal of the waste we generate. CORPORATE COMPLIANCE In 2014, KMD reviewed its policies in relation to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. As a result, we have revised our CSR policy so that it refers more explicitly to human rights and drawn up a new diversity policy. We have also revised our employee policy such that it now refers to the other policies in the relevant areas. 37 GOALS FOR 2015 PARTNERSHIPS CORPORATE COMPLIANCE KMD will draw up relevant action plans for selected KMD will continue the screening of high-risk suppliers suppliers identified via screenings in the EcoVadis using the EcoVadis tool. system. KMD will also continue implementation of the prioritized KMD will also continue to work with suppliers to map our compliance measures, which include having notification environmental footprint throughout the value chain. of extension of the whistleblower program – to cover external reporters, updates to the e-learning program and general updates to policies in the compliance area – approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency. 38
