Overview Approach Make Your Mark Services for society Resource efficiency Responsible behavior Building trust. Sharing value, Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Overview Our shared vision Approach is to add value to society Make Your Mark Make Your Mark Contents More on p18 About this report Overview During the year we have not acquired any Scope Intended audience About this report 01 Services for society The report applies only to those geographical businesses in new geographical markets. Our intention is to make this report At a glance 02 More on p22 markets where we had active telecommunication Our HQ in Amsterdam is also included in the available and relevant to a wide audience. Services for society operations at 31 December 2014. However, some scope of reporting for energy, health and safety Value chain 04 of those markets were not required to provide and employee numbers for the first time. However, as VimpelCom has little brand presence in any of our markets, we rely on Chairman and CEO’s letter 05 comprehensive data to support publication as We provide a list of the subsidiaries that our local brands to communicate to our we are introducing CR reporting system on a Risks, challenges and Resource efficiency phased basis. Table 1 summarizes how our comprise VimpelCom in our Form 20-F available customers on CR issues through their own at vimpelcom.com/investor-relations. Further opportunities 06 markets have contributed to this report. information on the principles that underpin our reports, websites and other channels. More on p26 We therefore anticipate this report being Key challenges in 2014 08 The report does not include markets where reporting, such as treatment of outsourced most directly relevant to the following: businesses were sold during the financial year activities, basis for estimations, definitions etc. Our approach 10 (Burundi, Canada and Central African Republic) are provided in the section ‘Reporting – The governments and public authorities in our countries of operation Resource efficiency Stakeholders 12 or businesses where we control less than 50% principles’. Our businesses report on a Responsible behavior of the equity, don’t have management control geographical market, rather than – Our investors and the financial community Materiality 14 and where they are not consolidated in our on a legal entity, basis. – The regulatory bodies that oversee More on p30 our activities Governance 16 financial statements. – Our global supply chain partners Make Your Mark 18 – The media and other opinion formers – Our employees at HQ and across Table 11 Services for society 22 Social investment our businesses. Business Markets in scope Markets included in Report Resource efficiency 26 More on p40 Units for data reporting on an ad hoc basis3 This report is as concise and focused as possible, and is supplemented where necessary Responsible behavior Responsible behavior 30 Africa and Asia Algeria, Bangladesh, Pakistan Laos with additional information available at vimpelcom.com – there is also a one-page Social investment 40 CIS Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan2, highlights document available online for those Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan who want a rapid snapshot of performance. Reporting Welcome to the third Group Corporate Responsibility Italy Italy Reporting principles 42 For more information on our (CR) report of VimpelCom Ltd, covering the year to Reporting principles and assurance, Independent Assurance Russia Russia 31 December 2014. We are publishing this Corporate See p42 statement 44 Responsibility report alongside our Annual Report Ukraine Ukraine Social investment and Form 20-F for 2014. We supplement it with further information on our corporate website, and the reports % of Service revenue 99.9% 0.1% Feedback and contact and publications of a number of our constituent We are keen to improve the value of our reporting and therefore welcome Business Units (BUs) and Operating Companies (OpCos). % of Customers 99.9% 0.1% comments on this document, and our CR information on the website. Throughout the Report, where we refer to ‘our Business 1 As of December 31, 2014. Please contact cr@vimpelcom.com Units’ (or ‘our BUs’), this also implies a reference to our 2 In 2014, data for Kazakhstan also includes 2Day Telecom and TNS Plus which were excluded from previous reports. Operating Companies (or OpCos). 3 Our business in Zimbabwe is not consolidated in our Form 20-F disclosure and is therefore not included in this Report. Zimbabwe’s subscriber numbers are included in the total subscribers figure on page 2. Reporting For further details on our business, see online: vimpelcom.com Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 01 Overview Financial performance At 31 December 2014, VimpelCom had total assets of US$41,042m. 222 19.6 8.0 5.3 Total mobile customers1 (mn) Total revenue (US$bn) Adjusted EBITDA 3 (US$bn) Net cash from operating activities (+5mn) (-4% organic2) (-6% organic2) (US$bn) (-17% reported) Approach 2014 222 2014 19.6 2014 8.0 2014 5.3 2013 217 2013 22.5 2013 8.3 2013 6.4 2012 209 2012 23.1 2012 9.8 2012 7.3 1. Customer number adjusted for disposals. 2. R  evenue and EBITDA organic growth are non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the effect of foreign currency translation, certain items such as liquidations and disposals, and settlements as a result of closing of transaction in Algeria. 3. R  efer to Form 20-F for definition of Adjusted EBITDA Make Your Mark Services for society At a glance Company structure and brands VimpelCom’s reporting structure is divided into five Business VimpelCom is a leading global Units – Russia, Italy, Africa and Asia, Ukraine, and Commonwealth Resource efficiency provider of telecommunications of Independent States (CIS), all of which report to the Company’s Headquarters in Amsterdam which employs 137 people. services in 14 countries and is headquartered in Amsterdam. Table 2: Market and brand information1 Country Operating Revenue Adjusted EBITDA Employees Mobile Customer Mobile ARPU Market (US$m) (US$m) Numbers (mn) (US$) Position The company provides voice and data services through a range of traditional and broadband mobile and fixed-line Russia (Beeline) 7,459 2,980 27,935 57.2 8.6 3rd Responsible behavior technologies. As of 31 December 2014 our operations Italy (Wind and Infostrada) 6,155 2,416 6,896 21.6 14.6 3rd covered a territory with a total population of approximately 740 million, and we had 222 million mobile customers and Africa and Asia 3,360 1,436 9,474 56,024 employees. Algeria (Djezzy) 18.4 7.7 1st Information on our ownership structure can be found Bangladesh (Banglalink) 30.8 1.5 2nd at vimpelcom.com/Investor-relations Pakistan (Mobilink) 38.5 2.1 1st Laos (Beeline) 0.2 5.3 3rd Ukraine (Kyivstar) 1,062 484 4,116 26.2 3.1 1st Social investment CIS (Beeline) 1,873 912 7,437 7 th 740m 222m Kazakhstan Uzbekistan Kyrgyzstan 9.8 10.6 2.7 5.8 5.6 5.5 2nd 1st 2nd Armenia 0.8 6.6 2nd Tajikistan 1.3 9.2 4th Mobile provider Population Mobile Georgia 1.3 4.9 3rd worldwide coverage customers Reporting 1 As of December 31, 2014. (by customer numbers) 02 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 03 Overview Table 3: Economic Value Generated and Distributed 2014 2013 (US$mn) (US$mn) Direct Economic Value Generated (operating revenue, interest and dividends received) 19,697 22,687 helping Economic Value Distributed: young people Payments to Suppliers 14,182 16,155 shape their Payments to Employees 1,539 1,806 future Payments to Suppliers of Capital 2,247 4,746 Approach Payments to Governments (taxes and license payments) 1,206 1,546 Flagship program launched in 2014 Community Investment (including sponsorships) 2 2 Total 19,176 24,255 Economic Value Retained 521 -1,568 Left; Jo Lunder, right; Alexey M. Reznikovich Our value chain comprises Chairman and CEO’s letter Make Your Mark three key areas of activity: Taking the Next Steps. Services for society Welcome to VimpelCom’s third CR Report. 2014 In 2014 we launched our ‘flagship’ program, Further information on all of these issues has been a year of achievements and challenges Make Your Mark. We established this as a is provided in the Report, which also acts for the Company and for our CR journey. Last global initiative where all of our markets are as our Report on Progress in relation to year we made some promising first steps in our contributing projects under the theme of our commitment to the Principles of the reporting and started to implement our new CR helping young people to shape their future. United Nations Global Compact. strategy across the very diverse range of markets We aim to bring education to those who would where we serve 222 million customers, supported not otherwise have access to it and to inspire Resource efficiency by our approximately 56,000 employees. and support young people to turn their ideas Alexey M. Reznikovich Marketing Operating Sourcing into new digital businesses which will improve We continue to pursue the two linked elements Chairman of the Supervisory Board their chances in life, while also helping their – Distributing mobile and fixed-line – Building, maintaining and operating the – Purchasing mobile devices and network of our approach. Firstly, building trust with our wider communities. This Report provides more telecommunication services to consumer and mobile and fixed-line communications equipment, as well as other supporting stakeholders through behaving in a responsible details on our existing projects and plans for business customers. These services include voice networks that carry our services. services and equipment. way, whilst secondly, leveraging our the future under this program. and SMS, internet access and data services, technological and commercial expertise, and the – Operating the data centers, shops and call Further information on our approach to commitment of our employees, to add value to We also launched a set of Business Principles mobile financial services and other services. centers that support the operation of our supply chain is provided on page 36. society through products and services, and social and it was great to see the involvement of our – Marketing handsets and other mobile and products and services. investment. We can deliver positive impact at employees and senior management from across Responsible behavior fixed-line communication devices through real scale when we align our core business with the business in shaping these. The Business – The businesses covered by this report operate online and retail channels. addressing the challenges that society faces – Principles will help us to drive our programs Jo Lunder over 155,000 radio sites1 (compared to – Providing a platform for third parties, approximately 132,000 in 20132), of which: youth unemployment, a deteriorating across the business and, under our Principle environment, and the pressure that a rapidly ‘We act to ensure we respect human rights’ Chief Executive Officer until 13 April 2015 such as internet service providers (ISPs) – 58% are Integrated 2G sites (67% in 2013) growing population will bring on services such we are making progress on tough issues such and other application developers, to deliver services to customers. – 37% are 3G (Node B) sites (32%) as healthcare, education, and food security. as customer privacy, anti-bribery and anticorruption, health and safety, and how we – Providing after-sales support through – 5% are 4G/LTE (ENode B) sites (1%). manage social and environmental practices call centers, websites, online forums, in our supply chain. The mobile network carried over 730 and retail stores. million Gigabytes of traffic (voice and data) As well as addressing these longer-term, ongoing Social investment We have over 6,700 fully-branded shops (compared to 440 million Gigabytes issues we have had to confront the challenges across the business (compared to approx. in 2013). of operating through civil unrest in markets such 6,400 in 2013), some of which we own and as Pakistan and Bangladesh, and the conflict This significant increase has been driven run, some of which are operated by in Ukraine. We are very proud of how our largely by growth in data traffic (rather than franchisees. management teams and employees have taken on voice) supported by the introduction of 3G and 4G services and the increasing penetration these difficult situations and, wherever possible, of smartphones and tablets. maintained services for our customers. Not physical sites. 2G, 3G and 4G/LTE technologies are 1 often co-located on one physical site. Site numbers restated for 2013 due to a change in reporting 2 definitions. Reporting 04 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 05 0.55 0.6 0.65 0.7 0.75 0.8 0.85 0.9 Overview Pakistan Bangladesh Laos Tajikistan Kyrgzystan Uzbekistan Algeria Armenia UN Human Development Index 2014 Ukraine Approach Georgia The index ranks countries on a composite measure Kazakhstan between 0 and 1. A ranking below 0.49 is considered Russia low, above 0.735 is considered high. Italy Make Your Mark Table 4: Examples of structural issues – regional, demographic or technology trends and factors Risks, challenges and opportunities Structural issue Risk/challenge Opportunity We operate in markets that are diverse and distinctive, in terms of our customers’ needs and priorities, and the local Literacy – Low levels of literacy inhibit economic – Development of services which help raise and global issues that influence socio-economic development. growth and social development in certain levels of literacy. 56% of adults in Pakistan are illiterate, communities, and limit the potential for – Improve mobile data revenue, brand loyalty Services for society with 70% illiteracy in rural areas (UNESCO). growth of mobile services, particularly and broaden the customer base. data services. We operate in some markets where most people People worldwide are also concerned about Introduction are relatively well off, and enjoy good levels of personal data security: whether it is Our agenda is heavily influenced by the markets healthcare and education. Here, mobile devices governments acting for national security or where we operate, the culture of the societies and services are seen more as a ‘lifestyle’ tool. companies for commercial reasons. This, and where we do business, and global issues such as Issues in these countries are those such as freedom to express personal, political and climate change. How these factors interact with privacy and freedom of expression, safety religious views on the Internet is an important our business model and value chain creates a online, and honest marketing. In markets where area of international focus and creates a Disability – Technology can be a huge enabler for people – Develop products, services and tariffs that series of issues that represent impacts, risks, with disabilities but can often be difficult help people with hearing loss and visual Resource efficiency GDP per head is low and access to basic services spotlight on our telecommunication businesses. challenges and opportunities for our business, such as healthcare or education is an everyday 360 million people worldwide suffer from to use, especially for people with hearing impairment to access the digital world more and we must assess, prioritize and respond challenge, mobile communication is viewed disabling hearing loss according to the World loss or visual impairment. Disability easily, increasing the customer base. to them. more as a ‘lifeline’. Issues here are more likely Structural and event-driven issues Health Organization. About 285 million people potentially excludes certain customers to be the reliability of coverage, and the are visually impaired. from our services. We use a variety of processes to identify the This combination of local concerns and global more material issues, as we explain more fully affordability of products and services. trends creates a series of challenges and on page 14. opportunities for our business at all stages of our value chain. Some of the issues are Impact of global issues ‘structural’ long-term trends, while others are Responding to local concerns Some issues transcend national boundaries and more short-lived or ‘event-driven’ (see page 8). Responsible behavior Our markets are diverse and distinctive. They present challenges which all businesses must Examples of some more structural issues, and Climate change – Impacts on network resilience of floods and – Development of products and services, such face. Climate change will affect us all, whether the challenges and opportunities they extreme weather. as Machine-to-Machine (M2M) that enable show large variances in levels of development, By 2020, between 75 and 250 million people – Impacts on customers of extreme weather, customers to reduce carbon emissions. prosperity, and environmental resource use. through economic measures such as carbon represent, are provided in Table 4. will be exposed to increased water stress, and sea-level rises and economic effects. – Resource efficiency. Naturally, our priorities need to be flexible and taxes or more directly through extreme weather, Where operators can generate income whilst yields from rain-fed agriculture could be – Increases in hydrocarbon fuel prices impacts adapt to the societies and geographies where floods, or sea level rises. The World Resources providing services which have a high societal reduced by up to 50% in some regions (IPCC). network running costs – particularly base we operate. Our customers have different Institute estimates that the number of people benefit, such as for people with disabilities, stations powered by diesel generators. priorities and this must guide our efforts as affected by river flooding worldwide could or the illiterate, the services are more likely much as any centrally determined criteria. nearly triple in the next 15 years, driven by to reach scale and be maintained. The clear Therefore, we empower local management teams climate change and population growth. evidence for this is the growth of mobile to focus on programs relevant to their markets Bangladesh will be among the countries most Social investment financial services. and society. affected, the impact exacerbated by rising sea levels – threatening food production, Privacy – Public perceptions that personal data is – Designing privacy considerations into The chart opposite illustrates the range of livelihoods and infrastructure – important not ‘safe’ with a mobile service provider products and services, policies and differences in socio-economic development as factors for the customers of Banglalink. The Online Trust Alliance (OTA) 2014 Data could lead to loss of trust in the business procedures to demonstrate leadership measured by the UN human development index. Protection & Breach Readiness Guide and sector, leading to loss of revenue. in data security and ethical practices. This illustrates the different priorities that estimates that over 740 million online records – Accusations that operators are complicit in governments, communities, businesses and our were exposed in 2013, the worst year for data human rights abuses through providing customers experience. breaches in history. governments with access to customer data destroys public trust and leads to protest campaigns and boycotts. Reporting 06 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 07 Famine, unrest Overview Pakistan has been hit by a number of natural disasters and humanitarian emergencies and floods in Pakistan in recent years, and the Mobilink team has been doing its bit to help those in need. When floods caused widespread damage during 2014, across Punjab and Sindh, Mobilink provided food supplies for around 500 families as part of the relief effort. Mobilink also sent aid to 13,000 people affected by famine in the Tharparkar region. The aid was distributed by 25 Torchbearer volunteers from Mobilink with support from the Pakistan Navy. The Mobilink CR team also provided food supplies for 8,000 people Approach among displaced families in North Waziristan. Other initiatives have included the setting up of collection camps to take in clothing, bedding, cooking materials and basic medicines for distribution around Karachi, Islamabad, and Lahore. Political unrest in Pakistan Pakistan witnessed widespread and frequent law and order problems, social campaigns and political unrest throughout 2014. This resulted in network outage, retail and office closure, with frequent complete or partial closure of Mobilink operations either regionally Make Your Mark or across the whole country. Key challenges in 2014 Some material issues arise through structural socio-economic or environmental challenges. Others are driven by more rapidly moving events. Here we look at two such examples: Ukraine and Pakistan. Services for society “Kyivstar is deeply integrated into Maintaining services Network security Kyivstar has continued to support its employees Since the issue of health protection is currently Ukraine. The fate of Ukrainian citizens There were multiple pressures on services The issue of network security in Ukraine has and their families in Eastern Ukraine through high on the social agenda, we – together with a is inseparable from the fate of the throughout the year. Periods of civil unrest in been in the spotlight repeatedly. Kyivstar has this difficult time, including by continuing to private clinic partner, Boris – have developed a company and its employees. Throughout Kiev, particularly around 20-22 February (the maintained the security of its network and offer options for those who remain, to relocate free mobile application called ‘First Aid’ which the challenging events of 2014, our focus time of the events at Maidan Square) coincided ensured that its customers’ personal data to safer areas. contains video instructions and text was on maintaining services to our with the highest levels of traffic ever remained intact. This was confirmed by the information about how to provide aid in We are relieved to report that there were no customers, and safeguarding our experienced on the network, and the need to results of inspections by both the Ukrainian emergency situations. reports of fatalities amongst Kyivstar’s Resource efficiency employees and their families.” evacuate the Kyivstar headquarters in the telecoms regulator (NCCIR) and the Security employees during 2014. Continuing our business capital. During this period, concerns were Service of Ukraine. These audits concluded –– Andriy Osadchyuk: Kyivstar’s Chief Legal During 2014, Kyivstar announced the closure expressed that there might be a forced closure there were no instances of unauthorized Supporting our customers and Regulatory Officer of its business in Crimea and we wrote off the of the network but in fact, despite the data retrieval, personal data breaches, and the broader population value of Kyivstar’s assets in Crimea, valued at technical and organizational challenges, the illegal processing or distribution of such Due to the situation in Eastern Ukraine, many $13 million. The plummeting exchange rate also network remained operational. data in Kyivstar’s network. customers were unable to pay their bills. During Our ongoing role in the Ukraine significantly impacted our business through the 2014, in order to help customers maintain In Ukraine, the events of the past year, and the In addition to technical challenges, there were The safety of our employees increase in the relative cost of imported goods access to telecommunications, Kyivstar created ongoing situation, have provided Kyivstar with also logistical issues, including ensuring We have learned that we have an extremely and services. a dedicated rate plan ‘Free Talk’. This option a series of significant challenges. provision of diesel fuel for network generators committed workforce. We had to make prompt provided citizens in the Lugansk and Donetsk Notwithstanding these challenges, the changes Responsible behavior – essential when power grid infrastructure was and tough decisions – evacuating offices and This put the business under extreme pressure regions with free calls within the network and that have taken place during 2014 have allowed impacted – into actual combat zones. closing stores to keep our people safe. During and experiencing events that were almost free mobile data. Over 450,000 subscribers have Ukraine to take the opportunity to move to the this period, a number of Kyivstar’s employees impossible to predict and plan for in advance. In Crimea, services were maintained through a used the tariff in the country’s east. next-generation communications technologies were enlisted into the Ukrainian Army to serve These challenges have included: challenging period but, in August, as a result of and attract further investment to the country. their country; others volunteered to provide Kyivstar also has its own Volunteering Council circumstances beyond Kyivstar’s control, Kyivstar In February 2015, as the result of an auction –– maintaining services to customers against humanitarian aid. that helps address the humanitarian needs of announced the shutdown of its network in Crimea. conducted by the Government, Kyivstar was a background of technical and network Ukrainian citizens. In the last four months of In June, Kyivstar evacuated the first wave of awarded one of three licenses to provide disruptions; In 2014, in Eastern Ukraine, although we don’t 2014, Kyivstar also provided financial employees in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, nationwide 3G services in the 2,100 Mhz band at a –– maintaining the integrity and security believe our network was deliberately targeted in assistance, matching funds raised by our helping them to relocate to safe regions, and price of approximately $100 million, representing of the network; the conflict, we experienced collateral damage, employees directed toward humanitarian providing them with opportunities to work in the beginning of the next phase of investment in ranging from damage to our equipment, to the purposes, including aiding victims and Social investment –– ensuring the safety of our employees; other offices, often using remote access. Almost the telecommunications future of the country. –– supporting customers, and the effects felt by the disruptions in utilities. hospitals, purchasing medical equipment and 150 employees and their families took this option. broader population; As a result, in 2014, Kyivstar seized every providing emergency assistance and warm –– continuing our business. opportunity between fighting to conduct clothes during the very cold Ukrainian winter. repairs. Reporting 08 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 09 Table 5: CR strategy framework overview To view our interactive strategy diagram Overview Strategy element Relevance to the Relevance to Status and see how our elements fall into three categories, please click here. and business principles business strategy stakeholders summary Make Your Mark will help to create a more Make Your Mark is designed to Our flagship program Make Your Mark was A: Make Your Mark Make Your Mark positive business environment, create bridges with our customers, stimulate contribute to creating more sustainable and productive societies within which launched towards the end of 2014 and incorporates some existing projects as B, C, D: Sharing Value Business Principles: entrepreneurism and new services, and our business, our customers and other well as ambitious plans for 2015. strengthen the VimpelCom brand. stakeholders can prosper in the – We transform lives through innovative long term. E, F, G: Managing Risk Approach mobile applications with social, economic and environmental benefits. Developing commercial services with Developing ‘services for society’ can Several of our markets have developed Services high societal benefit in areas such as bring benefits to society at scale. By innovative services in these areas and for society mobile financial services, mHealth and mAgriculture help profitable growth by increasing the efficiency and reach of education, health, financial services are building the scale of the impact. Business Principles: creating new data services that go and agricultural support, we help beyond the core proposition. communities, support development –– We transform lives through innovative and grow our data services and brand mobile applications with social, reputation. Make Your Mark economic and environmental benefits. Encouraging employees to volunteer in Communities benefit directly from Our BUs have a rich legacy of community Community their community, and making corporate support of local good causes through engagement and are increasingly using engagement contributions to good causes is cash and in-kind donations, and the our technology to enable our customers Our approach motivating, and helps set the impact of our employee volunteering. to contribute as well. We have Business Principles: Performance Culture. strengthened our governance of this area with the launch of a new Social –– We support community projects and Investment Procedure. encourage employees to get involved. Services for society Improving energy efficiency, network By improving our energy efficiency we are We continue to closely monitor our Our approach to Corporate Responsibility rests on three Environmental sharing and use of renewable energy making a contribution to tackling climate energy consumption, and to roll out efficiency (where economically viable) all change which benefits a wide range of efficiency initiatives. We have made main factors. We recognize and acknowledge that: Business Principles: contribute to Operational Excellence. stakeholders, whilst improving the bottom line. good progress in reducing reliance on diesel fuel in Pakistan. –– We minimize the environmental impact of our operations, the products and services we sell, and our supply chain. Resource efficiency Customer Excellence Stakeholders Engaging in global initiatives and Provides opportunities for stakeholders We have signed up to the United Nations Engage in the We are committed to creating a superior Our Strategy A range of stakeholders have legitimate organizations focused on CR helps us to to engage with us, and to benefit from Global Compact Principles and become a customer experience, optimizing distribution concerns and expectations about how our and developing superior pricing capabilities. global agenda learn, access relevant tools and guidance, and improve our performance. our improved CR performance. member of the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. We are playing an active role company operates. By engaging with them Supporting strategies include integrated mobile in a number of GeSI initiatives, including we can understand and evaluate these issues The overall strategy has the bundles that combine traditional voice with Business Principles: the key issue of human rights. We are a –– We are open and transparent with strategic partner of the WEF and and plan how best to improve our business. following four key pillars supported SMS and data, and identification of the most all our stakeholders. participate on their Global Agenda We describe our approach to stakeholder efficient distribution channels in each market. engagement on page 12. by clear operational strategies for Council on Social Innovation. each of VimpelCom’s BUs. Operational Excellence Being open and honest with stakeholders Provides opportunities for stakeholders This Group CR Report is a further step Transparency Responsible behavior We aim to operate to maximum efficiency and (e.g. customers) on key issues can to put forward their points of view, forward in our drive for transparency as Materiality Profitable Growth manage costs across our businesses. contribute to Customer Excellence. provide feedback on our performance and we are now reporting in accordance with Business Principles: Reporting openly on material issues helps potentially become partners to address the core requirements of GRI v4. More of We must prioritize these issues logically, by We aim to gain share in mobile data revenues Capital Efficiency –– We are open and transparent with set the Performance Culture. specific issues. our BUs are reporting and WIND Italy has assessing the materiality of individual issues and capitalize on areas such as mobile financial We aim to reduce the ratio of capital launched a ‘Transparency Forum’. all our stakeholders. to our strategy, and their importance to our services and partnerships with over-the-top expenditure to revenue over time by deploying stakeholders. We set out our approach to this (OTT) players, while limiting cost of traffic. capital more efficiently through increased By identifying and responding to key Initial focus areas: Our BUs are active across these areas. assessment, and the results, on page 14. Supporting strategies include driving network outsourcing and sharing, continued Responsible issues (e.g. privacy, making our services Ethical behavior – enhancing compliance In 2014, we have been strengthening smartphone and tablet penetration, valuebusiness portfolio optimization and capital behavior more accessible for disabled people) we can improve the customer experience and measures to address corruption risks. our approach and consistency of performance through development of based commissioning, promoting tiered pricing structure optimization. support Customer Excellence. enhanced Group-wide policies and Governance Business Principles: Health and Safety – consistent standards for speed and time of data, partnering with procedures. Read more about our Social investment VimpelCom also has a centrally led procurement –– We are honest with our customers Improving health and safety performance, to protect employees, contractors and Having identified the priorities, we take internet players, improving network quality and the public. progress on: model that provides advantages both at the and protect their privacy. and focusing on supply chain appropriate action in response and report on effective deployment of integrated bundles. Group and local level. –– We act to ensure we respect sustainability contribute to Operational Procurement – improving human Anti-bribery and anti-corruption our progress. This report describes our response human rights. Excellence. rights and environmental performance Health and Safety across our most material issues. The Company has implemented a systematic –– We do business in an ethical way, with Focusing on individual ethical behavior, of supply chain. approach to managing working capital and no tolerance of bribery or corruption. and the rewards and development Procurement Privacy – managing customer privacy, optimizing capital structure. opportunities available to employees whilst using anonymous data for Privacy supports a Performance Culture. commercial purposes. Reporting 10 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 11 Overview Approach Make Your Mark We engage with our private and institutional Finally, we have had informative discussions Associations, such as industry Engaging stakeholders at HQ Engaging stakeholders across the BUs shareholders regularly. with officials in the Netherlands, home of our associations, and national or international Stakeholders We are building a more structured approach to our stakeholder engagement program, Engaging with policy makers global headquarters, regarding these issues. Our BUs operate in a range of markets with diverse challenges and with different starting advocacy organizations where we are part of the governance or participate in recognizing the need for gathering general We continue to talk to authorities around the Strategic memberships points for Corporate Responsibility. committees/projects. A company can only achieve views on strategy and performance, as well world about issues relevant to our business and We continue to be a strategic partner of the the telecommunications sector generally. World Economic Forum. At the 2014 Davos There is no single process for engaging Examples: its business objectives with the as engagement on specific issues. Functional Discussions have included the critical, positive meeting, our CEO participated in the ICT and stakeholders across the BUs. Many of our heads were interviewed to improve – Nearly all of our businesses are members cooperation of its stakeholders. understanding of how we are managing existing role of telecommunications in the daily lives of cross-industry governors meetings, as well as in businesses are involved in local associations of industry associations – either global people throughout our markets, as well as the the International Business Council agenda. and initiatives which facilitate engagement. stakeholder relationships, and to identify areas Services for society VimpelCom has a wide range of stakeholders, This is summarised below. organizations such as the GSMA, or countryfor improvement. importance of promoting greater connectivity all having some type of ‘transaction’ with us, as Our co-founder and Chairman Emeritus, was a focused organizations such as the Russian and access to information for the populations Engaging stakeholder groups illustrated in our CR pages at vimpelcom.com. In 2013, we joined GeSI, and we are an active speaker at the ‘Big Brother Problem’ and the Association of Networks and Services or the we serve. – Our BUs work with a wide variety of To be successful, relationships must be member of the Human Rights Working Group, ‘CEO Dialogue on the Role of Business’ sessions. Association of Telecommunications Operators underpinned by mutual trust, which we Accordingly, we continued to discuss the VimpelCom was also involved with the ICT stakeholder groups including national and of Tajikistan. attending meetings with invited stakeholders establish and maintain by identifying and modernization of telecommunications initiatives: Digital Infrastructure, Rethinking local government departments, agencies – Hawkama El Djazaïr (Algerian Institute at the GeSI General Assembly. understanding any underlying concerns. infrastructure, including the need for the Personal Data, Risk & Responsibility in a and law enforcement organizations, local of Business Governance). This involves: We are particularly involved in the work relating efficient and timely launch of 3G and 4G Hyperconnected World, and NETmundial communities, local and international NGOs – Most businesses are members of their to operating in challenging situations, such as networks throughout our markets, the growing Initiative. and charity partners, customers, employees, national chamber of commerce or an –– understanding who our main conflict and natural disaster. We have also been demand for spectrum for wireless broadband, academia, suppliers and content providers. international version (e.g. American Chamber We joined a number of WEF Global Agenda Resource efficiency stakeholders are; members of the materiality working group. the digital agenda and other relevant issues. – Stakeholder groups are selected for of Commerce). –– understanding how business activities, Through GeSI we are able to access multiCouncils: Future of Telecommunications; Future engagement through a wide variety of – Member of the Union of Employers in products and services affect them, positively stakeholder projects such as the supply chain Our meetings included European Union of Media, Entertainment and Information processes. In many cases we are in constant Armenia. or negatively, and which of these issues capacity-building work program and the representatives, including the European Industries; and Social Innovation. We also discussion, such as on regulatory issues, – WIND Italy is a member of CONSEL (or ELIS are the most important to address; Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative, targeting Commission Directorate General for continued our support of the Social shareholder issues, through employee Consortium) – a group of enterprises focused –– responding to these issues in a way that, improvements in the conflict minerals issue in Communications Networks, Content & Entrepreneurship and Young Global Leaders engagement, and through customer care. on training and development activities aimed wherever possible, provides positive the ICT supply chain. Technology and the European Parliamentary communities. – The issues raised through engagement are at continuing education for employees and outcomes for the business and stakeholder; Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as recorded and prioritized through the We participated in a human rights workshop, In addition, the businesses in our CIS BU at increasing employment opportunities for –– reporting our performance transparently, in full. officials in our key markets. For instance, materiality process set out in this report. run by the SHIFT organisation and sponsored by worked with the GSM Association to help clarify young people. we have had extensive discussions with the radio frequency (RF) exposure standards in Responsible behavior By engaging with stakeholders, directly or the Social and Economic Council, an economic Government of Algeria over the past year, Externally developed economic, through indirect channels such as the media, advisory council of the Dutch government, those markets. environmental and social charters, culminating in the creation of a private-public we are able to improve our understanding of which involved other businesses, experts and ownership for Djezzy, which positioned Djezzy principles, or other initiatives. For more information, click here the issues we face, and are better able to find NGOs. We also sponsored and contributed to the to lead the way in that market. appropriate solutions. Examples: Wilton Park conference on ‘Privacy, security and surveillance: tackling international dilemmas In addition, we had high-level meetings with – Mobilink and Kyivstar are signatories to the This document aims to report our performance officials in those of our markets which were in these areas and provide valuable information and dangers in the digital realm’. United Nations Global Compact (Kyivstar is considering 3G and 4G auctions, including a member of the Ukrainian secretariat). for our stakeholders (see page 1 on intended In November, we responded to a letter received Pakistan, Ukraine and Georgia, to offer our – Kyivstar signed the ‘Code for the Protection audiences). from Privacy International, which made experience in the efficient introduction of of Cruelty to Children in the Internet and assertions about the way governments in these technologies to other markets, and the We firmly believe our business can be a power Social investment online resources’. certain central Asian countries are able to advantages it would bring to their people for good in the world and, although our – Beeline Russia subscribes to the Safe access subscriber data. You can see our and economies. technology is in itself ‘neutral’, its application Internet League, the Mobile Etiquette Charter response in the subsequent report, available can help make societies more sustainable while and the Russian Operators Charter on on Privacy International’s website. achieving a healthy return for our shareholders. Combating Child Pornography. – Mobilink is a member of the WWF Green Office For further details on issues that we and our Initiative and the Pakistan Centre for stakeholders focus on, please see page 14. Philanthropy. Reporting 12 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 13 Our approach to human rights Overview VimpelCom has taken a series of measures to ensure we comply with our responsibilities to respect and protect human rights. In particular, we aim to carefully and comprehensively manage human rights issues identified through the materiality assessment. These include issues such as privacy, government surveillance, supply chain labor standards, health and safety, and access to telecommunications. We have signed up to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles Human Rights relating to human rights, confirming and formalizing our commitment. We are also an active member of GeSI’s working group on human Approach The responsibility of corporations to respect human rights has become rights and are particularly focused on the work strand ‘operating in a particular focus for some stakeholders. The UN Guiding Principles on challenging environments’ (including conflict situations, natural Human Rights states: “Business enterprises should respect human rights. disasters and politically sensitive circumstances). The process involves This means that they should avoid infringing on the human rights of others engagement with stakeholders through a High Level Panel and an and should address adverse human rights impacts with which they are Advisory Group. In November, we also took part in and sponsored the involved.” This responsibility to respect human rights is a global standard conference ‘Privacy, security and surveillance: tackling international of conduct that applies to all business enterprises wherever they operate. dilemmas and dangers in the digital realm’, held at Wilton Park in Make Your Mark We participated as a member of the GeSI the UK. Working Group and so were well-positioned For more information on our Since the publication of the UN Guiding Principles in 2011, the Materiality to assess if this new, detailed research should affect our existing materiality position. approach to materiality and last years’ performance, click here performance of businesses in relation to human rights has come In December, we conducted human rights training for our CR teams across our business units and operating companies and we aim for under heightened scrutiny. Businesses operating in the ICT sector have come under particular scrutiny and this has been reinforced through the our BUs to start carrying out human rights due diligence Our CR approach is designed to In addition to long-term and ongoing issues, assessments on a phased basis from 2015. specific political, legal, social and publication of the EU Guidelines for the implementation of the UN Guiding focus on the most important, or environmental events can also affect the Principles specifically for the ICT sector. It is clear that many of the issues material, issues for our business. business and our stakeholders. In 2014 identified in our materiality matrix (table 6 below) contain human these included: rights implications. Assessing CR issues Services for society These are the CR issues that exercise the –– The ongoing conflict in Ukraine (see page 8) greatest influence over the assessments –– The ongoing investigation by the US for materiality Securities and Exchange Commission, the US and decisions of stakeholders, and the Department of Justice and the Dutch Public The 2008 GeSI/BSR Materiality Report commercial success of the company. This Prosecution Service (Openbaar Ministerie) approach to materiality needs to balance a included a spreadsheet tool to help (see page 35). Table 6: Our 2014 materiality matrix number of different factors, such as: score individual issues in the CR issue A number of markets also experienced sporadic ‘universe’. We adapted this tool to fit –– The issues of most concern to stakeholders. civil unrest, often linked to elections or political the objectives that underpin our Economic development Government Consumer privacy Anti-bribery and Higher Stakeholders bring a wide range of protest (in 2014, this included both Bangladesh business strategy and which reflect our surveillance and data security anti-corruption perspectives, and help identify our most and Pakistan) and natural disasters, such as Protection of minors Resource efficiency range of stakeholders. Each issue was Supply chain social Network Accessibility: critical environmental, social and economic further flooding in Pakistan (see page 8). scored against the following criteria: Occupational and environmental reliability and service availability/ Health and Safety impacts, and the most significant issues for As a result of these various factors, the standards coverage affordability society that are linked to our activities. Online safety following issues were considered to have (fraud etc.) Disaster response Responsible S ocial application Understanding their perspectives helps us become of greater relevance to the business: Relevance to business strategy Corporate governance marketing of ICT services Freedom ensure we take the right issues into account. – Relevance to ‘Customer Experience’ of expression RF emissions and health Customer Accessibility: literacy, –– Privacy and freedom of expression satisfaction physical impairment – Relevance to ‘Winning in Mobile Data’ concerns –– The issues most linked to the success of the –– Anti-bribery and anti-corruption business – this is to ensure we understand –– Supply chain social and environmental – Relevance to ‘Growing Beyond the Core’ Importance to Stakeholders the issues where there is the most direct standards. – Relevance to ‘Cost Efficiency’ Responsible behavior connection with the success of our business. Employees: diversity Environment: In addition, we have added a new issue, – Relevance to ‘Employee Culture’ and equal opportunity company Talent Acquisition, Retention, Development – Relevance to ‘Reputation’ energy use and Reduction to the updated materiality matrix. Employees: Refreshing the assessment (risk or improve). working hours and Environment: We have updated the materiality assessment The situation in Ukraine is clearly material remuneration device recycling Talent Acquisition, Retention, ICT services and climate change published in last year’s report, based on two for the business but encompasses multiple Importance to stakeholders – Customer safety Environment: Development, Reduction factors: the results of a major new materiality issues. Therefore this issue is not included while driving device energy to what degree is the issue: use/raw in the updated matrix but is the subject of Environment: visual assessment commissioned by GeSI in 2014, and – on Government agendas? impact/network materials separate disclosure. significant events that have occurred in the – a regulatory focus/legal requirement? recycling Cyber-bullying intervening period. Further information on the For mobile operators, some issues such as service – a Customer/Media/Public issue? quality remain fundamental to their CR agenda. Social investment materiality review conducted last year can be – an NGO Issue? found on the CR pages at vimpelcom.com. Others, such as health concerns over radio Environment: climate change risk (infrastructure/ – part of CR indices/a ‘GRI issue’? frequency emissions, appear to have declined as customers) The GeSI assessment once again involved a knowledge and awareness have developed. Other This approach allowed a well-rounded Environment: other multi-stakeholder interview exercise and also issues still – such as privacy – have rocketed in view of the significance of the waste and recycling referenced work done by the Sustainability importance as technology and culture change individual issues. Mobile theft Accounting Standards Board (SASB), which faster than the regulatory framework. As many of Freedom of association published a list of potentially material issues our businesses operate in emerging economies, for the ICT industry in April 2014. our materiality ‘matrix’ tends to be dominated Lower Environment: water use more by social and economic development rather than environmental issues. Lower Relevance to Business Strategy Higher Reporting 14 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 15 Overview Developing our business principles A key challenge to implementing the new CR strategy is But as well as raising awareness, the Business Principles should also: to raise general awareness across the business of what – help in making decisions; Corporate Responsibility means for our Company. – be a statement of our commitment to appropriate standards of Approach To many, it’s all about philanthropy and volunteering, but this is only behavior; one element of the overall approach (see page 11). One way we are – form the basis of how we evaluate the BUs’ CR performance. addressing this challenge is to summarize our approach in a set of The Business Principles need to work alongside our strategic concise, easy to understand Business Principles. And one of the best framework (see page 11), our commitment to the UNGC Principles, ways to raise awareness was to involve people in defining them. and our materiality assessment, and also reflect the views and priorities of our employees and leadership team. Make Your Mark We monitor BU CR operational performance CR reporting regularly, and in 2015, two Management Board Governance meetings will again feature BU CR on the agenda, to review KPIs and progress. A number of our businesses have been producing their own CR reports for some time. WIND Italy has produced reports for many During 2014, we strengthened We have not mandated any particular years, the latest being GRI-level B+, with governance approach to CR for the BUs, though our approach to CR governance, all BUs and OpCos have CR officers or small independent assurance and in line with the AA1000AS assurance standard. Mobilink has and will make further advances CR teams. In Pakistan, Mobilink has formalized produced several CR reports since 2008 and in 2015. We set out our many of its CR programs through the Mobilink Beeline Russia published a comprehensive first Employee involvement Leadership team input Services for society Foundation, and several of our CIS OpCos have CR report in December 2014. broader corporate governance formed committees to closely assess and In May, we started the consultation by launching a video on our intranet, where Each year, the Global Leadership Team (the GLT) – approximately 150 of the most Kyivstar and our CIS businesses regularly publish arrangements in detail in our formulate appropriate responses to the documents covering their charity, volunteering our CEO set out the broad parameters of our CR approach and invited all employees to senior executives across HQ and the BUs – get together to discuss business strategy, significant volume of charity requests participate in helping to define our Principles. We then hosted an online discussion results and progress. At the 2014 GLT meeting, we launched our flagship program Annual Report and Accounts they receive. and environmental programs. Banglalink has to collect the views of our employees. This prompted some helpful comments: (Make your Mark) and also involved our senior executives in defining the Business also taken the first steps in compiling a first Principles. Over 110 senior executives voted for their top priorities from a list of 15 and Form 20-F. We share CR best practice, including at CR “We can make an impact by adhering to a list of business principles and clearly potential statements. The top three priorities related to ethical behavior report. communicating these to our partners – be they vendors, charitable organizations that (anti-bribery and anti-corruption), transformational mobile services (services for meetings in Rome in May and Amsterdam in we sponsor, or distributors.” Banglalink employee At HQ, throughout 2014, the CR team had a We are asking all our markets covered in society) and honesty with our customers. December. As well as collaborating through reporting line to the Group Chief Financial this report to develop their own CR reports, “Telecommunications has significant potential to add value to people’s lives, contribute The photographs on page 16 show GLT members working on the Business Principles monthly calls and our intranet, we have more Officer, and had access to the Group Executive to social and economic growth, create a positive impact in society, and help shape Resource efficiency detailed sessions which, in 2014, covered RF which meet the requirements of the GRI at the 2014 GLT meeting. Board (GEB), the top operational committee, a sustainable future.” Kyivstar employee emissions, volunteering, and our new social version 4 guidelines over the course of for issue by issue decisions. During the year, the next three years. “I do think that transparency is the base for any stakeholder relationship… I think that investment process. transparency is the most important indicator for ‘best company.’” WIND employee CR featured twice on the agenda of the global Management Board of the Company, which VimpelCom operates an enterprise risk comprises members of the GEB and the CEOs management approach, with CR part of the Management systems of the BUs. In June, we also made a progress risk review process. We assess risks regularly, report to the Nominating and Corporate A number of our BUs have implemented based on their likelihood and the potential Governance Committee of the Supervisory CR-related management systems, the most severity of the impact on the business, and Board of the Company. prominent example being WIND in Italy, which prioritize and mitigate them based on the has developed an approach which comprises Responsible behavior risk appetite of the business. Also in 2014, we launched a set of Business not only ISO 14001 (Environmental We transform lives through innovative mobile applications Principles, which helps communicate our CR Risk appetite, and our risk management Management),OHSAS 18001 (Occupational with social, economic and environmental benefits agenda to employees and other parties, and approach, is established by the Group Executive Health and Safety Management) and SA8000 will start to influence the development of Board. Certain risk factors impacting our (Social Accountability), but also ISO 9001 We are honest with our customers and protect their privacy related policies and approaches. The Principles operations are set out in the Form 20-F filed (Quality) and ISO 27001 (Information Security). augment the existing Code of Conduct, which with the US Securities and Exchange Djezzy in Algeria has also implemented an covers a broad range of compliance issues Commission. environmental management system to ISO Our Business Principles We act to ensure we respect human rights relating to the personal behavior of employees. 14001 standard. The Code of Conduct is available on our website. Based on all these views, the GEB approved We do business in an ethical way, with no tolerance of bribery Social investment or corruption a set of seven Business Principles in October 2014, and these are listed on the right. These We are open and transparent with all our stakeholders Principles, along with our CR Strategy, will form the basis of a performance monitoring We minimize the environmental impact of our operations, the products and services we sell, and our supply chain framework for our BUs which includes the development of a set of objectives. We support community projects and encourage employees to get involved Reporting 16 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 17 Overview helping young people shape their future Approach Make Your Mark Understanding the context for digital entrepreneurism Services for society To launch the Make Your Mark initiative and set the context for the program, Make Your Mark Make Your Mark includes three sets of activities: How we can help VimpelCom commissioned a report into We have chosen these three themes because they matter deeply to our the digital entrepreneurial environment. people, our customers and wider stakeholders. But also because they are areas where we as a company can make a real difference. As a mobile The report, ‘Enabling Entrepreneurs in a Mobile World’ Educate operator, we can bring the technology, skills and resources that are available at vimpelcom.com, describes three important In 2014, we launched a Group-wide program Using technology and resources to proven to make a difference. themes that are helping shape the modern world: Resource efficiency 1. The significant societal challenges that today’s young called Make Your Mark, which focuses on bring education to people who would otherwise not have access to it. Why we developed a global theme people will face over their lifetimes. ‘Helping Young People Shape Their Future.’ We fully recognize the social, economic and financial challenges that young 2. The potential for digital technologies to provide solutions to many of these challenges. The program’s brand reflects our aim to help Support people of today will face over the next 20 years. We also recognize that these are our current and future customers, and we want to empower them 3. The fact that much of the innovation in digital businesses young people leave their fingerprints on the For young people with creative digital to address these challenges, alongside our own contributions, to help ensure the success of our business in the long term. is coming from aspiring young entrepreneurs – who need support and nurturing to be successful. world – to make their mark. commercial ideas, helping them build businesses and careers. Many of our services for society and social investment initiatives This high-level review of the digital start-up landscape Responsible behavior are developed locally by our BUs to address local issues and market conditions. While these have demonstrable impact, by creating a global recommended three key steps for mobile operators to Make Your Mark enables us to make a significant positive impact on society by project across all our markets, we hope to create real impact at scale, and better support young tech entrepreneurs: involving all our BUs and OpCos in contributing initiatives and projects under one Inspire to share knowledge and best practices more effectively than is possible common theme. It incorporates ongoing projects, but is also leading to the creation 1. Shifting their corporate culture and mindset to adapt to Young people to turn their energy through disparate, disconnected activities. the world of digital entrepreneurs. of many more. and enthusiasm into digital solutions The breadth and depth of the program should also help us to forge 2. Gaining a more detailed understanding of the needs The aim is to help the next generation find solutions to the challenges the future for challenges in healthcare, food partnerships with global stakeholders, to help magnify the impact that of digital entrepreneurs to identify the practical will bring, such as climate change and resource scarcity, rising population and the production, education and access to we can have. Make Your Mark will also help bind our businesses together support required. pressure this will bring on access to the fundamentals of society like healthcare, finance – creating services similar to and instill employee pride in VimpelCom, as well as our local brands. education, employment and food. The goal of Make Your Mark is to empower young our own ‘services for society’. 3. Creating the right environment for innovation to flourish Social investment people to make a positive difference through increased access to education and by entering into creative partnerships with other players through inspiring social entrepreneurship, particularly in the digital arena. in the ‘ecosystem’. This is a key part of what Make Your Mark sets out to achieve – stimulating an innovation pipeline that will help young people shape their future. Reporting 18 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 19 Overview Approach Make Your Mark Bangladesh Russia – expanding the scope of the Grandmaster – working with UNESCO to bring mobile Make Your Mark in action Our plans for 2015 business idea contest to anyone from age 16 to 35, with greater publicity, and including technologies to schools in remote Arctic regions – donating routers app development. The winner’s app will be and other equipment; Launched at the end of 2014, available at the Banglalink app store. – working with the Bauman Moscow State Make Your Mark will gather Georgia Technical University to help young deaf people acquire more skills through business momentum and scale through – bringing together government and and telecoms courses, mentoring students 2015 as local plans come commercial partners to research the needs Services for society and donating especially adapted equipment; of young digital entrepreneurs in Georgia, together under the theme. – continuing to translate online courses from and so identify opportunities for providing some of the world’s leading universities support. Our businesses have agreed on some specific into Russian. programs they will be running (below), and Italy Ukraine we will provide an update on their progress – continuing to run WIND Business Factor; – launching a competition to find talented Mobile literacy Young entrepreneurs Equipment and services in our next report. With many projects already – creating the WIND Start-up Award for social digital entrepreneurs; established under the Educate and Support innovation based on open data and online Mobile-based literacy in rural Pakistan A helping hand for young entrepreneurs Providing access to ICT equipment – providing high-quality distance-learning for aspects of the program, in 2015, we will start cooperation, supporting WIND’s focus on Ukrainian students; Mobilink developed a pilot scheme with UNESCO and the – WIND Business Factor launched in March 2011 to – Many schools in our markets, particularly in to develop the Inspire element more strongly. transparency; – bringing world-class economists to Resource efficiency Bunyad Foundation to educate rural women, a group support a new generation of entrepreneurs through disadvantaged or remote rural areas, often do not – supporting ‘Latuaideadimpresa’ (your idea of mostly excluded from the conventional educational a ‘social business network’. Anyone with an innovative have access to basic ICT equipment. Mobilink address young entrepreneurs at the system in Pakistan. Mobilink’s mLiteracy program helps idea can find the tools and resources to turn it into Foundation worked with Ranra School, a community enterprise), which helps high-school students Kyivstar Business Hub; teachers offer a basic literacy curriculum using SMS – a business. The incubator website focuses on the school in KPK, to set up a state-of-the-art ICT Lab, In 2015, we will be helping young propose start-up ideas, and supporting them – donating ICT equipment, free internet and with free connectivity for teachers and learners. The three key factors entrepreneurs need – relationships, which can now provide computer-based education people shape their future as follows: in developing their business plans. program’s project facilitators organize classes in small knowledge, and opportunities – including 500 to more than 200 students. The Foundation also set capacity building to Ukrainian schools; learning centers in villages, often in the houses of local editorials providing advice, and 200 video tutorials. up a computer lab for Petalloid Higher School, a Algeria Kazakhstan – identifying and supporting talented science elders, and learners’ responses are logged to monitor It runs regular competitions where finalists are community school near Lahore which now provides – providing a distance learning internet and mathematics students. their progress. invited to pitch their ideas to investors. In 2014, computer-based education to 900 students. – building new partnerships with 20 universities to share resources and training; program; the competitions focused on social innovations. Russia, Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, The project started in 2009 with 250 female learners in Wind Business Factor is now a community of more – In Kyrgyzstan, Beeline provided 213 libraries with – funding a media library for a school at Beni – providing master classes for students through rural Punjab, and by the end of 2013, it had embraced free high-speed internet for Kyrgyz citizens to Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan than 24,000 users, over 5,000 start-up and business Abbès in the South of Algeria, and providing the Beeline Business Club, with world-famous – Make Your Mark’s first regional project, Responsible behavior 5,000 women across the country. Early in the project, ideas, and over 21,000 social media followers. access a wide range of information. It also enables the proportion of students graded as ‘A’ for their literacy the country’s librarians to conduct educational a reading room for the children of the business trainers; To watch a video about the project visit a mobile app competition. Young people skills increased from 28% to 60% after being enrolled conferences online. Casbah in Algiers. – continuing to provide free internet access to vimpelcom.com/Responsibility will receive briefings, mentoring and training on the program for six months. disadvantaged children in orphanages – we’ll – Grandmaster, Banglalink’s contest for students to come – In Kazakhstan, Beeline runs the ‘Unlimited Armenia and compete within their countries, and The project has expanded to enabling rural women to Opportunities’ program, providing free high-speed connect up to 15 more institutions in 2015. up with innovative telecommunications services ideas, – helping tackle rural exclusion by giving more then the region, for the award, to be better manage domestic finance, and to raising subjects ran its third competition in 2013, with five finalists for internet to social institutions. In 2014, we connected such as religious tolerance and equal opportunity. The four institutions, involving 1,500 children, including than 50 young people, from 10 villages, Kyrgyzstan presented at the Mobile World Congress in the 2014 final selected from an impressive 1,200 program has noticeably reduced gender bias to mobile entries. The ultimate winners, from Chittagong those with sight and hearing impairments, training in modern technologies to equip – continuing to provide free internet access for Barcelona in 2016. use, and participants have reported a heightened sense University of Engineering and Technology, created an and musculoskeletal disease. them with the skills they need; internet libraries and universities. of security through having access to this means of app for booking bus tickets, often difficult in communication. – In Ukraine, Kyivstar connected 270 schools and – developing a project to improve agricultural Pakistan Bangladesh. orphan-houses to free high-speed internet. education by creating a special platform to – continuing the mLiteracy program, and In early 2014, the Mobilink Foundation secured a grant of – In Kyrgyzstan, Beeline’s ‘Start-up Weekend’ included train 235 young people from four regions; Social investment $286,000 from the Private Infrastructure Development – To make digital education more popular and extending it to 3,500 further learners in seminars and competitions for local entrepreneurs accessible for young people in geographically Group (PIDG) to extend the scope and the scale of the – holding a second technology entrepreneurship 2015 overall; across five regions, with the best business idea isolated and remote areas, Beeline Russia provides literacy program in 2015. This will allow us to enroll an receiving a cash prize to implement it. summer camp to help young people establish – launching the Mobilink Make Your Mark additional 2,500 rural women in 100 new learning centers a partnership with the Coursera project. Its aim is to translate online courses from more than 100 their own IT businesses, through practical and mEntrepreneurism Award – a digital business in five districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa – KPK – in remote – In Kazakhstan, Beeline ran the Zhas Camp – an annual north-west Pakistan. conference providing training for students – with universities into Russian, covering a wide variety theoretical business advice; and app development competition for young of fields of knowledge from the natural sciences – launching the App Armenia platform to At the 5th annual Ethical Corporation Responsible competitions to promote entrepreneurship. to the humanities, to inspire young people to make people aged from 16 to 32 years; promote development of Armenian language – providing six fully equipped ICT labs in Business Awards, the mLiteracy program won the ‘Most – Djezzy in Algeria is the main sponsor of the FIKRA the most of modern technology. effective international community investment.’ conference and, as part of this, runs an annual content on the internet, and launching different provinces, with volunteers helping competition for young entrepreneurs, rewarding the Armenian-language secondary school build staff capacity. To watch a video about the project visit most innovative ICT projects. Of 126 applications, it vimpelcom.com/Responsibility. curriculum-based video classes. chose one winner in each of mLearning, mHealth, social media, games and mEnterprise. Reporting 20 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 21 Overview “Research has shown that the most effective way to significantly expand poor people’s access to formal financial services is through digital means.” Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Approach Financial inclusion in Bangladesh In Bangladesh, Banglalink plays a pivotal role in financial inclusion by partnering with a range of the country’s major MFS service providers and banks to act as a network and Make Your Mark distribution provider for their MFS, all regulated by the Central Bank and BTRC (Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission). The Banglalink network currently serves almost six million MFS subscribers, about a quarter of all MFS customers in the country. Banglalink also has approximately 24,000 cash points and provides connectivity for money transfer services for Bangladesh Post Office branches across the country. Plans for 2015 include expanding the retailer base to ensure availability of MFS Services for society services for customers across the country. Services Several of our businesses are developing ‘societal’ services Bringing financial services to millions in areas such as financial services, health, education, and of new customers in Pakistan agriculture. A number of projects featured last year are now part of our Make Your Mark program, and are covered Mobile Financial Services (MFS) In Pakistan, Mobilink launched its Mobicash service in in that section. late 2012, in collaboration with Waseela Microfinance Bank. for society MFS is a particular priority within our business It is regulated by the State Bank of Pakistan under its strategy and we offer applications across our Branchless Banking initiative, and in a country where Services for society can: formal bank use stands at just over 10% of the population, Resource efficiency business. In countries such as Italy, our focus is on it is helping bridge the digital divide and bring financial – have a real impact at scale for the populations we serve. A more prosperous, educated, productive and healthier areas such as e-ticketing, paying for parking and inclusion. Mobicash has become a major player and one of the fastest-growing MFS operations, with over 29 million population will also support the growth of our business; content. In Russia and Ukraine, MFS is seen as a key We can create value for our shareholders – generate additional revenue through incremental sales transactions since launch. With over 51,000 retail agents, element of the move from cash-based to cashless urban and rural, Mobicash helps customers carry out basic and broader society by designing and of data services; – encourage innovation, and create services that reduce societies, improving security and trust in financial financial transactions such as fund transfer, bill payment and domestic remittances, either over the counter or from their providing services which bring specific churn and increase brand loyalty; – build deeper relationships with government, communities transactions such as salary payments. mobile accounts. positive benefits over and above simple and local NGOs, which in turn can lead to a better Mobicash also offers mass payment solutions to corporate Responsible behavior However, the positive socio-economic impact of these services is most regulatory environment for our business. evident in developing economies with limited banking infrastructure, and public entities, reducing the potential for corruption connectivity. By making the most of our It is not always straightforward to find a business approach such as Pakistan and Bangladesh. Here, we focus on providing improved associated with cash payments. It has been used for disbursing government aid to victims of flooding in Pakistan, technology and our operational expertise, that at least covers costs, but this is key to sustaining programs for the long term. We are constantly exploring the access to basic financial services, such as transferring money and paying bills, for the large unbanked proportion of the population. As well as and NGOs are also major users of the service, collecting and we can develop large-scale solutions opportunities in this area, and are developing partnerships individual customers, we are working closely with government and charity organizations to help them to provide welfare, donations, subsidies and distributing funds more efficiently. and initiatives to encourage third parties to bring their The company has formed partnerships with other financial which address some of society’s problems, service ideas to run over our networks. social security payments directly to those who need them. The security institutions, and is currently evaluating other partnerships and traceability of MFS transactions is also seen as a major tool in the while also representing good business. fight against fraud and corruption. with global payment service providers. It will soon also be offering services in savings, lending, insurance and retail Social investment We are also preparing our CIS markets, and Algeria, for the introduction payments. In a recent survey, Mobilink’s MFS users were of MFS after 2015, and are currently working to overcome any legal, found to be 40% urban and 60% rural, with 75% of users in regulatory, commercial and technical hurdles. Mobile payments are both regions in low-income segments. The predominant age expected to launch in Kazakhstan in autumn 2015. group is early 30s, with males accounting for approximately 80% of overall transactions. Reporting 22 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 23 Overview Apps and services for emergencies Healthcare app makes top 10 Mobilink in Pakistan has launched an app to enhance personal In Kazakhstan we launched the Dariger app, with security – the ‘Mobilink Guardian’ lets a user send a range of different alerts information about diagnosing and treatment of the to friends and family in emergency situations, quickly and easily. main types of disease. It’s one of the 10 most downloaded free apps in the country. Approach In Russia, Beeline provides an emergency service, Sistema Zabota, for senior and disabled people to get direct access to medical care, and inform relatives, through a button on their mobile phone. Make Your Mark Agriculture The nutrition gap Health applications A growing number of studies demonstrate the role mobile can For some time, businesses have been looking at play in improving the efficiency of agriculture. In many of the In the period 2012-14, 17% of the population the potential for using mobile technology to improve in Bangladesh and 21% of the population in countries where we operate, agriculture is vital to the economy, Pakistan were classed as undernourished healthcare provision. Several of the UN’s Millennium and key to prosperity. Supporting farmers makes business sense (10% in Georgia and 32% in Tajikistan). Development Goals focus on improving healthcare Services for society for them, and for our business, as more prosperous, successful Source: UN FAO provision, with a particular focus on maternal customers are likely to reinvest in our services. health and child mortality. Mobile technology can improve people’s access to advice and other services which help governments achieve more for healthcare, more mHealth apps in the Ukraine cost-effectively and efficiently. In Russia, for instance, there has also been a focus on developing service solutions for people with disabilities, particularly those with hearing and sight impairments. mAgriculture – better Of the total labor force in Bangladesh, 47% work in Apps providing emergency and Resource efficiency long-term healthcare information, better prosperity the agriculture sector. However, many people still struggle to make a decent living, often due to lack Machine-to-Machine (M2M) technologies for healthcare Mobile medical applications are especially useful for of expertise, or access to information or markets. families who struggle to access good quality healthcare Since October 2012, Beeline has been providing M2M solutions to services. In 2013, Kyivstar in Ukraine launched a range To help address these issues, Banglalink launched the emergency medical services in the Kurgan region in Russia. As part of medical mobile applications as part of the mHealth several services under mAgriculture: Krishi Jigyasha, of the federal project to equip this service with the GLONASS navigational program. The apps provide medical advice for users on which provide suggestions and answers to queries positioning system, ambulances use SIM cards connected to VimpelCom’s their mobile phones. They have been developed with about agriculture, vegetables, fruit, farming, poultry, ‘M2M Control Center’. leading medical experts, are free of charge and available livestock and fisheries; and Krishibazaar, a mobile The GLONASS system allows the emergency medical services to plan on all mobile phones, regardless of the operator. voice-based agricultural marketplace and market price Responsible behavior ambulance routes effectively, helping them minimize the time needed information service, where people can buy and sell The latest app, launched in 2014, provides emergency to reach their destinations, and also optimizing fuel costs. If necessary, their products by phone, and get a better price by first aid advice by video and text. It is designed to help the devices can also transmit SMS messages with medical records and removing the middlemen. people treat a variety of wounds and injuries while preliminary patient examination data so staff can prepare for the waiting for the arrival of medics. The app also offers Today, these services receive thousands of calls a arrival of patients in critical conditions. The user-friendly interface the user a simple way of sending their location to five day, and offer farmers an easy, relevant and readily helps the medical departments manage all wireless connections. predefined emergency numbers by SMS. available source of information or channel to market. At the start of 2014, the solution was in operation in 19 of the region’s cities and hospitals, and in a total of 175 ambulances. Other apps available under the scheme include ‘My Little In 2014, with our strategic partner, Katalyst, we Star,’ which helps expectant parents keep track of their piloted a field-based activation campaign in various baby’s development and provides reminders of antenatal agricultural districts of Bangladesh. We developed appointments, together with information on healthy Social investment links with lead farmers to disseminate information to lifestyle and diet. ‘My Little Star Year One’ helps parents other local farmers to create awareness. Based on its success, we believe there will be good opportunities 50% gap in antenatal care care for their child during the first 12 months, with information on development, breastfeeding and to expand this campaign throughout 2015. vaccination. ‘I Can See Well’ is a mobile app for helping For more information see the short video at prevent problems with sight, offering users easy-to-do vimpelcom.com/Responsibility The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a minimum exercises for the eyes. There have been over 100,000 Follow the link to watch the short video of the of four antenatal care visits. However, global estimates in downloads of these apps since launch. project: click here January 2015 indicate that only about half of pregnant women For more information see the short video at receive this recommended amount of care. vimpelcom.com/Responsibility Reporting 24 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 25 Overview Issues and priorities Issues relevant to mobile operators include: – energy consumption – mainly energy consumed in our base stations and Approach data centers, but also in our offices, and by our fleet of vehicles; – solid waste – mainly used network equipment, handsets and other electronic items, but also cables, concrete and office waste; Make Your Mark – local effects such as the noise, vibration and visual intrusion of our base stations. Our responsibility for protecting the environment extends beyond our own operations, and we also look at the impact of our supply chain, the use of our products and services by customers, and the end of life of those products. Services for society Our priorities lie where there is the biggest environmental impact and greatest concern, the biggest opportunities to Resource We are aware of the potential benefits mobile technology can bring in Managing environmental issues makes good save money or support our operations, and where there are helping people reduce their carbon emissions, and this happens daily business sense in: opportunities to involve our customers and employees. as people use voice and data services in place of travel and material consumption (e.g. digital music replacing CDs). One area of focus for the ICT sector is M2M technology and applications in the automotive, efficiency Based on our assessment of materiality, including Reducing cost logistics and utility sectors are generally seen as promising areas for our knowledge of programs elsewhere in the industry, emission reduction. We are a member of the M2M World Alliance, a our priorities are: Resource efficiency generally means cost efficiency. Resource efficiency partnership of seven leading operators around the world. – improving the energy efficiency of our network and data centers; – introducing renewable energy solutions wherever In the longer term, it is clear that Managing risk M2M services – the potential for economically feasible; the impact of climate change, water By helping to address global environmental issues we energy efficiency – encouraging suppliers to improve the environmental performance of the products and services we buy, can help reduce impacts on customers and infrastructure. shortage and other resource use and reduce the impact of the manufacturing GeSI’s SMARTer2020 report demonstrates how the increased use processes involved; issues will become more significant, Responsible behavior of ICT, such as videoconferencing and smart building management, – involving our employees in environmental issues Innovation particularly for emerging economies, could cut the projected 2020 global greenhouse gas emissions by 16.5%, or 9.1 gigatonnes carbon dioxide equivalent. through office-based programs and community It can lead to products and services which use mobile volunteering opportunities. and especially those vulnerable to technology to help people reduce their impact. This would be more than seven times the ICT sector’s We manage the impacts of noise and vibration from base drought, flooding and other weather emissions in the same period. stations locally and do not collect performance data centrally other than disclosing any environmental fines or The report evaluates six sectors of the economy: power, extremes. Environmental issues are Reputation transportation, manufacturing, consumer and service, sanctions incurred. Our businesses reported no fines relating to environmental laws or regulations in 2014 ($0, 2013). prominent in the UNGC Principles and Improving our reputation with customers, agriculture, and buildings. communities, employees and government. We are developing a commercial focus in these areas, so we are reporting on our programs Social investment and providing M2M services to corporate customers in: to reduce our main impacts. Transportation: freight and fleet monitoring Telemetry: monitoring data from utilities and production Consumer: electronics – navigation and personal devices Healthcare: remote monitoring of patients Reporting 26 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 27 Overview Mobilink saves 26 million liters of diesel Customers raise funds for WWF With power outages often lasting up to 16 hours a day in WIND in Italy donated over $26,000 in 2014 Pakistan, Mobilink’s base stations run on diesel when the grid to the World Wildlife Fund. The money was raised fails. Throughout 2014, the company has been adapting base by donating 1 euro to the WWF every time a stations to use hybrid battery systems, and only reverting to customer recharged their account by diesel once the batteries run down. In this way, diesel use has 25 euros or more online or via an app. Approach dropped from 67 million liters in 2013, to 41 million liters in 2014. By the end of 2016, 90% of base stations will have moved to the battery-first model. Make Your Mark Table 7: Total CO2e Emissions 2014 CO2e Network, Offices Governance (tonnes millions) and other Buildings Vehicles Total Network efficiency measures Scope 1 0.17 0.04 0.21 Our Group Code of Conduct states we will meet local Scope 2 1.17 1.17 As most of our greenhouse gas emissions originate regulatory requirements and relevant international from energy use in our network, this is the main 2014 Total 1.34 0.04 1.38 environmental standards, aim to reduce emissions focus for our energy efficiency programs. We are and waste, and use natural resources responsibly. applying a series of energy efficiency measures Services for society 2013 CO2e Network, Offices (tonnes millions) and other Buildings Vehicles Total Environmental issues are also represented in our across our network infrastructure. Table 9: Network Energy Efficiency Initiatives Scope 1 0.21 0.04 0.25 Business Principles. Operators sharing towers can also have a positive effect on energy Scope 2 1.10 1.10 consumption and other environmental factors. Energy use, and the related greenhouse gas emissions, are our main Free-cooling units environmental impacts and we have developed a consistent approach 2013 Total 1.31 0.04 1.35 A number of our markets experienced problems with the power-saving Potential to reduce site energy consumption by 20%–25% – we are to energy efficiency across the business, introducing common KPIs and software which initially affected network service quality. As a result, the introducing free-cooling units in indoor Radio Access Network (RAN) sites. reporting. We drive efficiency improvements and share best practice number of base stations where this feature was active reduced in 2014 through our Network Cost Streamlining program and have developed a Table 8: Total Energy Use Energy (see table 9). This has now been addressed and is expected to be Number of radio 2014 2013 (mWh millions) 11,742 11,577 detailed database of efficiency measures. Mobilink has been participating reintroduced through 2015. base stations: Resource efficiency in an energy benchmarking project run by the GSMA and involving other 2014 2013 operators in Pakistan. Network, Offices and other Buildings 2.91 2.76 Hybrid units Several businesses manage their environmental programs through an environmental management system. WIND Italy has an integrated Vehicles 0.04 0.151 Supply chain Sharing the power load between batteries and diesel generators management system approach which also incorporates health Total 2.95 2.91 when the power grid is unavailable can cut diesel usage and and safety, social accountability and data security standards, Network energy efficiency is highly dependent on the carbon emissions by up to 20%. and Djezzy in Algeria is also certified to ISO 14001. We collect the data for energy use from invoices, by extrapolation type of equipment used and the majority of this (and Number of radio 2014 2013 from known actual energy performance of different types of base IT equipment) is specified and contracted for centrally. 7,032 3,768 base stations: Responsible behavior station, and from estimates. Table 8 above sets out data for 2014. Energy use and greenhouse gas Approximately 85% of our total carbon footprint relates to operating Energy efficiency is a key factor in the overall purchasing decision, and we test efficiency claims for equipment in our labs in Russia and Italy. our network. Within the total energy use is a small amount (0.05%) of Outdoor sites emissions data renewable energy. This is generated from our 118 solar-powered base Procurement and technical teams investigate new opportunities to improve equipment performance and are involved, for example, in trials Most of the new sites are built in ‘outdoor’ cabinets instead of the stations (2013, 52) and the significant solar arrays on buildings in Italy of high-performance batteries, fuel catalysts (for diesel generators) traditional ‘indoor’ shelters, saving operational energy required by up to We collect performance data on our greenhouse gas and Bangladesh. In addition, WIND Italy was awarded power efficiency and solar power solutions. The environmental performance of our 50%. Where possible we swap existing indoor sites into outdoor cabinets. emissions as follows: certificates (TEE) by the appropriate regulatory body, totaling 29,040 suppliers is a key element in our draft Supplier Code of Conduct. tonnes CO2e (2013, 23,259 tonnes CO2e). Number of radio 2014 2013 24,183 18,845 – Scope 1: emissions from fuel consumption (generally from diesel base stations: We operate a fleet of approximately 5,900 vehicles (2013, 5,700), Social investment generators) to operate network base stations that do not have reliable approximately 36% diesel (2013, 40%) and 60% petrol-fueled access to national power grids, and for heating, cooling and powering buildings and offices (mainly diesel and natural gas). (2013, 60%), as well as four electric cars and approximately Office efficiency Power-saving features 270 vehicles fuelled with CNG. We also report emissions from vehicle fuel. – Scope 2: Electrical power consumed by our network, 1 The 2013 vehicle emission figure is overstated due to a conversion factor error. Several businesses launched programs to help Switching off some radio elements that are not needed when the traffic is low reduces energy consumption of base stations buildings and offices. reduce office-based environmental impacts. by 20%–30% depending on the site configuration. We do not collect emissions data relating to air travel, or on other Scope These cover electricity, water and paper consumption, 3 emissions, such as use of products and supply chain-related emissions. Number of radio 2014 2013 and waste reduction. Some businesses have had their office 38,285 46,537 base stations: schemes certified by WWF. Reporting 28 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 29 Overview Table 10: Population coverage Table 11:Network reliability Table 12: Network quality Number of markets Network unavailability Unsuccessful call set-up rate 2014 20131 Monthly Number of markets Monthly Number of markets Population average average coverage % 2G 3G 2G 3G % 2014 2013 % 2014 2013 95 – 100 6 1 4 1 0 – 0.5 8 8 0 – 1.0 6 6 90 – 95 1 1 2 0 0.5 – 1.0 2 3 1.0 – 2.0 5 5 85 – 90 3 0 3 0 1.0+ 2 1 2.0+ 1 1 Approach 80 – 85 0 0 0 1 70 – 80 1 1 2 0 50 – 70 0 3 0 3 0 – 50 1 4 0 2 Note: 0 0 2 0 4 1 In 2013, table did not include Ukraine. Make Your Mark Services for society Responsible behavior The following sections describe how we Network performance can be summarized approach these issues and illustrate this with through the KPIs set out in tables 10, 11 case studies from our markets, alongside performance data, where relevant and Network coverage and 12 above. available. and reliability Our deployment of higher-speed services continues to spread in our markets with the advance of 3G technology. Our ability to We set out our assessment of materiality on page 15. This identified areas where There are issues which did not rate as highly in our materiality review but are nevertheless The coverage and reliability of introduce 3G and 4G/LTE is restricted by license Resource efficiency we need to behave responsibly as a business. These include: covered by the Principles of the UNGC to which we are a signatory. These include our our network are central to our agreements, rather than an unwillingness to invest in infrastructure for our customers. environmental approach and performance business success and subject to We have launched 4G/LTE services in Italy (covered in ‘Resource efficiency’) and our regulation through the terms of and Russia, and have received a 4G license approach to freedom of association and collective bargaining, forced and compulsory our operating licenses. in Georgia. In addition to the award of a Network coverage and reliability: Privacy, freedom of expression and Health and Safety: 3G license in Pakistan in 2014, we were labor, child labor and discrimination. Are we providing a good quality, reliable government access to data: Are we providing a safe and healthy Developing and maintaining our network is the also awarded a 3G license in Ukraine service to a broad range of the population? Are we keeping our customer’s details safe, working environment for our employees These issues are relevant to our supply chain largest area of capital expenditure and accounts shortly after the year end. (see page 36), and our own operations and Responsible behavior and safeguarding legitimate personal expression and others who visit? for a large proportion of our sourcing activities. Maintaining network availability and quality of through our services? employees (see page 38). We consider the risk In 2014, we invested significantly in our service can be difficult in markets where power Customer satisfaction and of performing badly against these labor-focused network infrastructure. As a result it receives supply is highly unreliable. Emerging markets responsible marketing: Talent: UNGC Principles to be lower in our own a significant degree of management attention can often experience difficulties with local Anti-bribery and anti-corruption: organization than in our supply chain. and detailed planning. It is also of major infrastructure, and particularly regular and Are we meeting the expectations of our customers? Are we attracting, retaining Are we behaving ethically in our business dealings? and developing talented people? importance to our customers and other parties, prolonged power cuts that can affect service many of whom rely heavily on telecommunication even where back-up power sources are available. Online safety: services. Without a reliable network, covering a Unavailability of the national power grid leads Are we helping protect our customers from Ethical procurement: Corporate governance: large spread of the population, we would have to higher consumption of diesel in generators. fraud, and vulnerable users from accessing Are we raising human rights and environmental Are we managing our business in accordance no business. The Resource efficiency section shows how our focus on this issue has reduced diesel Social investment inappropriate content online? standards in our supply chain? with good standards of governance? We review performance through the Operational Performance Boards held with each BU, which consumption through the roll out of For further information on our Corporate hybrid-diesel technology. Governance arrangements, visit vimpelcom. involves, among others, executive-level officers The accessibility of our services: Radio frequency emissions from the HQ and BUs. Improvement and and health concerns: com/Profile/Corporate-governance Are they affordable for poorer customers, and management of network performance is supported usable by the elderly and those who struggle Are we informing the relevant people? by a Network Forum which controls the activities to access communications due to disability? of various technical working groups. Reporting 30 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 31 Overview Table 13: The growth in subscriptions from with helping to address this element of the 2000 to 2013 (source ITU) digital divide. With 25% global penetration Mobile subscriptions of smartphones, there is still plenty of growth per 100 inhabitants1 available (nearer 10% in CIS and Bangladesh) and, in 2014, we launched our low-cost 2000 2013 smartphone and tablet, aimed at lowering Algeria 0.27 100.79 the cost barrier. Armenia 0.57 112.42 With a price of around $40, the smartphone, illustrated on page 32, was received positively Approach Bangladesh 0.21 74.43 by reviewers and consumers, and soon sold out. Georgia 4.11 115.03 The device was frequently bundled with between two and five months free internet Italy 74.13 158.82 browsing to help introduce inexperienced users Kazakhstan 1.35 184.69 to the internet without the risk of incurring Protecting children online large costs in error. Research indicated that for Kyrgyzstan 0.18 121.45 approximately 50% of those who purchased the Pakistan 0.21 70.13 device, this was their first experience of the In Russia, one of Beeline’s priorities is internet. Plans for 2015 include a slightly more Make Your Mark recommended practice for BUs. We are also the protection of children online, and Russia 2.22 152.84 expensive 3G phone to expand the user harmonizing our approach to customer contact, promoting a safer internet experience experience, as well as a 4G-ready low-cost Customer satisfaction Supporting Beeline’s to ensure the customer experience is not for them. In autumn 2014, a new project Tajikistan 0.02 91.83 smartphone. damaged by unwanted spam. We manage ‘customer first’ strategy provided a more positive twist to the Ukraine 1.67 138.06 and responsible advertising locally to ensure it is appropriate issue. Beeline ran a special educational Uzbekistan 0.21 74.31 Improving access to the internet for poorer people is also supported by local initiatives for local standards and culture. During 2014, program for children, in association with marketing In February 2014, Beeline in Russia our businesses reported 13 incidents relating the educational network Dnevnik.ru – Note: such as introducing local language to Google announced the launch of a new business to our marketing activities that resulted in a used in all schools in Russia. It was in the 1 Some markets are multi-SIM, i.e. more than Translate (see page 41), and helping to develop Customer experience is a major strategy, putting the focus squarely on penalty (2013, 6 incidents), and a further 12 form of a special app for parents, teachers one SIM card per customer. basic literacy (see page 20). Services for society incidents that resulted in a warning from the and children, containing access to over competitive differentiator in the customer needs, with the slogan relevant body (2013, 23 incidents). 1,000 educational resources with content As well as basic connectivity, we are bringing As well as the poor, people with eyesight or ‘Simple. Convenient. For you.’ The aim is new value-added services to customers, much hearing problems, or dexterity issues can have mobile industry, and therefore a to become Russia’s favorite operator in There was one incident of non-compliance checked and approved for children. difficulties accessing services. Often these of which is in emerging or transitional key element of our strategy. 2015 by improving relationships with with a voluntary code reported, the same Beeline also ran a competition where economies, often free-of-charge. issues are associated with the elderly, arguably customers at all touchpoints. as in 2013. We reported fines totaling teachers could demonstrate how they had one of the groups in society most reliant on It can be influenced by many factors, approximately $0.4 million, across five markets, integrated internet resources into the Our BUs are providing low-cost or free access to communications to stay in touch with family particularly value for money and the quality of Three of the company’s major relating to non-compliance with laws or curriculum in their day-to-day lessons. internet services through a number of channels and services. These issues are very dependent the products and services offered. We cover our transparency and responsibility drives regulations covering the provision and use During the project approximately 20,000 and options. For example, we continue our on local socio-economic conditions and general approach to serving our customers in in 2014 have been to protect customers of our products or services. The fines related pupils, 9,500 teachers and 3,500 parents partnership with the Wikimedia Foundation demographics and are managed locally. This is our Annual Report and Accounts. Some issues from spam, mobile fraud, and from mainly to customer contractual claims. across Russia took part. to provide free Wikipedia access to VimpelCom a particular focus for Beeline in Russia. Resource efficiency are particularly relevant to the CR agenda, and hidden charges by content providers, customers. Through Wikipedia Zero, mobile are covered elsewhere in this section, such as all identified by Beeline as some of the There were seven instances of non-monetary For more information watch our film customers have free access to the mobile network reliability, privacy, accessibility, and most serious issues affecting customer sanctions relating to anti-competitive behavior from Russia on protecting children version of Wikipedia with a lightweight, online safety. satisfaction. (2013, 14 cases) and 13 cases brought through vimpelcom.com/Responsibility. text-only fast version of the site. Locally conflict resolution processes (2013, 5 cases). relevant articles are available in both local Special services for We run a Customer Excellence Program across We did not experience any fines relating to all our markets, and 2014 was its first full year. Beeline now ensures access to content anti-competitive behavior. language and English through the VimpelCom people with disabilities providers’ services is as transparent and network. At the end of 2014, VimpelCom was Customer focus became our main customer convenient as possible – including a ‘no the world’s largest supporter of Wikipedia value. Our main KPI for customer satisfaction subscriptions without consent’ policy. Zero with the service available to 165 million As part of its strategy of focusing on is the Net Promoter Score – the degree to which Accessibility Responsible behavior users across Bangladesh, Pakistan, Russia, customers would recommend our services to others. In 2014, we continued extensive In addition, in March, Beeline launched a mobile security application to protect Online safety Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Ukraine. customer relationships, Beeline Russia has been working throughout 2014 on customers against threats to the special services for vulnerable groups of communication and education about this, and popular Android operating system. Due to its very open nature, the Modern telecommunication Our VimpelCom brands continued to offer customers. Seven offices in Moscow now in April, ran a quiz across the business to help 0.facebook.com, where customers have the unique raise awareness of its importance. Employees Beeline downloads regular automatic internet can bring certain risks, services allow billions of people opportunity to stay online with their friends using provide services in sign language for our told thousands of stories of how they had updates of the security software to to connect, but some groups in Facebook from their mobile phones free of charge. hearing-impaired customers. And in St. satisfied customers, and the winner was a story customers, free of charge, thus helping including the exposure of children In Pakistan, through our partnership with Opera Petersburg, Beeline has opened its first from Bangladesh about how a call center agent to prevent potential financial and to inappropriate content, or society struggle to access the Software ASA, and OLX, we are offering customers ‘Speaking City’, a unique guidance saved the lives of a family caught in the floods. identity fraud. encounters with ‘predatory’ users. benefits of this. a basic package of free internet access – the only system, making an accessible retail price being an initial exposure to advertisements environment for visually impaired We monitor performance through quarterly Social investment In August, Beeline implemented a The poor can have difficulties accessing before browsing can start. customers and those of limited mobility. It can also be an avenue for fraudsters. Since reporting and Operating Performance Boards, powerful anti-spam platform. Each day, communications because of affordability. The company will introduce this to five 2012, Kyivstar in Ukraine and Beeline in Russia, From our research, our customers tell us and by discussion at Management Board spam makes up approximately a quarter Mobile operators have been working over other offices in the city, before rolling have provided customers with parental control the most significant barrier to accessing the meetings. In 2014, nearly all our markets of total SMS traffic. Now, due to many years to make services affordable, and out to other regions in 2015. It is also solutions and extensive education programs that benefits of mobile data services is the price improved their NPS score – four of our BUs had intelligent algorithms, Beeline constantly growing penetration rates are working with relevant charities on help them protect children from internet threats. of smartphones. There is a thriving market in the highest NPS in their markets and a further estimates that has reduced the indicative of continuing progress (see table developing a special phone for people Beeline also subscribes to the Russian national second-hand phones, but customers generally three markets were placed second. This focus number of spam SMS messages very 13). This is aided by low-cost tariffs, falling with failing eyesight. initiatives Safe Internet League, Mobile prefer to obtain new devices where possible. has directly improved our churn statistics, significantly. prices in basic handsets and the increasing Etiquette Charter, and the Russian Operators We also understand that it is device penetration which we reduced by 10 million customers over availability of second-hand phones, Charter on Combating Child Pornography. that drives uptake of data services and so our 2014. We develop pricing guidelines centrally as including smartphones. commercial interests are very much aligned Reporting 32 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 33 Overview you can see our response in the annex of In December 2012, we launched an updated Privacy, data protection and commercial the subsequent report ‘Private Interests: Code of Conduct for the group that provides use of data Privacy and freedom Monitoring Central Asia’ available at privacyinternational.org. The use of data analysis by companies for Anti-bribery and group-wide standards designed primarily to deter wrongdoing and promote honest and of expression commercial purposes continues to be debated. As an operator, we must assure that commercial anti-corruption ethical conduct, compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations, Freedom of expression benefits of analyzing and using the data we prompt internal reporting of violations and Many of the benefits of mobile hold (within legal limits), are not at the cost In 2014, we continued to Freedom of expression is a basic human right accountability for adherence to the Code. services are possible only because and has once again been in the spotlight of the trust our customers place in us. strengthen our system of The Code of Conduct reinforces the company’s operators collect and hold data governance, policies and requirements for compliance with all applicable Approach following the tragic events in Paris in January Our businesses operate in markets with very 2015. For a mobile operator, freedom of variable regulatory regimes for data security laws, including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices on their customers, such as expression concerns can range from very and privacy, and as a result we manage this procedures focused on antiAct (FCPA) and other anti-corruption laws and information on billing, location specific issues affecting a small number of issue locally. During 2013 and 2014, we bribery and anti-corruption, regulations, as well as adherence to all company users, such as the blocking of a particular accounting policies and controls. This Code and browsing preferences. website, to the enforced closure of the mobile compared these local approaches with the with a particular emphasis on states that, in addition to applying to its WIND Transparency Forum different regulatory frameworks in force around While benefiting society, ICT also provides the network in one or more cities, which affects the world and developed a Group standard to extensive training across all of employees, officers and directors, VimpelCom expects ‘anyone doing business on the potential data to be misused for political and millions of customers. This is a complex issue as bring all operations, including those operating the Company’s businesses. company’s behalf’ – a category that includes Transparency has always been one financial gain. Continuing public concern over freedom to express a view for one group can be in countries where no regulatory framework of the key values at WIND, inspiring Make Your Mark personal privacy relates mainly to fears: deeply offensive to another. A closed network exist, to an appropriate level of customer data We recognize that a strong and comprehensive agents and other third parties – to also comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. its commercial proposition and can be restrictive for those wanting to organize protection. Subsequently, each of our BUs approach to compliance is needed to protect customer relations. The company is –– that government has unregulated access legitimate political protests, but could be vital our business, and our stakeholders. We have put developed a plan to address any gaps In early 2013, we adopted a new Group hoping to inspire Italians in the quest to personal data, which may curtail public for security agencies combating terrorism. On in place a risk management, compliance, and highlighted by this extensive exercise. We have Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, which for transparency in both public and protest or free speech; some issues, such as child pornography, there is governance structure that includes a focus on also developed a Customer Data Governance is supported by a range of policies and private sectors, with the October 2014 –– that irresponsible use of personal data generally universal agreement on the need to anti-bribery and anti-corruption risks and Policy, approved in February 2015. This sets out procedures, in place or under development, launch of windtransparencyforum.com by corporations could lead to financial or censor and report such sites. On religious views, issues. We have continued to make progress the standard referred to above and through this which address issues such as third-party – an online magazine publishing weekly reputational loss for the individual. there may be a fine line between doctrinal in establishing a more coordinated and aims to maintain the trust of our customers as due diligence, conflicts of interest, gifts articles, to be amplified through social As the digital environment and data are not debate and blasphemy. we manage their personal data. The Policy strengthened framework, adding resources, and hospitality, and incident management media, about ideas and initiatives Services for society confined to national boundaries, the situation establishes four key Privacy Principles: training and awareness initiatives to the and investigation. which make the country more Our commercial instincts are to enable the is complicated – digital players are often Transparency; Processing Purpose and Data program. This will remain a key focus as we transparent. maximum amount of network traffic, and In June 2013, we introduced our new Group multi-country organizations but legal Minimization; Customer Rights; and Protection regard it as a critical part of our future therefore, it runs counter to our objectives, and Incident Management Policy relating to frameworks are national. Obtaining data from of Information. development and a particular focus of our There’s also a competition in three the trust customers place in us, to block whistleblower processes that allows employees across international borders is controversial, senior management team. categories – services, digital popular sites such as YouTube (as happens in We recognize the importance of this issue to our to contact a third-party service provider complex and unresolved. Pakistan), or close large parts of the network. Our comprehensive Group Compliance Charter initiatives, and institutions – to reward customers and are always seeking to improve. to raise concerns, anonymously if desired. Government access As for taking action, the issues are similar to In line with this, we require our businesses to sets out the organization, operation and All cases reported are duly assessed and, ideas which we hope will change the Mobile operators rely entirely on governments those relating to government surveillance and report on incidents relating to managing governance of compliance management if appropriate, investigated by internal or face of Italy for the better. for access to radio spectrum and operating access to data – if the government wishes sites customer data. This is summarized in table 14. for the Group, including the role and external teams. We continue to take measures Resource efficiency licenses. Operating licenses, all over the world, to be blocked or networks to be closed, we must responsibilities of our global Risk Assurance to ensure these policies are adhered to and the obey the law. Table 14: Privacy performance contain clauses allowing government to access Committee, the Group Compliance Program procedures are followed in each of the countries customer data where this is necessary for issues 2014 2013 and Group Compliance Function. in which we operate. Throughout 2014, we have been discussing For more information on the such as crime prevention and national security. internally and externally the options available Number of complaints 6 50 In August 2013, the company appointed a new WIND Transparency Forum, visit In different countries, this can operate: During 2014, we placed a great deal of windtransparencyforum.com to us to mitigate people’s concerns on these received from third parties senior Group Chief Compliance Officer with the emphasis on compliance training programs –– by presentation of a court order to the topics. This has included: relating to our management responsibility to update and enhance the both at our headquarters and throughout the operator, requiring the operator to provide of customer privacy Compliance program and to continue to develop Business Units. For instance, during 2014, –– Joining a meeting of the Telecommunication specific data items; a strong ethical culture globally. The Group more than 7,300 employees worldwide have As previously disclosed, the United States Industry Dialogue on Freedom of Number of complaints 2 16 –– by presentation of a court order to the Compliance Officer reports to the Audit attended face to face Code of Conduct training Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), Expression and Privacy (‘the Dialogue’, received from regulatory Responsible behavior operator, after which the government can Committee of the Supervisory Board of Directors sessions, or completed e-learning modules. the United States Department of Justice telecomindustrydialogue.org) as an bodies relating to our access the relevant database directly, to which he has direct access, as well as Furthermore, in 2014, the company conducted (“DOJ”) and the Dutch Public Prosecution observer, and attending a learning day management of facilitated by the operator; directly to the Group Chief Executive Officer. an anti-corruption train-the-trainer session Service (Openbaar Ministerie) (“OM”) are hosted jointly by the Dialogue and the customer privacy –– by direct access to the relevant data, Our Group Compliance Officer is a member of in Amsterdam where all compliance officers conducting investigations related to the Global Network Initiative. following a court procedure, which does not Instances of customer 16 34 VimpelCom’s Management Board. In recent throughout the Group received additional Company, which have been focused primarily –– Sponsoring, and participating in, require the involvement of the operator. data loss1 years, we have enhanced our compliance team training on FCPA and other applicable on the Company’s prior dealings with Takilant the conference ‘Privacy, security and at our headquarters in Amsterdam and anti-bribery regulations, including advice on Ltd. (“Takilant”). The Company has cooperated We have BUs which operate under each of these surveillance: tackling international dilemmas Note: throughout the group. We have compliance best practices for training other employees fully with these investigations. For more types of regime. Several of the license and dangers in the digital realm’ convened 1 Typically minor, affecting only individual customers. officers and coordinators at all of our business on these issues. Since that time, more than information, please refer to the Company’s agreements we operate under also forbid any by wiltonpark.org.uk units and covering all our operations. 800 employees (almost all of them managers) Form 20-F. form of disclosure on the nature or extent of –– Consulting with colleagues across our BUs. Social investment access to data, which drastically limits what we Our compliance roadmap covers: risk analysis; have received additional training on the FCPA We are continuing to monitor what is a highly and other applicable anti-bribery regulations can report. policies and procedures related to key risk complex and sensitive issue. as well as updated company policies. The areas; organization and commitment; training In November 2014, we received a letter from and awareness; screening; record-keeping Supervisory Board also received tailored the NGO, Privacy International, which made and controls; reporting; internal audit and compliance training. various assertions about the ability of monitoring; remedial and corrective actions; government agencies in certain Central Asian and program leadership. countries (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan) to access customer data, with little or no involvement of the mobile operators in those markets. We responded in detail, and Reporting 34 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 35 Overview During the year, our teams in Georgia, In 2013, we conducted an initial high-level Conflict minerals Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and review of practices across the business and WIND Italy has used its integrated Through our membership of GeSI we support Uzbekistan worked with the GSMA to help clarify during 2014 we developed a Group Health and a number of programs relating to where the management system approach – including production of the metals used in ICT the regulatory standards relating to RF exposure in those countries. The GSMA’s conclusion is that Safety Policy which was approved in April 2015. It is clear from the data reported in 2013 and components may fuel conflict or have SA8000, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 associated social, environmental and limit values in these markets are actually more restrictive than international limits. 2014 that our businesses are categorizing injuries and incidents differently, and we are standards – to help improve and maintain humanitarian issues. It is currently very difficult to be certain that providing further definition and guidance on reporting of injuries. We are reporting 159 standards across its suppliers. work-related serious injuries* to employees Approach products do not contain these so called ‘conflict minerals’, but programs to alleviate the Health and Safety for 2014 (2013, 116) but it is likely that this problems, supported by GeSI, include: represents an under-reporting of the actual –– tracing minerals from the mine to the smelter Mobile operators must manage a position. Currently, few of our BUs receive reports from network contractors on fatalities by supporting a ‘bag and tag’ in-region broad range of H&S risks, though incurred while working on VimpelCom sites, sourcing program; a large proportion of employees but this position should change with the –– identifying and validating conflict-free introduction of the Supplier Code of Conduct smelters for suppliers to source metals from; work in offices and face a in 2015. –– supporting relevant efforts such as the relatively low level of risk. Make Your Mark The new approach is based on the E-TASC tool The assessment measures performance in four Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Sadly, we have to report two work-related which was developed by GeSI and the EICC. categories: Environmental performance; Labor fatalities relating to our employees. One Supply chain The tool follows existing best practice and codes, and reflects consultation with GeSI/EICC practice performance; Fair business practice performance; and Supply chain management Minerals Trade, a joint initiative between governments and companies to support The main risks tend to relate to: employee, who had worked for VimpelCom in –– road-traffic accidents – employees or Armenia for 16 years, fell while working at members and a broad group of stakeholders. performance. The results of the assessments solutions to such problems in the Democratic In the telecommunications E-TASC, which is managed on behalf of GeSI by completed and analyzed (21) were as follows: Republic of Congo and the Great Lakes region contractors distributing products or height. A second employee, a senior engineer equipment. This is particularly risky in working in Kazakhstan, was involved in a supply chain, we sit between our EcoVadis (gesi.ecovadis.fr), is a web-based CSR Table 16: Results of supplier assessments of Central Africa. emerging markets where road and traffic vehicle accident. In addition, in Ukraine, a performance monitoring platform. Suppliers customers – the general public, need to complete an assessment only once to # of % of conditions are not well regulated; contractor died in an accident which left –– working at height and electrical risks – another contractor seriously injured. businesses and governments – Services for society respond to all their participating customers. global global and the vast, complex network It is based on a comprehensive set of ethics, Supplier assessment strategic strategic Radio Frequency (RF) building and maintaining the network involves working with electricity, and on As part of a more urgent focus on this topic, results suppliers suppliers of suppliers that design, produce, labor rights, health and safety, and environmental criteria. Launched at the end Exceeded overall risk 20 95% emissions base station masts. Workers must also be careful to limit their exposure to radio our Internal Audit function will be focusing part of their 2015 audit program on H&S, distribute, build and maintain the of 2007, approximately 1,800 suppliers are threshold (positive) emissions when working close to antennae. looking in particular at incident and injury currently evaluated through E-TASC, and Mobile phones use RF signals to reporting, and compliance with the network equipment, the devices Fell below environment 1 5% In addition, a number of our markets, including Group Policy. approximately 20,000 suppliers are registered connect to the telephone network Ukraine, Pakistan and Bangladesh, have had to we sell, and the services that with EcoVadis overall. risk threshold through the nearest base station. maintain operations during times of civil unrest support our operations. At the end of 2014, almost all our global Fell below labor risk 1 5% and armed conflict. Here, we must carefully * Injuries from incidents at work, or whilst traveling on business, which result in at least one day away from work strategic suppliers had signed up to E-TASC and threshold Guidelines for exposure to RF fields are set by Resource efficiency manage the personal security of individuals (typically requiring medical attention). It is in our interests for our supply chain partners made their assessment results available to us the International Commission for Non-Ionizing Fell below fair business 9 43% trying to maintain network coverage and to maintain excellent quality and value for (see table below). Radiation Protection (ICNIRP). All the mobile practice risk threshold services, including, for example, replenishing money, but also for them to operate responsibly. phones we sell and all the base stations in our Table 15: Supplier assessments completed diesel in remote generators. Strikes, protests, negative publicity or poorly Fell below supplier 5 24% networks are designed to operate well within managed environmental costs or impact, will # of % of management risk the limits set. Within VimpelCom, H&S is governed by many affect our profitability and reputation, and so global global threshold local labor protection laws and regulations, responsible sourcing is a necessary commercial, strategic strategic In recent years, many independent scientific and managed locally. Most of our larger markets as well as moral, activity. Supplier status suppliers suppliers reviews (e.g. by the World Health Organization have an H&S policy, or sets of procedures We are in discussions with any suppliers falling – the WHO) have been carried out which have below the designated risk threshold score on covering specific activities. In nearly every Assessments completed 21 78% found no adverse health effects caused by Responsible behavior any component, or on overall score. instance, these policies cover both our own More consistent approach (analyzed) mobile phones or radio base stations operating employees and any contractors, including Assessments completed 2 7% Future plans within international safety guidelines. For more network contractors, who are on VimpelCom Although some of our BUs and OpCos already focus (in analysis) We will evaluate the effectiveness of this information related to the International EMF premises. Several of our BUs have formal H&S on this, we have been developing a more exercise at the end of the first quarter of 2015, Project and research conducted on EMF in management systems, and WIND Italy has comprehensive, consistent and effective approach Assessments in 3 11% and may subsequently introduce this solution general, see who.int/topics/electromagnetic_ achieved certification to OHSAS 18001 as part that can operate across both our HQ and markets progress for our BUs to evaluate their higher-risk fields/en/. of its integrated management system approach. procurement activity. This is based on extensive consultation with many parties, already carried Assessments not 1 4% suppliers. To prepare for this, and to evaluate Nearly all BUs carry out H&S training for Despite the position of the WHO, some people out by the ICT sector. We continue to work on yet started our risk assessment approach, we carried out relevant personnel, either regularly, or on remain concerned about safety. There is no clear developing our Supplier Code of Conduct. pilot exercises in Pakistan (2013), and induction. pattern of concern across our markets, with some Kazakhstan (2014). The risk assessment aims to Social investment Global strategic suppliers are defined as those having both businesses reporting declining concern, and We are testing this new approach with 27 global high supply risk and high profit impact (key to successful identify our most significant local suppliers (by business delivery). some increasing (e.g. Kazakhstan). Levels of strategic suppliers who represent approximately spend) where there may also be risks associated concern tend to follow the introduction of new 48% of our total spending on technology of with the type of product or service they supply, or updated radio base stations, and some of our $4.8 billion in 2014, and tend to have the most particular manufacturing processes, or possible businesses carry out communications programs complex supply chains. We are therefore already heightened health and safety risk. to help raise awareness of the scientific position, addressing a substantial proportion of our and reduce tension. ethical procurement risk. Reporting 36 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 37 Overview Approach Make Your Mark McKinsey Academy Employer branding Freedom of association and collective Forced, compulsory and child labor Employee development This online program, initiated in 2014 for WIND is one of the main sponsors of the School bargaining Employee Issues We operate in markets with differing regulatory We strictly prohibit any forced, compulsory or child labor, as stated in the Group Code At VimpelCom we are committed to investing in our people to ensure they have the skills 16 ‘high-potential’ employees, is taught by McKinsey practitioners and includes insights of Future Leaders, a professional orientation program developed with top Italian universities, and cultural approaches to freedom of of Conduct. We will not employ or contract and resources needed to develop successful from internal and external business leaders. where high-achieving students are asked to VimpelCom is a signatory to the association and collective bargaining. below the age of 15 or a higher minimum careers and deliver exceptional services Employees from Algeria, Bangladesh, CIS, Italy, solve complex business cases as part of a team. UNGC Principles and several of In many of our markets unionization is not age if stipulated by local employment law to our customers. VimpelCom HQ, Pakistan, Russia and Ukraine are Mobilink’s Rising Star 2014 program for or mandatory schooling law. enrolled in the program. The program includes these are relevant to how we the norm, whereas in others, for example Italy, With more than 56,000 employees across 15 practical learning based on real-life challenges, universities across Pakistan is designed to there is a regulatory framework in place where We are not aware of any breaches of this. countries, and with 37 different nationalities promote innovation and leadership qualities, manage employee matters. Of Services for society all our employees are covered by a collective represented in our HQ alone, it is no surprise and is designed to offer engaging and and prepare young people in Pakistan for the the employees in the businesses bargaining process. that we operate a huge variety of employee memorable content that helps employees corporate world of tomorrow. Discrimination development programs. Below, we highlight become more self-directed. A key focus of the reporting, including Group HQ As in 2013, 17% of employees (in reported some of the major projects run during 2014. program is learning how to measure, monitor In Bangladesh, Banglalink’s Advanced markets) are covered by collective bargaining We strictly prohibit discrimination of any (page 3), 55% were male. Of this agreements. This percentage is an indication kind and our Group Code of Conduct covers Knowledge management and track business results. Internship Program gives a student the opportunity to complement their academic number, 1,839 were part-time of the high variability in local cultural and discrimination by race, religion, sex, age, We operate a state-of-the art Knowledge Talent management studies with hands-on learning in a regulatory norms as there are no Group-wide national origin, sexual orientation, marital Management Platform designed to improve A team of 23 young professionals from across employees (78% female). There status or disability. the WIND business has been working on digital professional setting. restrictions or limitations on the ability for efficiency and productivity while also were 16,501 new hires (48% male) employees to associate (or unionize), or Our Human Resources Standards document supporting the digital transformation evolution projects. Each group meets the CEO once a month to discuss progress. While at Resource efficiency – a new hire ratio of 30%. request collective bargaining processes. reinforces this, setting out minimum of the business. Mobilink, a ‘Talent Review and Succession In all our markets, the lowest wage is at requirements for HR functions across the The new digital environment improves the Pipeline’ program is fostering the next least equal to the statutory minimum wage Group, and stresses the need to maintain a way we connect, communicate and collaborate, generation of leaders, by offering challenging The age and gender of the (two markets do not have this legislation). meritocracy, uninfluenced by other factors. helping us to foster innovation and make use assignments that will help nurture their talent. members of our Supervisory and In four businesses, the lowest wage paid is of knowledge from experts and best practices across the Group. Management Boards can be found at least double the statutory minimum (and at least triple the minimum in three Leadership development program in our Form 20-F. markets – all in the CIS region). The Inspire Leadership Program is based at HQ and supports our top 150 leaders in Responsible behavior No markets reported any discrepancy transforming our business. The program is between the entry-level salaries for male designed to future-proof a high-performance and female employees. culture through enhanced leadership capabilities that we apply consistently across the Group, while still making the most of local culture. A three-day program includes content on a huge range of business issues. Social investment Reporting 38 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 39 Medical projects and health promotion Emergency situations and disaster relief Overview Our customers need access to medical care and When disasters and emergencies occur, good support in leading healthy lifestyles. We use our communications become a matter of life technology to promote health programs, and and death. As well as providing a strong contribute financially to a range of projects. communications infrastructure for relief and This support comes both through direct medical teams and people on the ground, the donations from the company and through the Company and our people also raise money and volunteering and fundraising of our employees. volunteer their time helping out those most in need. Approach In Algeria, Djezzy contributed funding towards building a reception center for patients with In Russia, Beeline has been a telecom partner cancer. The center provides accommodation for of the LizaAlert search and rescue team since patients on low incomes who need to travel to 2011. This provides volunteers with technology the city of Blida to receive treatment. to help the search for lost children. Since 2012, the Beeline and LizaAlert hotline has received They also funded a medical mission to the more than 8,000 calls, processed 1,260 South of Algeria. Fifteen doctors from France applications from 52 regions, and dealt with and Algiers treated 1,500 patients during the more than 500 certificates for lost people, and project. Djezzy also launched a breast cancer Make Your Mark 800 applications from volunteers, the media screening program for its female employees and the police. during 2014, and provided financial support for a blood donation campaign. Through this work, dozens of lost children were found. In Italy, employees at WIND raised funds for a Doctors Without Borders project working in In Pakistan, Mobilink provided food assistance South Sudan, by collecting old or unwanted to help people affected by famine, floods and mobile phones. Staff at WIND also took part internal displacements. Around 70 volunteers in a fundraising run in support of breast cancer were also involved in helping with flood and Services for society treatments, and the company bought an famine relief efforts around the country. ambulance for the Health Centre of Abitanga Social investment in Benin. In Pakistan, more than 200 volunteers Supporting orphans, sick children and from Mobilink took part in an anti-tobacco Cultural programs people with disabilities health campaign, and the company sent 15 In Ukraine, Kyivstar donated finance for a Banglalink ran a project to distribute food to million SMS messages to customers encouraging project promoting the creation of traditional various orphanages around the country and them to quit smoking. Mobilink also provided embroidered shirts (Vishivankas) used as part of donated winter clothes to underprivileged support with the printing and publication of the Independence Day celebrations. Beeline We are proud of our record of supporting the communities we serve, people. In Ukraine, Kyivstar employees took part in a charity run to raise funds to buy breast cancer awareness literature and equipment to support a blood donation supported a project in Kazakhstan in 2014 to introduce the Kazakh language into the Google Resource efficiency through charitable donations, providing in-kind services, employee medical equipment for the Ukrainian Children Cardiac Center. campaign. Kyivstar funded vital medical equipment for four Ukrainian hospitals, Translate service. Support included providing free access to a service page for all Beeline volunteering, social sponsorships and by helping and encouraging In Russia, Beeline continued to support the including a defibrillator with electrocardiogram and four artificial lung ventilation machines. customers, carrying out training in universities and providing funds to pay language experts. our customers to donate to good causes. World of Deaf People Festival in Sokolniki Park, Moscow, which attracted more than 15,000 initiatives and organizations. They also raised money through the project ‘All Inclusive hearing-impaired people. In Kazakhstan we Supporting local communities Solidale – Closer to Italy’, to provide support for support charities working in child welfare, Many of the communities we serve suffer from disadvantaged families and charity stores. providing treatment, and operations, as well significant poverty and we are proud of our as modern equipment for maternity homes. Responsible behavior efforts to help some of the most disadvantaged During 2014, our various businesses provided In Ukraine, Kyivstar donated funding to support people in these societies. In Tajikistan, for General fund-raising Child Helpline International cash donations of approximately US$3 million, the Vkraina multimedia project which aims to example, Beeline has been running a On 20 November, VimpelCom, along with several Supporting young people starting a career In Algeria, Djezzy provided funds for a wide plus donations of services and equipment teach Ukrainians about their own history, humanitarian project for the past eight years, other operators, agreed to support the GSMA’s range of charities supporting people with valued at approximately US$0.3 million. culture and country. Beeline in Kyrgyzstan Staff at Beeline in Armenia helped to raise using power from network diesel generators to partnership with Child Helpline International. disabilities, the poor, the elderly, orphans and has funded a range of important educational money for the Children of Armenia Fund which create electricity to keep local people warm Our staff often give freely of their own time Our pledge was to support and promote child homeless children. projects. This has included providing highhelps young people in rural areas have a more during winter, including supplying electricity to help disadvantaged people in their helplines in all our markets, providing free calls speed internet to 213 libraries across the stable future. In 2014, more than 50 people to schools and hospitals under the scheme. In Italy, WIND offered SMS and fixed-line calls communities, and our businesses also allow for users, within 12 months. We are making country and developing a mobile application from four regions were given support by the free to 125 not-for-profit initiatives and employees to volunteer during working hours. good progress on this. In 2014, Beeline has also provided charge-free for the study of the Kyrgyz language. Further fund towards developing a business. organizations. They also raised money through In 2014, this amounted to nearly 9,200 hours of projects included an online platform for conversations with friends and family for the project ‘All Inclusive Solidale – Closer to Social investment For eight years, Beeline in Russia has been people living in the hard-to-reach districts Italy’, to provide support for disadvantaged time (over 1,150 days) during working hours. learning the basics of programing in the Supporting education running a program for students who want to and mountain villages of Tajikistan. families and charity stores. Kyrgyz language. Here, we briefly outline some of our social start a career in a global corporation, and We support a wide range of projects in the area investments. You can find more details on all of In Italy, the ‘WIND adopts a school’ initiative participate in the development of the telecom of education, both for children and adults. In these projects, and many more from around the provided 35 students from schools in Milan industry. In 2014, 35 students started with Armenia, Beeline invested in ‘Beeline centers’ world, by visiting our ‘project wall’, at and Rome with the personalized support of the company as interns. which support the development of inclusive vimpelcom.com/Responsibility. 10 mentors. WIND also funded the Una Vita da education. Banglalink distributed more than Social campaign, which promotes awareness 4,000 recycled school bags among primary of the safe use of the internet. school children across Bangladesh in 2014. Reporting 40 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 41 Overview The system, developed by Oracle, mirrors Internal data control measures the Hyperion Financial Management system currently used for financial reporting. During We have defined a series of control measures to 2014, the CR reporting system has become more help improve the quality of our data gathering. deeply integrated into the broader financial This includes: reporting system and controls. – controls within the reporting software which During 2014, we rationalized our CR KPIs to ‘lock’ data once approved at different levels ensure they aligned more with GRI G4, and to prevent unauthorized changes; with our existing financial reporting. We have – division of responsibilities between data Approach designed our KPIs to focus on our most material owners (responsible for providing initial issues and, wherever appropriate, represent data), finance (responsible for the reporting data already used for management purposes. and data entry process) and local CR (responsible for checking data quality and We continue to develop and improve our content); reporting processes across the Group. There is – sign-off of locally generated data by the local still scope for further improvement – but this Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial report is more comprehensive than has been Officer; possible in the past, thanks in large part to – review of consolidated data by Group CR and Make Your Mark our greater experience with CR issues and Group-level data owners. reporting. In 2014, we commissioned DNV GL to provide We have commissioned external independent an independent assurance review of our data assurance of the report from DNV GL Business reporting processes, the report content and Assurance Services UK Limited (‘DNV GL’) and certain specific KPIs. we see this as an important step in improving quality and insight. The scope of the assurance includes this PDF document, but not the Acquisitions and disposals additional information on our website, although Services for society Any businesses acquired by VimpelCom will not there is clearly a strong correlation and be required to submit CR performance data until crossover between the two. You can see the the end of the financial year following the year Reporting principles scope of their work, their conclusions and Material aspects Boundaries of acquisition. The CR performance data for any observations on pages 44 and 45. businesses that are sold will be excluded from On pages 14 and 15 we set out the approach we For this report we have focused on our own Our Internal Audit department is adding the CR Report for that year. Adjustments to have taken to identifying our material aspects, operations. However, this focus includes several Corporate Responsibility to its list of subject prior year figures to reflect this will be made based on industry research and engagement, impacts that arise through the use of our areas for review and, in 2015, will focus initially where appropriate. and assurance the local and global sustainability context and products and services (e.g. privacy and online on the area of health and safety, including the our own direct engagement with experts and safety, health concerns, applications in health, accuracy of data reporting. stakeholders. education, agriculture etc.) as well as on our Resource efficiency Feedback and contact developing approach to ethical procurement. We are keen to improve the value of our We are focused on improving the measurement Data assumptions and estimations Expert input reporting and therefore welcome comments on of our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions and so This section aims to provide an overview Each year we consult with a wide range of have not started to attempt to quantify our Scope 3 emissions. The key area where we have made assumptions, and have to make estimations, is in relation to this document, and our CR information on the website. Please contact cr@vimpelcom.com experts for the preparation of the CR Report – of our approach to preparing this report. in particular to identify our priority (material) In several businesses we have outsourcing our energy use and carbon footprint. The bulk of our energy consumption comes from our issues. This year we managed this process agreements relating to the building, network, which is made up of approximately Disclaimer through our engagement in the Global management and maintenance of our network 155,000 base stations, many of which are not This Report contains “forward-looking statements”, as e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) materiality assets. Where this is the case we have Responsible behavior connected to national power grids. This means the phrase is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act and human rights studies. attempted to capture the key impacts such as we have to estimate consumption based on a of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities This Report includes our Communication on Reporting standards and guidance energy consumption, and relevant health and mixture of invoice information and knowledge Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements Progress (COP). Table 1 online provides a These studies identify which sustainability We have been steered, throughout the safety performance of contractors (when on of technical capabilities of different types relate to our CR Strategy, our partnerships, initiatives, cross-reference between the COP and various issues are most likely to be material for preparation of this Report, by the Global goals and network and service developments, as well as sections of the report. companies in the ICT industry. GeSI defines VimpelCom premises). We do not intend to of equipment. the anticipated benefits from such activities. The Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and the material issues as those that substantively report on the broader impacts of outsourcing A number of our BUs and OpCos prepare their For several of our businesses, we estimate forward-looking statements included in this Report are principles set out in the AA1000 series of influence the assessments and decisions of partners as these issues should be included in based on management’s best assessments of the current standards. (These include: AA1000 APS, AA1000 own CR reports, some of which also follow the their CR reporting. Similarly we do not report energy consumption for the final period of the stakeholders, and that have significant influence year as invoices are not yet available. We have situation. The actual outcome may differ materially from AS and AA1000 SES). GRI guidelines (see page 16). on the impacts of our suppliers. over the commercial success of ICT companies. done this through reference to other invoices these statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any We have prepared this report to be in accordance We have described the reporting boundaries received during the year and for the same forward-looking statements include the risk factors Social investment with the core requirements of the GRI version 4 Scope of reporting, and completeness for each material issue addressed in the period in the previous year. described in the Company’s Form 20-F and other public guidelines (G4). We have provided a GRI Table Definitions GRI reference table. As indicated on page 1, we have focused our We have calculated carbon dioxide equivalent filings made by the Company with the U.S. Securities and online, while pages 10 to 15 set out how we have We have defined the KPIs we have adopted with Exchange Commission, which risk factors are incorporated reporting on our largest markets. We have not emissions arising from energy purchased from approached the key Principles of Inclusivity, reference to the information provided in the herein by reference. The Company disclaims any included our operations in Laos and Zimbabwe national electricity grids with reference to Materiality and Responsiveness set out in the GRI v4 guidance material. Where we have Data quality and assurance obligation to update developments of these risk factors in the scope of our data collection process for conversion factors provided by the AA1000APS standard. developed KPIs specific to our sector, these Before 2013, we had no formal CR data or to announce publicly any revision to any of the this year. We are reporting information by brand International Energy Agency. have been based on accepted industry practice reporting process in place. During 2013 and forward-looking statements contained in this release, VimpelCom has previously signed up to the 10 or country, rather than legal entity. A list of or to make corrections to reflect future events or – for example the level of network traffic and 2014, we implemented a reporting system to Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. the subsidiaries that comprise VimpelCom is developments. numbers of base stations. gather performance information from across provided in our Form 20-F. our markets. Reporting 42 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 43 Overview Health and safety, procurement, compliance and Reliability Opinion data privacy are areas of particular management The accuracy and comparability of information On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing focus for VimpelCom. We recommend future presented in the report, as well as the quality came to our attention to suggest that the Reports should describe the roll-out of the of underlying data management systems. Report does not properly describe VimpelCom’s proposed Health and Safety policy, proposed adherence to the Principles. In terms of VimpelCom has developed robust Group level Supplier Code of Conduct and the enhanced reliability of the performance data, nothing internal controls for data reliability. These arrangements for management of anti-bribery came to our attention to suggest that these include a Group reporting manual with data and corruption risks and issues across the data have not been properly collated from definitions, a process for logging data queries Group. Future reports should also provide information reported at operational level, nor from Group and responses by Business Units and a further update on the progress of the Approach Approach that the assumptions used were inappropriate. Operating Companies and a formal sign off investigations of US and Dutch authorities into process for Business Units and Operating We believe that the report is in accordance with certain prior activities of VimpelCom. Companies to ensure data ownership. There is the ‘Core’ elements of the GRI G4 Guidelines. Responsiveness an automated process for consolidation of data The extent to which an organisation responds reported by sites, which minimizes the risk of to stakeholder issues. consolidation errors. The strength of our Observations opinion upon data accuracy will be further As management processes are strengthened Without affecting our assurance opinion we also supported by inclusion of checks at Business across the business to support more accurate provide the following observations. Unit and Operating Company level in next year’s Make Your Your Mark Mark We undertook the following activities: and consistent reporting, we suggest that Responsibilities of the Executives of assurance process. Make Stakeholder inclusiveness VimpelCom should develop and report further VimpelCom and of the assurance providers – Review of the current corporate responsibility The participation of stakeholders in developing KPIs for health and safety. We also recommend We note that VimpelCom has published injuries The Executives of VimpelCom have sole issues that could affect VimpelCom and are of and achieving an accountable and strategic that VimpelCom should develop suitable data for the first time this year, despite responsibility for the preparation of the Report. interest to stakeholders; response to sustainability. Corporate Responsibility targets for both the uncertainty as to its completeness, which we In performing our assurance work, our – Review of VimpelCom approach to stakeholder short and long term. support. The 2015 Internal Audit of this area responsibility is to the management of VimpelCom engages with various stakeholders engagement and recent outputs. This did will be an important step in improving the VimpelCom; however our statement represents across Business Units and Operating Companies During 2014 VimpelCom launched the ‘Make Your not include any direct engagement with accuracy of this data. our independent opinion and is intended to and at Group level. The reporting discloses Mark’ programme, which focuses on ‘Helping Independent Assurance inform all of VimpelCom stakeholders. DNV GL stakeholders; material issues identified as relevant to each Young People Shape Their Future.’ This For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Services for for society society – Review of information provided to us by stakeholder group and the reasons for demonstrates a strong connection between Assurance Services UK Limited London, UK statement Services was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report VimpelCom on its reporting and management engagement. VimpelCom should consider VimpelCom services and core business, and the 24th April 2015 except for this Assurance Statement. processes relating to the Principles; disclosing more detail on the engagement positive societal development that its Business Scope and objectives undertaken by Business Units and Operating Units and Operating Companies can support. This is the first year that we have provided – Interviews with selected Executives and Companies relating to issues that are It will be important for VimpelCom to develop VimpelCom Ltd (“VimpelCom”), commissioned assurance. Last year we undertook a review senior managers responsible for management recognised as material at Group level, and how suitable ways to analyse and report on the DNV GL Business Assurance Services UK Limited of the report as a step towards assurance. of corporate responsibility issues and review the outcomes of these engagements influence positive impacts and outcomes that the (“DNV GL”) to undertake independent assurance DNV GL has also provided training services of selected evidence to support issues the Corporate Responsibility management initiative is delivering. of the Corporate Responsibility Report (the to VimpelCom, none of which constitute a discussed. We were free to choose priorities at a local level. “Report”) for the year ended 31 December 2014. conflict of interest with this assurance work. interviewees and functions covered by Completeness Anne Euler Resource efficiency efficiency interviews; The Report describes VimpelCom’s active How much of all the information that has been Resource Our assurance engagement was planned and DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on involvement in various membership-based identified as material to the organisation and Principal Consultant and Lead Assuror carried out in accordance with the DNV GL the assumption that the data and information – Review of supporting evidence for key claims UK Sustainability, DNV GL – Business Assurance associations and organisations. In line with its stakeholders is reported. Protocol for Verification of Sustainability provided by the client to us as part of our and data in the report. Our checking good practice for industry collaboration and Reporting, VeriSustainTM. We evaluated the review have been provided in good faith. processes were prioritised according to Many material issues as identified by VimpelCom partnerships, we recommend that future reports report for adherence to the VeriSustainTM DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or materiality and we based our prioritisation are not covered by the GRI G4 Guidelines, should provide additional details on the way in Principles (the “Principles”) of stakeholder co-responsibility for any decision a person on the materiality of issues at a consolidated although VimpelCom discloses all applicable which VimpelCom’s participation in these inclusiveness, materiality, responsiveness, or an entity may make based on this Assurance corporate level; indicators to meet the Core elements of G4. multi-stakeholder groups has influenced its completeness, neutrality and reliability. Statement. We recommend VimpelCom considers broadening – Review of the processes for gathering and strategic response to Corporate Responsibility. its reporting to include further indicators in Mark Line consolidating the specified performance Responsible Responsible behavior We evaluated the performance data using the Materiality its material areas and encourage VimpelCom data and, for a sample, checking the data behavior reliability principle together with the Global The process for determining the issues that are to participate in developing these indicators Senior Principal Consultant and Reviewer Reporting Initiative (GRI) data protocols for Basis of our opinion consolidation; most relevant to an organisation and its through industry collaboration, thorough UK Sustainability, DNV GL – Business Assurance how the data are measured, recorded and A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and – An independent assessment of VimpelCom’s stakeholders. bodies such as GeSI. reported. The performance data in scope was: assurance specialists performed the assurance reporting against the Global Reporting Energy Use, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Injuries work. This is the first year VimpelCom has This year VimpelCom refreshed its materiality Neutrality DNV GL Business Assurance Services UK Limited Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines; and fatalities. sought assurance upon its Report. We focussed assessment and strengthened its governance The extent to which a report provides a is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global the assurance effort at headquarters level, with – We reviewed VimpelCom’s internal processes arrangements at corporate level. Examples balanced account of an organisation’s provider of certification, verification, We understand that the reported economic particular attention on the status of processes for collating data and evidence to support include the development of the Business performance, delivered in a neutral tone. data and information are based on data from assessment and training services, helping for consolidating information received from data reported from Business Unit and Principles, inclusion of Corporate Responsibility customers to build sustainable business VimpelCom’s Form 20-F, which is subject to a VimpelCom reports on the challenges it faced Business Units and Operating Companies. Our Operating Company level to Group. We did in regular Management Board meeting agendas, Social investment investment separate independent audit process. The review during the year throughout the report. performance. www.dnvgl.com recommendation is that assurance work at not undertake our own tests on data and and a high degree of integration of Corporate Social of financial data taken from the Form 20-F is VimpelCom’s Business Units and Operating Business Unit and Operating Company level evidence back to source or interview Responsibility issues within the Enterprise Risk not within the scope of our work. Companies are at different stages of will form part of the assurance process for managers or data owners at Business Unit Management approach. VimpelCom operates in a development in terms of Corporate We planned and performed our work to obtain next year’s Report. and Operating Company level. number of challenging operating environments. Responsibility management arrangements. We the evidence we considered necessary to Future reports should provide more details on recommend that future Reports provide further provide a basis for our assurance opinion. governance arrangements at Business Unit and information on how priorities, approaches and We are providing a ‘moderate level’ of Operating Company level and how issues performance varies across Business Units and assurance. A ‘high level’ of assurance would identified locally are shaping the Corporate Operating Companies. have required additional work at Group and site Responsibility strategy at corporate level. level to gain further evidence to support the basis of our assurance opinion. Reporting 44 Sharing Value, Building Trust vimpelcom.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Claude Debussylaan 88 1082 MD Amsterdam The Netherlands Tel: +31 (0) 20 79 77 200 Fax: +31 (0) 20 79 77 201 Contact Point Chris Burgess Group Head of Corporate Responsibility Tel: +31 (0) 20 79 77 200 Email: cr@vimpelcom.com Links to external or third party websites are provided purely for convenience and does not imply or mean that VimpelCom endorses or accepts any responsibility for the content or use of such websites, which responsibility VimpelCom expressly disclaims. Paper This document is printed on Symbol Freelife gloss. It is manufactured at a mill with ISO 9001 and 14001 accreditation and is FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) certified. This document has been printed using vegetable inks. Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their and printing technology. Designed and produced by SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP For further details on our business, see online: vimpelcom.com
