IMPLEMENTING UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN XPO LOGISTICS Europe UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! COMMUNICATION 2015 ON ! Communication OnPROGRESS Progress 1 Since June 2015, Norbert Dentressangle SA has been XPO Logistics. This document reflects the commitment and actions taken in 2014 by the European operations of XPO Logistics. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Norbert Dentressangle reaffirms its support of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Hervé Montjotin, CEO UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 3 HUMAN PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE RIGHTS PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2: MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHT ABUSES OUR COMMITMENT ▶ Operating each and every day, everywhere across our business, while respecting all human rights laws; ▶ Promoting, inside our organization, respect of rules, legislation and all human rights; ▶ Making sure that our subcontractors operate everywhere while respecting all human rights laws; ▶ Promoting within our sector, and increasing customers’ awareness of rules, legislation and all human rights. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 4 HUMAN RIGHTS IMPLEMENTATION (SYSTEMS & TOOLS) Code of ethics Due diligences procedures (for All newly hired or integrated (through a company takeovers) new company acquisition) managers External growth plays a significant part are given the Group’s “Code of Ethics” in our business. Specific due diligence and a “Rules and key procedures procedures have been set up, including handbook” which sets out in detail – in a whole chapter dedicated to human the form of a practical guide – the resources management standards and fundamental rules they must respect in rules, regulations and human rights the day-to-day performance of their compliance. work, particularly on issues concerning Each time the Group moves into a ethics, integrity and compliance with the country where it is as yet legal and organizational framework. unestablished, we systematically consult local legal advisers to ensure that we comply with local rules and General common HR principles and regulations. policy Our business is widespread and our model is also based upon external Sub-contractors’ procedure growth. With all that this entails in terms Our procedure follows a two-step of the integration of new people, with approach: new practices and new values, we have Make every subcontracted business set up common general principles, subject to prior standardized checks to policies and standards in human ensure compliance with rules, resources management, all based on legislation and human rights. respect of rules, legislation and human Encourage every operational manager rights. to certify regular subcontractors and to undertake regular audits. Internal audit The internal audit department dedicates part of its time to verifying that internal procedures and policies relating to laws, regulations and human rights are fully and efficiently enforced throughout the Group. It also verifies that common HR standards, principles and policies apply across the Group. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 5 HUMAN RIGHTS KEY 2014 OUTCOMES (ACTIONS & PERFORMANCE) Every year, all Norbert Dentressangle All new Norbert Dentressangle managers receive an updated version transport subcontractors have to sign of the “Code of Ethics” and “Rules and the Subcontractors’ Charter and meet key procedures handbook”. They must the requirements set out in Norbert confirm receipt and commit to Dentressangle’s general purchase respecting the rules they contain. In conditions, which define the quality and 2014, updated versions were safety standards with which any distributed to 1,000 key managers. transporter chartered by the Group must comply. The Group’s Transport A general country audit is completed on Division has also set up a “Transport average every 2 years, which includes Subcontractors” reference platform, a review of HR processes and which makes it possible to give assessment of the working environment preference to partners who have for employees. In 2014, 99 audits were already been screened and approved completed across the Group’s by its teams. The platform allows subsidiaries. ongoing monitoring of compliance by listed subcontractors. 100% of newly acquired companies are audited preand post-acquisition, and In late 2014, an implementation audit 100% of them are fully aligned with our and an awareness campaign were standards in human resources launched to ensure that the Transport management, rules, legislation and Division’s various teams were aware of human rights no later than 6 months the importance of these good practices. after acquisition. In 2014, this was the case with the acquisition and integration of our new operations, including Jacobson in the US, MGF in France and Hopkinson in the UK. In 2015, 13 audits will cover the new US acquisition of Jacobson. Use of subcontractors is mainly linked to the performance of transport activities, for which it is a common and necessary market practice. A dedicated policy has therefore been introduced and is implemented directly by the Transport Division. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 6 PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING LABOR PRINCIPLE 4: THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR PRINCIPLE 5: THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR PRINCIPLE 6: THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION OUR COMMITMENT Our Group considers its human resources as its first and main asset and is therefore committed to managing them in line with three key values: fairness, respect and trust. Our Group considers differences as an asset and an opportunity and therefore encourages diversity. We guarantee freedom of association and expression of employees’ ideas and opinions through social dialogue and close local management. Our Group will never tolerate any form of forced or compulsory labor, nor any form of child labor within our organization or our subcontractors’ organizations. Norbert Dentressangle considers that it can play a significant role in social integration (due to the profile of its work) and invest in developing its human resources through training and through a policy of internal promotion. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 7 LABOR IMPLEMENTATION (SYSTEMS & TOOLS) General common HR principles and Management and social dialogue policy principles HR policies have established proper Responsibility for leading social pre-hire checks and work contracts as dialogue is given to local operational the absolute minimum requirement managers. everywhere across the business. By empowering local managers, we To foster internal promotion, our Group provide quick, relevant and appropriate gives priority to internal candidates to answers to local employees’ concerns meet any recruitment needs. Our Group and issues, in line with the local reality. also runs a talent development training This guarantees the quality, fairness program to maximize its chances of and efficiency of our social dialogue. receiving internal applications. Our Group gives its social partners a bigger voice and a broader picture of Combating discrimination the Group, its activities, its economic HR principles clearly set out the health and its perspectives in terms of restrictive criteria upon which decisions activity and employment through a on human resources (hiring, salary European social dialogue body the increase, promotion, disciplinary Norbert Dentressangle European Work sanction, assessment, access to Council and through a French social training, etc.) can be based: facts, dialogue body covering the whole competences, track record and Group – the Norbert Dentressangle experience. Group Committee. The issue of integrating and supporting employees with disabilities is covered Code of ethics Delegation of by decentralized policies in each authority and key procedures country and area of activity. These Newly appointed or hired (or integrated) policies aim in particular to increase the managers, in particular, are made number of people with disabilities aware of their responsibility to respect employed by the Group. and enforce HR principles, standards As regards equivalent posts and skills, and policies, as well as regarding the the Group’s aim is to reduce the pay building of quality social dialogue. gap between men and women to less than 10% by 2016, particularly by Internal audit monitoring this indicator more closely Internal audit reviews encompass within the framework of pay review common HR standards, principles and cycles. policies, checking compliance across the Group. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 8 LABOR KEY 2014 OUTCOMES (ACTIONS & PERFORMANCE) Our objective is to have 100% of our representation bodies, in some managers trained to improve their countries, is due to the very limited management, communication and number of employees). In 2014, more social dialogue skills through a specific than 350 negotiations were opened with training program called “Red social partners throughout the Group, Management”. By the end of 2014, nearly half of which (43%) resulted in more than 2,500 managers in the the signing of an agreement. 75% of Group’s various entities had had the the Group’s employees are covered by opportunity to follow this program. a collective agreement. Every single employee receives at least On average, each country is audited at two days of training every year. This least once every two years. In 2014, 99 means that every Norbert audits were completed, covering Dentressangle employee received an various countries and processes. In average of 16 hours of training during 2015, we are planning to conduct 112 2014. audits. Audit visits include observing whether the procedures in place ensure Some 60% of our key positions are respect of labor principles in the filled through internal promotion. In working environment. Logistics in 2014, for example, more than three team leaders in four, four department managers in five, and more than one operations manager in two were appointed through internal promotion. In both Transport and Logistics, one agency or site manager in two were also appointed through internal promotion. Most of the countries in which the Group operates have local employees’ representation bodies with whom it has regular and constructive dialogue (the absence of formal employee UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 9 PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES ENVIRONNEMENT PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9: ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES OUR COMMITMENT ▶ With the largest owned and operated fleet of heavy goods vehicles in Europe, the Group makes a priority of reducing each lorry’s environmental impact and, in particular, its carbon footprint. Having been a partner of the French Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME) for the past ten years, our two focuses are constantly improving the CO2 emissions performance of transport and using innovation to cut emissions. ▶ Norbert Dentressangle has also set an exacting standard for the environmental management of its sites, which is applied to all its logistics platforms. ▶ Norbert Dentressangle trains its teams and provides itself with the most up-to-date equipment and infrastructures, thus ensuring a very high level of safety, both on the road and in the warehouse, as regards the storage and handling of goods. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 10 ENVIRONNEMENT IMPLEMENTATION (SYSTEMS & TOOLS) Reducing emissions Safety on the road and in the To meet its commitments, Norbert warehouse Dentressangle has introduced an action As early as 1991, our Group created its plan covering the following: cutting a own tool, the “Safe Driving Plan”, which vehicle’s gross consumption by using provides guided induction, training and start-stop systems, training drivers in work for all employees dealing directly responsible eco-driving, experimenting or indirectly with road risks (from drivers with new engines using alternatives to to top managers). This tool is used in all diesel such as the diesel-electric hybrid of Norbert Dentressangle’s European or natural gas (NGV or LNG), and subsidiaries. optimizing transport plans with the aim Norbert Dentressangle has also been a of always using the most appropriate member since 2009 of the “European form of transport from a financial and Road Safety Charter” supervised by the environmental point of view – road, rail, European Commission. river or short sea. Environmental management of sites Our approach as a Group includes complying with regulations; monitoring and measuring energy consumption, discharges into water and noise pollution; recycling and re-using waste; and raising the awareness of our employees and partners. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 11 ENVIRONNEMENT KEY 2014 OUTCOMES (ACTIONS & PERFORMANCE) The Group has been measuring its Our Group has the most modern and carbon footprint since 2005 and has environment-friendly fleet in Europe. been committed to curbing CO2 The fleet is 95% compliant with Euro V, emissions since 2008 under the “CO2 EEV and Euro VI standards, and each Charter” – the first instrument for cutting truck is on average 2.5 years old. In road transport CO2 emissions, which 2014, the Group renewed around 1,000 was introduced by the French units of its HGV fleet (using Euro VI Environment and Energy Management and EEV models only). Agency (ADEME). In 2009, the Group introduced its own CO2 calculator (now Norbert Dentressangle is engaged in an part of its service offering), which allows ISO 14001 certification process to us to calculate carbon footprints for control and meet the highest standard each customer and for each transport in the environmental field. In 2014, 44% operation. In 2014, Norbert of the Group’s logistics sites were ISO Dentressangle once again collaborated 14001 compliant and certified. with the ADEME in drawing up a new Of the Logistics Division’s waste, 94% standard to certify transporters’ was treated and 78% recycled. performance with a “CO2 Label”. All new sites built by the Group are lowenergy buildings or high-performance In 2012, the Group undertook to cut the energy buildings. CO2 emissions caused by its activities in France by 6% by the year 2015. The Thanks to the Group’s investment in global emissions reduction plan road safety, by the end of 2014, a implemented by the Transport Division Norbert Dentressangle driver drove an has made it possible to improve Norbert average of 650,000 km without causing Dentressangle’s performance by 4.6% an accident – an improved performance since 2012, with 2.7% of this being that is much better than the average for achieved in 2014 (in g/tonne.km). the profession. 100% of our drivers are trained under the Safe Driving Plan and Norbert Dentressangle’s teams have to use eco-drive (rational driving) performed more than 33,000 techniques. multimodal transport operations (in Twenty-Foot Equivalent Units – TEU) in 2014, which is an increase of 129% over the number of operations performed in 2010. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 12 ANTIPRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS CORRUPTION FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY OUR COMMITMENT ▶ Our Group is committed to opposing any form of corruption inside or outside the Group (by suppliers, customers or any other organization). ▶ Our governance rules and procedures include the protection of our Group against corruption and bribery cases. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 13 ANTIIMPLEMENTATION (SYSTEMS & TOOLS) CORRUPTION Code of ethics delegation of authority and key procedures Newly appointed or hired (or integrated) managers are especially made aware of the Group’s strict rules on any form of corruption, as set out in Norbert Dentressangle’s “Code of Ethics” and “Rules and key procedures handbook”. This includes a warning as regards any form of gift they might receive from any organization, and they are asked to refuse any gifts over a specified or reasonable amount. Every decision-making and selection process is submitted to several levels of validation, which helps to prevent any form of corruption. Commercial policy The Group’s commercial policy featuring in the “Rules and key procedures handbook” clearly prohibits any form of corruption to win new business. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 14 ANTIKEY 2014 OUTCOMES CORRUPTION (ACTIONS & PERFORMANCE) No cases of corruption or suspicion Additional measures are being of corruption have been detected by introduced to further increase the Group to date. Managers have awareness and to bolster legal and asked for advice on the rare regulatory compliance in this key occasion that they have been area, including the addition of antiexposed to potential corruption, corruption as a mandatory item for showing that they were (and are) the Risk Committee, Audit sensitive to this issue. Committee, and high-level executive meetings’ agendas to enable Our commercial policy has been constant monitoring and review given and explained to 100% of our across the business; the design and commercial staff. roll-out of a dedicated training program aimed at country executive A Risk Committee has been set up teams (and to be extended to on-site at group level to ensure the Group’s teams as a next step); and the development complies with key rules development of specific guidance on and procedures. facilitation payments for Business Unit Directors. On average, each country is audited at least once every two years. The audit department reviews processes and procedures in place whilst auditing, and refers to the “Rules and key procedures” company guidance with regards to bribery and corruption. Following a period of rapid expansion for the Group, including the recent US acquisition, the Group's executive team is actively engaged in reviewing bribery and anti-corruption measures across the business. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 ! Communication On Progress 15 IMPLEMENTING UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN XPO LOGISTICS Europe UN GLOBAL COMPACT 20152015 / COMMUNICATION ON ! Communication Progress 16 OnPROGRESS
