Sustainability Report 2015 African Leader in Infrastructure & Industry Creating Inclusive Growth in Africa “The principles of sustainability, inclusivity, stewardship and innovation are central to our growth as an institution from the time that we were incorporated as a two-person partnership a decade ago all the way through to where we stand today as a publicly traded company with operations in infrastructure and industry across North and East Africa. Two themes have long been close to our hearts: a steadfast belief in the transformative power of education and the conviction that you can do right by the environment even as you do right by shareholders” Ahmed Heikal, Chairman and Founder, Qalaa Holdings Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • III Table of Contents I. About This Report 2 II. Letter From the Chairman 4 III. About QALAA Holdings 6 IV. Management Approach 12 V. Sectors and Subsidiaries 14 D....Energy 14 E.....Cement 18 Environmental F......Agrifoods 20 Education Sustainability G....Transportation & Logistics 22 H....Mining 24 I. .....Microfinance 26 VI. Governance and Accountability 28 A....Our Governance Structure 29 B.....The Audit Committee 30 C....Internal Audit Structure 31 Creating D....Insider Trading Policy E.....Anti-Fraud Policy F......Risk Management 34 32 33 Inclusive Community VII. VIII. IX. Stakeholder Engagement 36 Unleashing Human Potential Environmental Policy 52 54 Human Capital Development Development Growth A....Environmental Policy B.....Use of Material 57 C....Energy 59 55 D....Biodiversity 59 E.....Water 60 F......Emissions, Effluents, and Waste 62 X. Engaging With Our Communities 64 XI. Sustainability Challenges and Opportunities 68 XII. GRI Disclosures 70 A....ANNEX 1 – GRI Disclosure 70 B.....ANNEX 2 – Financial Statements 86 Vocational C....ANNEX 3 – Workforce Data 90 Community Engagement Training Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT Commuters at Nairobi train station About This Report As part of our commitment to excellence, we present Qalaa Holdand given the nature of the company’s portfolio and its activities ings’ first Sustainability Report. Managing a sustainable company across several countries, this report has been prepared for using not only ensures business continuity but also yields a positive imthe best possible means. In terms of data gathering and reporting, pact both on the economy and on society at large. Qalaa Holdings at this stage, the management would like to assure stakeholders has taken active steps to establish itself and its partner companies of commitment to updating, validating and correcting any figures as sustainable businesses. Accordingly, Qalaa Holdings has pledged and data that in the future might be deemed incorrect or may to disclose its business performance in terms of sustainability pracchange due to any unforeseen event. tice, which is the purpose of this report. Materiality and Level Requirements This report covers our activities during the period from 2013 to We developed this report to meet GRI Level A’s disclosure require2014. We view this reporting exercise as an opportunity to idenments. The disclosure level requires a company to report on all GRI tify any weaknesses we may have, and build on our strengths. profile indicators in addition to reporting fully on all core perforFurthermore, we believe that this report encapsulates our stance mance indicators, or to disclose criteria for omission. We conducted as transparent players in the regional market, whose stakeholders’ a materiality exercise as per the GRI’s methodology to decide on wellbeing is an integral factor in how we do business. Shifting our our disclosures. The materiality exercise was based on our current focus to industry and infrastructure is – in fact – an indicator of the management control of core subsidiaries and their relevant social, kind of role we hold ourselves responsible for in the market. economic and environmental impact. We also prioritized our areas of reporting based on our core stakeholder groups, namely our This report has been prepared according to GRI G3.1 Guidelines, at shareholders, employees, clients and end consumers, government Application Level A. It was submitted for the GRI Application Level counterparts, civil society, international organizations and local surService, and GRI has confirmed that the report was prepared accordrounding communities. The results of this exercise meant that we ing to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, at Application Level A. identified key material areas of our direct and indirect economic impact, the environmental footprint of our core industries and the Scope and Data social footprint of our own operations in terms of labor and human The scope of this report is limited to Qalaa Holdings’ core sectors, rights, as well as social investment programs. All of these issues in addition to our microfinance arm, Tanmeya. The report does are addressed in the report, and will be used by our governance not address the practices of our other non-core industries, our body and senior management to enhance our commitment to the suppliers or outsourced operations, on which we have little influadoption of sustainability. The report will also be widely dissemience at the moment. We hope to be able to extend our reporting nated to other stakeholders, allowing them to better understand capacity to include all of our subsidiaries within our next sustainour sustainability strategies and to provide feedback as needed. ability report. The GRI summary disclosure table summarizes the results of our We followed basic international measurement standards when materiality exercise at the end of this report. compiling the data and the calculations disclosed in the report. Data was extracted from our databases, bills, internal reports and Our Team externally audited statements. Moreover, additional information Our Sustainability and Stakeholder Engagement team compiled was extracted through interviewing relevant management at Qadata enclosed in this report with the support of an external consultlaa Holdings and its core subsidiaries. This has allowed us to extract ing firm. To streamline and sustain the reporting process, we develand compile the relevant information required by the GRI’s Level A oped reporting mechanisms to monitor some of the indicators on disclosure standards and the general GRI reporting tradition. a regular basis. While we have made a great leap in adopting best sustainability For more information please contact: practice by issuing this report, like most companies, we were only able to report partially on some of the GRI indicators. Indicators that Ms. Ghada Hammouda we have partially reported on are noted in a disclosure table listed at CMO & Head of Marketing Communications the end of this report. We plan on working towards systematically Qalaa Holdings reporting on these indicators by our next reporting cycle. ghammouda@qalaaholdings.com Tel: +20 2 2791-4482 • Fax: +20 22 791-4448 This report has been developed for the first time by Qalaa Holdings, 2 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 3 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Letter From the Chairman Qalaa Holdings Co-Founder and Managing Director Hisham El-Khazindar, Chairman and Founder Ahmed Heikal and Managing Director, Karim Sadek Dear Stakeholders, It is my honor to share with you Qalaa Holdings’ first comprehensive businesses in Egypt and offers financial solutions to those Sustainability Report, a document that we hope will serve as a way to segments of the population who previously had no access engage each and every one of you on an even deeper level within our to these services. company’s overall strategy and vision. Since our inception as Citadel Capital, we have always been committed to building an institution We believe that sustainable economic growth cannot be that is wedded to principles of sustainability, inclusivity, stewardship achieved without a proper system of education, which is why and innovation. Although we have grown, evolved and changed the cornerstone of our responsible investing program is educastructurally since those early days, we have always held our principles tion and human capital development. To that end, Qalaa Holdclose – and our responsibilities as a corporate citizen even closer. ings upholds a social mission to support the development of the Middle East and Africa’s human talent. We provide constant As Albert Einstein once said, “Problems cannot be solved at the training and upgrading within our own workforce (32,000 emsame level of awareness that created them.” Qalaa Holdings, fully ployees) and also offer financial assistance to Egypt’s brightest aware that opportunities in the Middle East and Africa exist alongyouth to study at the world’s top universities. Furthermore, we side paramount challenges, has chosen a path of foresight by provide training through Rift Valley Railways’ management betting on the sectors and industries that have a direct impact on training program in Kenya and Uganda and ERC’s vocational the livelihood of the general public and which represent some of training program in Egypt. However, we still believe that there the biggest challenges that our region faces. This is demonstrated is much more to be done to develop human talent through through our investments in the energy sector in Egypt, the ceeducation. Qalaa Holdings will continue to provide new edument sector in Egypt, Sudan and Algeria and the transportation cational opportunities and support for the youth of our region. and logistics sector in Kenya and Uganda. We will be investing in people at an even more aggressive pace because people are, after all, our future. Some concrete examples of how we choose to be a part of the bigger solution to Africa’s challenges include: As part of our expansive corporate social responsibility program, • The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), our USD 3.7 billion Qalaa Holdings has provided close to EGP 400 million in funding greenfield refinery, which will have the capacity to produce across a spectrum of projects since inception. 4.2 million tons of refined products per year, including 2.3 million tons of Euro V diesel, representing more than 50% of On the behalf of our management, staff and shareholders, I Egypt’s current imports. would like to thank you for your continued support in helping • Tawazon, our subsidiary for investment in the regional solid Qalaa Holdings achieve its mission, and we would like to assure waste management industry, which provides biomass and you of our continued commitment towards creating inclusive RDF as alternative fuels to heavy-energy consumers such as growth while abiding by the highest forms of ethical business cement factories. practice, as set out in our commitment as members of the • Mashreq, which is working to develop a one-of-a-kind fuel United Nations Global Compact Network (UNGC). bunkering facility in East Port Said near the strategically important entrance to the Suez Canal. The project is expected Best Regards, to not only help attract global companies and large shipping lines to operate at the port but also will help ease the nation’s shortage of refined products by facilitating imports. Ahmed Heikal, • Tanmeyah, which provides microfinance loans to small Chairman and Founder, Qalaa Holdings 4 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 5 ABOUT QALAA HOLDINGS About Qalaa Holdings Qalaa Holdings has investments in multiple companies, including core and non-core industries, as shown below. Sector Subsidiary Energy TAQA Arabia • TAQA Power • TAQA Marketing Guided by an Entrepreneurial Spirit Tawazon • ECARU • ENTAG Egyptian Refining Company(ERC) Mashreq Qalaa Holdings is the leading investment company in Africa and the Middle East. We build businesses in core industries that will define Cement ASEC Holding our region’s future. The 32,000 employees of our core subsidiaries and other investments work each day to deliver energy to consumers • ASEC Cement and businesses alike; to provide reliable, fuel-efficient transportation solutions; to grow or manufacture safe, healthy food; to add value • ASEC Engineering • ASEN PRO to natural resources and to help build critical national infrastructure. We prize innovation, value creation and sustainability in all of our • ARESCO investments. Drawing on our roots as Africa’s largest private equity firm, we have worked since 2004 to build world-class businesses • ASEC Automation that cater to the needs of the more than 1.3 billion consumers across our footprint in Egypt, East Africa and North Africa. We bring to Agrifoods Gozour the table the passion of entrepreneurs, the proven systems of world-class finance professionals and deep operational expertise in each • Dina Farms of our industries: Energy, Cement, Agrifoods, Transportation & Logistics and Mining. In a few short decades, Africa and the Middle East • Rashidi El-­‐Mizan will be home to the world’s largest working-age population. Today, seven of the world’s ten fastest-growing nations are on our contiWafra nent, which is now home to more than a billion consumers. The businesses we build in our core industries are regional champions that • Sabina will serve as engines of national growth in the exciting years to come, creating jobs and helping make our economies more efficient, • Concord Agriculture more sustainable and more globally competitive. Transportation and Logistics Nile Logistics • Nile Cargo • National River Ports Management Company • Nile barges • Ostool Trucking Company Africa Railway Mining -­ ASCOM • ASCOM Carbonate and Chemical Manufacturing (ACCM) Microfinance -­ Tanmeyah Qalaa Holdings has investments in multiple companies, including core and non-core industries, as shown below. s Core Industries Non-core Companies rie Energy Glassworks Co s t Cement United Foundries Company re Indu Agrifoods Finance Unlimited ENERGY Transportation and Logistics Grandview Mining Bonyan National Petroleum Company Nile Valley Petroleum Limited MINING NOPC Rally Energy Group Tanweer CEMENT For the purposes of this report, we will only address our core industries in addition to our microfinance arm, Tanmeyah, as they represent the bulk of our impact, economically, socially and environmentally. Transportation & Logistics Agrifoods 6 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 7 About Qalaa Holdings Creating Inclusive Qalaa Holdings’ involvement in a diverse array of sectors, ranging from industry to infrastructure, has had a significant impact on local communities by supporting job creation, and by meeting the demand for critical products and services. While we conGrowth on the economics of the region. Our operatinue to explore new avenues of growth, we tions in critical sectors like energy, cement, recognize that the successful and responsible agrifoods, transportation and logistics and operation of our businesses contributes not mining, not only support national econoonly to our own growth and sustainability mies and encourage the investment climate, but to that of the countries, economies and but they also have a demonstrable impact communities we engage. 8 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 9 About Qalaa Holdings 10 Years of Investing Responsibly in Africa 138 Scholarships awarded to Egyptian students for grad90% decrease in the number EGP 2 contributed by cement mn USD 100,000 contributed by Africa Railways to a program that trains local uate studies abroad by Qalaa Holdings subsidiary ASEC Cement to the UN’s residents in Kenya and Uganda in of injuries to workers on duty in Scholarship Foundation Rift Valley Railways’ Nairobi production workshops World Food Program in support of a school meals project in Minya, Egypt management and entrepreneurship 318,000 agricultural waste collected tons 915 welders, electricians, and pipefitters trained by the Egyptian 13,000 cultivated by local farmers in feddans 32,000 and processed in FY14 by solid waste management company Refining Company as part of a Sudan as a result of 200 km of Total number of employees vocational education at Qalaa Holdings Tawazon initiative irrigation canals built by Wafra USD 30,000 38 Rift Valley Railways drivers graduate 6,000 USD 60mn contributed to community donated annually to the Qalaa Holdings after successfully completing community members were development programs since 2004 an 18-month driving course in positively impacted in Kenya as a result of Rift Valley Financial Services Center (QHFSC) at the American University Kenya and Uganda. Railways’ management and skills training program in Cairo 63% reduction in total 30% USD 100,000 2,000 jobs created as a result of incidents at Rift Valley ERC’s budget for refurbishing hospitals Rift Valley Railways’ “Transforming Lives Railways as a result of enhanced safety and reliability of service reduction in the total amount of SO2 emisin Matariya and Mostorod. The project is expected to impact more than 700,000 community members in Africa with Every Move” management trainee project in Kenya sions as a result of cleaner Euro V diesel supplied by the Egyptian Refining Company 10 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 11 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Management Approach Managing a holding company as large as comprehensive management approach that Qalaa Holdings necessitates a unique apis designed to meet the needs of each subproach to the management of both the sidiary’s nature and operations. Our manholding company and its different subsidagement approach addresses the different iaries. Due to the uniqueness of each of the components of our operations’ impact as sectors, Qalaa Holdings has always sought a summarized in the below table: Performance Area Approach Our approach prioritizes efficiency and shared value creation, and thus ensures Economic maximal value creation for both our shareholders and the countries we operate in. Our corporate foundation continues to guarantee excelling Egyptian students the worldclass education they deserve. In parallel, our core industries’ social investment Society programs support an array of pressing development challenges including education, food security and employability. We realize that our workforce is our core asset. Our current processes and procedures ensure the rights of our workforce across core and non-core industries. We Labor are currently working on mainstreaming best practices related to ensuring the health and safety of our employees, and investing in their continuous growth and development. We have pioneered a commitment to a minimum living wage for all of our employees, and one that goes beyond local regulatory frameworks. We continue to be Human Rights committed to ensuring our workers dignified wages, and our zero tolerance policies for child and forced labor. Core to our mandate is ensuring a sustainable and diversified and thus sustainable energy mix across the markets we operate in. We are currently collecting core Environmental Footprint indicators about our environmental footprint, and will continue to expand our datacollection and monitoring efforts to cover all relevant indicators, monitor and reduce our footprint. We continuously strive to streamline our quality, health and safety procedures with international best practices. Best international standards related to product quality Product & Client Responsibility and consumer health and safety are currently streamlined across relevant subsidiary companies. 12 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 13 Sectors and Subsidiaries Energy Sector O ur decision to invest in energy derives from the current imbalance between supply and demand in the energy sector. With the rising increase in the demand for energy in the region In light of the above, Qalaa Holdings has been a thought leader on issues concerning the the imminent energy crisis in the region and energy subsidy reform in Egypt. We view Total gas distributed Total gas distributed and the inability of markets to supply in accordance with that the energy market as an integrated ecosystem that cannot be 2013 2014 4.8 3.9 demand, Qalaa Holdings has been focused on investing in the broken down. Qalaa Holdings is willing to integrate under energy sector. Growing our investments in the energy sector strict environmental protection regulations the use of coal allows us to positively impact a diverse range of stakeholders as a source of energy, noting that Egypt is moving towards including: the government, the private sector and the average a free energy market to cope with the overall energy crisis. citizen. It also enables us to influence public policy by advocatHowever, to counter the potential negative effects of the use ing for and actively supporting a sustainability agenda. of coal on the environment, we are actively pursuing the use BCM BCM of different forms of energy, including alternative fuel. AcOur investment in the energy sector can be divided into two main cordingly, Qalaa Holdings has invested in Tawazon, a regional areas of focus: the production and distribution of energy. Our investenterprise working to transform recycled waste into alternaments range from upstream, midstream and downstream energy tive fuel. Furthermore, Qalaa Holdings operates some of its solutions, to refined petroleum products. To absorb the impact of cement subsidiaries with biomass and supplies biomass to the energy crisis that escalated regionally over the past few years, other plants and facilities as well. Finally, all of our operations we have been advocates of resorting to alternative sources of clean adhere to the standards of emissions set forth in Environment energy. Qalaa’s subsidiaries in the energy sector are: TAQA Arabia, Law number 4 for the year 1994. Total Investments Revenues EBTIDA Tawazon, Egyptian Refinery Company and Mashreq. Together, these companies cover energy creation; energy distribution; fuel TAQA Arabia EGP bn EGP bn EGP bn 2.6 2.0 192.3 marketing; solid waste management; refining and development QH holds a 33.8% ownership stake in TAQA Arabia, the largof fuel bunkering facilities. Divided amongst different subsidiary est private sector energy distribution company in Egypt with companies, Qalaa Holdings’ energy investments are responsible over 18 years of experience with diversified sources of energy, for the production of 880 MW Contracted Generation Distribution investing in and operating energy infrastructure including and Operation & Maintenance Capacity, 4.8 BCM/YR Gas and Comgas transmission and distribution, power generation and pressed Natural Gas (CNG) Distribution as well as connecting 16% of distribution, and the marketing of petroleum products. Egyptian households to the gas network. 14 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 15 sectors and Subsidiaries Energy Sector ( cont’d ) Total revenues of TAQA Arabia Total revenues of TAQA Arabia Total Agricultural Waste Received Total Agricultural Waste Received 2013 2014 2013 2014 1.2 1.8 214,000 318,000 EGP bn EGP bn tons tons Product Capacity Company Achievements in 2013 Achievements in 2014 318,865 tons of waste collected from Refined Products 1.9 M ton ECARU 214,000 tons of waste collected from Egypt Egypt 390k tons of waste received from south Cairo 476k tons of waste received from south Euro V Diesel 2.3 M ton Municipal Solid Waste Management and Dakahleya Cairo and Dakahleya 75 sorting and composting facilities built 75 sorting and composting facilities built Jet Fuel 600,000 ton ENTAG across the region across the region TAQA Arabia serves its clients with energy distribution that incorpothe power sector contributes to a more sustainable approach to Refining ERC rates fuels, electricity, natural gas, and the in near future solar & wind the management of non-renewable energy sources. Investing in Our new greenfield refinery has the capacity of 4.2 million tons liquid bulk petroleum products storage/ bunkering and energy and biotechnology fuels. With 16 subsidiaries throughout electricity also has a wide impact on a diverse group of stakeholders. of Euro V diesel. This in-progress refinery which is now 75% blending services. QH’s vision here was to join forces with Egypt and the region, TAQA Arabia has gained the expertise and Private sector investments in electricity free the government of the complete, falls directly within our plan to offer solutions to the the public sector to increase investment in the Port Said know-how to strategically position its gas, E.P.C. (engineering, proburden of being the sole supplier of energy, allow national resources energy crisis in the region. This refinery is expected to cut down Port. This approach represents the core of our vision: a suscurement and construction), power and marketing arms across the to be reallocated in a more efficient and constructive manner and Egypt’s imports of diesel by 50-60%, which will have a substantainable investment that contributes to the growth of the full downstream energy value chain. Today TAQA provides services provide the average citizen with their domestic supply of power. tive positive impact on the Egyptian economy. economy and as a result an improvement in the welfare of to more than 1 million customers. In the coming years we wil also be focusing on operating all of our the region we operate within. TAQA fuel stations with solar panels, rather than relying on subsiThrough investment in The Egyptian Refinery Company (ERC), Through TAQA Arabia, QH’s investments in the power generation dized power from the government. QH is leading the way into decreasing the sulfur emissions in sector are positively contributing to the public sector’s ability to meet Egypt by 93,000 tons per year. ERC will also improve the quality Solid Waste Management Tawazon domestic demand for electricity. Furthermore, private investment in of the petroleum supply by refining low quality petroleum into QH invested in regional solid waste management through medium and light distillates. Tawazon, a subsidiary that controls two companies: the Egyptian Company for Solid Waste Recycling (ECARU), a solid waste Total Electricity Distributed Total Electricity Distributed Liquid Bulk Terminal-Mashreq management service operator, and the Engineering Tasks Group Through QH’s investment in Mashreq, we were able to fully (ENTAG), a solid waste management engineering and contractdemonstrate our firm belief in responsible investing. In May ing company. With operations in Egypt and international proj2013 2014 2013, the East Port Said Port Authority finalized an agreeects in Oman, Malaysia, Sudan, Nigeria, Libya, Saudi Arabia and 355.9 591 ment with Mashreq Petroleum. The agreement entailed a Syria, Tawazon is one of the leading solid waste management 30-year concession agreement, allowing QH to build the enterprises in the region. first independent tank terminal in Egypt. This will provide mn kW/hr mn kW/hr 16 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 17 Sectors and Subsidiaries Cement Sector Q alaa Holdings has invested in the cement industry through ASEC Holding, which includes three divimaximum capacity with minimal impact on the environment. Our work with the MoE extends beyond compliTotal Cement Produced Total Cement Produced sions: cement manufacturing, management & services, and ance with Environment Law 4/1994 to include achieving 2013 2014 3.8 5.8 construction. For 30 years, ASEC Holding has been operating internationally acceptable compliance levels regarding locally and regionally and has established itself as a leader in the cement industry. the areas of engineering, construction and cement manufacturing. ASEC Holding’s cement manufacturing arm is ASEC The four plants run by ASEC Cement are emerging as major Cement, a leading cement producer with two greenfiled contributors to the region’s demand for cement with facilities plants in Egypt and Sudan. in Egypt, Algeria, and Sudan. ASEC is striving to achieve more mtpa mtpa efficient methods of production while maintaining socially The manufacturing of cement relies on natural gas, electricity, responsible facilities. diesel and alternative fuel as sources of energy. Our plan is to replace all of our present plants’ filters with electrostatic filters Our challenges with the cement sector revolve mainly to minimize the environmental effect of running a cement around the scarcity of energy resources. The solution presproduction facility. We are also looking forward to incorporatent at hand is to resort to coal as a source of energy. The ceing bag filters on all plants to minimize air pollution around ment facilities will rely on coal as a primary source of energy Total Investments Revenues EBTIDA the plants. Our goal is to reduce our plants’ dependency on starting from the summer of 2016. The effects of coal on the fossil fuels by 4Q2015. Furthermore, the placement of one environment will be mitigated by our compliance with all EGP bn EGP bn EGP mn 1.7 2.6 582.7 plant on the public electricity grid will eliminate the use of MoE regulations regarding the use of coal. To counter the diesel for on-site operations. negative effects of coal, we plan on using alternative fuels (by 2016, 20% of the energy used in the cement sector will Qalaa Holdings’ cement sector is in constant communicarely on alternative fuel) instead of fossil fuels in order to keep tion with the Ministry of Environment (MoE). This contact our carbon footprint as low as possible. is established so that the cement sector can operate at 18 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 19 Sectors and Subsidiaries Agrifoods Sector Gozour Total number of feddans in Total number of feddans in The region’s need for sustainable food security has encourfor job creation. With Gozour operating out of Egypt through Company aged Qalaa Holdings to invest in the food production sector. four different establishments, Qalaa Holdings’ agrifood sector 2013 2014 Our involvement in the agrifood sector is divided between has secured a substantial share of the regional market. The Sabina 324,000 feddans 324,000 feddans Gozour and Wafra. Both companies not only address the reexpansion of production is evident in the following: gion’s demand for food, but they also contribute to its demand Concord Agricultural 250,000 feddans 250,000 feddans Company Production volume in 2013 Production volume in 2014 Rashidi El Mizan (Confectioner) 28,674 tons 25,246 tons Wafra Wafra’s social impact is evident in both Sudan and South cal farmers. Sabina has also completed the demarcation of Dina Farms (Agricultural Production) 97,984 tons 107,170 tons Sudan, including increasing the welfare of surrounding culits 324,000 feddans of farmland that has established clearly tivated lands. After the rehabilitation of more than 200 km defined lines on both topographical maps and daily human Dina Farms (Raw Milk) 57,690 tons 64,060 tons of irrigation canals, the returned benefit accrued not only lives as of the end of 2014. to Wafra’s lands but also to 13,000 feddans cultivated by loEnjoy (Juices and Milk) 38,134 tons Total Investments Revenues EBTIDA Gozour’s total revenues were EGP 1,026 million in 2013 Qalaa Holdings also has full ownership of Wafra, a company focused and EGP 1,043 million for 2014. Gozour is the epitome of on agricultural production in Sudan. Wafra holds within it a total land EGP mn EGP bn EGP bn 974.2 1.0 166.1 a sustainable business model that invests in an efficient investment of more than 500,000 feddans divided between Sudan workforce operating the largest privately owned farm in and South Sudan. The grains produced by Wafra are sold in the Egypt (Dina Farms). Dina Farms utilizes the most advanced local market, providing local citizens with both food and jobs. Qalaa technology in irrigation which allows it to make efficient use Holdings investment opportunity presented itself through Sabina of water resources. Today the agrifood sector contributes and Concord Agricultural. The total number of feddans owned by 18% of total Qalaa Holdings revenue. Wafra is displayed as follows in the chart on the next page. 20 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 21 Sectors and Subsidiaries Transportation & Logistics Sector Africa Railways A cknowledging the importance of transportation and logistics to the growth of local economies, Qalaa Holdings invested in railway and river transportation as an alternative to land Africa Railways is Qalaa Holdings’ subsidiary that is focused on African railway routes. African Railways has a controlling “Qalaa’s investments in railway and river transport aim to and air transportation, through Nile Logistics and Africa Railways. stake in Rift Valley Railways (RVR), with a plan to implement a three-point turnaround program with investments of provide affordable and reliable transportation & logistics Nile Logistics Qalaa Holdings relies on the Nile River as a channel conUSD 318 million invested to date in CAPEX in RVR. Within 26 months of operations, RVR has already reconstructed the solutions that can become an engine of national and necting Egypt and Sudan all the way to the south of Sudan, and Nile Logistics covers the Nile from Egypt through South most damaged sections of the railway track between Mombasa and Nairobi, as well as rehabilitated and reopened the regional growth and help dismantle barriers to crossSudan. From Nile Barges for River Transport in South Sudan to the National River Port Management Company covering 500 km railway from Tororo to Gulu in Northern Uganda after a 20-year hiatus. Through these efforts, Africa Railways has border trade in Africa” the entire length of the Nile, and Nile Cargo operating locally established itself as a leading company. By 2013, RVR became to cover transportation between Alexandria and Damietta to the operator of 2,541 tracks of rails, transporting over 3.6 Aswan, our unique transportation network covers the most million passengers and 1.2 billion NTK, covering the distance significant river ports in the region and secures Qalaa Holdbetween Kenya and Uganda. ings’ investment in the cleaner transportation of goods. Moreover, the National Multimodal Transport Company Human capital development is a priority with all of Qalaa’s Total Investments Revenues EBTIDA (NMT) has launched a new transport line covering the disinvestments. RVR employs 2,054 individuals, 8.2% of whom tance between the Port Said Container Terminal and the Suez are female. Qalaa Holdings has given special focus to the EGP mn EGP mn EGP bn 563 667.2 (91.4) Canal Container Terminal / Sharq Al-Tafrea, including a naval work force operating the company and the rails, providing service bay at the Suez Canal. This new project falls directly local employees with the chance to enhance their skills and into our plan for reducing our carbon footprint by promotequipping them with the required training and knowledge ing dependence on water transport as opposed to land transfer to push their careers forward. In addition, RVR is intransport. Resorting to water transport as an alternative to volved with over 90 SMEs / community groups who work in land transport has various benefits, chief among them is the various sectors of the company’s operations. These SMEs are reduction in expenses, traffic and costly land infrastructure. benefiting c. 5,000 people both directly and indirectly. 22 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 23 Sectors and Subsidiaries Mining Sector ASCOM Qalaa Holdings invests in the mining sector through ASCOM, As of next year, a plan has been put forward to invest in heavy which has gone from being a supplier to the cement industry dump trucks in an attempt to minimize the number of tipper ASCOM Consumption Rate of Solar Energy ASCOM Consumption Rate of Solar Energy to holding concessions for mining aggregates, silica sand, gravel trucks. This will have a direct effect on our consumption of solar and other basic raw materials. ASCOM continues to grow regionenergy, reducing our intake per ton. Our impact on water is 1.0 Mio 2013 2014 3.9 4.2 ally with subsidiaries: ASCOM Precious Metals Mining (APM), ASm3/year in water discharge. Water is consumed in the process of COM Carbonate and Chemical Manufacturing (ACCM) and Glassspraying internal roads. This leaves no room for recycling or reuse. Rock. The three facilities cover operations in Ethopia, Sudan and Egypt. All operations taking place under ASCOM are ISO 14001 Currently, ASCOM is focusing on being a major supplier of the certified since 2010. ASCOM keeps its environmental impact to a services needed for the production of cement. Our biggest focus minimum by adhering to internationally acceptable standards of remains supplying cement manufacturers with raw materials. operating a heavy-industry facility. Furthermore, ASCOM invested USD 200,000 in crushers for Building on that, our main activities include: 1. Full Quarry Management MW MW dust accumulation filters in 2014 as well as USD 50,000 for 2. Geological Investigation new labs and tools that are more efficient and USD 50,000 3. Quarry Design & Development for the installation of a new disposal management system. 4. Topographic Surveys Total Investments Revenues EBTIDA Our facilities use heavy materials such as explosives and oils. As a counter impact, 70% of the oils are recycled and 20% of Operating in a diverse geographic space is a responsibility EGP mn EGP mn EGP bn 183.1 632.2 46.2 our spare parts from the facilities are recycled as well. Furthat we take seriously. With operations in Sudan, Ethiopia and thermore, our direct energy consumption primary source is Egypt, our stance in terms of labor compliance and human solar energy. This cuts down on the negative environmental rights preservation is clear. Management’s approach to the impact and decreases the risk of non-compliance with intersafety and wellbeing of its workforce comes from a place of national standards of relevant operation. ASCOM’s consumpreal concern. ASCOM has never been reported to have violation rates of solar energy are listed on the following page. tions regarding labor laws and/or human rights. 24 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 25 Sectors and Subsidiaries Microfinance Sector Tanmeyah Micro Enterprise Services “With excellent growth potential, Tanmeyah is expected to Almost half of Egypt’s population lives below the poverty line, with many more living within great proximity to it. and a loan portfolio of EGP 405 million. Tanmeyah’s core product is microenterprise lending with loan sizes ranging play an important role in the development of the country Only 2% of the private sector gets 98% of the credit extended by Egyptian banks. Tanmeyah uses an innovative from EGP 3,000 to 30,000. Microfinance is a growing trend in international markets as it has proven to be a successful by providing growth working capital to individuals that approach to tackle the issue of a lack of access to credit by offering financial services to low-income individuals model in terms of stability and scalability. have no access to the financial system” and enterprises. In April 2015, Tanmeyah also launched the Very Small Enterprise Lending product with loan sizes ranging from Qalaa Holdings has acquired a 70% stake in Tanmeyah EGP 30,000 to EGP 100,000. With excellent growth poMicro Enterprise Services, established in 2009 to offer tential within the current business environment in Egypt, microfinance services in Egypt. Tanmeyah has proven to Tanmeyah is expected to play an important role in the welfare of society. Traditional formal financing services be a fast-growing business, offering services to its clients development of the country by providing growth, workare inaccessible to the majority of small businesses that in rural areas including Upper Egypt. With a nationwide ing capital and other financial solutions to companies and want to expand their business models. With a potential branch network, Tanmeyah has positioned itself as an individuals that otherwise have no access to the formal unmet market demand of approximately 2 million micro integral part of the communities in which it functions. financial system. and small-sized enterprises, Tanmeyah has tremendous The Tanmeyah business model is focused on offering growth potential. To date, Tanmeyah has served 338,654 microfinance services to segments of the population who Tanmeyah’s model focuses on serving business owners to clients. previously had no access financing. To date, Tanmeyah has help them break the cycle of poverty. This social invest100 branches nationwide, serving 92,476 active clients, ment yields its results in the form of an increase in the 26 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 27 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY Governance and Accountability GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY Our Governance Structure The Audit Committee G ood governance is a key cornerstone of a sustainable business. At Qalaa Holdings this is manifested through a Board of Directors (BoD) inclusive of both executive and non-executive They act as decision-makers and own their reports to the Finance and Investment Committee of Qalaa Holdings. The Audit Committee also meets quarterly and, in its turn, reports to the Statutory T o secure good governance and responsible practices at all levels of Qalaa Holdings, from top management down to the smallest employee, a “leadership by example” approach has findings from the internal auditors. This process is completed by suggesting recommendations, together with management responses, on how to improve the internal auditing members. The members of our BoD are appointed through a Boards of both the relevant subsidiary and Qalaa Holdings. Furtherbeen adopted. This approach creates a basis of trust between process. convened General Assembly of Shareholders. The appointment more, a Management Committee convenes on monthly basis to management, employees and stakeholders alike. Recognizing is based upon the percentage of ownership of shares and experallow senior employees to provide direction or recommendations the need for a practical mechanism for this approach, Qalaa External Audit: This responsibility entails supervision tise credentials. to the executive officers. Holdings established an Audit Committee to assist the BoD with on all external auditing conducted for Qalaa Holdings. Furits supervisory responsibilities. The Committee consists of three thermore, it includes installing and conducting an internal A firm, fair, and transparent internal regulations system ensures the Minority shareholders are given the opportunity to express and members who are chosen from the already existing members mechanism to ensure external auditors are aligned with adherence of all employees to our values. The installation of this document their opinion on management or operations through of the BoD. However, the selected members have to be nonQalaa Holdings’ auditing standards. type of internal process in a company like Qalaa Holdings presents the General Assembly of the Shareholders, to which the Board of executive members of the Board. It is also within the jurisdiction challenges, due to the complexity and diversity of the different Directors reports. of the BoD to elect a non-member of the Board to serve in the Financial Reporting: The Audit Committee must sectors involved. However, we are very committed to presenting a Audit Committee. At least one of the Audit Committee memreview the companies annual and quarterly financial statedependable model of good governance that constantly evolves in The 2015/2016 plans entail a more structured and organized bers must be an expert in financial management, with proven ments and the related documents prior to filing or distriburesponse to our needs. governance plan, with enhanced governance procedures being past experience in the field of finance and/or accounting. The tion. the review should include discussion with managedeveloped through the design and implementation of a GovBoD shall also assign one of the Audit Committee members to ment and External Auditors of significant issue regrding As holding companies own multiple companies within their strucernance Code for Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. Moreover, serve as the committee’s Chairman. accounting principles, practices, audit findings, disclosures, ture, their governance process is ultimately a complex one. Qalaa Qalaa Holdings has adopted a number of policies that ensure good judgements, and any other requirements under accounting Holdings ensures its subsidiaries are equipped with the approprigovernance throughout Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. The The Qalaa Holdings Audit Committee requires an inflow of standards and rules. ate structure required for an independent decision-making process newly developed policies include the prevention of malfunction, information from the subsidiaries’ audit committees to proin accordance with national laws and international standards of the detection of error in the governance process as well as detailed mote consistency of policies and procedures and handling Compliance: The BoD and the rest of the employees are all governance, ultimately creating a balanced system for accountmechanisms to follow in whistleblowing protection. of issues accross the platforms. This flow is done through the bound by compliance regulations set forth through internaability and decentralization. head of internal audit of Qalaa Holdings being a member of tional and local standards. It is within the Audit Committee’s Qalaa Holdings has an Audit Committee that oversees the work of the subsidiaries’ audit committee. duties to assure compliance with set rules and regulations. Being a holding company, Qalaa Holdings has a Statutory Board Qalaa Holdings and only intervenes in the auditing of the subsidiarthat incorporates executive (12 members) and non-executive (6 ies when required. The relatively larger subsidiaries have their own The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are divided into Other responsibilities include overseeing special investigamembers) directors. The definition Qalaa Holdings uses to refer to audit committees that operate independently. The audit committhe following four main categories: tions and conducting annual assessments for the adequacy non-executive members is that these members are not involved tees of both the subsidiaries and Qalaa Holdings are composed of of the internal audit charter. Furthermore, the responsibilities in the management of Qalaa Holdings or its subsidiaries. As for non-executive members to secure maximum efficiency and proInternal Audit: The Audit Committee is responsible for of the Audit Committee extend to include the installation of a independent members, they are members who do not represent fessionalism. The Chairman of the highest governing body in Qalaa approving the final audit annual plan. It is also responsible for whistleblowing system that needs to include mechanisms for a particular shareholder in Qalaa Holdings or any of its subsidiaries. Holdings, i.e. the Statutory Board, is Dr. Ahmed Heikal, the Chairman reviewing the charter, activities, staffing and organizational filing complaints and investigating them while making sure and Founder of Qalaa Holdings. Further details of his function, and structure of the internal audit function with management the whistleblower is protected. This duty is empowered by As for subsidiaries, their management boards are held quarterly. the Audit Committee as a whole, are provided in the section below. and the Chief Audit Executive. the ability of the Audit Committee to seek and obtain any information it deems of relevance to filed complaints. MemQalaa Holdings Subsidiary Comapny The Audit Committee should assess the effectiveness of the bers of the Audit Committee are expected to behave in an company’s internal control system, including information impartial manner that ensures their unbiased judgment in technology security and control. Furthermore, the Audit the areas of their jurisdiction. Statutory Board Statutory Board Committee is responsible for obtaining reports on significant Compensation Compensation Audit Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee CEO & Chairman CEO Internal Audit Internal Audit 30 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 31 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY Internal Audit Charter Insider Trading Policy T he Internal Audit Charter is established to ensure maximum audit efficiency of the internal audit process. The charter specifies the audit development plan, the audit approach and Committee as well as administrative reporting channels to the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. W ith the large magnitude of Qalaa Holdings and its involvement with several other sub-companies, the development of an Insider Trading Policy was of essence. The Insider Trading Compliance with the Insider Trading Policy is each employee’s responsibility. To enhance adherence to the Insider Training Policy, Qalaa Holdings has proceeded with allowing the authorities of the Internal Audit Department. The Audit CharThe Audit Committee approves the Audit Plan after being Policy helps protect employees from issues relating to conflict of employees who are in doubt to access the Investor Relations ter also includes regulations to ensure the objectivity and the formed by the Head of Internal Audit through consultation interest, access to sensitive information and other regulations set Department who should resolve the issue. The Head of Invesindependence of the internal audit process. The scope of this with the Chairman and the CEO. The Audit Plan is carried out forth by the EGX and EFSA. tor’s duties can are listed as follows: charter includes the functions of the Internal Audit Department and its impact is reported by the Head of Audit to the Audit • Serving as a designated person before the EGX and over Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. Committee in timely manner. The plan is adopted after realThe Insider Trading Policy is a policy developed to govern EFFSA. izing the following: insider trading within Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. This • Reviewing all trading transactions on the Company’s The internal audit function is installed to improve Qalaa Hold• Understanding of the operations and their relevant polipolicy was established to prevent inadvertent violations or stock. ings’ overall operations. This is done by providing a timely and cies as well as their controls. improper transactions on Qalaa Holdings shares. It also guar• Conducting the annual circulation of the Insider Trading independent internal audit process that is able to cater for the • Identifying the risks related to said operations. antees that Qalaa Holdings activities are done in the light of Policy to concerned personnel. volume of Qalaa Holdings operations. The internal audit pro• Tailoring an audit process to match the nature of the fair trade and in good faith. The policy also guarantees com• Coordinating with the Legal Department regarding cess assists Qalaa Holdings in providing a systematic and disoperations. pliance with the listing rules of the EGX and EFSA on insider compliance activities and the change of trading laws to ciplined approach that is able to improve the effectiveness of • Reporting on findings. trading. The scope of the Insider Trading Policy also extends ensure that the policy is amended as necessary to comthe risk management process, exercise control over operations to include family members of the relevant employees, in an ply with such requirements. as well as indicate the effectiveness of the governance process. The findings of the Internal Audit process are presented in effort to eliminate channels of fraud and/embezzlement. the form of a report. The report should include; the audit Under the terms of this policy, the concerned employees are Qalaa Holdings has long held itself as a leader in setting high Accordingly, the functions of the Internal Audit within Qalaa scope work performed, key strengths, and findings identified prohibited from: standards for its employees’ compliance. Holdings and its subsidiaries are: (categorized as high, medium, and low risk) along with their • Performing any trading on the Company’s shares during • Conducting a review of the reliability and of the financial relevant recommendations. The reports of the Internal Audit black-out periods. operation information. are to be reported to the appropriate Senior Management • Performing any trading on the Company’s shares while in • Assessing the compliance of Qalaa Holdings and its suband the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and to the Audit a possession of material, price-sensitive and non-public sidiaries with the policies, laws, regulations and contracts Committee at their request. information even during the trading window. within the company and vis-à-vis other parties. • Recommending the purchases and/or sales of the Com• Conducting an evaluation process to ensure safeguardpany’s shares to others based on confidential informaing of assets. tion that was not yet been disclosed to the market. • Examining the effectiveness and efficiency of various • Providing material non-public information to famoperations and controls. ily members, business acquaintances or friends or any third person. The Internal Audit is managed by the Head of Internal Audit at Qalaa Holdings. The Audit Charter ensures the Head of Internal Audit is allowed channels to exercise the required functions in an independent manner. This is safeguarded by providing the Head of Internal Audit with independent functional reporting lines with direct access to the Audit 32 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 33 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY Anti-Fraud Policy Risk Management T he Anti-Fraud Policy was established to promote consistent corporate integrity, honesty and ethical behavior with zero tolerance to fraud and corruption within Qalaa Holdings and its key player in implementing a culture of anti-fraud in both Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. Under the terms of the Anti-Fraud Policy, the management is responsible for: T he Risk Management Department at Qalaa Holdings has always maintained a healthy relationship with our investors. No matter how big or small the investor might be, it is within Qalaa • Participating in road shows and conferences where we engage with a wide range of investors. • Conducting meetings with investors (in groups and onesubsidiaries. Other functions of the policy include: • Investigating reported actual or suspected fraud. Holdings’ DNA to carry out a relationship based on trust and on-one) during road shows. • Protecting Qalaa Holdings’ funds, reputation and employ• Providing appropriate mechanisms for employees and transparency. This is precisely why Qalaa Holdings has a reputa• Scheduling meetings with our investors upon their reees against acts of fraud. other parties to voice their genuine concerns. tion for conducting the relevant disclosures to its investors in a quest in our premises. • Providing a framework for investigating all suspected cases • Assessing fraud risk and designing and implementing conprofessional and timely manner. As part of our commitment • Responding in a timely fashion to our investors’ calls and of fraud. trols and programs to prevent it where possible and make it to a transparent relationship with our investors, Qalaa Holdings emails. • Establishing the roles and responsibilities of parties involved visible should it occur. communicates with its investors through a variety of channels • Offering an open communication channel with the broin the investigation, to assess whether the reported red that include: kers who – in their turn – communicate relevant informaflags/suspected acts constitute fraud or not, and the conThe Whistleblowing Channel is an integral part of the anti-fraud • Communicating written disclosures to the EGX. tion to our investors and clients. cerned management role in mitigating the detected risks. policy. The channel allows management, employees or third • Emailing our latest news and releases to our investors. • Holding media interviews when possible. parties to report on suspected or actual acts of fraud. The Whis• Constantly updating the content of the Qalaa Holdings’ The policy covers both occupational and corporate fraud. tleblowing Channel also entails protection of the whistleblower website with the latest news relevant to the market and It is applicable to any fraud or suspected fraud within Qalaa reporting fraud. The following should be noted when using the its investors. Holdings. It extends to include any of said acts committed Whistleblowing Channel: by or involving directors, management, employees (both • The whistleblower shall not be threatened in any way nor permanent and temporary), vendors (suppliers, contractors be subjected to any form of discrimination or any other adand sub-contractors), business partners, customers, distributverse measure, unless the facts of the case were knowingly ers, employees of outside agencies doing business with Qalaa wrong when reported. Holdings, competitors and others. • Whistleblowing should be done using proper language Qalaa Holdings management is responsible through the terms and not based on hearsay or false allegations that are not supported with sufficient evidence. GOVERNANCE of this policy to set the “Tone at the Top”. This entails their re• Since this is an anonymous whistle-blowing channel, all sponsibility to be familiar with the types of fraud facing their whistleblowers shall provide evidence to reported susAND line of action, implementing adequate control over them, pected or actual fraud. convoying the anti-fraud measures throughout the company as well as supporting the employees’ rights to report on fraud. • Any employee, who decides to disclose her/his identity, intentionally provides falsified information/evidence, damACCOUNTABILITY ages other parties’ reputation or aims for personal gains As for the employees, they are expected to act accordingly shall be subjected to disciplinary actions as per the Human Risk by being aware of the types of fraud relevant to their line of Resources Department Guidelines. Audit work; participating in the process of creating a strong control Management environment; and reporting through the whistleblowing Complaints filed through whistleblowing channels are investiCommittee channels any acts of fraud. gated by a committee comprising the Internal Audit Function and the Human Resources Department. The process of investiThe reference Qalaa Holdings uses when referring to fraud gation is carried out until the complaint is resolved whether by is a derivative of the Egyptian Law’s definition of fraud. The actual detection of fraud or by the establishment of innocence. Egyptian Law under the Qalaa Holdings definition can be Internal Audit broadly divided into: fraudulent financial and operational reporting, misappropriation of assets and acts of corruption The Anti-Fraud Policy is another step forward that establishes Qalaa Holdings as a leader in the methods of prevention and deCharter Anti-Fraud relating to assets. tection of fraud. This reiterates our belief that good governance Policy is of essence to Qalaa Holdings’ growth and prosperity. The Anti-Fraud Policy consists of three channels for fighting Insider Trading fraud, namely: fraud prevention, fraud detection and responding to fraud. The terms of this policy highlight management as a Policy 34 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 35 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder Engagement “Qalaa Holdings is committed to engaging with relevant stakeholders as an integral part of Meetings on Various issues / Written maintaining a sustainable business model. It is within our practices to set up communication NGOs communications / Emails / SMS Ongoing channels with all relevant stakeholders ranging from the smallest investors and up to community representations and the relevant public sector entities.” Conferences / Roadshows / one-to-one Shareholders & Investors meetings / publications / website / Ongoing / quarterly / annually webcasts The below table captures our stakeholder engagement practices: Corporate Advisory Panels / written Industry/Commerce/Trade Associations Ongoing writ-ten/verbal communication communications / meetings Frequency of Engagement Stakeholder group Type of engagement 2014 Meetings on various issues / Written Key Suppliers & Service Providers Ongoing on day to day basis Communications Annual employee engagement event / Employees and Trainers all employee meetings / whistleblowing Ongoing reporting Annual Performance Reporting to DFIs Annual Reports /Ongoing written comDirect meetings / participation in Financial Institutions/ Partners and other financial partners munication / Meetings Local & regional Governments governments’ initiatives / key national Ongoing and international events Press releases / press conferences / round Public private partnerships and engageMedia/influencers tables / one on one meetings / events / Ongoing Civil Society ment on selected topics related to Ongoing website human capital development 36 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 37 UNLEASHING HUMAN POTENTIAL Unleashing Human “The individual is the core of our development process, during the year 2014, Qalaa Holdings invested more than EGP 4.5 bn in the livlihoods Potential of our workforce, in the form of wages, salaries, bonuses, and other similar items” Value creation starts at the core of the community – the human being. Our cycle of creating value begins with the recruitment process. When we start our recruitment process, we are insistent on finding potential future partners. We create a cycle where human capital is targeted, aligned, trained and graduated as entrepreneurs. Ever since we began, we declared ourselves as equal opportunity job creators. We are apolitical, asexual and nonreligious when we are recruiting and when we are looking for our potential partners. Our adherence to international labor standards reinforces the trust between management and employees in all the sectors in which we invest. We have compiled employment data for each of our relevant companies, including employment type (full-time, part-time, Senior Management, Middle Management and Entry Level); gender Qalaa Holding Company 40 distribution; employee benefits; and employee turnover (detailed data is provided in Annex 3). Energy 42 Information on staffing and recruitment policies is also provided. The following sections provides Cement 46 data on companies according to sector of operations, starting with the energy sector, followed by Agrifoods 48 cement, agrifoods, transportation and logistics, mining and microfinance. Transportation & Logistics 49 Mining 50 Microfinance 52 UNLEASHING HUMAN POTENTIAL Qalaa Holding Company W e are an equal opportunity employer which entails that individuals are hired, trained, promoted and transferred in all job classifications regardless of their race, religion, sex, nationality, remaining 18 percent being female. It is notable that 88 percent of full-time female employees are in middle management, 11 percent are in senior management and none are at entry To ensure our workforce’s health and safety, we share circulars and awareness emails about any emerging serious diseases when they occur. To ensure continuous growth and developmanagement and asset allocation. Qalaa Holdings donated US$ 250,000 to start QFSC in November 2006 and has further donated US$ 30,000 annually to cover operating costs. All of age and family/social status. Our Employment Guide provides level. In terms of age group breakdown, the largest proportion ment, we have developed comprehensive and world-class Qalaa’s entry-level employees undergo training that QFSC guidelines for the board and general employment policies. In of staff are between the ages of 31 and 40 (46 percent), with training schemes that are specific to our industry’s needs and which is equipped with an array of advanced financial softcases where company policies or guidelines contradict those of approximately 18 percent between the ages of 25 and 30, and priorities. This year, we provided 700 hours of training to our ware and tools, including a simulated trading room linked national labor laws in any country/region where Qalaa Holdings 20 percent between the ages of 51 and 60. In terms of staff employees. Moreover, close to 100% of our workforce particidirectly to the Egyptian Exchange. operates, precedence is given to the application of local law. turnover, seven employees left the company in 2014, in contrast pate in regular performance and career development reviews. Any violations of Qalaa Holdings policies and procedures might to 11 new hires (the majority in the 25 to 30 year age group). subject the violator to various forms of reprimands. In November 2006, Qalaa Holdings established the Qalaa We provide our employees with life and health insurance, Financial Services Center (QFSC) at the American University With regards to data on our workforce, Qalaa Holdings has 102 maternity leave and disability/inability coverage. One in Cairo (AUC). The center is the Middle East’s first institution full-time employees, with the following gender breakdown: aphundred percent of women who were on maternity leave dedicated to providing financial and analytical education proximately 82 percent of full-time employees are male, with the during the year 2014 returned to work in the company. that prepares students for careers in securities trading, risk 40 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 41 UNLEASHING HUMAN POTENTIAL Energy Sector TAQA Gas The company has 491 full-time employees, 88 percent of whom sion managers, and HR managers. Hiring requests are also TAQA Power also has a formal Health, Safety, and Environment With regards to health and safety agreements covered in are at entry level, 7 percent middle management and apaligned with the company’s plan before they are approved. (HSE) committee, consisting of eight permanent members formal agreements with trade unions, they relate to food proximately 5 percent senior management. In terms of gender Once a hiring request is approved, a thorough screening and five non-permanent members. It also provides a diverse safety for companies offering catering services, and transdistribution, the company has 23 female employees, 82 percent process is implemented. range of programs related to HSE: portation safety for vehicle suppliers (in generation sites of whom are entry level employees, with the remainder evenly only). Furthermore, TAQA Power has a comprehensive Risk divided between senior and middle management. The bulk of TAQA Gas provides its employees with life and health ina. Training programs Assessment Procedure, HAZOP and HAZID implemented, employees (approximately 52 percent) are in the age group 31 surance, maternity leave and disability/inability coverage. • Firefighting academic and practical training sessions. through which potential risks and hazards are identified. to 40 years of age; approximately 18 percent are between the Ninety-six percent of women who were on maternal leave • First Aid training sessions. Each type of risk is dealt with independently, through one ages of 25 to 30, while 24 percent are between the ages of 41 to during the year 2014 have returned to the company. • Drills are performed on sites on a quarterly basis (fire or more of the following actions: 50 and only 6 percent are between the ages of 51 to 60. In terms drills, evacuation drills, etc.). a. Elimination or mitigation of Taqa Gas turnover, 16 employees left the company in 2014 (15 To ensure our workforce’s health and safety, an HSE comb. Substitution males and one female), and there were no new hires in 2014. mittee is in place, and has per the requirements of Egypb. Counseling c. Enclosure tian Labor Law 12/2003. Moreover, annual Quality and HSE • Issue the standards health and safety equipment our d. Documented Work Instructions A detailed and institutionalized hiring procedure is docuinspections and trainings sessions are conducted. This year clients need to control their risks. e. Adequate supervision mented and implemented for all positions. Any hiring proalone, more than 3,000 hours of training were provisioned. • Perform site reviews for our clients and report any potenf. Training cedure must be discussed with relevant department or divitial hazards, and help in the implementation of solutions, g. Personal Protective Equipment. as applicable. • Issue periodic/as needed circulars to employees to warn In terms of employee development and capacity building, them of serious diseases (such as H1N1, E-Coli, Food TAQA Power provided a total of 2,945 training hours in 2014, 89 Safety Instructions, etc). percent of which were provided to males and the remainder TAQA Power c. Prevention to females. In regards to distribution by occupation level, 46 percent of training hours were for middle management, 23 • We have a detailed emergency preparedness and repercent were for senior management and 31 percent were for sponse procedure. future staff. TAQA Power has 245 full-time employees, approximately With regards to TAQA Power, a detailed and institutionalized • Incident reporting and recording procedure where we 93 percent of whom are male, and 7 percent are female (88 hiring procedure is documented and implemented for all record serious accidents and publish the lessons learned, Finally, regular performance and career development reviews percent of female employees are in middle management). positions, including the following: any modifications to the operations as well as ways to are necessary in order to chart employee achievement, and to The bulk of employees are at entry level (59 percent), while a Identifying and approving required human resources. prevent reoccurrence. identify any areas requiring skills development. All female un28 percent are in middle management, and 13 percent are b Search, resume collection, screening and interviewing. dergo regular performance and career development reviews, in senior management. In terms of age group distribution of c Select candidate. d. Risk Control Programs in addition to 94 percent of male staff. employees, 25 percent of employees are in the 25 to 30 year d Contracting and orientation. • Risk Assessments are performed per site/project and reold age group, 51 percent are in the 31 to 40 age group, 15 e Probation period. assessments are updated yearly and whenever a serious percent are in the 41 to 50 age group, 4 percent are in the 51 accident occurs. to 60 age group and 2 percent are over the age of 61. TAQA With regards to employee benefits, all fulltime and part time • Work Permit system is in place to ensure job hazards are Power had five new employee hires in 2014 (three males and employees are provided with life insurance, health insurance identified and controlled before any task. two females), the majority of whom were in the 31 to 40 age and disability coverage. The company also provides mater• HSE meetings are held monthly on sites and minutes are group. On the other hand, TAQA Power had 29 employees nity/paternity leave for full time employees, and has a 100 recorded. leave the company in 2014 (23 males and six females), once percent rate of return to work and retention after parental • HSE measurements are performed on sites on a quarterly again, the majority of whom were in the 31 to 40 age group. leave, for both genders. basis to ensure that our activities are harmless to the employees and the environment. 42 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 43 UNLEASHING HUMAN POTENTIAL Energy Sector TAQA for Marketing Oil Products The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) TAQA Marketing has a total of 46 full time employees: 42 males the relevant manager, and submitted to the Human ResourcThe Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) has 42 full-time emwhich provides a single lump sum payment. ERC also has a 100 and four females. In terms of breakdown by occupational es department, from which they are submitted for approval ployees (32 men and 10 women). The majority of employees percent return to work and retention rate after parental leave, for level, nearly 9 percent of employees are senior management, by the Managing Director. are at entry level (71 percent), with approximately 24 perwomen. Furthermore, ERC provides an average of 95 hours of about 33 percent are middle management and approxicent in middle management and nearly 5 percent in senior training for all employees at all levels, regardless of gender. With mately 59 percent are entry level. The majority of employees All candidate CVs are screened and candidates are tested and management. With regards to gender, 80 percent of female regards to employee evaluation, all female and male staff receive are equally divided between the 25 to 30 year old age group interviewed by relevant managers as well as the HR Manager, employees are at entry level, with 1 percent in middle manregular performance and career development reviews. and the 31 to 40 year old age group. TAQA Marketing had 11 in order to ensure that they meet the skill, qualifications and agement and 1 percent in senior management. new hires in 2014 (10 men and one woman). The majority of experience requirements of the vacancy. In the case of junior Furthermore, ERC has a one-to-one ratio of basic salary and new hires were evenly divided between the 25 to 30 year old positions, the HR department is authorized to make an official With regards to age group composition of the workforce, 33 perremuneration of women to men by employee category and and the 31 to 40 year old age groups. Only six employees left offer of employment to successful candidates. In the case cent of employees are in the 31 to 40 year age group, followed by location of operation, with no reported incidents of discrimithe company in 2014. of senior positions, candidates go through a second round 29 percent in the 41 to 50 age group, 17 percent in the 51 to 60 nation. ERC also abides by all relevant GoE and Ministry of interview with the Managing Director. age group, 14 percent in the 25 to 30 age group and 7 percent in Labor laws and regulations, including combatting child labor As is the case with all Qalaa Holdings businesses, TAQA for the over 61-years-old age group. The company had three new by implementing a minimum age requirement of 18 years of Marketing Oil Products implements transparent, ethical and Employee retention, welfare and wellbeing are sound busihires in 2014, two women and one man. They are evenly distribage. Furthermore, all site activities are closely monitored, and fair business practices in the recruitment and hiring of staff. ness policies that support sustainable and responsible busiuted between the ages of 25 to 30; 31 to 40 and 41 to 50. ERC’s policies and procedures are adhered to. Internal policies and procedures guide the recruitment proness practice. TAQA for Marketing Oil Products provides a cess. Departmental and budgetary approvals are required for range of benefits to full-time employees, including life insurThe benefits provided to full time employees by the Egyptian new hires, followed by official requisitions to be prepared by ance, health insurance and maternity/paternity leave. Refining company include life insurance and health insurance, disability/inability coverage, maternity leave, and a pension plan Tawazon (ECARU, ENTAG) Tawazon has 1,413 full time employees, 69 percent of whom ENTAG offers full-time employees a range of benefits, includEnergy are at entry level, 29 percent are in middle management and ing health insurance, maternity leave and pilgrimage holidays. nearly 3 percent are in senior management. With regards to It enjoys a 100 percent return to work and retention rate for ENTAG, the company has 99 full time employees (79 men and female employees after maternity leave. ENTAG also places 20 women). With regards to employee breakdown by occuemphasis on employee health and safety, and provides differpation level, 10 percent of employees are in senior manageent types of HSE training for different employee grade levels. ment, 44 percent are in middle management and 45 percent Furthermore, ENTAG provides career enhancement training, are at entry level. ENTAG had 29 new hires in 2014 (22 men with approximately 932 training hours provided in 2014. The and seven women), the majority of whom fell in the 25 to 30 majority of training was provided to middle management age group. employees, followed by junior staff and middle management. With regards to the employee evaluations, 26 percent ENTAG implements a formal, transparent and ethical written of male staff and 39 percent of female staff undergo regular recruitment policy for all company hiring. performance and peer development reviews. 44 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 45 UNLEASHING HUMAN POTENTIAL Cement Sector ASEC Holding All ASEC Holding employees are hired in accordance with selection process that includes CV screening, HR interviews, The company abides by the Egyptian labor laws and intercompliance with all Egyptian labor laws. With regards to labor the ASEC HR policy. The policy allows for internal recruitand technical interviews. The hiring process is designed to national best practices. Currently, 51% of the labor force is relations, there are no collective bargaining agreements, and ment, whereby vacant positions are announced using the ensure the recruitment of personnel who have both the skills covered by collective bargaining agreements. Moreover, all the minimum notice period regarding operational changes company’s communication channels for two weeks, allowing required for a position and the commitment to our Vision, employees are provided with at least one month of notice is two months. ASEC Engineering does have joint manageeligible employees to apply for any vacancy. Both internal Mission and Shared Values. ASEC Holding includes ASEC Ceprior to any changes within the company’s operations. ment-worker health and safety committees, and HSE policies and external recruitment process go through a thorough ment, ASEC Automation, ASEC Engineering and ASENPRO. and procedures. Furthermore, approximately 16 percent of ASEC automation heavily invests in the health and safety and employees received training in 2014, with approximately 37 general training and development of its employees. Employhours of training provided. ASEC Cement ees are offered various kinds of trainings, including on-job trainings that stem from the need to align all new hires with ASENPRO ASA’s sophisticated technologies. External trainings and certiASEC Cement has a total of 593 employees: 561 men and There is a process of continuous physical monitoring by ASEC fications are also resorted to as needed. During the year 2014, 32 women. In terms of employee distribution according to Cement staff on all contractors and third parties labor to en2,400 hours of training were provisioned to ASA employees. occupation type, 75 percent of employees are at entry level, sure no such practices are applied. All new employees receive an HSE induction training, health ASENPRO has 419 full time employees (418 men and one 16 percent are in middle management and 9 percent are in awareness sessions and, when needed, vaccinations are also woman). The vast majority of employees are entry level (apsenior management. The majority of employees fall between provisioned to all staff. proximately 96 percent), with 4 percent in middle manageASEC Automation the ages of 25 and 40 years of age; 37 percent of employees ment and 1 percent in senior management. The female emare aged between 25 and 30; 44 percent are between the ployee is in middle management. In terms of age distribution, ASEC Engineering ages of 31 and 40; 14 percent are aged between 41 and 50 and 11 percent are between 25 and 30 years of age; 38 percent nearly 5 percent are between 51 and 60 years of age. ASEC ASEC Automation has 566 full time employees (543 men are between 31 and 40 years of age; 35 percent are between Cement had 87 new hires in 2014: 60 men and 27 women. and 23 women). Broken down by employment level, ap41 and 50 years of age; 16 percent are between 51 and 60 This is in comparison to a total of 99 employees who left in proximately 81 percent of employees are at entry level, 23 ASEC Engineering has 2,897 full time staff, of which 2,863 are years of age and 1 percent are over 61 years of age. Asenpro 2014: 52 men and 47 women. percent are middle management and nearly 2 percent are men and 34 are women. The vast majority of staff are at enhad 19 new hires in 2014, all male. The company also had 23 senior management. In terms of distribution of female emtry level (approximately 90 percent), with nearly 6 percent in employees leave in 2014. ASEC Cement provides full-time employees with the followployees, approximately 70 percent are at entry level, while middle management, and nearly 5 percent in senior manageing benefits: life insurance, health insurance and maternity the remaining 30 percent are in middle management. With ment. With regards to the gender breakdown, approximately Asenpro provides full-time employees with the following leave. One hundred percent of women who were on materregards to age distribution, approximately 60 percent of 67 percent of female employees are at entry level, with apbenefits: life insurance, health insurance, disability/inability nal leave returned to ASEC Cement during the year 2014. employees are aged between 25 and 40 years (23 percent proximately 23 percent in middle management and 9 percent coverage and retirement schemes. Sixty-seven percent of are between 25 and 40 years of age; 37 percent are between in senior management. With regards to distribution of the women who were on maternal leave returned to ASEC AutoTo ensure excellence and continuous growth, ASEC trains 31 and 40 years of age). Approximately 24 percent of emworkforce by age group, the largest proportion of employmation during the year 2014. its employee son various topics including local labor laws, ployees are between 41 and 50 years of age, and nearly 12 ees is in the 31 to 40 age group (39 percent), followed by 29 business writing, Safety and Security, and tailor made internal percent are between 51 and 60 years old. ASEC Automapercent in the 41 to 50 year old age group. ASEC Engineering programs on Cement Manufacturing. This year, 4,028 hours of tion had a total of 22 new hires in 2014 (18 men and four had 86 new hires in 2014 (83 men and 3 women), in contrast training were provisioned. Security personnel trainings cover women), in contrast to 52 employees that left the company to 218 employees who left the company in 2014 (216 men and issues of human rights, and have been provisioned to 90% of in the same year (49 men and three women). two women). ASEC Engineering provides full-time employees security personnel. with the following benefits: life insurance, health insurance, ASEC Automation provides full time employees with the foldisability/inability coverage and maternity leave. With regards to the protection of human rights across ASEC’s lowing benefits: life insurance, health insurance, disability/infacilities, the company has placed strict policies and proceability coverage and maternity leave. Sixty-seven percent of ASEC Engineering abides by international best practices, dures that prohibit child labor and forced labors. Contractors women who were on maternal leave have returned to ASEC including the recommendations made by the International are also required to abide by these policies and procedures. Automation during the year 2014. Labor Organization. Furthermore, ASEC Engineering is in 46 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 47 UNLEASHING HUMAN POTENTIAL Agrifoods Sector Transportation & Logistics Sector Gozour Wafra Nile Logistics – the National Company for Multimodal Transport (NMT). Dina Farms Sabina Dina Farms has 1130 full time employees, with approximately Sabina has 24 full time employees, and 12 part time employees, Nile Logistics – the National Company for Multimodal NMT provides full-time employees with life insurance, 99 percent of its staff being men. In terms of workforce disall male. Regarding the distribution of staff by employment Transport (NMT) – has 447 full-time staff, 444 of whom are health insurance, as well as disability and inability covertribution by employment type, 93 percent of staff are nontype, 79 percent are entry level, 12 percent are middle managemen and three are women. With regards to distribution age. There are no collective bargaining agreements in supervisory staff or entry level, with approximately 6 percent ment and 8 percent are senior management. The majority of of staff by employment type, 2 percent are in senior manplace at NMT, and no union presence. The company has no middle management and 1 percent senior management. In staff are in the 25 to 30 year age group. Sabina had 124 employagement, 2 percent are in middle management and 96 recorded instances of discrimination, no child labor and no terms of distribution of female staff, two are in entry level ees leave the company in 2014. percent are in entry-level positions. The company had 56 forced or compulsory labor risks. positions and one is in middle management. There is a relanew hires in 2014, 55 men and one woman. The company tively even distribution of staff by age group. Dina Farms had Data was not available for Concord also had 53 employees leave in 2014 (all men). Data was not available for Africa Railways. 75 new hires in 2014, all males, while 141 employees left the company in the same period (all males). Dina Farms abides by the Egyptian labor law’s stipulations including those addressing child labor, collective bargaining and minimum wages. We offer our employees the following benefits: life insurance, health insurance, disability/inability coverage, maternity leave and retirement schemes. One hundred percent of women who were on parental leave have returned to the company. Agrifoods Transportation We are still in the process of establishing formal training budget, a performance review system, and career advance& Logistics ment plans. However, a performance management system is currently being piloted and training sessions were offered to the company’s middle management. The training and performance management framework’s full launch is planned for the first quarter of 2016. Data was not available for Rashidi El-Mizan. 48 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 49 UNLEASHING HUMAN POTENTIAL Mining Sector ASCOM ACCM (Carbonate and Chemicals Manufacturing) ASCOM has a total of 421 full time employees, of which 406 operational changes. Furthermore, ASCOM has formal joint ACCM has 300 full time employees (296 men and four womtees that help monitor and provide advice on occupational are men and 15 are women, and 202 part time employees. management-worker health and safety committees to monien), and 10 part time employees. With regards to workforce health and safety programs, with 5 percent of the workforce Regarding full time employees, approximately 68 percent tor and advise on occupational health and safety programs, distribution by employment type, 98 percent of employees represented. are in entry level, 13 percent are in middle management with 90 percent of the workforce represented. In terms of are entry level, 4 percent are middle management, and 1 and 19 percent are in senior management. With regards to training and education, limited training is provided based on percent is senior management. In terms of age distribution, In terms of employee training and capacity building, ACCM age distribution, the majority of staff are in the 31 to 40 year departmental requirements. approximately 52 percent of staff are in the 31 to 40 age provided 470 hours of training to staff (all male); 65 percent of age group. With reference gender, 52 percent are in middle group, 26 percent are in the 25 to 30 age group and nearly 15 training hours were for senior management, 23 percent were management, with the remaining 46 percent in senior manThe company provided approximately 5,600 training hours percent are in the 41 to 50 age group. for junior staff and nearly 12 percent went to middle manageagement positions. for men and 112 for women. Senior management received ment. As for employee evaluations, all staff were provided the lower share of training hours compared to junior staff ACCM follows set internal control policies and procedures with regular performance and career development reviews. ASCOM follows accepted best practices regarding recruitand middle management. With reference to staff evaluations, in company administration to ensure responsible and ethiment of new employees. Candidates are identified through 90 percent of male employees (380) and 86 percent of female cal business practice. With reference to recruitment, in the ACCM ensures that the ratio of basic salary and remuneration access to an internal database of CVs, as well as through the employees (13) receive regular performance and career deevent of a vacancy, ACCM makes use of recruitment agencies, of women to men by employee category is equal, with the placement of job vacancy announcements in the national velopment reviews. advertising for vacancies, and referrals. ACCM had 61 new minimum wage applied (EGP 1,200) for entry level employpress. ASCOM had 19 new hires in 2014 (18 men and one hires in 2014 (all males), as well as 26 employees who left the ees, regardless of gender. Furthermore, there are no recorded woman). This is in contrast to 29 employees who left the ASCOM conforms to governmental regulations concerning company (all males). instances of discrimination of any kind in the company. In orcompany in 2014 (26 men and three women). the minimum wage requirements. There is no significant der to combat child labor, the minimum recruitment age set wage differentiation between males and females as basic As regards transparency and communication, the minimum by the company is 18 years of age. Finally, ACCM monitors any ASCOM provides health insurance, disability and inability salary and remuneration are based on skills and education. notice period regarding operational changes is two months. company activities or operations with significant labor risks. coverage and maternity leave for full time employees. It also With regards to child labor, all employees must be aged 18 With regards to employee wellbeing, ACCM provides full time Risk assessments are applied, as well as PTW (permit to work) enjoys a 100 percent return to work and retention after maor over. employees with the following benefits: life insurance, health in non-routine works that may present risks. Furthermore, all ternity leave for female employees. Moreover, 20 percent of insurance, disability and inability coverage, and maternity risk assessments and environmental aspects are reviewed on employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. leave. ACCM also provides bonus and incentives plans for an annual basis (or in case of incidents). There is a one month minimum notice period regarding employees. It also enjoys a 100 percent return to work and retention after maternity leave for female employees. ACCM also has joint management-worker health and safety commit50 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 51 UNLEASHING HUMAN POTENTIAL Microfinance Sector Tanmeyah Micro Enterprise Services Tanmeyah has detailed hiring procedures in place for all positions, 9 percent are in middle management and nearly 1 2. Future needs: employee levels. A manpower plan is set by the Human percent are senior management. In terms of age distribution • Based on the changes in the strategic goals of the orResources department, after consultation with all the comof the workforce, 57 percent fall in the 25 to 30 age group ganization, the business needs may change and more pany’s different departments. Once approved by the Board and approximately 30 percent in the 31 to 40 age group. Tanknowledge, skills or abilities be required to meet these of Directors, the Manpower plan is established at the end meyah had 414 new hires in 2014, 31 percent of whom were future needs. of the year. Any changes to the required budget necessiwomen. This is in contrast to 329 employees who left in 2014, • In this case, a proactive Training Needs Assessment is tates the approval of the CEO. All job applicants complete 30 percent of whom were women. conducted in order to identify the required knowledge, employment applications; these may be augmented by skills and abilities and a plan is updated in order to fulfill resumes and letters of reference, depending upon the posiIn terms of employee development and capacity building, these future requirements. tion being applied for. Tanmeyah provides a range of training programs, tailored to the experience levels and skills requirements of staff. The total number of training participants was 500 (352 male Hiring procedures for Tanmeyah branches are in conformity Employee assessments are regularly conducted to idenemployees and 148 female employees). On average, males with the manpower plan, and involve recruitment searches tify any knowledge or skills gaps and training requirements. received nearly nine hours of training, while females received by a recruitment specialist. Short lists of candidates are Employee performance is reviewed on an ongoing basis, nearly four hours of training. Junior staff received nearly 11 compiled for interview by a Recruitment Committee. Policies while formal Performance Evaluations are conducted on a hours of training, while middle management employees reand procedures include strict reviews of candidate skills and semi-annual basis, with 42 percent of male staff and nearly ceived one hour of training and senior management received qualifications, medical checks, and security checks. Once 14 percent of female staff receiving regular performance and less than half an hour of training. hired, branch staff undergo an internal workshop training career development reviews. Ensuring that the training that session for one working week. With regards to Headquarters is provided is an accurate reflection of the skills and qualificaTanmeyah provides life insurance, health insurance, disability/ and Regional recruitment, the recruitment specialist posts tions that are required by employees ensures that both the inability coverage and maternity leave benefits for full time emjob vacancies through several job search websites, as well employees and the organizations needs and objectives are ployees. The company also complies with the social insurance as social networking sites when appropriate. Once submitadjusted over time. authority retirement scheme. Tanmeyah recognizes no differted resumes have been screened, and initial interviews have ences between men and women employees when specifying been conducted with HR staff, the recruitment specialist preDiscussions of career planning include the following: basic salary and remuneration for the same job category. pares a shortlist of the most appropriate candidates for the department head to perform technical interviews and select 1. Gaps: the best candidate. Formal employment offers are prepared • Assess the employee’s current levels of competency and for successful candidates, and new hires are provided with their standard performance level. This will reveal what orientation training. Senior management are sourced from gaps need to be addressed to develop their skills so they the local community at locations of significant operation. can meet their required level of performance. • In this case, a reactive Training Needs Assessment is conTanmeyah has 1,554 full time employees: 77 percent men ducted in order to identify the gaps in knowledge, skills and 23 percent women. In terms of workforce distribution by and abilities and the plan is updated to cover these gaps. employment type, 90 percent of employees are in entry level 52 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 53 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Environmental “Tawazon provides biomass and RDF as alternative fuels Footprint to heavy energy consumers such as cement factories” ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Environmental Policy Use of Materials E stablished as a model for doing business in a strictly compliant manner, while focusing on sectors that in principle can represent an environmental hazard, Qalaa Hold7. Investing in compliance with health, safegy and environmental measures, and 8. Reporting on performance on at least an annual basis It goes without saying that we at Qalaa Holdings are cautious with our use of materials. We ensure that the materials used are allocated in a manner that maximizes efficiency and ensures sustainability. Below is a summary of some of the materials used by our subsidiaries: ings identified environmental compliance as one of its core and ensuring that any violation is immediately discussed imparatives since inception. Qalaa Holdings’ Environmental at the board level for each of the subsidiary companies Compliance Strategy is based on the strict compliance of all and at Qalaa Holdings’ board if the violation was not AMCC our subsidiaries to all the national environmental laws and resolved immediately. In this regard, being a member Input Materials: (2014 Estimates – Based on total clinker production 1.6 Mt) regulations featured in each of the countries we operate in. of the GIIN entails selecting and applying performance metrics, including metrics commonly used to assess Material Tons/year 2013 In addition, Qalaa Holdings’ Environmental Compliance Strategy performance in our core industries. Our adherence with Raw Mix (Limestone + Clay) 2.5 million ensures the adoption of various global guidelines, management systhis membership allows us a channel to assure that tems and standards at both the holding and subsidiaries levels when international standards are applied throughout all our High Grade Limestone 82,000 relevant. Qalaa Holdings is a member of the United Nations Global subsidiaries. Sand 71,000 Compact (UNGC) and Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN). As a Iron Ore 44,000 member of both, we are committed to incorporating their principles In addition, Qalaa Holdings works closely with our Developmental Gypsum 96,000 and systems into the company’s environmental strategy. This includes Funding Institution (DFI) partners to enhance the company’s compliour focus on: ance and reporting frameworks. This includes, among others, the 1. Adopting a preventive approach in our investment adherence to IFC’s performance standards on environmental and strategy by ensuring a very thorough study for our ensocial performance. A significant number of our subsidiaries report ARESCO vironmental impact prior to initiating any investment on quarterly on their environmental performance to our DFIpartners to the ground; ensure transparency and ongoing dialogue towards an improved Material 2013 2014 2. Focusing on the efficient use of resources across all environmental performance. Steel Structures Sections 25,000 tons 25,000 tons sectors to minimize waste and the depletion of natural resources; Steel Plates 25,000 tons 25,000 tons 3. Moving our industries, as well as our communities, Welding Electrodes and Consumables 10,000 tons 10,000 tons towards the use of cleaner energy, in an economically viable manner; 4. Introducing sustainable transportation services to miniTawazon mize carbon footprints for both our industries as well as for the communities we operate in; The company’s main input material is solid waste. 5. Adhering to and investing in the latest technology for 1. The Material Recovery Facility (MRF) handles Municipal Solid Waste (MSW). The 15th of May Project has a designed capacity waste management as a key solution for both global of 1,600 tons/day; the Dakhlia Governorate facility has a capacity of 3,500 tons/day. resources and the energy dilemma; 2. The Biomasses facility, ECARU Target collects, transports and treats 750,000 tons/year 6. Improving the environmental performance of our business through research and development of new technologies, preventing and reducing our emissions and minimizing our waste; 56 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 57 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Use of Materials (cont’d) Use of Energy RVR Pinpointing the different types of energy used by all the different sectors makes it easier for us to identify whether our use of energy is allocated Input Materials: (2014 Estimates – Based on total clinker production 1.6 Mt) strategically. With five different sectors, the reported use of energy is as follows: Materials 2013 2014 Diesel 18,619,730 liters 20,056,147 liters Zahana Cement plant Heavy fuel oil (liters) 191,340 liters 438,540 liters Type of Energy 2013 2014 Lube oil (liters) 1,076 liters 2,230 liters Natural Gas 100% Natural Gas 100% Natural Gas Bitumen (liters) 19,250 liters 46,148 liters LPG (Kg) 6,560 Kg 14,740 Kg Electricity is used to produce cement Electricity is used to produce cement Electricity only only Dina Farms Dina Farms uses the following materials as feed for its herd: AMCC Material 2013 2014 Yellow Corn 13,425 tons 21,500 tons Type of Energy 2013* 2014 (E)* Soybean Bran 5,727 tons 9,901 tons Diesel (On-site Power Generation) 15,110,450 ltr 43,500,000 ltr Straw 16,238 tons 17,199 tons Other Fuel Distilled from Crude Oil Bran 4,455 tons 6,948 tons 47,807 ton 126,000 ton (Heavy Fuel Oil HFO) Glutofed 7,705 tons 7,392 tons Electricity (On-site Power Generation) 52,931 kWh 155,000 MWh Sunflwer bran 1,352 tons 2,525 tons Magnapak 712 tons 555 tons * Connection to the Electricity national grid in 2016 will negate the use of Diesel fuel for on-site power generation. The use of alternative fuels in kiln burning by Q4/2015 will reduce dependency on fossil fuel by 10-15% in the 1st year, with target to reduce fossil fuels by 30% Dina Farms uses the following materials in the food growing process: Material 2013 2014 RVR Solvable Potassium Sulphate 143 tons 963 tons Amonium Nitrate 2,033 tons 1,876 tons 2013 2014 Super triphosphate 191 tons 197 tons Diesel 18,619,730 ltr 678796.10 GJ 0.595 GJ/tonnage 20,056,147 ltr 731161.74 GJ 0.595 GJ/tonnage Amonium Suphate 350 tons 466 tons Calcium nitrate granular 152 tons 172 tons Furnace Oil 191,340 ltr 7278.72 GJ 0.006 GJ/tonnage 438,540 ltr 16682.40 GJ 0.014 GJ/tonnage MAB everygrow 123 tons 67 tons LPG 6,560 Kg 255905.60 GJ 0.224 GJ/tonnage 14,740 ltr 575007.40 GJ 0.468 GJ/tonnage Phosphoric Acid 140 tons 149 tons TOTAL 941,980.419 GJ 1,322,851.543 GJ Magnapak 712 tons 555 tons Sabina Nile Barges Type of Energy 2013* Materials 2013 2014 Diesel 203 MT Chemicals 12 tons 3 tons Fertilizers 8 tons 1 tons Seeds 2 tons 0.4 tons 58 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 59 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Use of Energy (cont’d) Biodiversity NRPMC Most of Qalaa Holdings plants and facilities operate in industrial areas. Due to the fact that Qalaa Holdings is involved with heavy industries, the Input Materials: (2014 Estimates – Based on total clinker production 1.6 Mt) facilities and plants have to be built away from residential and wild life. It is safe to say that no wild life is affected or threatened due to Qalaa Holdings facilities operation. Type of Energy 2013* Diesel 6,000,000 ltr/yr* *This was calculated by multiplying the consumption of diesel per month by 12 as reported in the NRPMC report released in October 2013. TAQA Use of Water Dina Farms uses the following materials in the food manufacturing process: While Qalaa Holdings’ operations are located in countries that maintain a medium to low risk on the availability of local water resources, we nevertheless remain committed to the sustainable use of water resources, and to the investment in the efficient use of available local resources. Type of Energy 2013 2014 Below is a summary of the water resources by primary sources for our material operations: Natural Gas 15.11 million Cubic Meter 14.18 million Cubic Meter Zahana Cement plant Diesel 10,267,829 ltr Electricity 6,098,721 ltr 1,174,074 kWh 2013 2014 Resources 3 water wells 3 water wells ASCOM Tawazon Type of Energy 2013 2014 2013 2014 Solar 3,900,000 4,200,000 Usage Resources Industrial/ domestic network Industrial/ domestic network Dina Farms Type of Energy 2013 2014 RVR Gasoline 45.027,0 ltr 65.827,0 ltr Diesel 1.004.712 ltr 1.203.705,0 ltr 2013 2014 Electricity 42.271.500,0 kWh 42.772.700 kWh Usage 48,000 m3 Sabina TAQA Type of Energy 2013 2014 Water Usage Source 2014 Diesel 548000 ltr Value = USD 290000 74000 ltr Value = USD 39000 1 Cooling Water Water Tanks, Potable Water 40,000 Cubic Meter 123000 Kw (@0.22/kW) Value = USD 4520 95000 KW (@0.22/kW) Value = USD 3400 2 Drinking Water Potable Water, Nile, Bottled Water 7621 Cubic Meter Electricity Total USD = 294,520 USD = 42,400 Dina Farms Liters/year 2013 2014 40.326.822,0 39.752.112,0 60 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 61 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Emissions, Effluents and Waste AMCC Emission 2013 Parameter Allowable Limits Changamwe Makadara Nairobi Eldoret Malaba Nalukolongo CO2* 910 Kg/ton Clinker * The use of coal/Petcoke as per new GoE regulations in the cement industry is expected to increase GHG emissions in 2016. However, the use of alternative fuels starting 2016 (10-15% of total fuel use) will slightly offset the increase caused by the use of coal/Petcoke. NEMA IFC Type of Air Emissions 2013 2014 pH 6.08.0 6.0-9.0 7.24 7.30 8.32 6.47 6.74 7.1 NOX 400 mg/m3 SO2 130 mg/m3 Biochemical HCL 5 mg/m3 Oxygen 50 mg/l max 30mg/l 20 12.5 10 40 35 13.3 Demand, BOD Chemical OxyRVR gen Demand, 100 mg/l 125mg/l 36.4 27 21 76 31 25 max COD Potential Environmental Oils and Environmental Mitigation Measures Status Of Impacts mitigation 10 mg/l max 10mg/l Aspect Greases Impacts Total Sus100 mg/l 50mg/l 22 3 6 2 2 3 All 6 effluent discharging pended Solids max maintenance depots (Kampala, Tororo, Eldoret, Nairobi, Makadara and Mombasa) have fully functional NRPMC Contamination of treatment facilities Effluent Discharge into surface and underUse of oil water separators to treat The critical parameters (pH, BOD, the Environment ground water bodies the effluent before discharge. COD, Oils & Greases and Total Emissions 2013 and land Suspended Solids) monitored are all Green House Effect 182.5° within the acceptable limits of both the national environmental authoriSO2 >1 mg/m3 ties and IFC. The treatment facilities have an efficiency of over 80%. CO 590 mg/m3 CO2 2.6% Re-using of used oil in house (line Contamination of maintenance and in spare parts No citation received in 2013 and 2014 NOx 2230 mg/m3 Hazardous Liquid Waste surface and underproduction processes) from the National Environmental (Used Oil) disposal ground water bodies Selling of the used oil to recycling Management Authorities THC >1 mg/m3 and land third parties licensed by NEMA Total Use of external NEMA licensed hazardous waste handlers Contamination of Use of existing furnaces at the No citation received in 2013 and 2014 ERC Hazardous Solid Waste surface and underNairobi Central Workshops as The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), our USD 3.7 billion secoil. ERC will thus prevent the release of 93,000 tons of sulfur from the National Environmental disposal ground water bodies incinerators. The appropriate ond stage oil refinery in the Greater Cairo Area, will be filling that are currently being emitted into the air and accordingly Management Authorities and land Incineration Licenses have been the supply gap for high value Euro V diesel (the cleanest fuel represents a reduction of 186,000 tons in annual SO2 emisobtained from the National Enviof its type in the world). ERC’s feedstock is fuel oil, which is sions. This equates to a 29.1% reduction in the total amount ronment Management Authority currently consumed as fuel. The refining process to produce of SO2 currently emitted in Egypt from the burning of sulfurlighter products such as diesel removes sulfur from the fuel containing fuels such as fuel oil and diesel. 62 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 63 ENGAGING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES Engaging with Our Communities Contributed to community development programs since 2004 USD mn +60 Scholarships awarded since 2007 138 O ur management approach is built around the principles of shared value creation. This translates into immense direct and indirect socioeconomic impact generation for our surrounding communities. Our direct impact is generated through The Qalaa Holdings Financial Service Center (QHFSC) at AUC We donated USD 250,000 in 2006 to establish the Qalaa Holdings Financial Service Center (QHFSC) at the American University in and explored the practical strides taken by the private sector (and Qalaa Holdings specifically) to combat climate change through green construction, sustainable transport, renewable energy, waste recycling and alternative fuels. tailored social investment programs and activities that are deCairo (AUC) — the first institution in the Middle East dedicated to Annually donated to cover operating signed to meet local needs and priorities. Our indirect impact, on providing financial and analytical education to prepare students Building Cultural Ties Through the Arts the other hand, is generated through the infrastructural investfor careers in securities trading, risk management and asset alBy supporting an event such as the Luxor African Film costs for the QHFSC ments we implement in our surrounding communities. Both our location. In the years since, Qalaa Holdings has donated a further festival, Qalaa Holdings aims to develop both talent and direct and indirect impact footprints stem from our firm belief USD 30,000 annually to cover operating costs. opportunities for hundreds of young African filmmakers. In USD in the role of a corporate citizen in ensuring the welfare of its addition to the sponsorship of the Festival, Qalaa Holdings 30,000 surrounding communities. The below sections describe some of Enhancing Education also sponsored an award for the best short film and a spethe social investment areas targeted by QH and its subsidiaries: Qalaa Holdings sponsored the Teaching Thinking in Africa Workcial workshop (the STEP Program) for long feature films. The shop, as part of its commitment to improving education, leading event attracted participants from 41 countries and included Qalaa Holdings Social Investment by example and engaging with friends, partners and acquaintancdirecting and scriptwriting workshops headed by leading Programs es in order to support the talented future leaders of Africa. Qalaa African filmmakers. Holdings believes that by focusing on education we can build our Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation (QHSF) region’s human infrastructure to create an enabling framework Subsidiary Companies Social Contributed by Africa Railways to Launched in 2007, the foundation has granted 138 academic that will no longer require us to seek talent from abroad. Investment Programs scholarships to promising Egyptian scholars interested in pursumanagement training program ing Master’s degrees and PhDs at top international universities Promoting Green Investment Cement Industry Professional Diploma in Europe and North America on the condition that they return In 2014, we were the lead Sponsor of the Egyptian Ministry of EnASEC Engineering, an engineering services subsidiary of Qalaa USD to Egypt upon graduation to work in their chosen field. QHSF vironment’s inaugural Green Investment Opportunities ConferHoldings collaborated with the American University in Cairo 100,000 alumni have majored in a wide variety of disciplines including ence, a senior-level gathering of private sector leaders who met (AUC) to offer a professional diploma for the cement industry. medicine, nanotechnology, political development, business, to discuss how industry can work not just to mitigate its impact Implemented by AUC’s Engineering and Science Services Derenewable energy systems and water conservation. Backed by on the environment, but to reduce emissions going forward. partment — whose syllabus was developed in cooperation an endowment, QHSF has grown into the largest private sector The conference is establishing a framework by which ideas on with ASEC Engineering’s ASEC Training Center — the proscholarship program in Egypt. QHSF scholars will help the nation sustainable and green development can be realized. Participants gram offers comprehensive academic and practical educatackle opportunities and challenges alike in the decade ahead. discussed scientific methods of implementing a green economy tion in the field of cement engineering and management and 64 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 65 ENGAGING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES is comprised of three specializations: Specialized Maintenance home a daily ration for their families. Furthermore, ASEC to be able to design strategic and culturally appropriate Sabina, one of Qalaa Holdings’ investments in the agricultural, for Cement Plants, Operation & Production Engineering, and Minya has signed a collaboration agreement with Minya interventions for the target community. Following the reexemplifies a sustainable business model that serves the comTesting & Quality Control. University, securing a partnership agreement between sults of the mapping exercise, Qalaa Holdings is designing munity while maintaining profitability and return on investment. the two entities. The agreement between ASEC Minya and community support initiatives around the development Qalaa Holdings has dedicated a USD 1.5 million fund for social inManagerial and Vocational Training Minya University entails an exchange of scientific and techand renovation of much needed health care facilities, as frastructure improvements to increase the level of welfare in the Programs nical knowledge where ASEC Minya undertakes to offer soft well as the refurbishment of additional schools in the area. surrounding community. Sabina kicked off its social investment We conduct a comprehensive management and skills training skills training to the students of the Geology and Chemistry near Kosti in Sudan’s White Nile state by obtaining a 99-year lease program through our African transportation unit, Rift Valley departments enrolled in the Faculty of Science. ASEC Minya Job Creation and income generation on 300,000 feddans of land, which were directly put to work. Railways (RVR), the national railway of Kenya and Uganda. To-date also promotes the exchange of knowledge between the Rift Valley Railways (RVR): RVR launched “Transforming Lives Following the completion of Sabina’s operations, we are looking the program has helped to positively impact over 6,000 commumentioned departments and the cement plant. in Africa with Every Move”. The program focuses on strengthforward to having our investment revert to the local farmers. Acnity members in Kenya with plans to roll out a similar program ening the ties between RVR and the communities living cording to the plan, 33% of the existing irrigation schemes and in Uganda. The skills gained through the training program have Enhancing Basic Infrastructure around the railway lines. The program functions through 59 15% of the land will be handed back to local farmers in an attempt enabled an estimated 2,000 people find employment opportuniThe Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) has established of two community-based organizations, with each organization havto provide them with a sustainable source of income. Through ties. Similarly, our under-construction USD 3.7 billion refinery in community-development centers, working to assess the skills ing the membership of between 30 to 50 members. Through Qalaa Holdings’ activities in Sudan, Sabina will create employEgypt, the Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), has been providing available within the community, as well as identifying comthis initiative, RVR provides much-needed job opportunities ment opportunities for locals. Furthermore, Sabina will have an vocational training opportunities for the members of the local munity needs and concerns. These assessments revealed that to members of the communities living around the railroad active role in the education and support of the local community community through purpose-built community centers. It has community members lacked adequate vocational training. and/or its associated operational corridor. The jobs provided in several villages including: Om Hany, el Zuleit, el Sabaa and el trained 915 members of the community so far. Accordingly, ERC carried out vocational training for 500 meminclude a diverse range of positions ranging from custoGhazala. The investment in human potential is also represented bers of the local community. dial services to maintenance support. RVR also offers training by the allocation of USD 395,000 annually to rehabilitate schools Ensuring Food Security programs in management and entrepreneurship to further in local communities and establish vocational training programs ASEC Minya: Qalaa Holdings’ investment in cement had its Furthermore, the last two years have witnessed the comencourage sustainable development and private enterprise for local farmers. positive impact on some of Minya’s poorest and most vulpletion of two comprehensive school refurbishment projin neighboring communities. To date, RVR has invested more nerable communities. ASEC Minya has donated more than ects, including upgrading facilities like school grounds, than USD 100,000 in the “Transforming Lives in Africa with EvEGP 2 million to a United Nation’s World Food Program (WFP) buildings, and classrooms of local schools. The schools’ ery Move” project, and has created more than 2,000 jobs. The project that reaches 13,000 people through a school that renovation process has had a positive impact on more positive impact of the project is evident in the positive impact has 133 students. The program provides a mid-day snack than 5,000 students. Building on our service to the comcreated on more than 6,000 community members in Kenya. to the attending students, which accounts for a quarter of munity, ERC has been conducting a community needs As a next step, RVR is currently investigating the possibility of their daily nutritional needs. Students who attend also take assessment and stakeholder mapping exercise in order implementing a similar program in Uganda. 66 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 67 SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES Sustainability Challenges and Opportunities Any organization that is as big and diverse as Qalaa Holdings will face challenges in its growth cycle. We believe that challenges are an integral part of any growth process and that these challenges also present opportunities Challenges Opportunities • A constantly changing and growing geographic area • Growth markets • Frequent market fluctuations and political shifts that im• Demand for infrastructure pact the economy • Demand for energy • Difficult to navigate regulatory frameworks and law en• Demand for services forcement strategies associated with emerging markets • Growing populations • Political instability • Skilled workforce • Inefficient and outdated infrastructure • Abundant natural resources • New governments who are more open to working with the private sector 68 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 69 GRI DISCLOSURE GRI Disclosure Operational structure of A. ANNEX 1 GRI DISCLOSURE the organization, including F 2.3 main divisions, operating 6-15 GRI Disclosure Table and grade check certificate X Not Reported (Indicates that are relevant to Qalaa Holdcompanies, subsidiaries, ings, cases that are confidential, and/or cases where Qalaa and joint ventures. The table below summarizes the Qalaa Holdings for DevelopHoldings lacks relevant information at the moment and is Location of organization’s 2.4 6 ment’s materiality position in relation to each of the GRI G3.1 committed to address this lack future reporting) headquarters. F indicators and guidelines. Number of countries where P Partially Reported (Indicates cases where only part of the the organization operates, Indicates an indicator that is not material to Qalaa Holdings indicator may be relevant, and/or cases where Qalaa Holdand names of countries Indicates an indicator that is material to Qalaa Holdings ings compiles some but not all relevant information and is with either major operaworking towards reporting fully on them in the future) 2.5 6-15 F tions or that are specifically Disclosure indicators are further highlighted according to the relevant to the sustainabilreporting level of each indicator, as follows: Fully Reported ity issues covered in the report. Nature of ownership and F 2.6 6-15 Disclosure on Management Approach on page 68-69 legal form. Target Audience and affected Stakeholders; STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures Markets served (including 2.7 6-15 F geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 1. Strategy and Analysis customers/ beneficiaries). Operational MaterialProfile Description ity/ Products & services Report Section/ reference Impact Disclosure Scale of the reporting extended materiality 2.8 6-8, 10-13, 94-96 F organization. Statement on Sustainability from the most senior 4-5 Significant changes 1.1 F during the reporting period decision-maker of the 2.9 This is our first report. organization. regarding size, structure, or F ownership. Description of key impacts, Awards received in the 1.2 4-5, 66 F 2.10 None F risks, and opportunities. reporting period. 2. Organizational Profile 3. Report Parameters Profile Profile Description Materiality Disclosure Page / reference Impact Description Materiality Disclosure Page / reference Impact Disclosure Disclosure 2.1 Name of the organization. 6 F Reporting period (e.g., 3.1 fiscal/calendar year) for 3-4 F F information provided. 2.2 Primary activities. 6-15 70 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 71 GRI DISCLOSURE Date of most recent previTable identifying the 3.2 This is our first report. F ous report (if any). 3.12 location of the Standard 68-86 F Reporting cycle (annual, Disclosures in the report. 3.3 3-4 F biennial, etc.) Policy and current practice All financial data are externalContact point for questions with regard to seeking ly assured and the company F 3.13 F 3.4 regarding the report or its 3-4 external assurance for the plan to conduct an externally contents. report. verified reporting in 3years Process for defining report F GOVERNANCE 3.5 4 content. Boundary of the report Profile Disclosure Page number/ Description Materiality Impact (e.g., countries, divisions, Disclosure reference subsidiaries, leased facilities, F Governance structure of 3.6 3-4 joint ventures, suppliers). the organization, including See GRI Boundary Protocol committees under the for further guidance. highest governance body 4.1 16-22 F State any specific responsible for spe3.7 limitations on the scope or 3-4 F cific tasks, such as setting boundary of the report. strategy or organizational oversight. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Indicate whether the Chair leased facilities, outsourced of the highest governance operations, and other enti4.2 16-22 F 3.8 3-4 F body is also an executive ties that can significantly officer. affect comparability from period to period and/or For organizations that have between organizations. a unitary board structure, Data measurement state the number of techniques and the bases 4.3 members of the highest 16-22 F of calculations, includgovernance body that are ing assumptions and independent and/or nontechniques underlying executive members. estimations applied to the Mechanisms for sharehold3.9 3-4 F compilation of the Indicaers and employees to tors and other information 4.4 provide recommendations 16-22 F in the report. Explain any or direction to the highest decisions not to apply, or to governance body. substantially diverge from, Linkage between comthe GRI Indicator Protocols. pensation for members of Explanation of the effect the highest governance of any re-statements of Currently performance body, senior managers, information provided in impact the overall assessand executives (including earlier reports, and the rea4.5 ment but a specific system F departure arrangements), 3.10 sons for such re-statement This is our first report. F is being discussed for ESG and the organization’s (e.g. mergers/acquisitions, related incidents performance (including change of base years/ social and environmental periods, nature of business, performance). measurement methods). Significant changes from Processes in place for the previous reporting periods highest governance body 3.11 in the scope, boundary, or This is our first report F 4.6 16-22 F to ensure conflicts of measurement methods interest are avoided. applied in the report. 72 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 73 GRI DISCLOSURE Process for determining Basis for identification and the qualifications and 4.15 selection of stakeholders 22 F The company is working expertise of the members with whom to engage. towards insuring raising of the highest governance Approaches to stakeholder 4.7 the awareness of all its BoD F body for guiding the engagement, including members on ESG related organization’s strategy on 4.16 frequency of engagement 22 F issues economic, environmental, by type and by stakeholder and social topics. group. Internally developed Key topics and concerns statements of mission or that have been raised values, codes of conduct, 22, Currently the company through stakeholder and principles relevant to is working on an updated 4.8 4-15 F engagement, and how the economic, environmental, 4.17 system to ensure better P organization has respondand social performance reporting patterns for all ed to those key topics and the status of their raised stakeholder issues and concerns, including implementation. through its reporting. Procedures of the highest governance body for STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators overseeing the organization’s identification and Economic management of economic, Performance Disclosure Page number/ environmental, and social Description Materiality Impact Indicator reference 4.9 performance, including 16-22 F relevant risks and opporNGO7 Resource allocation. tunities, and adherence or Sources of funding by compliance with internacategory and five largest NGO8 tionally agreed standards, donors and monetary value codes of conduct, and of their contributions principles. Direct economic value Processes for evaluating generated and distribthe highest governance uted, including revenues, body’s own performance, operating costs, employee 4.10 16-22 F compensation, donations particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and other commuP. 94-­96, 62,23, 7-­15. No and social performance. EC1 nity investments, retained payments are made to F Explanation of whether earnings, and payments governments. and how the precautionary to capital providers and 4.11 approach or principle is 4-15 F (GC 7) governments. Commentaraddressed by the organizaies added to make the tion. indicator specific to the NGO sector. Externally developed ecoThe company is a member Financial implications and nomic, environmental, and of the Global Compact and other risks and opportunisocial charters, principles, Climate change risks are not 4.12 several of its subsidiaries are F (GC 1) EC2 ties for the organization’s F (GC 7) or other initiatives to which assessed. ISO certified in their respecactivities due to climate the organization subscribes tive industries change. or endorses. Memberships in associaCoverage of the organizaAggregate on P. 94-96, unable tions (such as industry asEC3 tion’s defined benefit plan P to disclose in detailed basis 4.13 sociations) and/or national/ 22 F (GC 1) obligations. international advocacy Significant financial None. Government is not organizations. EC4 assistance received from present in shareholding F List of stakeholder groups government. structure. 4.14 engaged by the organiza22 F tion. Market presence 74 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 75 GRI DISCLOSURE Range of ratios of standard We abide by minimum wage entry level wage compared Indirect energy consumplaws in each country of EN4 ˜ 57-58 F (GC 8) EC5 to local minimum wage F (GC ^) tion by primary source. operation. at significant locations of operation. Energy saved due to We resort to suppliers that are EN5 conservation and efficiency 7-15, 57-58 F (GC 8, 9) Policy, practices, and local to geographies of each improvements. proportion of spending subsidiary company if they Initiatives to provide EC6 on locally-based suppliers meet quality requirements. P (GC 8) energy-efficient or at significant locations of % of budget allocated to renewable energy based operation. local suppliers is not currently EN6 products and services, 7-15 F (GC 8,9) aggregated. and reductions in energy Procedures for local hiring requirements as a result of and proportion of senior these initiatives. Given our geographic situamanagement hired from Initiatives to reduce indirect 57-58, Consumption reducEC7 tion, most of our managers P (GC 8) the local community at EN7 energy consumption and ˜ tions as a result of such efforts F (GC 8, 9) and staff are locals. significant locations of reductions achieved. are aggregated. operation. Water Indirect economic impacts Total water withdrawal by EN8 59-60 F (GC 8) Development and source. impact of infrastructure Water sources significantly investments and serEN9 affected by withdrawal of F (GC 8) EC8 vices provided primarily 7-15, 62-66 F water. 59-60 for public benefit through Percentage and total commercial, in-kind, or pro EN10 volume of water recycled None F (GC 8, 9) bono engagement. and reused. Understanding and 7-15, Whenever possible and describing significant applicable, we assess the Biodiversity EC9 indirect economic impacts, indirect economic impact F Location and size of land including the extent of of offered projects and owned, leased, managed impacts. programs. in, or adjacent to, protected EN11 N/A F (GC 7, 8) areas and areas of high Environmental biodiversity value outside protected areas. Performance Disclosure Page number/ Description Materiality Impact Description of significant Indicator reference impacts of activities, Material products, and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected N/A F (GC 8) Materials used by weight or EN1 54-56 F (GC 7,8) areas and areas of high volume. biodiversity value outside Percentage of materials protected areas. P. 54-56, most of our materials EN2 used that are recycled F (GC 8,9) are non recycled Habitats protected or input materials. EN13 N/A F (GC 8) restored. Strategies, current actions, Energy EN14 and future plans for managN/A F (GC 8) ing impacts on biodiversity. Direct energy consumption EN3 ˜ 57-58 F (GC 7,8) by primary energy source. 76 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 77 GRI DISCLOSURE Number of IUCN Red 57-61, While the company List species and national Initiatives to mitigate is versed in monitoring and conservation list species environmental impacts of handling our production EN15 N/A F (GC 8) with habitats in areas EN26 activities, products and impact, we are currently F (GC 7, 8, 9) affected by operations, by services, and extent of working towards improving level of extinction risk. impact mitigation. our impact assessment for products Emissions, effluents and waste Percentage of products Total direct and indirect sold and their packaging EN27 None F (GC 7, 8, 9) EN16 greenhouse gas emissions 60-61 F (GC 8) materials that are reclaimed by weight. by category. Other relevant indirect Compliance EN17 greenhouse gas emissions 60-61 F (GC 8) by weight. Monetary value of signifiInitiatives to reduce cant fines and total number EN18 greenhouse gas emissions 7-15, 60-61 F (GC 7, 8, 9) of non-monetary sanctions EN28 None F (GC 8) and reductions achieved. for non-compliance with environmental laws and Emissions of ozoneregulations. EN19 depleting substances by 60-61 F (GC 8) weight. Transport NOx, SOx, and other Significant environmental EN20 significant air emissions by 60-61 F (GC 8) impacts of transporting type and weight. products and other goods Data not aggregated. CurTotal water discharge by EN29 and materials used for the rently working on it for next F (GC 8) EN21 60-61 F (GC 8) quality and destination. organization’s operations, reporting cycle. Total weight of waste by and transporting members EN22 9, 60-61 F (GC 8, 9) type and disposal method. of the workforce. Total number and volume EN23 of significant spills. Zero F (GC 8) Overall Weight of transported, Total environmental imported, exported, or EN30 protection expenditures 7-15, 27-61 F (GC 7, 8, 9) treated waste deemed and investments by type. hazardous under the terms EN24 of the Basel Convention N/A F (GC 8) Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and Performance Disclosure Page number/ percentage of transported Description Materiality Impact Indicator reference waste shipped internationally. Employment Identity, size, protected Total workforce by employstatus, and biodiversity ment type, employment value of water bodies and contract, and region. EN25 related habitats significantly N/A F (GC 8) Commentary added to affected by the reporting include volunteers. organization’s discharges of Commentary added to water and runoff. Pages 2425, 27-28, 30, 32-33, LA1 identify the different P 35, 37, 39-40, 43, 44, 46-48, 51 categories of volunteers by Products and services frequency and function. Commentary added to invite reporting on number of volunteers by type. Reference added. 78 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 79 GRI DISCLOSURE Total number and rate of Education, training, Pages 24-26, 28-29, 31-32, 34LA2 employee turnover by age F (GC 3, 6) counseling, prevention, 39, 41, 43-47, 49, 51-52 The company is actively engroup, gender, and region. and risk-control programs gaged in awareness activities Benefits provided to fullin place to assist workforce LA8 for a large number of our staff F (GC 1) time employees that are members, their families, and their families through our LA3 not provided to temporary Unable to disclose F (GC 6) volunteers, or community medical programs or part-time employees, by members regarding serious major operations. diseases. Data aggregated across some Health and safety topics Return to work and retenand not all subsidiary compractice yet to be impleLA9 covered in formal agreeF (GC 1) LA15 tion rates after parental panied. Currently working on Not mented ments with trade unions. leave by gender mainstreaming reporting for next reporting cycle. Training and education Labor/management relations Average hours of training per year per employee by Pages 25, 27, 29, 33-34, 36, 38, Mechanism for workforce LA10 employee category. ComP (GC 1) 40, 44, 48, 50-53 NGO9 feedback and complaints, mentary added to include and their resolution volunteers. Programs for skills managePercentage of employees ment and lifelong learning LA4 covered by collective N/A F (GC 1, 3) that support the continued bargaining agreements. employability of employLA11 23-53 F (GC 1) Minimum notice period(s) ees and assist them in regarding significant operamanaging career endings. Local labor law is followed in Commentary added to LA5 tional changes, including F (GC 3) each country of operation include volunteers. whether it is specified in collective agreements. Percentage of employees receiving regular perforOccupational health and safety LA12 100% F (GC 1) mance and career developPercentage of total workment reviews. force represented in formal Diversity and equal opportunity joint management-worker We don’t follow this practice Composition of governance LA6 health and safety commitF (GC 1) at QH bodies and breakdown of tees that help monitor and advise on occupational employees per category health and safety programs. LA13 according to gender, age 23-53 F (GC 1, 3, 6) group, minority group Rates of injury, occupational membership, and other diseases, lost days, and indicators of diversity. absenteeism, and number Ratio of basic salary of men of work-related fatalities by LA14 to women by employee 1:1 F (GC 1, 3, 6) region. Commentary added category. LA7 23-53 F (GC 1, 2) to describe the importance of reporting on Diversity and Human Rights injury rates of volunteers. Commentary added to Performance Disclosure Page number/ Description Materiality Impact include volunteers. Indicator reference 80 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 81 GRI DISCLOSURE Diversity and equal opportunity Security practice Percentage and total Percentage of security number of significant personnel trained in the investment agreements organization’s policies or HR1 that include human 100% of our investments F (GC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6) HR8 All F (GC 1, 2) procedures concerning rights clauses or that have aspects of human rights that undergone human rights are relevant to operations. screening. Percentage of significant Indigenous rights suppliers and contractors Currently not implemented HR2 that have undergone except on significant suppliF (GC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6) Total number of incidents screening on human rights ers of violations involving HR9 None F (GC 1, 2) and actions taken. rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and Social: Society procedures concerning asWe do not conduct such HR3 pects of human rights that F (GC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6) Performance Disclosure Page number/ training at this point in time Description Materiality Impact are relevant to operations, Indicator reference including the percentage of employees trained. Community Non-discrimination Nature, scope, and effecTotal number of incidents tiveness of any programs HR4 of discrimination and None F (GC 1, 2 ,6) and practices that assess actions taken. SO1 and manage the impacts 7-15, 62-66 F of operations on communiFreedom of association & ties, including entering, collective bargaining operating, and exiting. Operations identified in Corruption which the right to exercise Percentage and total freedom of association and number of business units HR5 collective bargaining may None F (GC 1, 2 ,3) SO2 100% F (GC 10) analyzed for risks related to be at significant risk, and corruption. actions taken to support these rights. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Child labor SO3 100% F (GC 10) anti-corruption policies and procedures. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents We abide by national labor Actions taken in response HR6 of child labor, and measures laws in all countries of operaF (GC 1, 2 ,5) to incidents of corruption. Classified information but taken to contribute to the tion; eliminating child labor. Commentary added to SO4 all due actions were taken Not (GC10) elimination of child labor. include volunteers and according to our policy members of governance Forced and compulsory labor bodies. Operations identified as Public policy having significant risk We abide by national for incidents of forced or labor laws in all countries of Public policy positions HR7 compulsory labor, and operation, our company does F (GC 1, 2 ,4) and participation in public SO5 22 F (GC 1, 10) measures to contribute to not accept any form of forced policy development and the elimination of forced or labor lobbying. compulsory labor. 82 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 83 GRI DISCLOSURE Total value of financial and Total number of incidents in-kind contributions to of non-compliance with SO6 political parties, politicians, None F (GC 1, 10) regulations and voluntary and related institutions by PR4 codes concerning product None F (GC 8) country. and service information and labeling, by type of Anti-competitive behavior outcomes. Practices related to Total number of legal beneficiary satisfaction, Beneficiaries satisfaction actions for anti-competitive PR5 including results of surveys surveys are reported by our F SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and ˜ None F (GC 1, 10) measuring beneficiary relevant subsidiaries monopoly practices and satisfaction. their outcomes. Marketing communications Compliance Programs for adherence All of our communication Monetary value of signifito laws, standards, and is closely viewed against cant fines and total number voluntary codes related both local laws in countries SO8 of non-monetary sanctions ˜ None F PR6 to fundraising, marketing F we operate in as well as the for non-compliance with communications, including international codes endorsed laws and regulations. advertising, promotion, and by our company sponsorship. Social: Product Responsibility Total number of incidents Performance Disclosure Page number/ of non-compliance with Description Materiality Impact Indicator reference regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketCustomer health and safety PR7 None F ing communications, including advertising, Life cycle stages in which promotion, and sponsorhealth and safety impacts ship by type of outcomes. of products and services Quality control and H&S are assessed for improveissues are enforced by our PR1 ment, and percentage of HQ on all subsidiaries and is F (GC 1) Customer privacy significant products and strictly applied and reviewed Total number of substantiservices categories subject ated complaints regarding to such procedures. PR8 breaches of customer None F (GC 1) Total number of incidents privacy and losses of of non-compliance with customer data. regulations and voluntary codes concerning health PR2 None F (GC 1) Compliance and safety impacts of products and services Monetary value of during their life cycle, by significant fines for nontype of outcomes. compliance with laws and PR9 None F (GC 2) Product and service labeling regulations concerning the provision and use of Type of product and service products and services. information required by procedures, and percentPR3 age of significant products N/A F (GC 8) and services subject to such information requirements. 84 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 85 GRI DISCLOSURE B. ANNEX 2 – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Summary Consolidated Income Statement (in EGP) ENUE REVENUE REVENUE PROGRESSION PROGRESSION PROGRESSION EBITDA EBITDA EBITDA PROGRESSIONNET PROGRESSION PROGRESSION EGP 2014 2013 (Restated) REVENUE PROGRESSION EBITDA PROGRESSION NETPROFIT NET PROFIT PROFITNET PROGRESSION PROFIT PROGRESSION PROGRESSION PROGRESSION 2014 (q-o-q) 2014 (q-o-q) 2014 (q-o-q) Operating Income 6,452,708,727 11,723,175 (in EGP bn) (in EGP mn) (in EGP mn) Operating Costs (5,327,635,484) (9,658,300) 651.9 8 8 800 800 800 0 0 0 6.45 700 700 700 Gross Profit 1,125,073,243 2,064,875 (59.5) 7 7 (231.9) (188.4) 600 600 600 6 6 -500 -500 -500 4.81 (399.8) 500 500 500 5 5 400 400 400 Advisory Fee 9,913,660 102,451,433 235.9 205.9 4 4 -1,000 -1,000 -1,000 (879.6) 300 300 300 3 3 181.2 1.73 200 1.80 200 200 Share of Profit (Loss) of Associates 211,086,112 (70,082,947) 1.37 1.56 (1,897.0) 2 2 100 100 (23.1) 100 29.0 -1,500 -1,500 -1,500 1 1 0 0 0 Total Operating Profit 1,346,073,015 34,433,361 0 0 -100 -100 -100 -2,000 -2,000 -2,000 FY13 FY14 1Q14 2Q14 3Q14 4Q14 FY13 FY14 1Q14 2Q14 3Q14 4Q14 FY13 FY14 1Q14 2Q14 3Q14 4Q14 Administrative & General Expenses (1,165,984,771) (226,798,212) Other Expenses (97,099,079) (136,686,298) 4Q14 Net Operating Profit (Loss) 82,989,165 (329,051,149) Debt Progression (EGP bn) Finance Costs Net (1,088,784,541) (53,883,336) Net Loss before Tax (1,005,795,376) (382,934,485) Income Tax (117,580,780) 70,380 Net Loss from Continuing Operations (1,123,376,156) (382,864,105) Net Loss from Discontinued Operations (246,595,813) (2,005,924) (after tax) Net Loss for the year (1,369,971,969) (384,870,029) Attributable to: Equity Holders of the Company (879,593,450) (374,655,290) Non-Controlling Interests (490,378,519) (10,214,739) Earnings per Share (0.84) (0.57) 86 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 87 GRI DISCLOSURE Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet (in EGP) EGP 2014 2013 (Restated) Reserves 202,382,594 374,191,790 Fixed Assets (net) 5,836,564,267 6,519,350,576 Retained Loss (4,695,705,965) (3,290,126,407) Projects Under Construction (net) 11,841,308,885 9,922,300,819 Net (loss) for the year (879,593,450) (374,655,290) Investments 2,479,197,055 2,097,955,505 Shareholders' Credit Balances 836,842,865 2,323,160,875 Loans to Related Parties 134,176,156 330,752,704 Total Equity Attributable to Majority 3,463,926,044 3,390,695,968 Shareholders Intangible Assets (net) 1,892,728,739 1,822,712,538 Non-controlling Interest 8,419,273,206 8,865,414,549 Goodwill (net) 1,268,641,444 1,340,511,195 Total Equity 11,883,199,250 12,256,110,517 Trade & Other Receivables 382,740,694 407,684,953 Long-term Loans 10,734,285,444 6,783,015,637 Biological Assets (net) 189,042,811 181,875,553 Long-term Liabilities 144,094,252 147,584,443 Deferred Tax Assets 332,158,336 240,151,724 Due to Related Parties 792,754,848 524,651,877 Other Investments and Derivatives 183,337,194 745,204,908 Deferred Tax Liabilities 744,276,298 822,344,825 Total Non-Current Assets 24,539,895,581 23,608,500,475 Total Non-current Liabilities 12,415,410,842 8,277,596,782 Cash & Cash Equivalents 2,182,089,378 2,113,505,433 Banks Overdraft 688,968,212 834,349,310 Inventory 977,977,183 1,020,337,848 Short-term Loans 2,158,940,557 2,297,627,407 Work in Process 47,816,848 35,827,837 Due to Related Parties 478,521,732 334,396,001 Trade & Other Receivables 949,139,548 898,683,479 Accounts Payable 1,830,582,902 3,263,683,743 Debtors & Other Debt Balances 1,242,990,236 1,006,015,070 Creditors & Other Credit Balances 1,059,785,483 1,495,894,324 Due from Related Parties 985,302,650 399,206,061 Provisions 489,587,562 477,164,016 Investments at Fair Value Through Profit 80,849,353 215,839,024 Liabilities Held for Sale 937,891,893 623,190,143 or Loss Biological Assets 21,379,458 22,527,906 Tax Authority 482,305,069 403,602,013 Assets Held for Sale 1,421,154,974 943,171,123 Financial Guarantees Contracts 23,401,707 Total Current Assets 7,908,699,628 6,655,113,78 Total Current Liabilities 8,149,985,117 9,729,906,957 Total Assets 32,448,595,209 30,263,614,256 Total Liabilities 20,565,395,959 18,007,503,739 Total Equity & Liabilities 32,448,595,209 30,263,614,256 Paid-in Capital 8,000,000,000 4,358,125,000 88 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 89 WORKFORCE DATA C. ANNEX 3 – WORKFORCE DATA Qalaa Holdings Workforce, broken down by employment type, contract, gender and age group. Company Name: Qalaa Holdings Age Group Number 25-30 Country: Egypt 6 31-40 2 Type Total Number Men Women 41-50 2 Full time employees 102 84 18 51-60 1 Part Time employees 0 0 0 61+ 0 Senior Management 27 25 2 Middle Management 43 27 16 Entry Level Number of employees who left company in 2014, broken down by gender and age group. 32 32 0 Age Group Number Company Name: Qalaa Holdings 25-30 18 Country: Egypt 31-40 47 Gender Number 41-50 20 Male 3 51-60 15 Female 4 61+ 2 Age Group Number 25-30 3 New employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. 31-40 3 Company Name: Qalaa Holdings 41-50 1 Country: Egypt 51-60 0 61+ 0 Gender Number Male 10 Female 1 90 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 91 WORKFORCE DATA Energy TAQA Gas Taqa Gas workforce, broken down by employment type, contract, gender and age group. Age Group Number Company Name: TAQA Gas Country: Egypt 25-30 31-40 Type Total Number Men Women 41-50 Full time employees 491 468 23 51-60 Part Time employees ____ _____ _____ 61+ Senior Management 23 21 2 Middle Management 35 33 2 Employees who left Taqa Gas in 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Entry Level 433 414 19 Age Group Number 25-30 88 Company Name: TAQA Gas Country: Egypt 31-40 258 41-50 117 Gender Number 51-60 28 Male 15 61+ –––– Female 1 Age Group Number Taqa Gas new employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. 25-30 1 31-40 11 41-50 2 Company Name: TAQA Gas Country: Egypt 51-60 ___ 61+ 2 Gender Number Male 0 Female 0 92 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 93 WORKFORCE DATA Energy TAQA Power The following table provides a breakdown of TAQA Power employees by employment type ,gender, and age group. Number of employees who left TAQA Power in 2014; breakdown by age. Company Name: TAQA Power Country: Egypt Company Name: TAQA Power Country: Egypt Type Total Number Men Women Gender Number Full time employees 245 229 16 Male 23 Part Time employees 1 1 0 Female 6 Senior Management 33 32 1 Age Group Number Middle Management 69 55 14 25-30 8 Entry Level 144 143 1 31-40 17 Age Group Number 41-50 4 25-30 65 51-60 0 31-40 126 61+ 0 41-50 38 51-60 11 TAQA Power benefits provided to full-time and part-time employees. 61+ 6 Company Name: TAQA Power Country: Egypt TAQA Power new employee hires for 2014, by age group. Type of Benefit Full time employees Part time employees Company Name: TAQA Power Country: Egypt Life Insurance 245 1 Health Insurance 245 1 Gender Number Male 3 Disability/Inability Coverage 245 1 Female 2 Maternity/Paternity Leave 2 0 Retirement Schemes 0 0 Age Group Number 25-30 1 31-40 4 41-50 0 51-60 0 61+ 0 94 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 95 WORKFORCE DATA Energy TAQA for Marketing Oil Products TAQA Power injuries, occupational diseases, and other factors that affect work attendance, by gender. TAQA Marketing employee breakdowns, by employment category, gender and age. Company Name: TAQA For Marketing Oil Company Name: TAQA Power Country: Egypt Country: Egypt Products Gender Male Female Type Total Number Men Women Injury 2 0 Full time employees 46 42 4 Occupational disease 0 0 Part Time employees 0 Lost days 181 0 Senior Management 4 4 Absenteeism Middle Management 15 13 2 0 0 Entry Level 27 25 2 Total number of work related fatalities 0 0 Age Group Number TAQA Power training hours in 2014, by type of employment and gender 25-30 17 31-40 17 41-50 7 Company Name: TAQA Power Country: Egypt 51-60 4 Number of Senior Middle 61+ 1 Training hours Male Female Junior Staff Management Management 2630 315 689 1344 912 TAQA Marketing new hires for 2014, by gender and age group. Company Name: TAQA For Marketing Oil TAQA Power Performance and Career Development Reviews Country: Egypt Products Gender Number Company Name: TAQA Power Country: Egypt Male 10 Female 1 Gender receiving regular performance and career development reviews Male Female Age Group Number Number 215 16 25-30 5 Percent 31-40 5 94% 100% 41-50 0 51-60 0 61+ 1 96 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 97 WORKFORCE DATA Energy TAQA Marketing employees who left the company in 2014, by age group and gender. ENTAG Workforce Breakdown, by employment type, gender, and age group. Company Name: TAQA For Marketing Oil Company Name: Engineering Tasks Country: Egypt Country: Egypt Products Group (ENTAG) Gender Number Type Total Number Men Women Male 6 Full time employees 99 79 20 Female 0 Part Time employees Age Group Number Senior Management 10 25-30 Middle Management 44 3 31-40 Entry Level 45 1 41-50 Age Group Number 51-60 25-30 25 61+ 2 31-40 42 41-50 15 51-60 11 Tawazon (ECARU, ENTAG) 61+ 6 Tawazon Employee Breakdown ENTAG new hires for 2014, by gender and age group. Company Name: Engineering Tasks Group Company Name: Tawazon Country: Egypt Country: Egypt (ENTAG) Gender Number Type Total Number Men Women Male 22 Full time employees 1413 Female 7 Part Time employees 0 0 0 Age Group Number Senior Management 38 25-30 17 31-40 9 Middle Management 404 41-50 3 Entry Level 971 51-60 61+ 98 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 99 WORKFORCE DATA Energy ENTAG average number of training hours by gender and employment type in 2014. Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) new employee hires, by gender and by age group. Company Name: Engineering Tasks Group Company Name: The Egyptian Refining Country: Egypt Country: Egypt (ENTAG) Company Number of Senior Middle Gender Number Training hours Male Female Junior Staff Management Management Male 1 751 181 148 669 215 Female 2 Age Group Number The table below provides the percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 25-30 1 31-40 1 Company Name: Engineering Tasks Group Country: Egypt 41-50 1 (ENTAG) 51-60 Gender receiving regular performance and career 61+ development reviews Male Female Number 31 7 Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews by gender Percent 26.49 % 38.88 % Company Name: The Egyptian Refining Country: Egypt Company The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) Gender receiving regular performance and career development reviews Male Female Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) total workforce by employment type, gender and age group Number 32 10 Percent 100% 100% Company Name: The Egyptian Refining Company Country: Egypt Type Total Number Men Women Full time employees 42 32 10 Part Time employees 0 Senior Management 2 1 1 Middle Management 10 9 1 Entry Level 30 22 8 Age Group Number 25-30 6 31-40 14 41-50 12 51-60 7 61+ 3 100 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 101 WORKFORCE DATA Cement ASEC ASEC Cement Workforce, by employment type, contract, gender and age group. Number of employees who left ASEC Cement in 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Company Name: ASEC CEMENT / ASEC Company Name: ASEC CEMENT / ASEC Country: (Egypt , Sudan) Country: (Egypt , Sudan) Minya /ASEC Ready Mix / Al Takamol Minya /ASEC Ready Mix / Al Takamol Type Total Number Men Women Gender Number Full time employees 593 561 32 Male 52 Part Time employees 0 0 0 Female 47 Senior Management 55 49 6 Middle Management 93 84 9 Age Group Number Entry Level 445 428 17 25-30 28 Age Group Number 31-40 44 25-30 220 41-50 19 31-40 261 41-50 84 51-60 8 51-60 27 61+ 0 61+ 1 ASEC Cement new employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. ASEC Cement rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and total number of work related fatalities, by gender. Company Name: ASEC CEMENT / ASEC Men Female Country: Egypt Minya /ASEC Ready Mix / Al Takamol Injury 5.3375 0 Gender Number Male 60 Occupational disease 2.083 0 Female 27 Lost days 16.6276 0 Age Group Number Absenteeism 45,479.45 7,671.23 25-30 44 Total number of work related facilities 0 0 31-40 31 41-50 10 51-60 2 61+ 0 102 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 103 WORKFORCE DATA Cement ASEC Automation ASEC Automation workforce, broken down by employment type, contract, gender and age group. Number of employees who left ASEC Automation in 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Company Name: Asec Automation Country: Egypt Company Name: Asec Automation Country: Egypt Type Total Number Gender Number Men Women Male 49 Full time employees 566 543 23 Female 3 Part Time employees 1 0 1 Age Group Number Senior Management 10 10 25-30 19 Middle Management 132 125 7 31-40 18 Entry Level 461 445 16 41-50 5 Age Group Number 51-60 6 25-30 130 61+ 2 31-40 207 41-50 138 ASEC Automation rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and total number of work related fatalities, by gender. 51-60 67 Company Name: Asec Automation Country: Egypt ASEC Automation new employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Men Female Company Name: Asec Automation Country: Egypt Injury 6.96% 0% Occupational disease 0.00% 0% Gender Number Male 18 Lost days 0.00% 0% Female 4 Absenteeism 40467 0% Age Group Number Total number of work related facilities 0.00% 0% 25-30 8 31-40 5 41-50 2 51-60 0 61+ 1 104 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 105 WORKFORCE DATA Cement ASEC Engineering ASEC Engineering Workforce, broken down by employment type, contract, gender and age group. Number of employees who left ASEC Engineering in 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Company Name: Asec Engineering Country: Egypt Company Name: Asec Engineering Country: Egypt Type Total Number Men Women Gender Number Male 216 Full time employees 2,897 2,863 34 Female 02 Part Time employees 0 0 0 Total 218 Senior Management 134 131 03 Middle Management 166 158 08 Age Group Number Entry Level 2,597 2,574 23 25-30 72 31-40 67 Age Group Number 41-50 33 25-30 597 51-60 31 31-40 1,142 41-50 806 61+ 15 51-60 341 61+ 11 ASEC Engineering rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and total number of work related fatalities, by gender. ASEC Engineering new employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Company Name: ASEC Engineering Country: Egypt Company Name: Asec Engineering Country: Egypt Men Female Gender Number Injury 16 case 0 Male 83 Occupational disease 1 case Female 03 Lost days 45 days 0 Total 86 Absenteeism Not measured Not measured Age Group Number Total number of work related facilities 2 0 25-30 47 31-40 17 41-50 14 51-60 08 61+ ‫ـــــــــ‬ 106 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 107 WORKFORCE DATA Cement ASENPRO Asenpro workforce, broken down by employment type, contract, gender and age group Number of employees who left Asenpro in 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Type Total Number Men Women Company Name: Asec Environmental Country: Egypt Full time employees 419 418 1 Protection Com. “ Asenpro “ Part Time employees 1 1 0 Gender Number Senior Management 1 0 0 Male 23 Middle Management 18 17 1 Female 0 Entry Level 401 401 0 Age Group Number Age Group Number 25-30 11 25-30 46 31-40 5 31-40 159 41-50 5 41-50 145 51-60 2 51-60 66 61+ 0 61+ 4 Asenpro new employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Asenpro rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and total number of work related fatalities, by gender. Company Name: Asec Environmental Men Female Country: Egypt Protection Com. “ Asenpro “ Injury 5.72% 0 Gender Number Occupational disease 0 0 Male 19 Lost days 69.63 0 Female 0 Absenteeism 35.14 0 Age Group Number Total number of work related facilities 0 0 25-30 7 31-40 8 41-50 2 51-60 2 61+ 0 108 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 109 WORKFORCE DATA Agrifoods Gozour Dina Farms The following table provides a breakdown of Dina Farms’ workforce, broken down by employment type, contract, gender and age group. Number of employees who left Dina Farms in 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Company Name: Dina Farms for Agricultural Company Name: Dina Farms for Agriculture Country: Egypt Country: Egypt Investments Investments Gender Number Type Total Number Men Women Male 141 Full time employees 1130 (June) 1127 3 Female O Part Time employees N/A N/A N/A Age Group Number Senior Management 12 12 0 25-30 40 Middle Management 63 62 1 31-40 20 Non-supervisory Staff & Workers including Entry Level 1055 1053 2 41-50 3 Age Group Number 51-60 6 25-30 231 61+ 31-40 361 41-50 307 51-60 88 Dina Farms instances of injury or absenteeism over the past year: 61+ 1 Men Female The following table provides Asenpro’s new employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Injury 3 (during 2015) 0 Occupational disease 1 0 Company Name: Dina Farms for Agricultural Country: Egypt Lost days No. Valid information 0 Investments Absenteeism No. Valid Information 0 Gender Number Male 75 Total number of work related facilities Female 0 Age Group Number 25-30 26 31-40 10 41-50 2 51-60 0 61+ 0 110 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 111 WORKFORCE DATA Agrifoods Wafra Sabina Sabina workforce, broken down by employment type, contract, gender and age group. Company Name: SABINA Country: Sudan Type Total Number Men Women Full time employees 24 24 Part Time employees 12 12 Senior Management 3 3 Middle Management 2 2 Non-supervisory Staff & Workers including Entry Level Age Group Number 25-30 17 31-40 11 41-50 5 51-60 3 61+ The following table provides Sabina’s new employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Company Name: SABINA Country: SUDAN Gender Number Male 124 Female 2 Age Group Number 25-30 58 31-40 64 41-50 3 51-60 1 61+ 112 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 113 WORKFORCE DATA Transportation & Logistics Nile Logistics – the National Company for Multimodal Transport (NMT) National Company for Multimodal Transport workforce by employment type, contract, gender and age group. NMT employees who left the company in 2014, by gender and age group. Company Name: The National Company for Company Name: The National Company for Country: Egypt Country: Egypt Multimodal Transport (NMT) Multimodal Transport (NMT)` Type Total Number Men Women Gender Number Male 53 Full time employees 447 444 3 Female 0 Part Time employees 0 0 0 Senior Management 11 11 0 Age Group Number Middle Management 11 11 0 25-30 10 Entry Level 428 425 3 31-40 18 Age Group Number 41-50 10 51-60 7 25-30 95 31-40 183 61+ 1 41-50 111 51-60 32 61+ 10 NMT new hires in 2014, by gender and age group. Company Name: The National Company for Country: Egypt Multimodal Transport (NMT) Gender Number Male 55 Female 1 Age Group Number 25-30 17 31-40 24 41-50 9 51-60 2 61+ 1 114 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 115 WORKFORCE DATA Mining ASCOM ASCOM workforce, by employment type, contract, gender and age group. The table below provides a breakdown of employees who left the company during 2014, broken down by age and gender. Company Name: ASCOM Country: Egypt Company Name: ASCOM Country: Egypt Type Total Number Men Women Gender Number Male 26 Full time employees 421 406 15 Female 3 Part Time employees 202 201 1 Senior Management 80 73 7 Age Group Number Middle Management 53 45 8 25-30 7 Entry Level 287 287 0 31-40 12 Age Group Number 41-50 4 25-30 76 51-60 4 31-40 203 61+ 2 41-50 96 51-60 44 61+ 1 ASCOM average number of hours of training for 2014. ASCOM new employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Company Name: ASCOM Country: Egypt Company Name: ASCOM Country: Egypt Number of Male Female Senior Middle Junior Staff Training hours Management Management Gender Number Male 18 5600 112 904 2100 2708 Female 1 Age Group Number 25-30 12 ASCOM percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 31-40 5 41-50 2 Company Name: ASCOM Country: Egypt 51-60 0 61+ 0 Gender receiving regular performance and career development reviews Male Female Number 380 13 Percent 90% 86% 116 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 117 WORKFORCE DATA Mining ACCM (Carbonate and Chemicals Manufacturing) ACCM workforce by employment type, contract, gender and age group. Company Name: ACCM (Carbonate and Age Group Number Country: Egypt Chemicals Manufacturing) 25-30 10 Type Total Number Men Women 31-40 12 Full time employees 300 296 4 41-50 1 Part Time employees 10 10 0 51-60 0 Senior Management 4 3 1 61+ 0 Middle Management 12 12 0 Entry Level (staff) 294 294 0 ACCM rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days, absenteeism and total number of work related fatalities by gender. Age Group Number 25-30 78 Company Name: ACCM (Carbonate and Country: Egypt 31-40 155 Chemicals Manufacturing) 41-50 44 Men Female 51-60 7 Injury 375 0 61+ 2 Occupational disease 16854 0 ACCM new employee hires in 2014, broken down by age and gender. Lost days 4963 0 Absenteeism 92000 0 Company Name: ACCM (Carbonate and Country: Egypt Total number of work related facilities 0 0 Chemicals Manufacturing) Gender Number ACCM training hours in 2014, broken down by employment type and gender. Male 61 Female 0 Company Name: ACCM (Carbonate and Country: Egypt Age Group Number Chemicals Manufacturing) 25-30 23 Number of Senior Middle Training hours Male Female Junior Staff 31-40 25 Management Management 41-50 3 570 0 306 55 109 51-60 0 61+ 1 ACCM employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Employees who left ACCM in 2014, broken down by age and gender. Company Name: ACCM (Carbonate and Country: Egypt Chemicals Manufacturing) Company Name: ACCM (Carbonate and Country: Egypt Gender receiving regular performance and career Chemicals Manufacturing) development reviews Male Female Gender Number Number 296 4 Male 26 Percent 100% 100% Female 0 118 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 119 WORKFORCE DATA Microfinance Tanmeyah Microfinance Services Tanmeyah workforce by employment type, contract, gender and age group. Number of employees who left Tanmeyah in 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Company Name: Tanmeyah Microenterprise Company Name: Tanmeyah Microenterprise Country: Egypt Country: Egypt Services Services Type Total Number Men Women Gender Number Full time employees 1554 1195 359 Male 230 Part Time employees 0 0 0 Female 99 Senior Management 15 13 2 Age Group Number Middle Management 139 132 7 25-30 232 Entry Level (staff) 1400 1050 350 31-40 76 Age Group Number 41-50 8 25-30 886 51-60 7 31-40 478 61+ 6 41-50 94 51-60 59 61+ 37 Tanmeyah employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Company Name: Tanmeyah Microenterprise Services Country: Egypt Tanmeyah new employee hires for 2014, broken down by gender and age group. Gender receiving regular performance and career development reviews Male Female Company Name: Tanmeyah Microenterprise Country: Egypt Number 68 / 154 17 / 154 Services Percent 42.2% 13.6% Gender Number Company Name: Tanmeyah Country: Egypt Male 285 Microenterprise Services Female 129 Senior Middle Number of Training hours Male Female Junior Staff Age Group Number Management Management 25-30 313 8.52 3.65 0.41 1.07 10.68 31-40 83 41-50 9 51-60 5 61+ 4 120 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 121 This page has been intentionally left blank. This page has been intentionally left blank. 122 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report • 123 East Africa Contact Karim Sadek Managing Director Algeria Contact Nazim Meziane Associate Regional Investor Contact Mohammed Abdellah Managing Director International Institutional Investor Contact Stephen Murphy Special Advisor Shareholder Contact Amr M. El-Kadi Head of Investor Relations Marketing Communications Contact Ghada Hammouda CMO & Head of Marketing Communications This page has been intentionally left blank. Government Relations Contact Hazem Dakroury Head of Government Relations Human Resources Contact Ihab Rizk Head of Human Resources Legal Affairs Contact Yasmine Al Gharbawie General Counsel Tarek Hassan Head of Legal Department 124 • Qalaa Holdings Sustainability Report ENERGY CEMENT Agrifoods Transportation MINING & Logistics qalaaholdings.com Qalaa Holdings (S.A.E.) Qalaa Holdings Algérie Qalaa Holdings East Africa 1089 Corniche El-Nil Cité Urba 2000 Bâtiment Railway Complex, Station Road Four Seasons Nile Plaza Office Building 09 Rez-de-Chaussée Appt 01 Off Haile Selassie Avenue Garden City • Cairo • Egypt • 11519 El-Biar, Algiers 1600 (P.O. Box 62502 00200) Algeria Nairobi, Kenya Tel: +20 (2) 2791-4440 Tel: +213 (23) 27 10 21 Tel: +254 (0) 20 20 444 76-9 Fax: +20 (2) 2791-4448 Fax: +213 (21) 92 96 74
